

********

**Council Bill Number: 111103**
   
**Ordinance Number: 117995**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, authorizing acceptance of a grant from the Washington State Department of Natural Resources (DNR) Aquatic Lands Enhancement Account (ALEA) for financial assistance to support The Seattle Aquarium Master Plan, increasing the expenditure allowance in the Department's 1996 budget, authorizing an agreement with the Seattle Aquarium Society (SEAS), and making a reimbursable appropriation from the Park Fund therefor, all by three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 29, 1996
   
**Vote:** 7-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 2, 1996
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 1, 1996
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 22, 1996
   
**Committee:** Parks and Public Grounds
   
**Sponsor:** DONALDSON
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-NATURAL-RESOURCES, GRANTS, AQUARIUM, PLANNING

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, authorizing acceptance of a grant from the Washington State Department of Natural Resources (DNR) Aquatic Lands Enhancement Account (ALEA) for financial assistance to support The Seattle Aquarium Master Plan, increasing the expenditure allowance in the Department's 1996 budget, authorizing an agreement with the Seattle Aquarium Society (SEAS), and making a reimbursable appropriation from the Park Fund therefor, all by three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, in the Fall of 1992, the Department of Parks and Recreation created a Citizens Advisory Committee to develop a long-term vision for the Central Waterfront; and,

 WHEREAS, Waterfront Park, The Seattle Aquarium, and Piers 62 and 63 have no adopted long range plan which integrates the entire site into a cohesive blend of citizen amenities; and

 WHEREAS, the Citizens Advisory Committee has completed a conceptual master plan for redevelopment of the contiguous City- owned three-quarter mile long waterfront strip; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council has authorized initiation of an Environmental Impact Statement to further the work completed by the Citizens Advisory Committee; and

 WHEREAS, the State of Washington has contemplated support of this effort with legislation adopted by the State Legislature and the City, through the Department of Parks and Recreation has been notified that it will received a $123,000 grant from the Department of Natural Resources (DNR);

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation is hereby authorized to negotiate an agreement for and accept on behalf of the City of Seattle a grant in the amount of One Hundred Twenty-Three Thousand Dollars ($123,000) from the Department of Natural Resources's Aquatic Lands Enhancement Account (ALEA) for the purpose of continuing development of the Central Waterfront Master Plan. The money, when received, shall be deposited in the Park and Recreation Fund as reimbursement for the appropriation authorized in Section 2 below.

 Section 2. Contingent upon the execution of the agreement authorized in Section 1 hereof, and to provide for the payment of expenses incurred in furthering completion of the Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement and the other tasks enumerated in this ordinance file, the expenditure allowance for the Aquarium Division Program Category (SFMS K13) in the Department's 1996 budget is increased for the object of expenditure in the amount as follows:

 Other Services and Charges 7400 Total: $ 123,000

 For such purposes, the sum of One Hundred Twenty-Three Thousand Dollars ($123,000) is hereby appropriated from the Parks and Recreation Fund.

 Section 3. The Superintendent is hereby authorized to furnish such additional information as may be required in connection with such acceptance and to act as the authorized representative of the City in connection therewith.

 Section 4. In order to fulfill the terms of the agreement contemplated in Section 1 of this ordinance the Superintendent is hereby authorized to enter into a one-year agreement with The Seattle Aquarium Society, substantially in the form of Attachment A to this ordinance.

 Section 5. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This foregoing appropriations are made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which no appropriation has been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the adoption of the 1996 budget; Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reasons of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code section 1.04.020.

 Passed by three-fourths (3/4's) vote of all the members of the City Council the day of , 19 , and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this day of , 19 .

 President of the City Council

 Attachment A

 Division_________________ Contract No._________

 1996

 The City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 SERVICE AGREEMENT

 THIS AGREEMENT is made by and between The City of Seattle, acting through its Department of Parks and Recreation (hereinafter referred to as the "City") and the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation (hereinafter referred to as the "Superintendent") and the Seattle Aquarium Society (hereinafter referred to as "the Society").

 WHEREAS, by City Ordinance 110551, it is the purpose of the Society to promote awareness and community support of The Seattle Aquarium to help generate and plan the use of certain capital funds; and,

 WHEREAS all parties agree that this Agreement sets forth certain projects The Society shall undertake in support of the Central Waterfront Master Plan in 1996, as funded by the State Department of Natural Resource's Aquatic Lands Enhancement Account grant award,

 Now, therefore, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 A. STATEMENT OF WORK

 The Society shall furnish the necessary personnel, services, place of business, equipment and materials for the performance of the work set forth herein, commencing upon the date of execution by the Superintendent and ending December, 1996, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof.

 1. Attend and staff all requested meetings regarding the Central Waterfront Master Plan's environmental assessment (EIS) and the financial feasibility addendum and design refinements.

 2. In consultation with the Superintendent or her designee, The Aquarium Director, design and complete the products 2.1 through 2.3 below.

 2.1. Develop a scope of work for a financial feasibility study (as described in 2.2 below) and method for completing this study by the end of February, 1996. This scope of work shall be approved by the Superintendent prior to beginning work on 2.2.

 2.2. As an addendum to the EIS, complete a financial feasibility study of the Central Waterfront Master Plan's proposed aquarium expansion physical development alternatives by August 31, 1996. The purpose of this study is to identify specific sources for funding the capital development alternatives identified in the Master Plan. This study shall include research and analyses of specific private funding sources, their requirements for funding participation, as well as strategies for both public and private funding.

 2.3. As a result of the EIS, financial feasibility study, and other findings, complete any site, facility, or exhibit related research (i.e., land use code issues); evaluate and recommend any design enhancements/modifications; prepare cost estimates, renderings/drawings and other needed material/information for any enhanced or modified physical alternatives.

 3. Provide monthly progress reports to the Superintendent or her designee, The Aquarium Director.

 4. Provide draft reports, prior to finalization of products 2.1 through 2.3 to the Superintendent or her designee, The Aquarium Director, for review and approval.

 5. Provide a minimum of 10 copies of each product and make presentations on each product to City officials, Aquarium staff, and other audiences.

 6. Participate or conduct presentations as part of the public outreach process on the Master Plan throughout the term of this Agreement.

 7. Provide information for reporting purposes to the Department of Natural Resources and maintain records in the format and schedule required by this grant source.

 B. COMPENSATION AND PAYMENT PROCEDURES

 1. The City shall pay to the Society for the performing or providing of services as described herein, to the reasonable satisfaction of the City, a maximum, reimbursables inclusive, of $74,000.

 2. No payment shall be made by the City except upon the submission of a billing by the Society as services are rendered. The Society shall submit billings on no more frequent than a monthly basis, detailing the expenses incurred during the period since the previous billing. Payment will be made approximately 30 days after the Superintendent's approval of the services and the billing herefor.

 C. REVIEW FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

 The Superintendent or her designee, The Aquarium Director, shall review and approve all work, invoices, and reports required under this Agreement and submitted by The Society.

 D. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 1. Definitions. As used throughout this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below.

 a. "City" shall mean The City of Seattle, the Department of Parks and Recreation, any division, or section, unit or other entity of that Department, or any of the officers or other officials lawfully representing the Department.

 b. "the Society" shall mean the non-profit Seattle Aquarium Society, its Board of Directors, employees, subconsultants or other individuals or entities responsible for the performance of services under this Agreement.

 c. "Superintendent" shall mean that person appointed by the Mayor to direct and manage the Department of Parks and Recreation, and authorized to approve and execute this Agreement.

 d. "Subcontractor" or "subconsultant" shall mean one, not in the employ of the Society, who is performing all or part of these services under this Agreement under contract with the Society. The terms "subcontractor", "Subcontactors", "subconsultant", and "subconsultants" mean subcontractor(s) in any tier.

 2. Contractual Relationship. This Agreement does not constitute the Society the agent or legal representative of the City for any purpose whatsoever, and the relationship of the Society shall be that of an independent contractor. The Society is not granted any express or implied right or authority to assume or create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of or in the name of the City or to bind the City in any manner whatsoever.

 3. Indemnification. The Society shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages and expenses arising out of or resulting from the Society's performance or lack of performance under this Agreement. In the event that any such losses, claims, actions, damages, or expenses is brought against the City, the Society, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at its sole cost and expense; and if final judgment be adverse to the City, or the City and the Society jointly, the Society shall promptly satisfy the same. The liability described in this subsection shall not be diminished by the fact, if it be a fact, that any such death, injury, damage, loss, cost or expense may have been contributed to, or may be alleged to have been contributed to, in part, by the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents; provided that nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as requiring the Society to indemnify the City against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the City, its employees, officers, or agents.

 4. Conflict of Interest.

 a. The Superintendent, may by written notice to the Society, terminate the right of the Society to proceed under this Agreement if the Superintendent finds, after due notice and hearing, that a gratuity in the form of entertainment, a gift or otherwise has been offered or given by the Society or any agent or representative of the Society, to any officer or employee of the Department, with a view towards securing or amending this Agreement or securing favorable treatment with respect to the making of any determination with respect to this Agreement.

 b. The Society confirms that the Society does not have a business interest or close family relationship with any City officer or employee who was, is, or will be involved in the consultant selection, negotiation, drafting, signing, administration, or evaluating the Society's performance. As used in this section, the term Society shall include any employee of the Society who was, is, or will be involved in the negotiation, drafting, signing, administration, or performance of the Agreement. As used in this section, the term "close family relationship" refers to the following: spouse or domestic partner; any dependent parent, parent-in-law, child, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law; or any parent, parent-in-law, sibling, uncle, aunt, cousin, niece or nephew residing in the household of a City officer or employee described below.

 c. The Society agrees to inform the City of any former City officer or employee who terminated City office or employment in the twelve (12)

 months and who will be working on or subcontracting for any of the work under this Agreement. The Society further agrees that no work under this Agreement will be done by a former City officer or employee who terminated City office or employment in the last twelve (12) months and who, in the course of official City duties, was involved in, participated in or acted on any matter related to this Agreement.

 In the event this Agreement is terminated, pursuant to this Section, the City shall be entitled to pursue the same remedies against the Society as it could pursue in the event of a breach by the Society. The rights and remedies of the City shall not be exclusive and are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law.

 5. Audit. The Society shall permit the City and/or any other governmental agency that is involved in the project or the funding thereof (hereinafter referred to as "Agency"), from time to time as the City Auditor or the Superintendent or Agency deems necessary (including up to five years after the expiration or termination of the Agreement), to inspect and audit at any and all reasonable times in King County, Washington, or at such other reasonable location as the City Auditor and/or Agency selects, all pertinent books and records of the Society and any subconsultants or other person or entity that has performed work in connection with or related to the Society's services under this Agreement to verify the accuracy of accounting records including trust accounts; and shall supply the City with or shall permit the City and/or Agency to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof, upon the City Auditor's, the Superintendent, or the Agency's request. The Society shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the City and Agency is a condition of any subcontract, agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to perform work in connection with or related to the Society's services under this Agreement. All audit findings will be governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), subcontractors 31, which is hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement.

 6. Subcontracts/Assignments. The Society shall not enter into subcontracts for any of the work contemplated under this Agreement or assign any of the rights or responsibilities hereunder (other than an assignment of the compensation payable by the City), without obtaining the prior written approval of the Superintendent or her designee, The Aquarium Director.

 7. Advance Payments Prohibited. No payment in advance or in anticipation of services or supplies to be provided under this Agreement shall be made by the City.

 8. Amendments. No amendment of any of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by authorized representatives of the parties hereto. The

 parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement, from time to time, by mutual agreement.

 9. No Waiver. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default or breach of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement. The payment of compensation to the Society or the acceptance by the City of defective performance shall not be deemed a waiver.

 10. Compliance With Law.

 a. General Requirement: The Society, at its sole cost and expense, shall perform and comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules and regulations, orders, and directives of administrative agencies and officers of each such jurisdiction.

 b. Licenses and Similar Authorizations: The Society, at no expense to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations including City business licenses, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 c. Taxes: The Society shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities and undertakings under this Agreement, including City business tax, taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements, and taxes on the Society's interest in this Agreement and any leasehold interest deemed to have been created pursuant to RCW 82.29A.

 d. Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action: During the performance of this Agreement, the Society agrees to and shall comply with all State laws and City ordinances prohibiting employment discrimination with regard to religion, creed, race, color, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, political ideology, or the presence of an sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based on a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the particular business, enterprise or employment. This provision shall be inserted in all subcontracts entered into under this Agreement.

 11. Termination.

 a. For Cause: Either party may terminate this Agreement in the event the other fails to perform its obligations as described in the Agreement, and such failure has not been corrected to the reasonable satisfaction of the other in a timely manner after notice of breach has been provided to such other party.

 b. For Reasons Beyond Reasonable Control Parties: Either party may terminate this Agreement without recourse by the other where performance is rendered impossible or impracticable for reasons beyond such party's reasonable control, such as but not limited to acts of nature; war or warlike operations; civil commotion; riot; labor disputes including strike, walkout, or lockout; sabotage; or superior governmental regulation or control.

 c. For Public Convenience: The City may terminate this Agreement in whole or in part whenever the City determines that such termination is in the best interests of the public or for lack of continuing appropriations.

 d. Notice: Written notice of termination pursuant to Subsection 11.A or B, hereof, shall be given by the party terminating this Agreement to the other not less than five (5) working days prior to the effective date of termination.

 12. Women and Minority Business Enterprise Requirements.

 General. No women's business enterprise (WBE) or minority business enterprise (MBE) set-aside percentages have been established for this Agreement. During the term of this Agreement, the Society shall:

 a. Make affirmative efforts to utilize WMBEs in performing the Agreement, whether as subconsultants, suppliers, or in any other capacity;

 b. Require that all subconsultants make affirmative efforts to utilize WMBEs in performance of the Agreement;

 c. Maintain records reasonable necessary for monitoring compliance with the provisions of SMC 20.46A, and submit such information as may be requested by the City's Director of Administrative Services in order to monitor and enforce compliance; and,

 d. Require that subconsultants maintain records reasonably necessary for monitoring the subconsultant's compliance with the provisions of SMC 20.46A, and that the subconsultants submit such information as may be requested by the City's Director of Administrative Services in order to monitor and enforce compliance.

 13. Binding Effect. The provisions, covenants and conditions in the Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 14. Applicable Law: Venue. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in King County, Washington.

 15. Captions. The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 16. Executory Agreement. This Agreement will not be considered valid until executed by the City and signed by the Superintendent or her authorized designee.

 17. Remedies Cumulative. Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; the failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 18. Invalidity of Particular Provisions. A judicial determination that any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this Agreement, or its application, is inoperative, invalid, or unenforceable shall not affect the remaining terms, provisions, conditions, or other portions of this Agreement, nor shall such a determination affect the application of such term, provision, condition, or portion to persons or in circumstances other than those directly involved in the determination in which it is held to be inoperative, invalid, or unenforceable, and as to such other persons or in such other circumstances it shall continue in full force and effect.

 19. Disputes. Any disputes concerning the Society's performance of this Agreement, which are not disposed of by agreement between the Society's Director and the City's Aquarium Director, shall be referred to the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation or her designee and the Society's President or other Board Members. If these parties do not agree upon a decision within a reasonable period of time, the parties may pursue other legal means to resolve such disputes.

 20. Americans With Disabilities Act. The Society shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) in performing its obligations under this Agreement. In particular, if the Society is providing services, programs, or activities to City employees or members of the public as part of this Agreement, the Society shall not deny participation or the benefits of such services, programs or activities to people with disabilities on the basis of such disability. Failure to comply with the provisions of the ADA shall be a material breach of, and grounds for the immediate termination of this Agreement.

 21. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including the exhibits and addenda attached hereto and forming a part hereof (if any), are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions between the parties. No verbal agreements or conversations between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the City and any officer, agency, employee or associate of the Society prior to the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement. Any such verbal agreements shall be considered unofficial information and in no way binding on either party.

 22. Errors and Omissions: Corrections. The Society shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy, and the coordination of all designs, drawings, specifications,

 and other services furnished by or on behalf of the Society under this Agreement. The Society, without additional compensation, shall correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in the designs, drawings, specifications, and/or other Society services immediately upon notification by the City. The indemnification provided for in this section with respect to any acts or omissions during the term of this Agreement shall survive any termination or expiration of the Agreement.

 23. Ownership of Documents. All drawings, prints, plans, field notes, reports, documents, file, input materials, output materials, the media upon which they are located (including cards, tapes, discs and other storage facilities), software programs or packages (including source code or codes, object codes, upgrades, and/or any other related documents or materials which are developed solely for, and paid for by, the City in connection with the performance of the work, and which may or may not be either confidential or proprietary, and all other materials prepared for and delivered to the City in the course of performance of the work hereunder, shall be the property of the City. Notwithstanding the above, the Society does not convey nor does the City obtain any right in any document or material utilized by the Society in the ordinary course of business in the performance of this Agreement, provided, however, that the Society has identified such document or material to the City in advance of performing any work. The Society shall place an appropriate plaque, emblem, and/or decal thereon, including evidence of the City's ownership of those tapes given by the City to the Society for data development, evidencing the City's ownership of such property while it is in the possession of the Society.

 24. Copyrights. The Society and the City agree that all material produced pursuant to this Agreement is "work made for hire", and that the City owns all of the rights comprised in the copyright. The Society shall place the following notice on all visually perceptible copies of materials produced pursuant to this Agreement:

 a. "(C)", "Copyright", or Copr.";

 b. Year of first publication; and

 c. Owner of copyright, "The City of Seattle".

 The notice shall be affixed to all copies of the material in such a manner and location as to give reasonable notice of the copyright. Except as permitted by this Agreement, the Society shall not use any of the material described above without the prior written approval of the Director of the Department of Administrative Services. ownership of such property while it is in the possession of the Society.

 24. Copyrights. The Society and the City agree that all material produced pursuant to this Agreement is "work made for hire", and that the City owns all of the rights comprised in the copyright. The Society shall place the following notice on all visually perceptible copies of materials produced pursuant to this Agreement:

 a. "(C)", "Copyright", or Copr.";

 b. Year of first publication; and

```
