

********

**Council Bill Number: 111197**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118108**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to City capital facilities; authorizing and providing for the issuance of limited tax general obligation bonds and limited tax general obligation bond anticipation notes, which bonds and notes may be issued in one or more series, tax-exempt and taxable, all series of bonds and notes to provide for all or part of the cost of acquiring land and an existing building and equipping that building, part of which is to be used as a police support facility for the City and other parts of which are to be used for other City purposes, and to pay costs of issuance of the bonds and notes; providing for certain terms and convenants of the bonds and notes; authorizing the assumption of an existing note; and making certain appropriations.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 29, 1996
   
**Vote:** 7-1 (NOLAND)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 3, 1996
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 3, 1996
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 8, 1996
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS, FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to City capital facilities; authorizing and providing for the issuance of limited tax general obligation bonds and limited tax general obligation bond anticipation notes, which bonds and notes may be issued in one or more series, tax- exempt and taxable, all series of bonds and notes to provide for all or part of the cost of acquiring land and an existing building and equipping that building, part of which is to be used as a police support facility for the City and other parts of which are to be used for other City purposes, and to pay costs of issuance of the bonds and notes; providing for certain terms and covenants of the bonds and notes; providing for the sale of the bonds and notes; authorizing the assumption of an existing note; and making certain appropriations.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City") has determined it to be in the best interest of the City that the City borrow money by the issuance of limited tax general obligation bonds (and prior to their issuance, by the issuance of limited tax general obligation bond anticipation notes) for the purpose of providing funds with which to provide for all or part of the cost of acquiring land and an existing building and equipping that building, part of which is to be used as a police support facility for the City and other parts of which are to be used for other City purposes, and to pay costs of issuance of the bonds and notes; and

 WHEREAS, RCW 39.36.020 authorizes the City to incur indebtedness without assent of the voters of the City so long as such indebtedness does not result in a total nonvoted indebtedness of the City in excess of one and one-half percent of the value of taxable property within the City as computed in accordance with RCW 39.36.030; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth:

 "Acquisition Fund" means the Police Support Facility subfund created in the Public Safety Facilities and Equipment Fund by Section 20 of this ordinance.

 "Bond Fund" means the City's Bond Interest and Redemption Fund, previously created and established and to be used for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Obligations.

 "Bond Sale Resolution" means a resolution of the City Council adopted pursuant to this ordinance and confirming the sale and final terms of the Bonds.

 "Bonds" means the limited tax general obligation bonds issued pursuant to this ordinance.

 "City" means The City of Seattle, Washington, a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 "City Council" means the City Council of the City, as duly and regularly constituted from time to time.

 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereto, and all applicable regulations thereunder.

 "Director of Finance" means the Director of the Department of Finance of the City, and any successor to substantially the same duties.

 "Notes" means any series of limited tax general obligation bond anticipation notes issued pursuant to this ordinance.

 "Note Fund" means the City's General Bond Interest and Redemption Fund, previously created and established and to be used for the payment of the principal of and interest on the Obligations.

 "Obligations" means, collectively, the Bonds and the Notes.

 "Register" means the books or records maintained by the Registrar for the purposes of registration of the notes.

 "Registrar" means the entity serving as registrar and paying agent for the Obligations, pursuant to Chapter 5.10 of the Municipal Code (Ordinance 111724) as now existing or as hereafter amended.

 "Tax-Exempt Bonds" and "Tax-Exempt Notes" means, respectively, the Bonds and the Notes the interest on which is not included in gross income for federal income tax purposes.

 "Tax-Exempt Obligations" means, collectively, the Tax-Exempt Bonds and the Tax Exempt Notes.

 Debt Capacity. The assessed valuation of the taxable property of the City as ascertained by the last preceding assessment for City purposes for the collection of taxes in the calendar year 1996 is Forty-Two Billion Three Hundred Twelve Million Seven Hundred Sixty-Four Thousand Two Hundred Thirty-Nine Dollars ($42,312,764,239). The City has outstanding general indebtedness evidenced by limited tax general obligation bonds, installment purchase contracts and lease purchase agreements as of March 1, 1996, in the principal amount of Four Hundred Forty- Four Million Eight Hundred Thirty-Six Thousand Seven Hundred and One Dollars ($444,836,701) incurred within the limit of up to one and one-half percent (1through%) of the value of the taxable property within the City permitted for general municipal purposes without a vote of the qualified voters therein, and has outstanding unlimited tax general obligation bonds in the principal amount of Sixty-Two Million Twelve Thousand One Hundred Thirty Five Dollars ($62,012,135) incurred within the limit of up to two and one-half percent (2through%) of the value of the taxable property within the City for capital purposes only, unlimited tax general obligation bonds in the principal amount of Forty-Six Million Seven Hundred One Thousand Thirty-Five Dollars ($46,701,035) incurred within the additional limit of up to two and one-half percent (2through%) of the value of the taxable property within the City for utility purposes, and unlimited tax general obligation bonds in the principal amount of Nine Million Nine Hundred Sixty-One Thousand Eight Hundred Thirty Dollars ($9,961,830) incurred within the additional limit of up to two and one-half percent (2through%) of the value of the taxable property within the City for parks and open space purposes, issued pursuant to a vote of the qualified voters of the City. The principal amount of indebtedness for which obligations are authorized herein to be issued is not to exceed Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000).

 Authorization and Description of Bonds. The City is authorized to borrow money on the credit of the City and issue negotiable limited tax general obligation bonds evidencing that indebtedness in the maximum principal amount of not to exceed Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000) for general City purposes to provide the funds to pay all or part of the cost of acquiring land and an existing building and equipping that building, part of which is to be used as a police support facility for the City and other parts of which are to be used for other City purposes as may be approved by the City Council, to pay the costs of issuance and sale of the bonds (the "costs of issuance") and for other lawful City purposes as determined by ordinance. The general indebtedness to be incurred shall be within the limit of up to one and one-half per cent (1through%) of the value of the taxable property within the City permitted for general municipal purposes without a vote of the qualified voters therein. The Bonds may be issued in one or more series; may be combined with other general obligation bonds authorized separately; shall be designated as Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1996, Series A (Tax-Exempt) or Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1996, Series B (Taxable) (collectively, the "Bonds") or shall be designated as otherwise determined by the Director of Finance consistent with the provisions of this ordinance; shall be dated as specified in the Bond Sale Resolution; shall be in the denomination of five thousand dollars ($5,000) or any integral multiple thereof within a single maturity or such other denomination within a maturity as provided by the Bond Sale Resolution; shall be numbered separately, in the manner and with any additional designation as the Registrar (collectively, the fiscal agencies of the State of Washington in Seattle, Washington or New York, New York) deems necessary for the purpose of identification; shall bear interest at such rate or rates (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) as shall be specified and approved by the Bond Sale Resolution, except that the true interest cost shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) per annum with respect to the Tax-Exempt Bonds and twenty percent (20%) per annum with respect to taxable Bonds, payable semiannually (once interest payments commence under the terms of the Bond Sale Resolution) on such dates as are specified by the Bond Sale Resolution. The Bonds shall mature on the dates and in years and amounts to be specified in the Bond Sale Resolution, except that the final maturity of the Bonds shall not be later than December 31, 2027 and all or some of the Bonds may be term bonds with mandatory redemption amounts and dates, all to be as provided by the Bond Sale Resolution. The Bonds also may be structured as commercial paper as set forth in the Bond Sale Resolution. The Mayor and the Director of Finance are separately authorized to execute and deliver, on behalf of the City, any contracts consistent with the provisions of this ordinance for which the City's approval is necessary or to which the City is a party and that are related or incidental to the initial issuance and sale of the Bonds.

 The life of the building to be financed with the proceeds of the Bonds exceeds the final maturity of the Bonds.

 Bond Sale Resolution. The City Council may adopt the Bond Sale Resolution and in that resolution may provide for the matters described in this ordinance and such other matters that the City Council deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this ordinance.

 The Bond Sale Resolution may provide for bond insurance, and conditions or covenants relating thereto, including additional terms, conditions and covenants relating to the Bonds that are required by the bond insurer and are consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to restrictions on investments and requirements of notice to and consent of the bond insurer.

 The Bond Sale Resolution may designate and determine the amount of Tax-Exempt Bonds and taxable Bonds and may approve and authorize the initial establishment and any redetermination of the interest rate or rates on the Bonds (subject to the limitation in Section 3 hereof) and any tender, purchase, remarketing or redemption of the Bonds. The City Council also may determine and specify by the Bond Sale Resolution the amount, if any, from the proceeds of or accrued interest on the Bonds to be deposited into specified funds, subfunds, accounts and subaccounts. In the absence of such a determination and specification in the Bond Sale Resolution, the Director of Finance may make such determination and specification.

 Registration and Transfer of Bonds. The Bonds shall be issued only in registered form as to both principal and interest and shall be recorded on books or records maintained by the Registrar (the "Bond Register"). The Bond Register shall contain the name and mailing address of the owner of each Bond and the principal amount and number of each of the Bonds held by each owner.

 Bonds surrendered to the Registrar may be exchanged for Bonds in any authorized denomination of an equal aggregate principal amount and of the same series, interest rate and maturity. Bonds may be transferred only if endorsed in the manner provided thereon and surrendered to the Registrar. Any exchange or transfer shall be without cost to the owner or transferee. The Registrar shall not be obligated to exchange or transfer any Bond during the 15 days preceding any principal payment or redemption date.

 Unless provided otherwise in the Bond Sale Resolution, the Bonds initially shall be registered in the name of CEDE & CO., as the nominee of the Depository Trust Company ("DTC"). The Bonds so registered shall be held in fully immobilized form by DTC as depository. For so long as any Bonds are held in fully immobilized form, DTC or its successor depository shall be deemed to be the registered owner for all purposes hereunder and all references to registered owners, bondowners, bondholders or the like shall mean DTC or its nominees and shall not mean the owners of any beneficial interests in the Bonds. Registered ownership of such Bonds, or any portions thereof, may not thereafter be transferred except: (i) to any successor of DTC or its nominee, if that successor shall be qualified under any applicable laws to provide the services proposed to be provided by it; (ii) to any substitute depository appointed by the City or such substitute depository's successor; or (iii) to any person as provided if the Bonds are no longer held in immobilized form.

 Upon the resignation of DTC or its successor (or any substitute depository or its successor) from its functions as depository, or a determination by the City that it no longer wishes to continue the system of book entry transfers through DTC or its successor (or any substitute depository or its successor), the City may appoint a substitute depository. Any such substitute depository shall be qualified under any applicable laws to provide the services proposed to be provided by it.

 If (i) DTC or its successor (or substitute depository or its successor) resigns from its functions as depository, and no substitute depository can be obtained, or (ii) the City determines that the Bonds are to be in certificated form, then the ownership of Bonds may be transferred to any person as herein provided, and the Bonds no longer shall be held in fully immobilized form.

 The City's obligations under this ordinance and under the Bonds are to the registered owner or owners of the Bonds, and the City shall not be liable to the participants or beneficial owners of Bonds registered in the name of any nominee of DTC or a successor depository, for any acts or omissions of DTC or such successor depository.

 Payment of Bonds. Both principal of and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America. Interest on the Bonds shall be paid by checks or drafts of the Registrar mailed on the interest payment date to registered owners of Bonds at the addresses for such owners as those owners and addresses appear on the Bond Register on the fifteenth (15th) day of the calendar month preceding the interest payment date. Principal of the Bonds shall be payable at maturity or on such date as may be fixed for prior redemption upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds by the registered owners at either of the principal offices of the Registrar, at the option of such registered owners. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds shall be made in the manner set forth in the Letter of Representations with DTC in substantially the form on file with the Director of Finance, which Letter of Representations is hereby approved and which may be executed by the Director of Finance.

 Redemption and Open Market Purchase of Bonds. All or some of the Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to their stated maturity at the option of the City at the times and on the terms set forth in the Bond Sale Resolution.

 The City shall redeem any term bonds, if not redeemed under the optional redemption provisions set forth above or purchased in the open market under the provisions set forth below, by lot (in such manner as the Registrar shall determine) at par plus accrued interest on the dates and in the years and principal amounts as set forth in the Bond Sale Resolution.

 If the City shall redeem term bonds under the optional redemption provisions set forth in the Bond Sale Resolution or purchase term bonds in the open market as set forth below, the par amount of the term bonds so redeemed or purchased (irrespective of their redemption or purchase prices) shall be credited at the par amount thereof against such remaining mandatory redemption amounts as determined by the Director of Finance or, if no such determination is made, on a pro-rata basis.

 Portions of the principal amount of any Bond may be redeemed, in installments of five thousand dollars ($5,000) or any integral multiple thereof as determined by the Bond Sale Resolution. If less than all of the principal amount of any Bond is redeemed, on surrender of that Bond at either of the principal offices of the Registrar, there shall be issued to the registered owner, without charge therefor, a new Bond (or Bonds, at the option of the registered owner) of the same series, maturity and interest rate in any of the denominations authorized by the Bond Sale Resolution in the aggregate total principal amount remaining unredeemed.

 The City reserves the right and option to purchase any or all of the Bonds in the open market at any time at any price acceptable to the City plus accrued interest to the date of purchase.

 All Bonds purchased or redeemed under this Section 7 shall be cancelled.

 The City shall cause notice of any intended redemption of Bonds to be given not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the registered owner of any Bond to be redeemed at the address appearing on the Bond Register at the time the Registrar prepares the notice, and the requirements of this sentence shall be deemed to have been fulfilled when notice has been mailed as so provided, whether or not it is actually received by the owner of any Bond. Interest on Bonds called for redemption shall cease to accrue on the date fixed for redemption unless the Bond or Bonds called are not redeemed when presented pursuant to the call. In addition, the redemption notice shall be mailed within the same period, postage prepaid, to Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's Corporation at their offices in New York, New York, or their successors, to any bond insurer for the Bonds, to each Nationally Recognized Municipal Securities Information Repository or to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, to any state Information Depository for Washington State, and to such other person and with such additional information as the Director of Finance shall determine or as specified in the Bond Sale Resolution, but none of these additional mailings shall be a condition precedent to the redemption of Bonds.

 If any Bond is not redeemed when properly presented at its maturity or call date, the City shall be obligated to pay interest on that Bond at the same rate provided in the Bond from and after its maturity or call date until that Bond, both principal and interest, is paid in full or until sufficient money for its payment in full is on deposit in the Bond Account and the Bond has been called for payment by giving notice of that call to the registered owner of each of those unpaid Bonds.

 Form and Execution of Bonds. The Bonds shall be typed, printed or lithographed on good bond paper in a form consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, the Bond Sale Resolution and State law, shall be signed by the Mayor and Director of Finance, either or both of whose signatures may be manual or in facsimile, and the seal of the City or a facsimile reproduction thereof shall be impressed or printed thereon.

 Only Bonds bearing a Certificate of Authentication in substantially the following form (with the designation of the Bonds adjusted consistent with Section 3 of this Ordinance), manually signed by the Registrar, shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose or entitled to the benefits of this ordinance:

 CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

 This Bond is one of the fully registered The City of Seattle, Washington, Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1996, [Series A (Tax-Exempt)] [Series B (Taxable)], described in the Bond Ordinance.

 WASHINGTON STATE FISCAL AGENCY

 Registrar

 By

 Authorized Signer

 The authorized signing of a Certificate of Authentication shall be conclusive evidence that the Bonds so authenticated have been duly executed, authenticated and delivered and are entitled to the benefits of this ordinance.

 If any officer whose facsimile signature appears on the Bonds ceases to be an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds before the Bonds bearing his or her manual or facsimile signature are authenticated or delivered by the Registrar or issued by the City, those Bonds nevertheless may be authenticated, delivered and issued and, when authenticated, issued and delivered, shall be as binding on the City as though that person had continued to be an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds. Any Bond also may be signed on behalf of the City by any person who, on the actual date of signing of the Bond, is an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds, although he or she did not hold the required office on the date of issuance of the Bonds.

 Registrar. The Registrar shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its principal corporate trust office, sufficient books for the registration and transfer of the Bonds which shall be open to inspection by the City at all times. The Registrar is authorized, on behalf of the City, to authenticate and deliver Bonds transferred or exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the Bonds and this ordinance, to serve as the City's paying agent for the Bonds and to carry out all of the Registrar's powers and duties under this ordinance and SMC Chapter 5.10 (Ordinance 111724) establishing a system of registration for the City's bonds and obligations, as that chapter now exists or may be amended.

 The Registrar shall be responsible for its representations contained in the Registrar's Certificate of Authentication on the Bonds. The Registrar may become the owner of Bonds with the same rights it would have if it were not the Registrar and, to the extent permitted by law, may act as depository for and permit any of its officers or directors to act as members of, or in any other capacity with respect to, any committee formed to protect the rights of Bond owners.

 Provisions for Sale of Bonds. The Director of Finance is authorized in his or her discretion to offer the Bonds for sale at competitive bid or at a negotiated sale. If the Director of Finance determines to offer the Bonds for competitive sale, he or she is authorized to fix a date and time of sale of the Bonds, to give notice of the sale, to determine the bid requirements and the criteria for determining the best bidder, and to specify such other matters as he or she may determine necessary to carry out the sale of the Bonds, so long as the manner and terms of the sale thereof are consistent with this ordinance. The Director of Finance may, in his or her discretion, provide for the use of an electronic bidding mechanism in connection with the bidding for the sale of the Bonds.

 CUSIP numbers will be printed on the Bonds if requested in the bid of the successful bidder, but neither failure to print CUSIP numbers on any Bond nor error with respect thereto shall constitute cause for a failure or refusal by the successful bidder to accept delivery of and pay for the Bonds in accordance with its bid. All expenses in relation to the printing of CUSIP numbers on the Bonds shall be paid by the City, but the fee of the CUSIP Service Bureau for the assignment of those numbers shall be the responsibility of and shall be paid by the successful bidder.

 The City will cause the Bonds to be printed or lithographed and signed and will furnish the approving legal opinion of bond counsel regarding the Bonds, without cost to the purchaser.

 The Bonds will be delivered to the purchasers in New York, New York, within ninety (90) days after the sale date and immediately upon payment to the City of the purchase price plus accrued interest to the date of closing in immediately available federal funds in Seattle, Washington, at the City's expense or at another time or place upon which the Director of Finance and the purchasers may agree at the purchasers' expense.

 Authorization and Description of Notes.

 (a) Authorization of Borrowing. For the purpose of providing the funds with which to pay part of the cost of the purposes set forth in Section 3 and to pay the costs of issuance and sale of the Notes (the "costs of issuance"), the City is authorized to issue and sell one or more series of limited tax general obligation bond anticipation notes designated Limited Tax General Obligation Bond Anticipation Notes, 1996, Series A (Tax-Exempt) and Limited Tax General Obligation Bond Anticipation Notes, 1996, Series B (Taxable) or designated as otherwise determined by the Director of Finance consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, the aggregate principal amount of which will not exceed Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000). Furthermore, there shall not be outstanding at any time an aggregate principal amount of Obligations in excess of Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000), except that Bonds in excess of that amount may be issued for the purpose of immediately redeeming the Notes. The Finance Director may issue the Notes as part of a combined issue together with other notes separately authorized by the City.

 The general obligation indebtedness authorized to be incurred herein for the Notes shall be within the limit of up to one and one-half per cent (1through%) of the value of the taxable property within the City permitted for general municipal purposes without a vote of the qualified voters therein. Nothing in this ordinance shall be interpreted to limit the legal ability of the City to incur debt and issue obligations therefor other than pursuant to this ordinance.

 (b) Description of Notes and Maximum Interest Rates on Notes. The Notes shall be issued only in registered form; shall be in the denomination of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) or any integral multiple thereof; and shall be numbered separately, in the manner and with any additional designation as the Registrar deems necessary for the purpose of identification. Each series of Notes issued pursuant to this ordinance shall bear interest at a rate or rates to be negotiated with the purchaser of the Notes by the Director of Finance of the City pursuant to the terms of this ordinance and may bear a fixed rate or rates or a variable rate or rates of interest which may be based on a bank prime rate or the most recent prime rate of interest published in the Wall Street Journal or any other index the Director of Finance shall select but in any event shall not exceed a true interest cost of Twelve percent (12%) per annum with respect to Tax-Exempt Notes and Fifteen percent (15%) per annum with respect to taxable Notes; shall be dated as of their date of issuance; and shall not be outstanding, together with any other short-term obligations issued to redeem the same, for longer than the time permitted by chapter 39.50 RCW. The Notes shall be issued subject to such terms, conditions and covenants, including but not limited to terms pertaining to redemption, as the Director of Finance may determine, consistent with the purposes of this ordinance. The Notes may evidence a line or lines of credit or may be in the form of commercial paper. Prior to the issuance of the Notes, the dates on which principal and interest are payable thereon may be modified upon agreement between the Director of Finance and the purchaser of the Notes. The City Council finds and determines that the maximum rates of interest established in this ordinance are in the best interest of the City and its tax payers.

 (c) Authorization of Actions By the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance is authorized to negotiate and approve the terms and authorize the issuance and sale of any series of Notes consistent with the terms of this ordinance without further action of the City Council. The Director of Finance is also authorized and permitted to make the incremental loan draws, if lines of credit are established, so long as the incremental loan draws do not exceed the total amount of the costs to be paid from such draw, and the proceeds of such draw shall be used immediately to pay those costs. The Director of Finance may add to or modify the designation of the Notes if they are issued in more than two series, and may determine the amount of Tax-Exempt Notes and taxable Notes.

 Registration and Transfer of Notes. The Notes shall be issued only in registered form as to both principal and interest and shall be recorded on books or records maintained by the Registrar (the "Register"). The Register shall contain the name and mailing address of the then-current owner of each Note and the principal amount and number of each Note held by each owner.

 Notes surrendered to the Registrar may be exchanged for Notes in any authorized denomination of an equal aggregate principal amount and of the same series, interest rate and maturity. Notes may be transferred only if endorsed in the manner provided thereon and surrendered to the Registrar. Any exchange or transfer shall be without cost to the owner or transferee. The Registrar shall not be obligated to exchange or transfer any Note during the 15 days preceding any principal payment or redemption date. The Director of Finance also may provide for the Notes to be registered in the name of CEDE & Co., as the nominee of the Depository Trust Company, consistent with the provisions of Section 5 with respect to the Bonds.

 Payment of Notes. Both principal of and interest on the Notes shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America solely out of the Note Fund and the City irrevocably pledges to redeem the Notes from the proceeds of a sufficient amount of limited tax general obligation bonds authorized to be issued by this ordinance, from the proceeds of additional short-term obligations issued to redeem previously issued and then outstanding Notes, or from other money of the City legally available and to be used therefor.

 If any Note is not redeemed when properly presented at its maturity or call date, the City shall be obligated to pay interest on that Note at the same rate provided in the Note from and after its maturity or call date until that Note, both principal and interest, is paid in full or until sufficient money for its payment in full is on deposit in the Note Fund and the Note has been called for payment by giving notice of that call to the registered owner of that unpaid Note.

 Form, Execution and Registration of Notes. The Notes shall be typed, printed or lithographed on good bond paper in a form consistent with the provisions of this ordinance and state law, shall be signed by the Director of Finance, whose signature may be manual or in facsimile, and the seal of the City or a facsimile reproduction thereof shall be impressed or printed thereon.

 Only Notes bearing a Certificate of Authentication in substantially the following form (with the designation of the Notes adjusted consistent with Section 11 of this ordinance), manually signed by the Registrar, shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose or entitled to the benefits of this ordinance:

 CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

 This Note is one of the fully registered The City of Seattle, Washington, Limited Tax General Obligation Bond Anticipation Notes, 1996, [Series A (Tax-Exempt)] [Series B (Taxable)] described in the Note Ordinance.

 Registrar

 By

 Authorized Signer

 The authorized signing of a Certificate of Authentication shall be conclusive evidence that the Notes so authenticated have been duly executed, authenticated and delivered and are entitled to the benefits of this ordinance.

 If any officer whose manual or facsimile signature appears on the Notes ceases to be an officer of the City authorized to sign notes before the Notes bearing his or her manual or facsimile signature are authenticated or delivered by the Registrar or issued by the City, those Notes nevertheless may be authenticated, delivered and issued and, when authenticated, issued and delivered, shall be as binding on the City as though that person had continued to be an officer of the City authorized to sign notes. Any Note also may be signed on behalf of the City by any person who, on the actual date of signing of the Note, is an officer of the City authorized to sign notes, although he or she did not hold the required office on the date of issuance of the Notes.

 The Registrar shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its principal corporate trust office, sufficient books for the registration and transfer of the Notes which shall be open to inspection by the City at all times. The Registrar is authorized, on behalf of the City, to authenticate and deliver Notes transferred or exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the Notes and this ordinance, to serve as the City's paying agent for the Notes and to carry out all of the Registrar's powers and duties under this ordinance and Chapter 5.10 of the Municipal Code (Ordinance 111724, as amended) establishing a system of registration for the City's bonds and obligations, as that chapter now exists or may be amended.

 The Registrar shall be responsible for its representations contained in the Registrar's Certificate of Authentication on the Notes. The Registrar may become the owner of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not the Registrar and, to the extent permitted by law, may act as depository for and permit any of its officers or directors to act as members of, or in any other capacity with respect to, any committee formed to protect the rights of owners of the Notes.

 Pledge of Taxes. For as long as any of the Obligations are outstanding, the City irrevocably pledges to include in its budget and levy taxes annually within the constitutional and statutory tax limitations provided by law without a vote of the electors of the City on all of the taxable property within the City in an amount sufficient, together with other money legally available and to be used therefor, to pay when due the principal of and interest on the Obligations, and the full faith, credit and resources of the City are pledged irrevocably for the annual levy and collection of those taxes and the prompt payment of that principal and interest.

 Preservation of Tax Exemption for Interest on Obligations. The City covenants that it will take all actions, consistent with the terms of the Obligations, this ordinance, and the Bond Resolution, reasonably within its power and necessary to prevent interest on the Tax-Exempt Obligations from being included in gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the City will neither take any action nor make or permit any use of proceeds of the Tax-Exempt Obligations or other funds of the City treated as proceeds of the Tax-Exempt Obligations at any time during the term of the Tax-Exempt Obligations which will cause interest on the Tax-Exempt Obligations to be included in gross income for federal income tax purposes. The City certifies that it has not been notified of any listing or proposed listing by the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that it is a bond issuer whose arbitrage certifications may not be relied upon.

 Undertaking to Provide Continuing Disclosure. The City shall undertake to provide for the benefit of holders of Obligations certain annual financial information and operating data of the type included in the final official statement for those Obligations, as well as notice of specified material events respecting those Obligations, in the manner and to the extent required by United States Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12. The particular terms of the City's undertaking shall be set forth in another ordinance or in the Bond Sale Resolution with respect to the Bonds, and in a declaration of the Director of Finance with respect to the Notes.

 Obligations Negotiable. The Obligations shall be negotiable instruments to the extent provided by RCW 62A.8-102 and 62A.8- 105.

 Advance Refunding or Defeasance of the Obligations. The City may issue advance refunding obligations pursuant to the laws of the State of Washington or use money available from any other lawful source to pay when due the principal of and interest on the Obligations, or any portion thereof included in a refunding or defeasance plan, and to redeem and retire, refund or defease all such then-outstanding Obligations (hereinafter collectively called the "defeased Obligations") and to pay the costs of the refunding or defeasance. If money and/or direct obligations of the United States of America maturing at a time or times and bearing interest in amounts (together with money, if necessary) sufficient to redeem and retire, refund or defease the defeased Obligations in accordance with their terms are set aside in a special trust fund or escrow account irrevocably pledged to that redemption, retirement or defeasance of defeased Obligations (hereinafter called the "trust account"), then all right and interest of the owners of the defeased Obligations in the covenants of this ordinance and in the funds and accounts obligated to the payment of the defeased Obligations shall cease and become void. The owners of defeased Obligations shall have the right to receive payment of the principal of and interest on the defeased Obligations from the trust account. The defeased Obligations shall be deemed no longer outstanding, and the City may apply any money in any other fund or account established for the payment or redemption of the defeased Obligations to any lawful purposes as it shall determine.

 Deposit and Use of Proceeds. There has previously been established in the City Treasury a special fund known as the Public Safety Facilities and Equipment Fund. There is hereby created in that fund the Police Support Facility Subfund (the "Acquisition Fund"). The principal proceeds and premium, if any, received from the sale and delivery of the Notes (or the Bonds, to the extent proceeds of the bonds are not used to redeem Notes) shall be paid into the Acquisition Fund and used for the purposes specified in Section 3 of this ordinance. There previously has been created and established in the City Treasury a special fund designated as the Bond Interest and Redemption Fund (the "Bond Fund"). Accrued interest on the Obligations, if any, received from the sale and delivery of the Obligations shall be paid into the Bond Fund prior to the first debt service date with respect to those Obligations. Until needed to pay the costs described herein, the City may invest principal proceeds temporarily in any legal investment, and the investment earnings shall be deposited in such funds and accounts as may be designated by the Director of Finance. Earnings subject to a federal tax or rebate requirement may be withdrawn from any such fund or account and used for those tax or rebate purposes. All taxes collected for and allocated to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes shall be deposited in the Bond Fund. Proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in such funds and in such amounts as may be set forth in the Bond Sale Resolution.

 In connection with the acquisition of land and a building as set forth in Section 3 of this ordinance, the Director of Finance is authorized, in his or her discretion, to provide for the assumption by the City of an existing note from the owner or owners of such land and building, together with any deed of trust or mortgage securing that note. However, the outstanding principal amount assumed shall not exceed Twelve Million One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($12,100,000), and the interest rate on any such note shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) per annum. The Director of Finance also is authorized in his or her discretion, to provide for the defeasance of any such note by placing proceeds of the Obligations irrevocably in trust in the City Treasury, or with a trustee appointed by the Director of Finance and pursuant to a refunding or defeasance trust agreement (which the Director of Finance is hereby authorized to execute). Any proceeds so placed irrevocably in escrow shall be invested in money or direct obligations of the United States of America maturing at a time or times and bearing interest in amounts (together with money, if necessary) sufficient to redeem, retire and refund or defease that note in accordance with its terms.

 The Director of Finance may establish such accounts and subaccounts in the Acquisition Fund or in other funds as he or she may deem necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of the Ordinance.

 Any amounts remaining in the Acquisition Fund after the accomplishment of the purposes set forth in Section 3, or after a determination by the City Council to use such amounts for other lawful purposes, may be used for such other purposes as the City Council may determine by ordinance.

 Temporary Obligations. Pending the printing, execution and delivery to the purchaser of definitive Obligations, the City may cause to be executed and delivered to the purchaser a temporary Obligation or Obligations in the total principal amount of the relevant Obligations. The temporary Obligations shall bear the same date of issuance, interest rates, principal payment dates and terms and covenants as the definitive Obligations, shall be issued as a fully registered Obligation in the name of the purchaser, and shall be in such form as is acceptable to the purchaser. Such temporary Obligations shall be exchanged for the definitive Obligations as soon as the same are printed, executed and available for delivery.

 Appropriation. Contingent upon receipt of the proceeds of Obligations in sufficient amount, there is appropriated from the Acquisition Fund Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000), or so much thereof as may be necessary, for the purpose of making payments in carrying out the purposes specified in Section 3 of this ordinance (including making debt service payments on a note assumed pursuant to Section 20 of this ordinance), which purposes have been or may be authorized or additionally authorized by separate ordinance, and including reimbursement to the Department of Administrative Services Operating Fund for expenditures related to planning and acquisition.

 Severability. If any one or more of the provisions of this ordinance or of the covenants or agreements provided in this ordinance to be performed on the part of the City shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction and of last resort to be contrary to law, then such provision, covenant or covenants, agreement or agreements shall be null and void and shall be separable from the remaining provisions, covenants and agreements in this ordinance and shall in no way affect the validity of the other provisions of this ordinance.

 Ratification of Prior Acts. Any action taken consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance, including notices of sale of Obligations, the execution of contracts, fund transfers, and payment of warrants, is ratified, approved and confirmed.

 Section Headings. The section headings in this ordinance are used for convenience only and shall not constitute a substantive portion of this ordinance.

 Effective Date of Ordinance. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the day of , 1996, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this day of , 1996.

 President of the City Council

 233791.03

```
