

********

**Council Bill Number: 111141**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118044**
********

 Relating to the Water and City Light Departments; authorizing the execution of permit agreements with Puget Sound Power & Light Company for access across and installation of a storm drain in Water Department right-of-way, in connection with the operation of the Stillwater Substation.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 11, 1996
   
**Vote:** 5-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 15, 1996
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 14, 1996
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 26, 1996
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** PERMITS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Water and City Light Departments; authorizing the execution of permit agreements with Puget Sound Power & Light Company for access across and installation of a storm drain in Water Department right-of-way, in connection with the operation of the Stillwater Substation.

 WHEREAS, City Light Department and Puget Sound Power & Light Company ("Puget") entered into a Preliminary Construction Work Agreement dated July 25, 1994, and a Construction Agreement dated as of November 7, 1994, pursuant to which Puget caused to be constructed the Stillwater Substation, (the "Substation") in order to serve City Light's transmission needs; and

 WHEREAS, to provide access to the Substation site and drainage during construction, the Water Department, City Light Department and Puget entered into Permit Agreement T94-011,242606NE, granting Puget temporary rights in the Water Department's Tolt Pipeline right-of-way; and

 WHEREAS, the permit agreement was extended until September 30, 1995; and

 WHEREAS, City Light Department entered into a Transmission Agreement with Puget dated as of June 23, 1995, in which Puget agreed to transmit power from City Light's South Fork Tolt River hydroelectric project through the Substation as authorized by Ordinance #116268 for construction of the Tolt Hydroelectric Project; and

 WHEREAS, Puget requires long term access across the Water Department's Tolt Pipeline right-of-way in order to serve the Substation, and Puget also needs to retain in that right-of-way an 8-inch storm drain facility designed to serve the Substation; and

 WHEREAS, Puget's intended use of Water Department property is congruent with Water Department requirements; and

 WHEREAS, after a public hearing it has been determined that these permit agreements transfer access and storm drain facility rights to Puget which are surplus to the Water Department's current needs; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendents of the Water and City Light Departments are hereby authorized to enter into permit agreements with Puget substantially in the form of the two permit agreements attached to this ordinance as Exhibits A and B.

 The permit agreement marked as Exhibit A provides Puget with access rights across Water Department Tolt Pipeline right-of-way for the purpose of operating the Substation. The permit agreement marked as Exhibit B provides Puget with the right to install, operate and maintain an 8-inch storm drain facility serving the Substation in the same right-of-way.

 Section 2. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1996, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ___ day of ______________, 1996.

 President of the City Council

 mvs/pb 1/11/96 Stillwat.doc

 EXHIBIT A

 City of Seattle - Water Department Permit Agreement Permit No. R95-017 072630-NW-___

 THIS PERMIT AGREEMENT is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, acting through its WATER DEPARTMENT, hereinafter referred to as the "Water Department," THE CITY OF SEATTLE, acting through Seattle City Light, hereinafter referred to as "City Light," and PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT COMPANY, hereinafter referred to as the "Permittee." All departments and agencies of the City of Seattle are collectively referred to herein as the "City." The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for the use by the Permittee of the Water Department's Tolt Pipeline ("TPL") right-of-way and service road for access to the Permittee's "Stillwater Substation" site in connection with the use, operation, repair, replacement, modification, improvement and maintenance of such electric system facility. Such access area is generally described as follows:

 That portion of the Tolt Pipeline service road in the NW 1/4 of Section 30, Township 26 North, Range 7 East, W.M. extending westerly from Vernard Road, and that portion of the Tolt Pipeline service road in the NE 1/4 of Section 25, Township 26 North, Range 6 East, W.M. extending westerly to the westerly margin of the Stillwater Substation site extended southerly, all in King County, Washington, being a distance of approximately 1,600 feet, as shown on the map attached. (Said substation site is located in the SE 1/4 of Section 24, Township 26 North, Range 6 East, W.M.)

 Subject to the following terms and conditions:

 1. The term of this permit shall be for (a) twenty-five (25) years or (b) until the Permittee ceases to wheel electric power for the City from or to the Stillwater Substation (other than pursuant to Section 7 of the Transmission Agreement dated as of June 23, 1995 by and between the City and the Permittee (the "Transmission Agreement") or pursuant to any other agreement that may be entered into by and between the City and the Permittee regarding transmission of electric power from or to the Stillwater Substation), whichever occurs first.

 2. The annual use fee for this permit shall be $300 due and payable in advance on or before May 1 of each year. On each five year anniversary of May 1, 1996, the Superintendent of Water will review the annual use fee and may make any reasonable adjustments thereto. Any such use fee paid will be paid by City Light or by a person or entity other than the Permittee.

 3. The access area crosses the TPL, a major water transmission facility of the Water Department. To protect the TPL and access road and future facilities, vehicles/equipment traveling on the TPL right-of-way shall not exceed HS20-44 loading without first applying for and obtaining a supplemental permit issued by the Water Department prior to such use.

 4. The Permittee shall not park, store, load or unload equipment/vehicles and materials in the access area unless the Permittee obtains prior written permission from the Water Department.

 5. The speed limit for vehicles traveling within the access area shall not exceed twenty (20) miles per hour.

 6. Permittee shall keep the gates to the right-of-way within the access area locked, except when needed for access. Permittee may install its own lock on any gate within the access area in series with the Water Department's lock, by arrangement with the Lake Youngs Shop staff at 255-2242, or with the Tolt Shop staff at 788-1074.

 7. The Permittee shall notify the Water Department prior to installing cathodic protection to the electric facilities in Permittee's Stillwater Substation. Permittee will provide appropriate corrosion control measures to protect the City's facilities in the TPL right-of-way from stray electrical current caused by the electric facilities in Permittee's Stillwater Substation; provided, that all of Permittee's costs and expenses for providing such corrosion control measures shall be reimbursed to Permittee by City Light pursuant to paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Transmission Agreement. The City will notify Permittee of any future cathodic protection facilities installed by the City in the TPL right-of-way. The Permittee shall be responsible for installing and maintaining mitigation measures for stray current and ground faults caused by or likely to occur as a result of the electric facilities in Permittee's Stillwater Substation; provided, that all of Permittee's costs and expenses for installation and maintenance of such mitigation measures shall be reimbursed to Permittee by City Light pursuant to paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Transmission Agreement. Permittee and the City shall join in cooperative testing for stray current interference. The City shall be responsible for any corrosive damage to Permittee's Stillwater Substation caused by the City's existing or future cathodic protection installation in the TPL right-of- way.

 8. This permit is for the use of the access area only and shall not be construed to replace or to be used in lieu of any permits or licenses which may be required by any other government agency.

 9. The Water Department may temporarily close or temporarily restrict access under this permit for purposes of any construction, alterations, maintenance or improvements by the City that affect the access area or adjacent Water Department property. The Water Department shall make best efforts in such cases to provide advance written notice to Permittee at least 14 days before the closure or restriction or in emergency situations provide such advance notice as is practicable. The Water Department shall make best efforts to restore access or allow restricted or alternative access insofar as compatible with the work in question, if the Water Department does not incur additional cost or work delays from such access. The Water Department shall not be liable to the Permittee under this Agreement (including its agents, representatives, and assigns) for any loss or damages resulting from a temporary closure or temporary restriction of access under this agreement.

 10. The Permittee agrees not to use the access area for any other purpose than as previously described.

 11. The Permittee will not at any time interfere with the City's access to and over the access area.

 12. If, in the opinion of the Superintendent of Water, the Permittee's continued use of the access area is likely to result in damage to the pipeline or other Water Department facilities, permission to use the right-of-way may be immediately suspended pending elimination of the likelihood of damage.

 13. In addition to any other authority to suspend, restrict, revoke, or cancel this permit herein provided, the Superintendent may revoke this permit if the Permittee fails to cure a violation of term or condition of this permit or to eliminate a danger of damage to Water Department facilities of which the Permittee has been notified in writing but which the Permittee has failed to cure within a reasonable time.

 14. Upon revocation or cancellation, any pre-paid annual fees will be refunded on a pro-rata basis to City Light or to such other entity that has paid the same.

 15. Permittee agrees to repair any damage to the access area caused by Permittee's use thereof, and to maintain the access area to the extent that Permittee's use of the access area has caused deterioration of the access area.

 16. This permit is not transferable or assignable, in whole or in part, without the written approval of the Superintendent of Water or the Superintendent's agent.

 17. The Permittee may terminate this permit upon sixty (60) days' prior notice to Water Department or at any other time mutually acceptable to the parties hereto.

 18. Permittee shall notify the Water Department fourteen (14) days before any work, other than routine maintenance, is to begin at the Stillwater Substation. The current telephone numbers are 255-2242 or 788-1074, and the current emergency contact number is 386-1800.

 19. Permittee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless and defend at its sole cost the City from all claims, actions or damages of every kind and description, of any third party, to the extent that such claims, actions, or damages result from Permittee's breach of the conditions of this permit and/or by reason of the Permittee's negligence or willful action in use of the access area pursuant to this agreement. "Willful action" for purposes of this permit is defined as non-negligent action or inaction which the Permittee is under a legal duty pursuant to this permit or any applicable law not to do or to do. The Permittee shall not be required to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City or to pay any judgment to the extent that the City is adjudged to be negligent or to the extent of any willful action by the City.

 20. If any litigation arises between the City and the Permittee in connection with this permit, the party prevailing on a claim shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys' fees for expenses related to that claim.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, pursuant to the provisions of Ordinance No.__________ of The City of Seattle, said City has caused this instrument to be executed by its Superintendent of Water and Superintendent of City Light.

 APPROVED BY: ACCEPTED BY:

 SEATTLE WATER DEPARTMENT PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT COMPANY

 Diana Gale By: Superintendent of Water

 Date: Date:

 AGREED BY:

 SEATTLE CITY LIGHT

 Date: Gary Zarker Superintendent of City Light

 mvs/pb 2/8/96 pspl.doc

 EXHIBIT B

 City of Seattle - Water Department Utility Use Permit Agreement Permit No. R95-006 072630-NW-___

 THIS PERMIT AGREEMENT is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, acting through its WATER DEPARTMENT, hereinafter referred to as the "Water Department," THE CITY OF SEATTLE, acting through Seattle City Light, hereinafter referred to as "City Light," and PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT COMPANY, hereinafter referred to as the "Permittee." All departments and agencies of the City of Seattle are collectively referred to herein as the "City."

 The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for the use by the Permittee of the Water Department's Tolt Pipeline (TPL) right-of- way ("R/W") to install, maintain, operate, replace, modify and repair an 8-inch diameter HDPE/PVC storm drain facility along and within the 100 foot wide R/W; said drain entering the R/W from the Stillwater Substation at a point located approximately 210 feet westerly of the NE corner of Section 25-26-6; then extending southwesterly approximately 10 feet to a point located approximately 220 feet westerly of and 5 feet south of said NE corner and approximately 5 feet south of the north margin of said R/W; then extending westerly along a line located approximately five feet south of and parallel with the north margin of said R/W approximately 416 feet to an approximate 20 foot long rock lined outfall placed within the existing R/W drainage ditch, said installation totaling approximately 446 feet in length within said R/W; all situated in the NE 1/4 of Section 25-26-6, King County, WA (Book Map Page 929), and as depicted on Drawing No. D- 10472, for the Permittee, "Drainage ---, Stillwater Substation."

 SUBJECT to City ordinances and regulations and to the following terms and stipulations:

 1. Permittee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless and defend at its sole cost the City from all claims, actions or damages of every kind and description, of any third party, to the extent that such claims, actions, or damages result from Permittee's breach of the conditions of this permit and/or by reason of the Permittee's negligence or willful action in use of the R/W pursuant to this agreement. "Willful action" for purposes of this permit is defined as non-negligent action or inaction which the Permittee is under a legal duty pursuant to this permit or any applicable law not to do (if an action) or to do (if an inaction). The Permittee shall not be required to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City or to pay any judgment to the extent that the City is adjudged to be contributorially or comparatively negligent or to the extent of any willful action by the City.

 2. The Water Department shall be notified (386-1800) two days before any work, other than routine maintenance, is begun on the storm drain facility within the R/W.

 3. Permittee's use of the R/W shall in no way interfere with the Water Department's present or future use of the R/W for any water system purpose. Any work on the R/W shall be prosecuted with diligence, and with due respect to all property and to all contracts of which the Permittee has been notified in writing. Permittee agrees to repair any damage to the R/W caused by Permittee's use thereof and to maintain the R/W to the extent that Permittee's use thereof has caused deterioration to the R/W.

 4. If at any time the Water Department shall need to install, repair or replace a pipeline, or other water system facilities and such work requires the removal of the storm drain facility or a part thereof, Permittee upon written notice from the Water Department shall temporarily remove its storm drain facility (or the part so specified) during the Water Department's installation, repair or replacement and may replace same under the inspection of the Water Department. Permittee and City Light will pay, in proportion to their respective use of the Stillwater Substation, all costs of such removal and replacement.

 Any replacement, modification, maintenance, or repair of the storm drain facility for any reason whatsoever shall use the same materials, location, and design as the prior facility, unless the Water Department approves any changes to such materials, location, or design in writing.

 5. Permittee agrees to pay to the Water Department the reasonable cost of repair of any of the Water Department's facilities damaged by the installation, operation or maintenance of Permittee's storm drain facility.

 6. Permittee agrees that the Water Department shall not be liable for any damage to said storm drain facility by reason of any construction, alteration or improvement by the Water Department, its agents or representatives, except to the extent such damage is caused by the sole, comparative or contributory negligence or willful action, of the Water Department, its agents or employees.

 7. City Light shall pay the annual use fee for this permit in the amount of $100 due and payable in advance on or before May 1 of each year; provided, that the first year use fee shall be payable by City Light on or before May 1, 1996. This fee (payable by City Light) is subject to change.

 8. This permit is revocable upon thirty days notice by the Superintendent of Water; provided that if an alternative location within the R/W is reasonably available for the storm drain facility and this permit has not been revoked due to the Permittee's breach of the terms or conditions of this permit, the Water Department shall offer the Permittee the option of relocating the facility to that new location.

 9. This permit is not transferable.

 10. One copy of this permit must be on-site during installation or relocation work with respect to the storm drain facility by Permittee or Permittee's agent.

 11. This permit is invalid unless approved by the City (as evidenced by the signatures of the City's authorized representative below) and executed in acceptance by Permittee.

 APPROVED BY:

 SEATTLE WATER DEPARTMENT

 _______________________________ Date:______________________ Diana Gale Superintendent of Water

 AGREED BY:

 SEATTLE CITY LIGHT DEPARTMENT

 _______________________________ Date:______________________ Gary Zarker Superintendent of City Light

 ACCEPTED BY:

 PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT COMPANY

 ______________________________ Date:______________________ By:___________________________

 mvs/pb 1/12/96 STILLSTO.DOC

```
