

********

**Council Bill Number: 111396**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118443**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to for-hire horsedrawn carriages, adding chapter 6.315 to the Seattle Municipal Code, to license for revenue and regulation such horse-drawn carriages, their drivers and the horses used for such carriages.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 9, 1996
   
**Vote:** 6-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 17, 1996
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 10, 1996
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 3, 1996
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LICENSES, FEES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, ANIMAL-CONTROL

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to for-hire horse-drawn carriages, adding chapter 6.315 to the Seattle Municipal Code, to license for revenue and regulation such horse-drawn carriages, their drivers and the horses used for such carriages.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. A new chapter is added to chapter 6 of the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC") as follows:

 HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES, HORSES AND DRIVERS

 I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 6.315.010 Purpose.

 This ordinance is an exercise of the power of the City to license for-hire horse-drawn carriages, for-hire horse-drawn carriage drivers and carriage horses used to draw for-hire horse- drawn carriages, all for revenue and regulation.

 6.315.020 Definitions.

 For the purposes of this chapter and unless the context plainly requires otherwise, the following definitions apply:

 A. "City" means the City of Seattle.

 B. "Conviction" or "Convicted" means a final judgment of guilty in any court; the imposition of a fine; a plea of guilty or nolo contendere in any court; or a finding or verdict of guilty, regardless whether imposition of a sentence is deferred or the penalty is suspended. Any conviction which has been expunged pursuant to the Revised Code of Washington ("RCW") 9.92.066, as now or hereafter amended, or RCW 9.95.240, as now or hereafter amended, is not considered a conviction.

 C. "Department" means the Department of Finance of the City of Seattle, or any department that succeeds to the Department of Finance's duties under this chapter.

 D. "Director" means the director of the Department of Finance or any successor department or the director's authorized designee.

 E. "Equine Diaper" means a bag or receptacle used to contain fecal droppings and placed in the area of the rear of the horse in such a manner that it will contain all fecal droppings deposited from the horse.

 F. "For-Hire" means, for the purposes of this chapter, the operation or use of a horse-drawn carriage for compensation.

 G. "Horse" or "Carriage Horse" means an animal of the genus/species equus caballus and equus asinus, which includes horses, mules and donkeys.

 H. "Horse-drawn carriage" or "Carriage" means a vehicle intended to be drawn by a horse and in which any person may be transported or carried.

 I. "Horse-drawn carriage driver" or "Driver" means a person operating or driving a horse-drawn carriage for hire.

 J. "Licensee" means a person who has a license issued pursuant to this chapter, whether or not the license is subsequently suspended or revoked.

 K. "Operate" means to advertise or hold oneself out for business, drive, use, manage, or occupy a horse-drawn carriage that at any time transports any passenger or property for compensation within the city limits of the City of Seattle.

 L. "Person" means a natural person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity.

 M. "Veterinarian" means a practicing veterinarian licensed by the state of Washington.

 N. "Vehicle" for the purposes of this chapter, means a device with at least two wheels, designed and intended to be drawn by a horse, and in or by which any person or property may be transported.

 6.315.030 Scope of chapter.

 A. This chapter applies to all for-hire horse-drawn carriages, all for-hire horse-drawn carriage drivers and all carriage horses used for drawing for-hire horse drawn carriages within the City of Seattle.

 B. Nothing in this chapter affects the right of the City to impose or collect other applicable fees, charges or penalties or take other appropriate action to remedy a violation of other ordinances or laws.

 C. Each provision in this chapter, the violation of which is subject to a penalty or suspension or both, has the class of penalty or suspension listed in parenthesis at the end of the provision. The amount of the penalty to be imposed for each class of violation is listed in section 6.315.400 of this chapter.

 6.315.040 Licenses required.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B, it is unlawful:

 (1) To drive or otherwise operate within the City of Seattle any for-hire horse-drawn carriage unless a license has been issued and has not expired, been suspended or revoked under this chapter for:

 a) the for-hire horse-drawn carriage;

 b) the horse used in drawing the for-hire horse- drawn carriage; and

 c) the for-hire horse-drawn carriage driver.

 (2) To fail to surrender the license to the Director within twenty four (24) hours after receipt of notice of suspension or revocation of license issued under this chapter.

 (3) To use any animal other than a horse to operate a for-hire horse-drawn carriage.

 B. No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be required of a person who is operating a horse-drawn carriage as an entry in a parade or in order to provide temporary free entertainment.

 C. Operating or driving a for-hire horse-drawn carriage is a privilege, not a right. Neither the submission of a complete application nor the ability to satisfy stated criteria for a license create a right to a license.

 6.315.050 License-expiration, transfer, issuance, rule-making.

 A. All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter expire annually on March 31st.

 B. No license issued under this chapter is transferable.

 C. No license may be issued unless all outstanding penalties assessed against the licensee are paid in full to the Department.

 D. The Director is authorized to promulgate and adopt rules pursuant to SMC chapter 3.02 to carry out or interpret the provisions of this chapter. All licensees shall comply with all such rules; violation of such a rule other than the insurance rules promulgated pursuant to section 6.315.120 shall be a Class A violation if it is a non-safety rule and a Class B violation if it is a safety rule.

 6.315.060 Fees.

 A. Annual license fees:

 (1) Horse -- $60.00

 (2) Horse-drawn carriage -- $60.00

 (3) Horse-drawn carriage driver -- $20.00

 B. Other fees:

 (1) Re-inspection and/or reinstatement fee for a license that has been suspended -- $30.00.

 (2) Replacement fee for a lost, damaged or destroyed horse-drawn carriage license plate -- $10.00.

 (3) Replacement fee for a horse drawn carriage driver's or a carriage horse license -- $5.00.

 C. No fees shall be prorated, except that an applicant for a carriage horse license to be issued after September 30 of each year will be charged half the annual rate.

 6.315.070 Licensee responsibilities--general.

 A. A licensee shall permit the Director to inspect a for- hire horse-drawn carriage or carriage horse without prior notice, upon request (Suspension and Class B);

 B. A licensee must inform the Director in writing within seven (7) days if any of the information provided in the license application submitted pursuant to this chapter ceases to be true or is superseded in any way by new information (Class A).

 II. FOR-HIRE HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES-REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS

 6.315.100 For-hire horse-drawn carriage license application.

 A. Application for a for-hire horse-drawn carriage license shall be made in writing, signed by the applicant or, if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, by its duly authorized agent, upon forms provided by the Director.

 B. A for-hire horse-drawn carriage license application shall include the following information:

 (1) Applicant Identification.

 (a) If the applicant is an individual, the applicant's full name, home address, home and business telephone number(s), and date of birth (which shall be at least eighteen years prior to the date of application);

 (b) If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, the name, business address and telephone number of the entity; the names, home addresses, telephone number(s) and date of birth(which must be at least eighteen years before the date of application) of the entity's officers, directors, general and managing partners, and registered agents, and each person vested with authority to manage or direct the affairs of the legal entity or to bind the legal entity in dealings with third parties; the corporation's, partnership's or entity's true legal name, state of incorporation or partnership registration (if any), and State of Washington business license number, and any other information that the Director may require by rule;

 (2) For-hire horse-drawn carriage information, including the name of the manufacturer, model, and seating capacity of the carriage for which a license is sought, and any other information required by the Director by rule;

 (3) Certification signed under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Washington by the applicant, or if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, by an officer, director, general partner, managing partner or principal of the applicant, listing:

 (a) All crimes, if any, of which the applicant or if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, any person listed in subsection (B)(1)(b) has been convicted within the three (3) years previous to the date of application, and if any, the date(s) and type of conviction;

 (b) The date(s) of and reason(s) for the denial, suspension or revocation of any license authorized to be issued under this chapter; and

 (4) Evidence that the applicant has made concurrent application for at least one carriage horse license to be issued under this chapter.

 6.315.110 For-hire horse-drawn carriage - license denial.

 A. The Director shall deny a for-hire horse-drawn carriage license application if the Director determines that:

 (1) A complete application that meets the standards of Section 6.315.100 has not been submitted;

 (2) The application contains any material misstatement or omission;

 (3) If a prior for-hire horse-drawn carriage license was suspended and the suspension has not been terminated or the reasons for the suspension cured;

 (4) Within one (1) year prior to the date of application, the applicant had its City of Seattle for-hire horse-drawn carriage license revoked and not reinstated; and

 (5) Within three (3) years of the date of application, the applicant, or if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, any of the persons listed in subsection B(1)(b), has had a bail forfeiture, conviction or other adverse finding for a crime if such crime involved a for-hire horse-drawn carriage, other for-hire business, or animal cruelty.

 B. The Director may deny any for-hire horse-drawn carriage license application if the Director determines that:

 (1) Within two (2) years prior to the date of application, the applicant, or if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, any of the persons listed in subsection (B)(1)(b), exhibited past conduct in operating a for- hire horse-drawn carriage which would lead the Director to reasonably conclude that the applicant will not comply with the provisions of this chapter related to for-hire horse-drawn carriage operating requirements and the safe operation of a for-hire horse- drawn carriage;

 (2) Within two (2) years prior to the date of application and after the effective date of this chapter, the applicant, or if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, any of the persons listed in subsection (B)(1)(b) permitted a for-hire horse-drawn carriage to operate within the City of Seattle without a current, valid horse-drawn carriage license issued from the City of Seattle under this chapter; or

 (3) Within three (3) years of the date of application, the applicant, or if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, any of the persons listed in subsection (B)(1)(b), has had a bail forfeiture, conviction or other adverse finding for a crime that would jeopardize the safety of a passenger or the public, including but not limited to fraud, theft, prostitution, alcohol and/or narcotics. C. The Director shall deny a license by written notice indicating the reason for denial. Such notice shall be delivered either personally or by first class mail to the applicant at the address provided by the applicant on the license application.

 6.315.120 Insurance.

 A. The licensee of a for-hire horse-drawn carriage shall obtain and file with the Director and the City's Risk Manager, within ten (10) calendar days of issuance of a license, evidence of a policy or policies of insurance as required by rule promulgated by the Director and adopted pursuant to Chapter 3.02 of the Seattle Municipal Code. The licensee shall continuously maintain said insurance at the licensee's expense.

 B. All such policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager as to company (must be rated A-:VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker), form and coverage, and shall be primary to all other insurance.

 6.315.130 For-hire horse-drawn carriage - operating requirements and responsibilities.

 No for-hire horse-drawn carriage licensed by the City may lawfully operate within the City of Seattle unless the following minimum requirements are met:

 A. The for-hire horse-drawn carriage has insurance as required in Section 6.315.120, provided that evidence of a new policy including the for-hire horse-drawn carriage must be filed with the Director and approved by the City's Risk Manager before the horse-drawn carriage is canceled or deleted from any previous policy (Suspension and Class C);

 B. The licensee shall daily inspect to insure that the for-hire horse-drawn carriage meets the following safety standards and any other safety standards that may be promulgated by the Director by rule:

 (1) No for-hire horse-drawn carriage may carry more passengers at one time, including the driver, than recommended by the carriage manufacturer (Class B);

 (2) No person may sit in the driver's compartment except the driver and/or a driver trainee (Class B);

 (3) Each for-hire horse-drawn carriage shall be clean (Class A);

 (4) Each for-hire horse-drawn carriage shall be mechanically sound, and not in such a state of disrepair as to jeopardize the safety of the passengers or the public (Suspension and Class B);

 (5) The for-hire horse-drawn carriage's harness, collar, and traces shall be clean, strongly constructed, of adequate fit, and in good repair, and the harness and traces shall be kept free of makeshift repairs or additions such as wire, sisal rope, and rusty chains (Suspension and Class B);

 (6) All for-hire horse-drawn carriages:

 (a) must be equipped with lights that comply with the requirements of SMC 11.82.340(A) (Suspension and Class B);

 (b) shall display a reflective triangle on the rear of the horse-drawn carriage indicating that it is a slow moving vehicle, in compliance with S.M.C. 11.82.340(B) (Suspension and Class B);

 (c) must be equipped with working brakes (Suspension and Class B); and

 (d) shall comply with other applicable requirements of state and local law (Suspension and Class B for safety violations; Class A for non-safety);

 C. The for-hire horse-drawn carriage is operated by a driver licensed under this chapter (Class B);

 D. The for-hire horse-drawn carriage displays a current for-hire horse-drawn carriage license plate issued by the Director which includes the for-hire horse-drawn carriage license number and expiration date (Class B);

 E. The licensee of a horse-drawn carriage notifies the Director in writing within seven (7) days of the occurrence of any of the following:

 (1) Any arrest, charge, or conviction of the horse- drawn carriage driver for any criminal offense or any traffic violation that occurs during, or arises out of, the driver's operation of a horse-drawn carriage (Class B);

 (2) Any accident required to be reported to the State of Washington involving any for-hire horse-drawn carriage (Class B);

 F. The for-hire horse-drawn carriage licensee ensures that daily trip sheet records are completed as prescribed by the Director by rule, for each for-hire horse-drawn carriage licensed pursuant to this chapter (Class A); and

 G. The for-hire horse-drawn carriage licensee keeps the daily trip sheets for a minimum of two (2) years (Class B).

 III. CARRIAGE HORSE LICENSE-REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS

 6.315.200 Carriage horse license - application.

 A. Application for a carriage horse license shall be made in writing, signed by the applicant, or if such applicant is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, by its duly authorized agent, upon forms provided by the Director. Applicants for a carriage horse license must be either applicants for or have a license issued for a for-hire horse-drawn carriage.

 B. The carriage horse license application shall include the following information:

 (1) The name, business address and phone number of the applicant;

 (2) The name, breed, sex, age, weight, and the permanent form of identification of the horse;

 (3) The name, address and telephone number of the horse's veterinarian;

 (4) A certificate of health issued within the last three (3) months from a licensed veterinarian certifying that the horse sought to be licensed is fit to draw a horse-drawn carriage;

 (5) Proof of current vaccinations including but not limited to tetanus, rabies, equine influenza and Eastern/Western encephalomyelitis. Proof may be in the form of a health certificate from a veterinarian indicating the vaccinations administered; or if administered by someone other than a veterinarian in accordance with state or local law, by certificate signed under penalty of perjury by the person administering such vaccinations, indicating the vaccinations administered;

 (6) Photograph(s) showing identifying markings and/or the permanent form of identification of the horse sought to be licensed; and

 (7) A copy of the applicant's for-hire horse-drawn carriage license or application.

 6.315.210 Carriage horse - standards for license denial.

 A. The Director shall deny any carriage horse license application if the Director determines that:

 (1) A complete application that meets the standards of Section 6.315.200 has not been submitted;

 (2) The application contains any material misstatement or omission;

 (3) If a prior carriage horse license was suspended and the suspension has not been terminated or the reasons for the suspension cured;

 (4) Within one (1) year prior to the date of application, the applicant had its City of Seattle for-hire carriage horse license revoked and not reinstated; or

 (5) The applicant fails to obtain a for-hire horse- drawn carriage license or the for-hire horse-drawn carriage license application is denied.

 B. The Director shall deny a license by written notice indicating the reason for denial. Such notice shall be delivered either personally or by first class mail to the applicant at the address provided by the applicant on the license application.

 6.315.220 Carriage horse - operating requirements and responsibilities.

 No carriage horse licensed by the City may lawfully be used to draw a for-hire horse-drawn carriage within the City of Seattle unless the following minimum requirements are met:

 A. Each carriage horse used for drawing a for-hire horse- drawn carriage shall be distinguishable by a permanent form of identification such as a brand, lip tattoo, microchip or any other easily identifiable permanent form of identification approved by the Director (Suspension and Class B ).

 B. A carriage horse used in drawing a for-hire horse-drawn carriage must:

 (1) Be appropriately shod on all four feet and not have any loose shoes. Shoes which are designed to prevent slipping and absorb shock shall be utilized when working on paved surfaces. A horse that loses a shoe or is not appropriately shod shall be immediately taken out of service until such time the problem is cured (Suspension and Class B);

 (2) Not have any open wound, oozing sore, cut below skin level, bleeding wound or severe chafing (Suspension and Class B);

 (3) Have good flesh and adequate muscle tone, which the Director shall determine by use of the Henneke Scale or other appropriate method of equine evaluation.(Suspension and Class B);

 (4) Not have any evidence of lameness, such as but not limited to irregular rhythm (Suspension and Class B);

 (5) Not work longer than ten (10) hours per day in any twenty-four (24) hour period nor more than five (5) consecutive days in any seven (7) day period (Class B);

 (6) Be properly cleaned and groomed with no no caked dirt or mud and not have any offensive odor other than an odor normally associated with a horse that is clean, healthy and well groomed (Class A);

 (7) Not work in temperatures exceeding 90 degrees Fahrenheit (Class B); and

 (8) Wear an equine diaper to contain all fecal droppings while drawing a for-hire horse-drawn carriage or walking the horse on public property (Class B).

 C. Each carriage horse licensed under this chapter must have a veterinary examination at least semiannually, and evidence of such examination shall be made available to the Director upon request (Class B).

 IV. FOR-HIRE HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE DRIVER - LICENSING AND REQUIREMENTS

 6.315.300 For-hire horse-drawn carriage driver license- application

 A. Applications for a for-hire horse-drawn carriage driver license shall be made in writing to the Director upon forms provided by the Director.

 B. For-hire horse-drawn carriage driver license applications shall include the following information:

 (1) Full name, home and business addresses, and home and business telephone number(s) of the applicant;

 (2) Washington State driver's license number;

 (3) Date of birth (which shall be at least eighteen (18) years prior to the date of application), height, weight, color of eyes and hair;

 (4) Certificate signed by a for-hire horse-drawn carriage licensee certifying, under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Washington, that the applicant has successfully completed a one week training program in which the applicant has:

 (a) Ridden with a licensed for-hire horse- drawn carriage driver in a horse-drawn carriage for at least seven (7) six (6)-hour days in the environment in which a for-hire horse- drawn carriage operates;

 (b) Knowledge of the requirements contained in this chapter of the Seattle Municipal Code and in any rules promulgated by the Director to implement this chapter;

 (c) Been trained in emergency procedures including but not limited to: remedying equipment malfunctions, handling unruly or uncontrollable horses and hostile passengers, onlookers or others, and responding to crowd situations; and

 (d) Become familiar with the word commands or other physical commands to which horses respond and to which they are trained; and

 (5) Certification signed under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Washington by the applicant, listing:

 (a) all crimes, if any, of which the applicant has been convicted within the three (3) years previous to the date of application, and if any, the date and type of conviction;

 (b) the date(s) of and reason(s) for the denial, suspension or revocation of any license issued under this chapter.

 6.315.310 Horse-drawn carriage driver license--standards for license denial.

 A. The Director shall deny a for-hire horse-drawn carriage driver's license application if the Director determines that:

 (1) A complete application that meets the standards of Section 6.315.300 has not been submitted;

 (2) The application contains any material misstatement or omission;

 (3) If a prior for-hire horse-drawn carriage driver's

 license was suspended and the suspension has not been terminated or the reasons for the suspension cured;

 (4) Within one (1) year prior to the date of application, the applicant had a license issued under this chapter revoked and not reinstated; or

 (5) Within three (3) years of the date of application, the applicant has had a bail forfeiture, conviction or other adverse finding for a crime if such crime involved a for-hire horse-drawn carriage, other for-hire business, or animal cruelty.

 B. The Director may deny any for-hire horse-drawn carriage driver's license application if the Director determines that:

 (1) Within two (2) years prior to the date of application, the applicant exhibited past conduct in driving or operating a for-hire horse-drawn carriage which would lead the Director to reasonably conclude that the applicant will not comply with the provisions of this chapter related to operating requirements for for-hire horse-drawn carriages, carriage horses or for-hire horse drawn carriage drivers, and the safe operation of a for-hire horse-drawn carriage;

 (2) Within two (2) years prior to the date of application and after the effective date of this chapter, the applicant operated or permitted a for-hire horse-drawn carriage to operate within the City of Seattle without a current, valid horse- drawn carriage license issued under this chapter; or

 (3) Within three (3) years of the date of application, the applicant has had a bail forfeiture, conviction or other adverse finding for a crime that would jeopardize the safety of a passenger or the public, including but not limited to a crime involving driving or vehicular safety, fraud, theft, prostitution, alcohol and/or narcotics.

 C. The Director shall deny a license by written notice indicating the reason for denial. Such notice shall be delivered either personally or by first class mail to the applicant at the address provided by the applicant on the license application.

 6.315.320 For-hire horse-drawn carriage driver- operating requirements and responsibilities.

 No horse-drawn carriage driver licensed by the City may operate a for-hire horse-drawn carriage within the City of Seattle unless the following minimum requirements and responsibilities are met:

 A. A horse-drawn carriage driver inspects the for-hire horse-drawn carriage at least once daily before starting each shift to ensure that the for-hire horse-drawn carriage equipment is working properly and shall indicate on the trip sheet required to be maintained by subsection F the time of such inspection(Class B);

 B. The horse-drawn carriage meets the vehicle operating requirements set forth in this chapter or in rules promulgated by the Director pursuant to this chapter (Class B);

 C. A horse-drawn carriage driver controls the pace of the horse to a walk or a speed never faster than a slow trot so as to maintain a speed that is safe for the horse, driver and passengers (Class B);

 D. Each horse-drawn carriage driver has in the driver's possession a for-hire horse-drawn carriage driver's license and displays the license and photograph in a prominent location available for view by passengers upon entering a for-hire horse- drawn carriage (Class A);

 E. Each horse-drawn carriage driver provides the carriage horse access to and opportunity to drink potable drinking water at least once per hour during each 10-hour work day (Class B);

 F. A horse-drawn carriage driver maintains a daily trip sheet indicating the date, time, origination and destination of all fares, number of passengers, and the amount of the fare collected; and the time and location of each watering of the horse (Class A);

 G. A horse-drawn carriage driver, upon request of the Director, a passenger, or a police officer, allows the horse-drawn carriage driver's license and/or Washington State driver's to be inspected (Class B, Class A if request was by passenger);

 H. A horse-drawn carriage driver shall not leave the horse unattended (Suspension and Class B);

 I. A horse-drawn carriage driver shall not use or be under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs while operating a for- hire horse-drawn carriage (Suspension and Class B);

 J. A horse-drawn carriage driver notifies the Director in writing within seven (7) days of the occurrence of any of the following:

 (1) Any arrest, charge, or conviction of the horse- drawn carriage driver for any criminal offense or any traffic violation that occurs during, or arises out of, the driver's operation of a horse-drawn carriage (Class B);

 (2) Any accident required to be reported to the State of Washington involving any horse-drawn carriage operated for-hire by the horse-drawn carriage driver or involving the for-hire horse- drawn carriage (Class B);

 K. A driver wears suitable clothes that are neat and clean. The term "neat and clean" as it relates to clothes means that all clothing is clean, free from soil, grease and dirt and without unrepaired rips or tears (Class A);

 L. A driver is well groomed at all times while on duty. The term "well groomed" refers to that state of personal hygiene, body cleanliness and absence of offensive odor normally associated with bathing or showering on a regular basis, and means that hair, beards and mustaches are groomed, combed or brushed (Class A); and

 M. A driver is able to provide a reasonable and prudent amount of change, and if correct change is not available, no additional charge is made to the passenger in attempting to secure the change (Class A).

 V. ENFORCEMENT

 6.315.400 Penalties.

 A. Violations of section 6.315.040 (A) shall be a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed ninety days (90), or by both such fine and imprisonment.

 B. For each violation of a provision in this chapter that has a class referenced in parenthesis after the provision, a civil penalty in the following amount shall be imposed by and paid to the Department for each violation:

 Class A - $50.00 for the first violation; $100.00 for each subsequent violation within a twenty-four (24) month period;

 Class B - $100.00 for the first violation; $150.00 for each subsequent violation within a twenty-four (24) month period;

 Class C - $300.00.

 C. For each violation other than a violation of section 6.315.040(A), the Director shall give written notice of the violation to the licensee indicating the violation and the monetary penalty imposed. Such notice shall be delivered either personally or by first class mail addressed to the licensee at the address provided by the licensee on the license application or provided as new information pursuant to the requirements of section 6.315.070.

 6.315.410 License suspension and revocation.

 A. Summary suspension or revocation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a license issued under this chapter may be summarily suspended prior to any hearing for failure to have the insurance coverage required by section 6.315.120 and may be summarily suspended or revoked prior to any hearing by Notice of the Director upon a determination that there is reasonable cause to believe that grounds for license suspension or revocation exist and that summary suspension or revocation is necessary to prevent a clear, substantial and imminent hazard to life, safety, or property.

 B. Suspension standards.

 (1) The Director may suspend any license issued under this chapter for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter that indicate a suspension as a penalty in parenthesis after the provision and pursuant to subsection (A)(2) below.

 (2) Three or more class B penalties imposed during a twenty-four (24) month period will, in addition to monetary penalties, result in suspension of a license for two (2) months.

 C. Revocation standards:

 (1) Any license. The Director shall revoke a license issued under this chapter if the Director determines that:

 (a) The license application contained a material misstatement or omission;

 (b) During the annual license peiord the licensee has a conviction, bail forfeiture or other adverse finding of animal cruelty under the laws of any state or governmental subdivision thereof;

 (c) During the annual license period the licensee has a conviction, bail forfeiture or other adverse finding for violating any provision of Section 6.315.040(A);

 (d) The licensee fails to pay a monetary penalty imposed under this chapter within thirty (30) days after an unappealed notice of violation or final decision or order imposing such monetary penalty is issued.

 (2) Horse Drawn Carriage Licenses.

 (a) The Director shall revoke a horse-drawn carriage license if the licensee, or if the licensee is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, if any of the persons listed in section 6.315.100(B)(1)(b) has:

 (i) Had a bail forfeiture, conviction or other adverse finding during the annual license period for a crime that would be grounds for denial under section 6.315.110(A)(5); or

 (ii) Within the previous twenty-four (24) month period had two violations of section 6.315.120;

 (b) The Director may revoke a for-hire horse- drawn carriage license if the licensee, or if the licensee is a partnership, corporation or other legal entity, if any of the persons listed in section 6.315.100(B)(1)(b) has had a bail forfeiture, conviction or other adverse finding during the annual license period for a crime that would jeopardize the safety of a passenger or the public, including but not limited to fraud, theft, prostitution, and/or narcotics.

 (3) Horse-Drawn Carriage Driver's License. The Director shall revoke a for-hire horse-drawn carriage driver's license if, during the annual license period:

 (a) The horse-drawn carriage driver's Washington State driver's license has been revoked; or

 (b) The horse-drawn carriage driver has had a bail forfeiture, conviction or other adverse finding for a crime that would be grounds for denial under section 6.315.310(A)(5).

 D. Notice of suspension or revocation.

 (1) Suspension. The Director shall suspend a license issued under this chapter by written notice of suspension (or summary suspension), indicating the reason for suspension and the appropriate action(s) necessary to remedy the violation and terminate the suspension. Such notice shall be delivered either personally or by first class mail to the licensee at the address provided by the licensee on the license application or provided as new information pursuant to the requirements of section 6.315.070.

 (2) Revocation. The Director shall revoke a license by written notice of revocation indicating the reason for revocation. Such notice shall be delivered either personally or by first class mail to the licensee at the address provided by the licensee on the license application or provided as new information pursuant to the requirements of section 6.315.070.

 E. Effect of Notice of Suspension or Revocation.

 (1) Summary suspension or revocation. Whenever any license is summarily suspended or revoked the suspension or revocation is effective upon issuance of the notice. Such notice may be appealed pursuant to the procedures of 6.315.430. If a timely appeal is not filed by the licensee, the notice of summary suspension or revocation shall be final. A summary suspension shall extend until any administrative or judicial appeal is finally concluded in the licensee's favor, or until evidence satisfactory to the Director is produced showing that the violation is cured, whichever occurs first. Summary revocations shall extend until the end of the annual license period or until any administrative or judicial appeal is finally concluded in the licensee's favor, whichever occurs first.

 (2) Suspension or revocation. If a timely appeal is not filed by the licensee pursuant to section 6.315.430, the notice of suspension or revocation shall be final. Suspensions or revocations become effective upon the date any notice of suspension or revocation or order on appeal affirming such notice becomes final. Suspensions shall extend until evidence satisfactory to the Director is produced showing that the violation is cured or, if the violation provides for a specific period of suspension for the specific period of time listed. Revocations shall extend until the end of the annual license period.

 (3) Except in the case of a summary suspension or revocation as provided in subsection (1) above, whenever a timely appeal is filed pursuant to section 6.315.430, a licensee may continue to engage in the activity for which the license is required pending a final decision on appeal.

 6.315.430. Administrative appeals process.

 A. Any notice of denial, violation, suspension or revocation shall state that the licensee is entitled to a director's hearing upon written request, to respond and provide information to refute or mitigate the violation. Upon written request filed within ten (10) days after the date of the notice of denial, violation, suspension or revocation, the Director shall set a hearing date and time to be held as soon as possible and not more than fourteen (14) days from the date of the notice.

 B. The hearing shall be held by the Director or the Director's designee.

 C. Within ten days (10) of the hearing, the Director shall issue a written decision including factual findings and the Director's conclusion, with supporting reasons, affirming, modifying or reversing the notice. The decision shall be mailed by first class mail to the address of the licensee listed on the application or provided as new information pursuant to the requirements of section 6.315.070.

 D. The decision of the Director is final if only a monetary penalty is imposed or if no timely appeal is filed pursuant to subsection E for those decisions subject to further appeal.

 E. If the Director's decision imposes or affirms a denial, suspension or revocation, a licensee may appeal the decision to the Hearing Examiner by filing a notice of appeal with the Hearing Examiner within fifteen (15) days after the date of the decision.

 F. If a timely notice of appeal is filed, a hearing shall be scheduled and conducted by the Hearing Examiner according to the Hearing Examiner rules for contested cases.

 G. The Hearing Examiner may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Director.

 Section 2. Transition Rule. The fees for all licenses issued under this chapter prior to March 31, 1997 shall be at the one year license rate and the license shall expire on March 31, 1998. All persons or entities required to have a license under this ordinance shall have thirty (30) days after the effective date of this ordinance in which to obtain such license.

 Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance, or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force the later of January 1, 1997, thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, or the effective date provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2011.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2011.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2011.

 _______________________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 smw: February 25, 2011 8ORDINAN.FRM (Ver. )

 28

```
