

********

**Council Bill Number: 111395**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118283**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the electric system of The City of Seattle; authorizing the issuance and sale of municipal light and power adjustable rate revenue bonds in the principal amount of not to exceed Twenty-two Million Dollars ($22,000,000) for the purposes of providing funds for certain additions and betterments to and extensions of the existing municipal light and power plant and system of the City and paying the costs of issuing the bonds authorized herein; providing for the terms, conditions, convenants, security and manner of sale of the bonds; describing the lien of the bonds relative to the lien of the outstanding municipal light and power revenue bonds of the City; and providing for the sale of the bonds to Smith Barney Inc. and E.J. DeLa Rosa & Co., Inc.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 16, 1996
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 23, 1996
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 23, 1996
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 3, 1996
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, BONDS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the electric system of The City of Seattle; authorizing the issuance and sale of municipal light and power adjustable rate revenue bonds in the principal amount of not to exceed Twenty-two Million Dollars ($22,000,000) for the purposes of providing funds for certain additions and betterments to and extensions of the existing municipal light and power plant and system of the City and paying the costs of issuing the bonds authorized herein; providing for the terms, conditions, covenants, security and manner of sale of the bonds; describing the lien of the bonds relative to the lien of the outstanding municipal light and power revenue bonds of the City; and providing for the sale of the bonds to Smith Barney Inc. and E. J. De La Rosa & Co., Inc.

 Passed

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 Page

 Section 1. Definitions

 Section 2. Adoption of System or Plan; Authorization of Bonds

 Section 3. Bond Registration; Appointment of Agents; Credit Enhancement

 Section 4. Form and Execution of Bonds

 Section 5. Priority of Lien

 Section 6. Sufficiency of Revenues 16

 Section 7. Preservation of Tax Exemption for Interest on Bonds

 Section 8. Bonds Negotiable 17

 Section 9. Sale of Bonds 17

 Section 10. Continuing Disclosure 18

 Section 11. General Authorization 18

 Section 12. Severability

 Section 13. Ratification of Prior Acts 18

 Section 14. Section Headings 19

 Section 15. Effective Date of Ordinance 19

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

 ORDINANCE

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the electric system of The City of Seattle; authorizing the issuance and sale of municipal light and power adjustable rate revenue bonds in the principal amount of not to exceed Twenty-two Million Dollars ($22,000,000) for the purposes of providing funds for certain additions and betterments to and extensions of the existing municipal light and power plant and system of the City and paying the costs of issuing the bonds authorized herein; providing for the terms, conditions, covenants, security and manner of sale of the bonds; describing the lien of the bonds relative to the lien of the outstanding municipal light and power revenue bonds of the City; and providing for the sale of the bonds to Smith Barney Inc. and E. J. De La Rosa & Co., Inc.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), owns, operates and maintains an electric system (the "Light System"); and

 WHEREAS, the City has adopted certain systems or plans of additions and betterments to and extensions of the Light System, the costs of which are to be paid from unexpended and unencumbered funds paid into the Light Fund of the City (the "Light Fund") and legally available for such purposes, or from the proceeds of municipal light and power revenue bonds issued for such purposes; and

 WHEREAS, the City previously issued its Municipal Light and Power Adjustable Rate Revenue Bonds, 1990 (the "1990 Bonds"), its Municipal Light and Power Adjustable Rate Revenue Bonds, 1991, Series A and B, (the "1991 Bonds"), and its Municipal Light and Power Adjustable Rate Revenue Bonds, 1993 (the "1993 Bonds" and, collectively with the 1990 Bonds and the 1991 Bonds, the "Outstanding Subordinate Lien Bonds"); and

 WHEREAS, the City previously issued its Municipal Light and Power Revenue Bonds, Series 1992A, and Municipal Light and Power Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 1992B, its Municipal Light and Power Revenue and Refunding Revenue Bonds, 1993, its Municipal Light and Power Revenue Bonds, 1994, and its Municipal Light and Power Revenue Bonds, 1995, Series A and B (collectively, the "outstanding Prior Lien Bonds");

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below.

 "Bonds" means the municipal light and power adjustable rate revenue bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to, under the authority of and for the purposes provided in this ordinance and the Resolution.

 "Bond Counsel" means a lawyer or a firm of lawyers, selected by the City, of nationally recognized standing in matters pertaining to bonds issued by states and their political subdivisions.

 "Bond Register" means the books or records maintained by the Bond Registrar for the purpose of registration of the Bonds.

 "Bond Registrar" or "Registrar" means the fiscal agency of the State of Washington in either Seattle, Washington, or New York, New York, or such other entity as may be selected by the City, whose duties include the registration and authentication of the Bonds, maintenance of the Bond Register, and effecting transfer of ownership of the Bonds.

 "1990 Bonds" means the $25,000,000 Municipal Light and Power Adjustable Rate Revenue Bonds, 1990, of the City.

 "1991 Bonds" means the $45,000,000 Municipal Light and Power Adjustable Rate Revenue Bonds, 1991, Series A and B, of the City.

 "1993 Bonds" means the $22,000,000 Municipal Light and Power Adjustable Rate Revenue Bonds, 1993, of the City.

 "CIP" means the portion or portions relating to the Light System of the "1996-2001 Capital Improvement Program" of the City as adopted by the City in Ordinance 117916, passed November 27, 1995, as that CIP may be amended, updated, supplemented or replaced from time to time.

 "City" means The City of Seattle, Washington, a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 "City Council" means the City Council of the City, as duly and regularly constituted from time to time.

 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereto, and all applicable regulations thereunder.

 "Conservation Plan" means the Conservation Implementation Plan of the City with respect to the Light System endorsed by the City in Resolution 28721, adopted May 3, 1993, as that plan may be amended, updated, supplemented or replaced from time to time, to the extent that funds are appropriated by the City therefor.

 "Director of Finance" means the Director of the Department of Finance of the City.

 "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, as initial Securities Depository for the Bonds.

 "Gross Revenues" means (a) all income, revenues, receipts and profits derived by the City through the ownership and operation of the Light System; (b) the proceeds received by the City directly or indirectly from the sale, lease or other disposition of any of the properties, rights or facilities of the Light System; (c) Payment Agreement Receipts, to the extent that such receipts are not offset by Payment Agreement Payments; and (d) the investment income earned on money held in any fund or account of the City, including any bond redemption funds and the accounts therein, in connection with the ownership and operation of the Light System. Gross Revenues do not include: (A) insurance proceeds compensating the City for the loss of a capital asset; (B) income derived from investments irrevocably pledged to the payment of any defeased bonds payable from Gross Revenues; (C) investment income earned on money in any fund or account created or maintained solely for the purpose of complying with the arbitrage rebate provisions of the Code; (D) any gifts, grants, donations or other funds received by the City from any State or federal agency or other person if such gifts, grants, donations or other funds are the subject of any limitation or reservation imposed by the donor or grantor or imposed by law or administrative regulation to which the donor or grantor is subject, limiting the application of such funds in a manner inconsistent with the application of Gross Revenues hereunder; (E) the proceeds of any borrowing for capital improvements (or the refinancing thereof); and (F) the proceeds of any liability or other insurance (excluding business interruption insurance or other insurance of like nature insuring against the loss of revenues).

 "Letter of Representations" means the Letter of Representations relating to the Bonds to be delivered by the City to DTC.

 "Light Fund" means the special fund of the City of that name heretofore created and established by the City Council.

 "Light System" means the municipal light and power plant and system now belonging to or which may hereafter belong to the City.

 "Mayor" means the Mayor of the City.

 "Outstanding Subordinate Lien Bonds" means, collectively, the 1990 Bonds, the 1991 Bonds and the 1993 Bonds.

 "Payment Agreement" means a written contract entered into, for the purpose of managing or reducing the City's exposure to fluctuations or levels of interest rates or for other interest rate, investment, asset or liability management purposes, by the City and a Qualified Counterparty on either a current or forward basis as authorized by any applicable laws of the State in connection with, or incidental to, the issuance, incurring or carrying of particular bonds, notes, bond anticipation notes, commercial paper or other obligations for borrowed money, or lease, installment purchase or other similar financing agreements or certificates of participation therein, that provides for an exchange of payments based on interest rates, ceilings or floors on such payments, options on such payments, or any combination thereof or any similar device.

 "Payment Agreement Payments" means the amounts, periodically required to be paid by the City to the Qualified Counterparty pursuant to a Payment Agreement.

 "Payment Agreement Receipts" means the amounts periodically required to be paid by the Qualified Counterparty to the City pursuant to a Payment Agreement.

 "Plan of Additions" means, collectively, the CIP and the Conservation Plan, as they may be modified hereafter by ordinance as described herein.

 "Prior Lien Bonds" means, collectively, the Municipal Light and Power Revenue Bonds, Series 1992A, and Municipal Light and Power Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 1992B, of the City authorized by Ordinance 116290 and Resolution 28586, the Municipal Light and Power Revenue and Refunding Revenue Bonds, 1993, of the City authorized by Ordinance 116706, as amended by Ordinance 117300, and Resolution 28751, the Municipal Light and Power Revenue Bonds, 1994, of the City authorized by Ordinance 117374 and Resolution 29043, the Municipal Light and Power Revenue Bonds, 1995, Series A and B, of the City authorized by Ordinance 117758 and Resolutions 29198 and 29218, respectively (collectively, the "outstanding Prior Lien Bonds"), and any bonds issued hereafter having a charge or lien upon the Gross Revenues for the payment of the principal thereof and interest thereon equal in priority to the charge or lien upon the Gross Revenues for the payment of the outstanding Prior Lien Bonds.

 "Project" means that portion of the Plan of Additions to be funded with proceeds of the Bonds.

 "Qualified Counterparty" means a party (other than the City or a person related to the City) who is the other party to a Payment Agreement and who is qualified to act as the other party to a Payment Agreement under any applicable laws of the State.

 "Resolution" means the resolution or resolutions fixing the terms of the Bonds as authorized by Section 2 of this ordinance.

 "State" means the State of Washington.

 Section 2. Adoption of System or Plan; Authorization of Bonds. The CIP and the Conservation Plan constitute a system or plan of additions to and betterments and extensions of the Light System (the "Plan of Additions" and each element thereof an "Addition"). To the extent not previously specified, adopted and ordered by the City by ordinance, the City specifies, adopts and orders to be carried out the Plan of Additions as generally provided for in the CIP and the Conservation Plan, and declares the estimated cost of that system or plan to be Eight Hundred Thirty-nine Million Seven Hundred Fifty-eight Thousand Dollars ($839,758,000).

 The Plan of Additions shall include any amendments, updates, supplements or replacements to the CIP or the Conservation Plan determined by ordinance to constitute a system or plan of additions to and betterments and extensions of the Light System, all of which automatically shall constitute amendments to the Plan of Additions. The Plan of Additions also may be modified, without amending the CIP or the Conservation Plan, to include other improvements if the City determines by ordinance that those amendments or other improvements constitute a system or plan of additions to and betterments and extensions of the Light System. The Plan of Additions includes the purchase and installation of all materials, supplies, appliances, equipment (including but not limited to data processing hardware and software and conservation equipment) and facilities, the acquisition of all permits, franchises, property and property rights, other capital assets and all engineering, consulting and other professional services and studies (whether performed by the City or by other public or private entities) necessary or convenient to carry out the Plan of Additions.

 For the purposes of providing the funds with which to pay the costs of the Project and to pay the costs of issuing and selling the Bonds, the City shall issue and sell the Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed Twenty-two Million Dollars ($22,000,000).

 The Bonds shall be called "The City of Seattle, Washington, Municipal Light and Power Adjustable Rate Revenue Bonds, 199[6]," shall be fully registered as to both principal and interest, and shall be in such form or forms, shall bear such date or dates, and shall be issued in such amounts and under such circumstances as the City Council may specify by one or more resolutions (collectively, the "Resolution") upon the sale of the Bonds. Interest on the Bonds initially shall be at a variable rate not to exceed 12% per annum, adjusted periodically, determined in the manner and payable at the times established by the Resolution. The Bonds shall be numbered in such manner, shall be issued in such denominations, shall mature at such time or times (but not later than December 31, 2026), shall be subject to redemption at such time or times and at such prices, and shall be issued under such terms and conditions, including terms permitting interest on the Bonds to be converted from one short-term variable rate to another short- term variable rate or to a long-term rate, from a long-term rate to another long-term rate or to a short-term variable rate, or to a fixed rate to maturity of the Bonds, and with such covenants as the City Council may direct by the Resolution. The Bonds shall be sold by negotiated sale.

 Section 3. Bond Registration; Appointment of Agents; Credit Enhancement. The City has specified and adopted a system of registration for the Bonds by Ordinance 113859. The Bond Registrar is appointed to act as bond registrar, authenticating agent and transfer agent for the Bonds.

 The Bond Registrar shall keep, or cause to be kept, sufficient records for the registration and transfer of the Bonds (the "Bond Register"), which shall at all times be open to inspection by the City. The Bond Register shall contain the name and mailing address of each owner of the Bonds, or the nominee of such owner, and such additional information as the Bond Registrar shall determine. The Bond Registrar is authorized, on behalf of the City, to authenticate and deliver Bonds transferred or exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the Bonds, this ordinance and the Resolution, and to carry out all of the Bond Registrar's powers and duties under this ordinance, the Resolution and Ordinance 113859.

 The City appoints DTC as initial securities depository for the Bonds. For so long as DTC is the securities depository for the Bonds, DTC shall be deemed to be the registered owner of the Bonds for all purposes hereunder, and all references in this ordinance or the Resolution to the registered owners of the Bonds shall mean DTC or its nominee and shall not mean the owners of any beneficial interests in the Bonds. Payments of principal of and interest on all outstanding Bonds registered in the name of the nominee of DTC, or its registered assign, shall be made as provided in the Letter of Representations.

 Bonds executed and delivered in fully immobilized form shall be executed and delivered in the form of one fully-registered immobilized certificate for each series and maturity of the Bonds representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds of that series and maturity, which Bonds shall (except as provided below for the discontinuation or substitution of securities depository) be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC; however, if DTC shall request that the Bonds be registered in the name of a different nominee, the Bond Registrar shall exchange all or any portion of the Bonds for an equal aggregate principal amount of Bonds of the same series and maturity registered in the name of such other nominee or nominees of DTC. No person other than DTC or its nominee shall be entitled to receive from the City or the Bond Registrar any Bond or any other evidence of ownership of the Bonds, or any right to receive any payment in respect thereof, unless DTC or its nominee shall transfer record ownership of all or any portion of the Bonds on the Bond Register, in connection with discontinuing the book entry system as provided below or otherwise.

 So long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or any nominee thereof, all payments of the principal or interest with respect to the Bonds shall be made to DTC or its nominee in immediately available funds on the dates provided for such payments under this ordinance and the Resolution and at such times and in the manner provided in the Letter of Representations. Each such payment to DTC or its nominee shall be valid and effective to fully discharge all liability of the City or the Bond Registrar with respect to the principal or interest with respect to the Bonds to the extent of the sum or sums so paid. In the event of the redemption of less than all of the Bonds of any series and maturity, the Bond Registrar shall not require surrender by DTC or its nominee of the Bonds so redeemed, and DTC or its nominee may retain such Bonds and make an appropriate notation thereon as to the amount of such partial redemption. DTC shall deliver to the Bond Registrar, upon request, a written confirmation of such partial redemption. The records maintained by the Bond Registrar shall be conclusive as to the amount of the Bonds of such series and maturity which have been redeemed.

 All transfers of beneficial ownership interests in Bonds issued in fully immobilized form shall be effected by the procedures of DTC's participants for recording and transferring the ownership of beneficial interests in bonds.

 The City and the Bond Registrar may treat DTC (or its nominee) as the sole and exclusive registered owner of the Bonds registered in its name for the purposes of payment of the principal or interest with respect to those Bonds, selecting Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, giving any notice permitted or required to be given to registered owners under this ordinance or the Resolution, registering the transfer of Bonds, obtaining any consent or other action to be taken by registered owners of Bonds and for all other purposes whatsoever; and the City and the Bond Registrar shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary. The City and the Bond Registrar shall not have any responsibility or obligation to any participant in DTC, any person claiming a beneficial ownership interest in the Bonds under or through DTC or any such participant, or any other person which is not shown on the Bond Register as being a registered owner of Bonds, with respect to: (1) the Bonds; (2) any records maintained by DTC or any such participant; (3) the payment by DTC or any such participant of any amount in respect of the principal or interest with respect to the Bonds; (4) any notice which is permitted or required to be given to registered owners of Bonds under this ordinance or the Resolution; (5) the selection by DTC or any such participant of any person to receive payment in the event of a partial redemption of the Bonds; or (6) any consent given or other action taken by DTC as registered owner of the Bonds.

 So long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or any nominee thereof, all notices required or permitted to be given to the registered owners of such Bonds under this ordinance or the Resolution shall be given to DTC as provided in the Letter of Representations, in form and content satisfactory to DTC, the City and the Bond Registrar.

 In connection with any notice or other communication to be provided to registered owners pursuant to this ordinance or the Resolution by the City or the Bond Registrar with respect to any consent or other action to be taken by registered owners of the Bonds, DTC shall consider the date of receipt of notice requesting such consent or other action as the record date for such consent or other action; however, the City or the Bond Registrar may establish a special record date for such consent or other action and shall give DTC notice of such special record date not less than fifteen (15) calendar days in advance of such special record date to the extent possible.

 Any successor Bond Registrar, in its written acceptance of its duties under this ordinance and the Resolution, shall agree to take any actions necessary from time to time to comply with the requirements of the Letter of Representations.

 The book-entry system for registration of the ownership of any series of the Bonds in fully immobilized form may be discontinued at any time if: (1) after notice to the City and the Bond Registrar, DTC determines to resign as securities depository for those Bonds; or (2) after notice to DTC and the Registrar, the City determines that a continuation of the system of book-entry transfers through DTC (or through a successor securities depository) is not in the best interests of the City. In each of such events (unless, in the case described in clause (1) above, the City appoints a successor securities depository), the Bonds of that series shall be delivered in registered certificate form to such persons, and in such maturities and principal amounts, as may be designated by DTC, but without any liability on the part of the City or the Bond Registrar for the accuracy of such designation. Whenever DTC requests the City and the Bond Registrar to do so, the City and the Bond Registrar shall cooperate with DTC in taking appropriate action after reasonable notice to arrange for another securities depository to maintain custody of certificates evidencing the Bonds. Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment of any Bonds registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC, shall be made in accordance with the Letter of Representations.

 The City may by the Resolution appoint or provide for the appointment by the Director of Finance of a tender agent, a paying agent, a remarketing agent and a bank furnishing liquidity or credit support for the Bonds, any or all of which may, but need not, be the Bond Registrar. The Resolution shall approve and authorize the execution of contracts covering the duties of those agents, the bank and the City with respect to the Bonds.

 The Bond Registrar shall be responsible for its representations contained in the Bond Registrar's Certificate of Authentication on the Bonds. The Bond Registrar may become the registered owner of Bonds with the same rights it would have if it were not the Bond Registrar and, to the extent permitted by law, may act as depository for and permit any of its officers or directors to act as members of, or in any other capacity with respect to, any committee formed to protect the rights of the registered owners of the Bonds.

 Section 4. Form and Execution of Bonds. The Bonds shall be typed, photocopied, printed or lithographed on good bond paper in a form consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, the Resolution and State law, shall be signed by the Mayor and Director of Finance, either or both of whose signatures may be manual or in facsimile, and the seal of the City or a facsimile reproduction thereof shall be impressed or printed thereon.

 Only Bonds bearing a Certificate of Authentication in substantially the following form, manually signed by the Bond Registrar, shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose or entitled to the benefits of this ordinance:

 CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

 This bond is one of the fully registered The City of Seattle, Washington, Municipal Light and Power Adjustable Rate Revenue Bonds, 199[6], described in the Bond Ordinance.

 Bond Registrar

 By

 Authorized Signer

 The authorized signing of a Certificate of Authentication shall be conclusive evidence that the Bond so authenticated has been duly executed, authenticated and delivered and is entitled to the benefits of this ordinance.

 If any officer whose facsimile signature appears on the Bonds ceases to be an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds before the Bonds bearing his or her facsimile signature are authenticated or delivered by the Bond Registrar or issued by the City, those Bonds nevertheless may be authenticated, delivered and issued and, when authenticated, issued and delivered, shall be as binding on the City as though that person had continued to be an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds. Any Bond also may be signed on behalf of the City by any person who, on the actual date of signing of the Bond, is an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds, although he or she did not hold the required office on the date of issuance of the Bonds.

 Section 5. Priority of Lien. The lien of the Bonds on the Gross Revenues of the Light System, initially and as long as the Bonds are in a variable interest rate mode, shall be subordinate to the lien on the Gross Revenues of the Prior Lien Bonds, and shall be on a parity of lien on the Gross Revenues with the Outstanding Subordinate Lien Bonds (and any bonds issued by the City after the date of issuance of the Bonds on a parity therewith). The City shall provide in the Resolution the conditions and circumstances under which the Bonds may be converted to have a parity of lien on the Gross Revenues with the Prior Lien Bonds, without regard to date of issuance or authorization and without preference or priority of right or lien with respect to participation of special funds in amounts from such Gross Revenues for payment thereof, upon conversion of the interest rate on the Bonds to a fixed rate to maturity and satisfaction of the conditions for such Prior Lien Bonds set forth in the ordinances under which the Prior Lien Bonds were issued.

 Section 6. Sufficiency of Revenues. The Gross Revenues received and to be received are now and shall continue to be paid into the Light Fund. Payments of expenses of operation and maintenance of the Light System and payments into any special principal and interest fund for the payment of any municipal light and power revenue or refunding bonds or any special bond reserve fund are made out of the Light Fund. The City Council shall fix the rates charged and to be charged for service and power supplied by the entire Light System that will produce Gross Revenues sufficient, in the judgment of the City Council and of the corporate authorities of the City, to meet all expenses of operation and maintenance of the Light System and to provide the amount previously pledged to pay and secure the payment of the principal of and interest on outstanding bonds that are payable out of such revenues and the principal of and interest on the Bonds.

 Section 7. Preservation of Tax Exemption for Interest on Bonds. The City covenants that it will take all actions within its power and reasonably necessary to prevent interest on the Bonds from being included in gross income for federal income tax purposes, and it will neither take any action nor make or permit any use of proceeds of the Bonds or other funds of the City treated as proceeds of the Bonds at any time during the term of the Bonds which will cause interest on the Bonds to be included in gross income for federal income tax purposes.

 The City has not been notified of any listing or proposed listing by the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that it is a bond issuer whose arbitrage certifications may not be relied upon.

 Section 8. Bonds Negotiable. The Bonds shall be negotiable instruments to the extent provided by RCW 62A.8-102 and 62A.8-105.

 Section 9. Sale of Bonds. The Bonds may be sold by the Director of Finance by a negotiated sale to Smith Barney Inc. and E. J. De La Rosa & Co., Inc. (collectively, the "Underwriters"), so long as the terms of that sale are consistent with this ordinance and the Resolution and are confirmed by the Resolution. The selection by the Director of Finance of the Underwriters is ratified and confirmed. The Bonds will be delivered to the Underwriters as provided in the Resolution immediately upon payment to the City of the purchase price plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of closing in immediately available federal funds in Seattle, Washington, at the City's expense, or at another place upon which the Director of Finance and the Underwriters may agree, at the Underwriters' expense.

 CUSIP numbers will be printed on the Bonds, but neither failure to print CUSIP numbers on any Bond nor error with respect thereto shall constitute cause for a failure or refusal by the Underwriters to accept delivery of and pay for the Bonds in accordance with the purchase offer. All expenses in relation to the printing of CUSIP numbers on the Bonds shall be paid by the City, but the fee of the CUSIP Service Bureau for the assignment of those numbers shall be the responsibility of and shall be paid by the Underwriters.

 The City will cause the Bonds to be typed, photocopied, printed or lithographed, sealed and executed and will furnish the approving legal opinion of Bond Counsel regarding the Bonds, the opinion also being printed on each Bond unless the Bond is typed or photocopied.

 Section 10. Continuing Disclosure. The City shall undertake to provide for the benefit of owners of the Bonds disclosure of certain financial information and operating data of the type included in the final official statement for the Bonds, as well as disclosure of certain material events respecting the Bonds, in the manner and to the extent required by United States Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12. The particular terms of the undertaking shall be set forth in the Resolution.

 Section 11. General Authorization. The Mayor and the Director of Finance of the City and each of the other appropriate officers of the City are each authorized and directed to do everything as in their judgment may be necessary, appropriate or desirable in order to carry out the terms and provisions of, and complete the transactions contemplated by, this ordinance.

 Section 12. Severability. If any one or more of the covenants or agreements provided in this ordinance to be performed on the part of the City shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, then such covenant or covenants, agreement or agreements shall be null and void and shall be separable from the remaining covenants and agreements in this ordinance and shall in no way affect the validity of the other provisions of this ordinance.

 Section 13. Ratification of Prior Acts. All acts taken pursuant to the authority of this ordinance but prior to its effective date, including but not limited to the adoption of the Resolution, are ratified, approved and confirmed.

 Section 14. Section Headings. Section headings in this ordinance are used for convenience only and shall not constitute a substantive portion of this ordinance.

 Section 15. Effective Date of Ordinance. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the day of , 1996, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this day of , 1996.

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this day of , 1996.

 Mayor

 Filed this day of , 1996.

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

```
