

********

**Council Bill Number: 111390**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Sections: 23.54.015; 23.84.018 and 23.84.025 of Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code; adding a new Chapter 23.72 to Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and amending the Official Land Use Map.

**Status:** DO NOT PASS
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 16, 1997
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 3, 1996
   
**Committee:** Parks, Public Grounds and Recreation
   
**Sponsor:** DONALDSON
   
   
**Index Terms:** SAND-POINT, SAND-POINT-NAVAL-AIR-STATION, LAND-USE-CODE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Sections: 23.54.0 15; 23.84.018 and 23.84.025 of Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code; a dding a new Chapter 23.72 to Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and amending the Official Land Use Map;

 Whereas, the federal government has closed the Sand Point Naval Station, and

 Whereas, the city of Seattle expects that the federal property will be c onveyed to the city of Seattle and other entities, and

 Whereas, in anticipation of such conveyance the City approved a reuse pl an for Sand Point in 1993, and

 Whereas, in order to implement the reuse plan, as updated and incorporat ed into the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, the City needs to establish zoni ng for the site, and

 Whereas, the City Council finds that the zoning established by the ordin ance will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the gene ral public, NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Attached to this ordinance is a one page zoning map, which is identified as Attachment A and is incorporated herein by reference. The areas on this map which show designation as the Sand Point Overlay Dist rict and a change in zoning designation are hereby rezoned to the zoning classification shown for such areas on the map. This map is hereby adopted as Attachment A, amendment to the O fficial Land Use Map, SMC 23.32.016.

 Section 2. The subsection of 23.54.015 entitled "Chart A: Parking" of th e Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 11 7869, is further amended as follows:

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015

 Use Parking Requirements

Adult care center21 space for each 10 adults  (clients) or

 1 space for each staff member,

 whichever is greater; plus1 loading

 and unloading space for each 20

 adults (clients).

 Adult family home 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Adult motion picture theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for

 each 100 square feet of spectator

 assembly area not containing

 fixed

 seats.

 Adult panoram 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for

 each 100 square feet of spectator

 assembly area not containing fixed

 seats.

 Airport, land-based (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Airport, water-based (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Animal services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Animal husbandry (retail area only) 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Aquaculture (retail area only) 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Artist's studio/dwelling 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Automotive parts or accessory sales 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Ball courts 1 per court.

 Bed and breakfast 1 for each dwelling, plus 1 for eac h

 2 guest rooms or suites.

 Bowling alley 5 for each lane.

 Brewpub 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Business support services 1 for each 2,000 square feet

 Business incubators 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Carwash 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Caretaker's quarters 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Cargo terminal 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Cemetery None.

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 Use Parking Requirements

 Child care center2 1 space for each 10 children or 1

 space for each staff member,

 whichever is greater; plus

 1 loading and unloading space for

 each 20 children.

 Colleges1 A number of spaces equal to 15

 percent of the maximum number of

 students present at peak hour; plus

 30 percent of the number of

 employees present at peak hour; plu s

 1 for each 100 square feet of

 spectator assembly area in outdoor

 spectator sports facilities.

 Commercial laundries 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Commercial moorage 1 for each 140 lineal feet of

 moorage.

 Communication utilities 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Community centers2, 3 and community 1 for each 80 square feet of floor

 clubs2, 3 area of all auditoria and public

 assembly rooms not containing fixed

 seats; or

 1 for every 8 fixed seats for floor

 area containing fixed seats; or if

 no auditorium or assembly room,

 1 for each 350 square feet,

 excluding ball courts.

 Community centers owned and 1 for each 555 square feet.

 operated by the Seattle Department

 of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR) 2,

 3, 4

 Congregate residences 1 for each 4 residents.

 Construction services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Custom and craft work 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Dance halls (dance floor and table 1 for each 100 square feet.

 area)

 Dry storage of boats 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Family support centers located in 1 for each 100 square feet.

 community centers owned and

 operated by the Seattle DOPAR4

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 Use Parking Requirements

 Floating homes 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Food processing for human 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 consumption

 Gas station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 General retail sales and services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Ground-floor businesses in None, maximum of 10.

 multi-family zones

 Heavy commercial services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Heliports (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 High-impact uses 1 for each 1,500 square feet or as

 deter-

 mined by the Director.

 Horticultural uses (retail area 1 for each 350 square feet.

 only)

 Hospitals5 1 space for each 2 staff doctors;

 plus

 1 additional space for each 5

 employees; plus

 1 for each 6 beds.

 Hotels 1 for each 4 sleeping rooms or

 suites.

 Institute for advanced study5 1 for each 1,000 square feet of

 administrative offices and similar

 spaces; plus

 1 for each 10 fixed seats in all

 auditoria and public assembly rooms ;

 or

 1 for each 100 square feet of publi c

 assembly area not containing fixed

 seats.

 Institutes for advanced study in 3.5 for each 1,000 square feet of

 single-family zoning (existing) office space; plus

 10 for each 1,000 square feet of

 additional building footprint to

 house and support conference center

 activities, or

 37 for each 1,000 square feet of

 actual conference rooms to be

 constructed, whichever is larger.

 Kennel 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 Use Parking Requirements

 Lecture and meeting hall 1 for each 8 fixed seats or

 1 for each 100 square feet of

 spectator assembly area not

 containing fixed seats.

 Major durables, sales, service, and 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 rental

 Manufacturing, general 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, heavy 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, light 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Marine service station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Medical services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Miniature golf 1 for each 2 holes.

 Mini-warehouse 1 for each 30 storage units.

 Mobile home park 1 for each mobile home.

 Mortuary services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Motels 1 for each sleeping room or suite.

Motion picture studio1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Motion picture theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or

 1 for each 100 square feet of

 spectator assembly area not

 containing fixed seats.

 Multi-family structures6 except Lots containing 2-10 dwelling units :

 those listed below 1.1 for each dwelling unit.

 Lots containing 11-30 dwelling

 units:

 1.15 for each dwelling unit.

 Lots containing 31-60 dwelling

 units:

 1.2 for each dwelling unit.

 Lots containing more than 60

 dwelling units:

 1.25 for each dwelling unit

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 Use Parking Requirements

 In addition, for all multi-family

 structures whose average gross floo r

 area per dwelling unit, excluding

 decks and all portions of a

 structure shared by multiple

 dwelling units, exceeds 500 square

 feet, an additional .0002 spaces pe r

 square foot in excess of 500 shall

 be required up to a maximum

 additional .15 spaces per dwelling

 unit; and

 When at least 50 percent of the

 dwelling units in a multi-family

 structure have 3 bedrooms, an

 additional .25 spaces per bedroom

 for each unit with 3 bedrooms shall

 be required; and

 Any multi-family structure which

 contains a dwelling unit with 4 or

 more bedrooms shall be required to

 provide an additional .25 spaces pe r

 bedroom for each unit with 4 or mor e

 bedrooms.7

 Multi-family structures containing 1.5 spaces per unit with 2 or more

 dwelling units with 2 or more bedrooms. The requirement for unit s

 bedrooms, when within the area with 3 or more bedrooms contained

 impacted by the University of above shall also apply. All other

 Washington as shown on Map A requirements for units with fewer

 following this section than 2 bedrooms shall be as

 contained above. 7

 Multi-family structures, when 1.5 spaces per unit.

 within the Alki area as shown on

 Map B following this section

 Multi-family structures, 1 for each dwelling unit.

 ground-related, 10 units or less

 Multi-family structures for 1 for each 6 dwelling units.

 low-income elderly

 Multi-family structures for 1 for each 4 dwelling units.

 low-income disabled

Multimedia use1 for each 1,000 square feet of  office space; plus 1 for each 1,500

 square feet of additional area used

 for manufacturing or production use.

 Multi-purpose convenience store 1 for each 350 square feet.

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 Use Parking Requirements

 Museum8 1 for each 80 square feet of all

 auditoria and public assembly rooms ,

 not containing fixed seats; or

 1 for every 10 fixed seats for floo r

 area containing fixed seats; plus

 1 space for each 250 square feet of

 other gross floor area open to the

 public.

 Non-household sales and services, 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 except sales, service and rental of

 office equipment

 Nursing homes 9 1 space for each 2 staff doctors;

 plus

 1 additional space for each 3

 employees; plus

 1 for each 6 beds.

 Office, administrative 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Office, customer service 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Outdoor storage 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Parks None.

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 for each 350 square feet.

 indoor, unless otherwise specified

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 for each 350 square feet.

 outdoor, unless otherwise specified

 Passenger terminals (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Performing arts theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or

 1 for each 100 square feet of

 spectator assembly area not

 containing fixed seats.

 Personal transportation services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Playgrounds None.

 Power plants 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 Use Parking Requirements

 Private club10 1 for each 80 square feet of floor

 area of all auditoria and public

 assembly rooms not containing fixed

 seats; or

 1 for every 8 fixed seats of floor

 area containing fixed seats; or

 if no auditorium or assembly room, 1

 for each 350 square feet, excluding

 ball courts.

 Railroad rights-of-way None.

 Railroad switchyard 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Railroad switchyard with mechanized 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 hump

 Recreational marinas 1 for each 75 lineal feet of

 moorage.

 Recycling center 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Recycling collection station None.

 Religious facility11 1 for each 80 square feet of all

 auditoria and public assembly rooms .

 Research and development laboratory 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Restaurant 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Restaurant, fast-food 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Sales, service and rental of

 commercial 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 equipment

 Sale and rental of large boats 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sale and rental of motorized 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 vehicles

 Sales, service and rental of office 1 for each 350 square feet.

 equipment

 Sale of boat parts or accessories 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Sale of heating fuel 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Salvage yard 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 Use Parking Requirements

 School, private elementary and 1 for each 80 square feet of all

 secondary auditoria and public assembly room,

 3, 12 or if no auditorium or assembly

 room, 1 for each staff member.

 School, public elementary and 1 for each 80 square feet of all

 secondary 3, 13, 14 auditorium or public assembly rooms ,

 or 1 for every 8 fixed seats in

 auditoriums or public assembly

 rooms, containing fixed seats, for

 new public schools on a new or

 existing public school site.

 Sewage treatment plant 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Single-family dwelling units 1 for each dwelling unit

 Skating rink (rink area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Solid waste transfer station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Specialty food stores 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Spectator sports facility 1 for each 10 fixed seats or

 1 for each 100 square feet of

 spectator

 assembly area not containing fixed

 seats.

 Sport range 1 for each 2 stations.

 Swimming pool (water area) 1 for each 150 square feet.

 Taverns 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Transit vehicle base 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Universities15 A number of spaces equal to 15

 percent of the maximum number of

 students present at peak hour; plus

 30 percent of the number of

 employees present at peak hour; plu s

 1 for each 100 square feet of

 spectator assembly area in outdoor

 spectator sports facilities.

 Utility service uses 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle repair, major 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 Vehicle repair, minor 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vessel repair, major 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vessel repair, minor 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vocational or fine arts school 1 for each 2 faculty and full-time

 employees; plus

 1 for each 5 students (based on the

 maximum number of students in

 attendance at any one time).

 Warehouse 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Wholesale showroom 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Work-release centers 1 for each 2 full-time staff

 members; plus

 1 for each 5 residents; plus

 1 for each vehicle operated in

 connection with the work-release

 center.

 1 When permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Directo r may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122.

 2 When permitted in single-family zones, the Director may modify the par king requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multi -family zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45. 122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of Engineering, may allow adult care andchild care centers locating in existing struc tures to provide loading and unloading spaces on-street when no other al ternative exists.

 3 Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall they be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they contain ble achers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers, the parking r equirement for the entire gymnasium sha ll be one (1) parking space for every eight (8) fixed seats. Each twenty inches (20") of width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed se at for the purposes of determining parking requirements. If the gymnasiu m does not contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no parking requirement for the gymnasium. If the gymn asium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center, the parki ng requirement shall be one (1) space for each 350 square feet. If the g ymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center owned and operated by the Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR), the parking requirement shall be one (1) space f or each five hundred fifty-five square feet.

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015 (Continued)

 4 When family support centers are located within community centers owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined parking requ irement by up to a maximum of fifteen percent (15 %), pursuant to Sectio n 23.54.020 I.

 5 When permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Directo r may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122.

 6 Parking spaces required for multi-family structures may be provided as tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.

 7 Bedroom--Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code which, in the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a bedroom .

 8 When permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Directo r may modify the parking requirement pursuant to Section 23.45.122.

 9 When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the Director may waive some or all of the parking requirements.

 10 When permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Direct or may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122.

 11 When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.022, and multi-f amily zones, Section 23.45.122, the Director may waive some or all of th e parking requirements.

 12 When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.022, and multi-f amily zones, Section 23.45.122, the Director may waive some or all of th e parking requirements.

 13 For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements shall be determined based on the new construction. When an existing public sch ool on an existing public school site i s remodeled, additional parking is required if an auditorium or other pl ace of assembly is expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additio nal parking is required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor ar ea or increase in number of seats only. If the parking requirement for the increased area or seating is ten per cent (10%) or less than that for the existing auditorium or other place of assembly, then no additional parking shall be required.

 14 Development standards departure may be granted or required pursuant t o the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce the r equired or permitted number of parking spaces.

 15 When permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Direct or may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122.

 Section 3. A new Chapter 23.72 is hereby added to Title 23 of the Seattl e Municipal Code to read as follows:

 Chapter 23.72

 SAND POINT OVERLAY DISTRICT

 Subchapter I Establishment of Overlay District

 23.72.002 Purpose and intent.

 The purpose of this Chapter is to implement the Sand Point amendments to the Comprehensive Plan by regulating land use and development within th e Sand Point Overlay District in order to integrate the property into th e city of Seattle as a multi-purpose re gional center that provides:

 A. Expanded opportunity for recreation, education, arts, cultural and co mmunity activities.

 B. Increased public access to the shoreline and enhanced open space and natural areas.

 C. Opportunities for affordable housing and community and social service s with a special priority for addressing the needs of homeless families.

 D. Expanded opportunity for low-impact economic development uses which c ould provide employment and services for residents of the property and f or the broader community.

 23.72.004 Sand Point Overlay District established.

 There is hereby established pursuant to Chapter 23.56 of the Seattle Mun icipal Code, the Sand Point Overlay District, as shown on the City's Off icial Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 and Attachment A.

 23.72.006 Application of regulations.

 All land located within the Sand Point Overlay District is subject to re gulations of the underlying zone unless specifically modified by the pro visions of this Chapter. In the event of irreconcilable differences betw een the provisions of the Sand Point Ov erlay District and the underlying zone, the provisions of this Chapter s hall apply. Portions of the Sand Point Overlay District that fall within the Shoreline District, regulated by the Seattle Shoreline Master Progr am (SSMP), SMC 23.60, shall be governed by the provisions of the SSMP in addition to this Chapter. In the event of a conflict the provisions of the SSMP shall prevail.

 Subchapter II Use and Development Standards

 23.72.008 Uses permitted in residentially zoned areas within the Sand Po int Overlay District

 A. Within areas zoned Single Family, in addition to the uses permitted b y the provisions of Section 23.44.006, the following principal uses are permitted outright:

 1. Institutions; and

 2. The following City facilities: Police and Fire Department training ce nters.

 B. Within areas zoned multifamily, in addition to the uses permitted by the provisions of Section 23.45.004, the following principal uses are pe rmitted outright:

 1. Office;

 2. Institutions;

 3. Medical services;

 4. Lecture and meeting halls;

 5. Horticultural use;

 6. Custom and craft work;

 7. Food processing for human consumption;

 8. Restaurants without cocktail lounges; and

 9. Personal and household retail sales and services, not to exceed 10,00 0 square feet in gross floor area per business establishment.

 23.72.010 Uses permitted in areas zoned Commercial 1 (C1) within the San d Point Overlay District

 The following uses are permitted outright within the boundaries of the C 1 zone. All other uses are prohibited.

 A. Motion picture studio;

 B. Multimedia uses;

 C. Institutions;

 D. Custom and craft work;

 E. Retail sales and services operated by and for custom and craft work e stablishments;

 F. Food processing for human consumption;

 G. Restaurants without cocktail lounges;

 H. Business incubator for multimedia uses;

 I. Offices;

 J. Motion picture and performing arts theaters;

 K. Caretaker's quarters;

 L. Warehouse;

 M. Sales, service and rental of commercial

 equipment and construction materials;

 N. Public facilities;

 O. Outdoor storage; and

 P. Open space uses.

 23.72.012 Development Standards

 A. The Director may waive or modify development standards to the extent necessary for permitted City Facilities.

 B. A maximum of 250 dwelling units may be established within the boundar ies of the Sand Point Overlay District. Sleeping rooms in dormitory faci lities associated with college uses and housing associated with the Univ ersity of Washington shall not count to ward the maximum site density established in this subsection.

 23.72.014 Parking location.

 Required parking may be provided within the Sand Point Overlay District, including rights-of-way.

 23.72.016 Noise standards.

 Requirements for enclosure of activities as provided in the noise standa rds of the Commercial zones, SMC 23.47.018, shall only apply when adjace nt residential zones within fifty feet (50') are not within the Sand Poi nt Overlay District.

 23.72.018 Nonconforming structures.

 The provisions of the underlying zone apply except that further subdivis ion of property may be permitted by the Director even if nonconformity w ould be created with respect to a structure's relationship to lot lines or lot area. This provision only applie s to structures existing as of (date of adoption).

 Section 4. Section 23.84.018 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amen ded by Ordinance 117869, is further amended as follows:

 23.84.018 "I."

 "Institution" means structure(s) and related grounds used by organizatio ns providing educational, medical, social and recreational services to t he community, such as hospitals; vocational or fine arts schools; adu lt care centers andchild care center s, whether operated for nonprofit or profit-making purposes; and nonprof it organizations such as college and universities, elementary and second ary schools, community centers and clubs, private clubs, religious facil ities, museums, and institutes for adva nced study.

 1. "Adult care center" means an institution which regularly provides care to a group of adults for less than twenty-four (24) hours a day, wh ether for compensation or not.

~~1~~.2. "College" means a post-secondary educational institutio n, operated by a nonprofit organization, granting associate, bachelor an d/or graduate degrees.

~~2~~.3. "Community center" means an institution used for civic or recreational purposes, operated by a nonprofit organization providing direct services to people on the premises rather than carrying out only administrative functions, and open to the general public on an equal basis. Activities in a community center m ay include classes and events sponsored by nonprofit organizations, comm unity programs for the elderly, and other similar uses.

~~3~~.4. "Community club" means an institution used for athletic , social, civic or recreational purposes, operated by a nonprofit organi zation, membership to which is open to the general public on an equal ba sis.

~~4~~.5. "Child care center" means an institution which regularl y provides care to a group of children for less than twenty-four (24) ho urs a day, whether for compensation or not. Preschools shall be consider ed to be child care centers.

~~5~~.6. "Family Support Center" means an institution that offer s support services and instruction to families, such as parenting classe s and family counseling, and is co-located with a Department of Parks an d Recreaton community center.

~~6~~.7. "Hospital" means an institution which provides accommod ations, facilities and services over a continuous period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, for observation, diagnosis and care of individuals w ho are suffering from illness, injury, deformity or abnormality or from any condition requiring obstetrical, me dical or surgical services, or alcohol or drug detoxification. This defi nition excludes nursing homes.

~~7~~.8. "Institute for advanced study" means an institution ope rated by a nonprofit organization for the advancement of knowledge throu gh research, including the offering of seminars and courses, and technol ogical and/or scientific laboratory res earch.

~~8~~.9. "Museum" means an institution operated by a nonprofit o rganization as a repository of natural, scientific, historical, cultural or literary objects or interest or works of art, and where the collecti on of such items is systematically mana ged for the purpose of exhibiting then to the public.

~~9~~.10. "Private club" means an institution used for athletic, social or recreational purposes and operated by a private nonprofit org anization, membership to which is by written invitation and election acc ording to qualifications in the club's charter or bylaws and the use of which is generally restricted to member s and their guests.

~~10~~.11. "Religious facility" means an institution, such as a church, temple, mosque, synagogue or other structure, together with its accessory structures, used primarily for religious worship.

~~11~~.12. School, elementary or secondary" means an institution

 Section 5. Section 23.84.025 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amen ded by Ordinance, is further amended as follows:

 23.84.025 "M."

"Motion picture studio" means a facility for the production of motion pictures, intended for movie or television viewing, using video or film media.  "Multimedia use" means a business establishment or research and developm ent entity combining text, audio, and visual media production activities for entertainment or educational purposes.

 Section 6. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to b e separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, par agraph, subdivision, section, subsection, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application th ereof to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of th e remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to othe r persons or circumstances.

 Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and r eturned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall t ake effect as provided by Municipal Cod e Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council the ______ day of __________. 1996 and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of ____________, 1996.

 __________________________________

 President of City Council

 Approved by me this ______ day of ____________________, 1996

 _____________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this __________ day of _____________________, 1996

 _____________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 e Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council the ______ day of __________. 1996 and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of ____________, 1996.

 __________________________________

 President of City Council

```
