

********

**Council Bill Number: 111408**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Shoreline Master Program; implementing the provisions of RCW 36.70A.480, which require that the goals and policies of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program be considered an element of the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, and that the associated regulations be considered a part of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program development regulations; implementing a provision of RCW 90.58.030, which requires a change in the substantial development permit exemption for construction of a private, noncommercial dock; and implementing a provision of Chapter 62, Laws of 1996, which requires a change related to shoreline permit expiration; repealing Section 23.12.130, Shoreline Policies; and amending Chapter 23.34, Amendments of Official Land Use Map (Rezones), and Chapter 23.60, Shoreline District, and Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures, of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** RETIRED 99
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 16, 1996
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** SHORELANDS, COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, LAND-USE-CODE, REZONES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Shoreline Master Program; implementing the provisions of RCW 36.70A.480, which require that the goals and policies of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program be considered an element of the Seattle's Comprehensive Plan, and that the associated regulations be considered a part of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program development regulations; implementing a provision of RCW 90.58.030, which requires a change in the substantial development permit exemption for construction of a private, noncommercial dock; and implementing a provision of Chapter 62, Laws of 1996, which requires a change related to shoreline permit expiration; enacted by repealing Section 23.12.130, Shoreline Policies, and amending Chapter 23.34, Amendments to Official Land Use Map (Rezones) and Chapter 23.60, Shoreline District, of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 23.12.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code, Shoreline Policies, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 117929, is repealed.

 Section 2. A new Subsection F of Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.34.007, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 117430, is added to read as follows:

 23.34.007 Rezone evaluation.

* * *

 F. The procedures and locational criteria for shoreline environment redesignations are located in Section 23.60.060.

 Section 3. Subsections F and G of Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.34.008, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117929, are amended as follows:

 23.34.008 General rezone criteria.

 * * *

 F. Impact Evaluation. The evaluation of a proposed rezone shall consider the possible negative and positive impacts on the area proposed for rezone and its surroundings.

 1. Factors to be examined include, but are not limited to, the following:

 a. Housing, particularly low-income housing;

 b. Public services;

 c. Environmental factors, such as noise, air and water quality, terrestrial and aquatic flora and fauna, glare, odor, shadows, and energy conservation;

 d. Pedestrian safety;

 e. Manufacturing activity;

 f. Employment activity;

 g. Character of areas recognized for architectural or historic value;

h. Shoreline view, public access and recreation.

 2. Service Capacities. Development which can reasonably be anticipated based on the proposed development potential shall not exceed the service capacities which can reasonably be anticipated in he area, including:

 a. Street Access to the area;

 b. Street capacity in the area;

 c. Transit service;

 d. Parking capacity;

 e. Utility and sewer capacity;

 f. Shoreline navigation.

 G. Changed Circumstances. Evidence of changed circumstances shall be taken into consideration in reviewing proposed rezones, but is not required to demonstrate the appropriateness of a proposed rezone. Consideration of changed circumstance shall be limited to elements or conditions included in the criteria for the relevant zone and/or overlay designations in this chapter.

 * * *

 Section 4. Subsection B of Section 23.60.002 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 23.60.002 Title and purpose.

 * * *

 B. Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to implement the policy and provisions of the Shoreline Management Act of 1971~~,~~and the Shoreline Goals and Policies of ~~Resolution 25173 and the Shoreline Implementation Guidelines of Resolution 27618~~the Seattle Comprehensive Plan by regulating development of the shorelines of the City in order to:

 1. Protect the ecosystems of the shoreline areas;

 2. Encourage water-dependent uses;

 3. Provide for maximum public use and enjoyment of the shorelines of the City; and

 4. Preserve, enhance and increase views of the water and access to the water.

 * * *

 Section 5. Section 23.60.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 1113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.004 Shoreline goals and policies.

~~A. The Shoreline Implementation Guidelines, together with the Shoreline Goals and Policies, constitute the shoreline element of the Land Use Policies and shall be referred to as the "Shoreline Policies."~~

~~B.~~The Shoreline Goals and Policies are part of the Land Use Element of Seattle's Comprehensive Plan. They ~~Shoreline Policies~~ shall be considered in making all discretionary decisions in the Shoreline District and in making discretionary decisions on lands adjacent to the shoreline where the intent of the Land Use Code is a criterion and the proposal may have an adverse impact on the Shoreline District. They shall also be considered by the Director in the promulgation of rules and interpretation decisions. The Shoreline Goals and Policies do not constitute regulations and shall not be the basis for enforcement actions.

~~~~

 Section 6. Section 23.60.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.012 Liberal construction

 This chapter shall be exempted from the rule of strict construction, and it shall be liberally construed to give full effect to the objectives and purposes of Chapter 90.58 RCW, the State Shoreline Management Act of 1971. This chapter shall not be used when construing other chapters of this title ~~or Title 24~~ except for shoreline development or as stated in Section 23.60.014 and 23.60.022.

 Section 7. Subsection B of Section 23.60.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.060 Procedures for shoreline environment redesignations.

 * * *

 B. A request for a shoreline environment redesignation is considered a rezone, a Council land use decision subject to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, and shall be evaluated against the  following criteria ~~in Implementation Guideline A5: Shoreline Environment Redesignations.~~:

 1. The Shoreline Management Act. The proposed redesignation shall be consistent with the intent and purpose of the Shoreline Management Act (RCW 90.58) and with Department of Ecology Guidelines (WAC 173-16).

 2. Shorelines of Statewide Significance. If the area is within a shoreline of statewide significance the redesignation shall be consistent with the preferences for shorelines of statewide significance as given in RCW 90.58.010.  3. Comprehensive Plan Shoreline Area Objectives. In order to ensure that the intent of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program is met the proposed redesignation shall be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan Shoreline Area Objectives in which the proposed redesignation is located.

 4. Harbor Areas. If the area proposed for a shoreline designation change is within or adjacent to a harbor area, the impact of the redesignation on the purpose and intent of harbor areas as given in Article XV and XVII of the State Constitution shall be considered.

 5. Consistency with Underlying Zoning. The proposed redesignation shall be consistent with the appropriate land use policies for the area unless overriding shoreline considerations exist.

 6. Rezone Evaluation. The proposed redesignation shall comply with the Rezone evaluation provisions in Section 23.34.007.

 7. General Rezone Criteria. The proposed redesignation shall meet the general rezone standards in Section 23.34.008, Subsections B through J.

 * * *

 Section 8. Section 23.60.074 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.074. Effective date of substantial development permits and time limits for permit validity.

 A. The effective date of a substantial development permit shall be the date of the last action required on the substantial development permit and all other government permits and approvals for the development that authorize the development to proceed, including all administrative and legal actions on any permits or approvals.

B. The following time requirements shall apply to all substantial development permits:

1.~~A.~~ Construction or substantial progress toward construction, as defined in WAC 173-14-060 as now constituted or hereafter amended, of a project for which a permit has been granted pursuant to this chapter must be undertaken within two (2) years ~~after final approval~~of the effective date of the permit or the permit shall terminate; provided, that upon written request from the applicant filed before the expiration date, the Director may extend the two (2) year period ~~for a reasonable time based on factors such as the inability to expeditiously obtain other governmental permits~~for up to one (1) year if the failure to undertake the project was based on reasonable factors, or as provided in WAC 173-14-060.

2.~~B.~~ If a project for which a permit has been granted pursuant to the chapter has not been completed within five (5) years after ~~approval~~the effective date of the permit, or within a shorter time period required by the permit, the Director shall review the permit, and upon a showing of good cause, do either of the following, as provided in WAC 173-14-060:

a.~~1.~~ Extend the permit for one (1) year; or

b.~~2.~~ Terminate the permit.

3.~~C.~~ The Plan Shoreline Permit shall be valid for a period of five (5) years or as otherwise permitted by WAC 173-14-060. Project-specific shoreline permits must be applied for within that period to be considered pursuant to the determination made under the Plan Shoreline Permit. Development under project-specific permits shall conform to the time limits outlined in subsections A and B.

 Section 9. Section 23.60.220 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.220. Environments established.

 A.~~1.~~ The following shoreline environments and the boundaries of these environments are established on the Official Land Use Map as authorized in Chapter 23.32.

B.~~2.~~ For the purpose of this chapter, the Shoreline District is divided into eleven (11) environments designated below.

ENVIRONMENTDESIGNATION

 Conservancy Navigation CN

 Conservancy Preservation CP

 Conservancy Recreation CR

 Conservancy Management CM

 Conservancy Waterway CW

 Urban Residential UR

 Urban Stable US

 Urban Harborfront UH

 Urban Maritime UM

 Urban General UG

 Urban Industrial UI

 C. The purpose and locational criteria for each shoreline environment designation are described below.  1. Conservancy Navigation (CN) Environment.

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the CN Environment is to preserve open water for navigation.

 b. Locational Criteria. Submerged lands used as a fairway for vessel navigation.

 c.

~~B.~~ Submerged lands seaward of the Outer Harbor Line, Construction Limit Line or other navigational boundary which are not specifically designated or shown on the Official Land Use Map shall be designated Conservancy Navigation. 2. Conservancy Preservation (CP) Environment.

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the CP Environment is to preserve, protect, restore, or enhance certain areas which are particularly biologically or geologically fragile and to encourage the enjoyment of those areas by the public. Protection of such areas is in the public interest.

 b. Locational Criteria: Dry or submerged lands owned by a public agency and possessing particularly fragile biological, geological or other natural resources which warrant preservation or restoration.

 3. Conservancy Recreation (CR) Environment.

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the CR shoreline environment is to protect areas for environmentally related purposes, such as public and private parks, aquaculture areas, residential piers, underwater recreational sites, fishing grounds, and migratory fish routes. While the natural environment is not maintained in a pure state, the activities to be carried on provide minimal adverse impact. The intent of the CR environment is to use the natural ecological system for production of food, for recreation, and to provide access by the public for recreational use of the shorelines. Maximum effort to preserve, enhance or restore the existing natural ecological, biological, or hydrological conditions shall be made in designing, developing, operating and maintaining recreational facilities.

 b. Locational Criteria.

 (1) Dry or submerged lands generally owned by a public agency and developed as a park, where the shoreline possesses biological, geological or other natural resources that can be maintained by limiting development.

 (2) Residentially zoned submerged lands in private or public ownership located adjacent to dry lands designated Urban Residential where the shoreline possesses biological, geological or other natural resources that can be maintained by limiting development.

 4. Conservancy Management (CM) Environment.

 a. The purpose of the CM shoreline environment is to conserve and manage areas for public purposes, recreational activities and fish migration routes. While the natural environment need not be maintained in a pure state, developments shall be designed to minimize adverse impacts to natural beaches, migratory fish routes and the surrounding community.

 b. Locational Criteria.

 (1) Dry or submerged land in sensitive areas generally owned by a public agency, developed with a major public facility, including navigation locks, sewage treatment plants, ferry terminals and public and private parks containing active recreation areas.

 (2) Waterfront lots containing natural beaches or a natural resource such as fish migration routes or fish feeding areas which require management but which are compatible with recreational development.

 5. Conservancy Waterway (CW) Environment

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the CW Environment is to preserve the waterways for navigation and commerce, including public access to and from water areas. Since the waterways are public ways for water transport, they are designated CW to provide navigational access to adjacent properties, access to and from land for the loading and unloading of watercraft and temporary moorage.

 b. Locational Criteria. Waterways on Lake Union and Portage Bay.

 6. Urban Residential (UR) Environment

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the UR environment is to protect residential areas in a manner consistent with the Single Family and Multifamily Residential Area Policies.

 b. Locational Criteria.

 (1) Areas where the underlying zoning is Single Family or Multifamily residential.

 (2) Areas where the predominant development is Single Family or Multifamily residential.

 (3) Areas where steep slopes, shallow water, poor wave protection, poor vehicular access or limited water access make water- dependent uses impractical.

 (4) Areas with sufficient dry land lot area to allow for residential development totally on dry land.

 7. Urban Stable (US) Environment.

 a. Purpose.

 (1) Provide opportunities for substantial numbers of people to enjoy the shorelines by encouraging water-dependent recreational uses and by permitting nonwater dependent commercial uses if they provide substantial public access and other public benefits.

 (2) Preserve and enhance views of the water from adjacent streets and upland residential areas.

 (3) Support water-dependent uses by providing services such as marine-related retail and moorage.

 b. Locational Criteria.

 (1) Areas where the underlying zoning is Commercial or Industrial.

 (2) Areas with small amounts of dry land between the shoreline and the first parallel street, with steep slopes, limited truck and rail access or other features making the area unsuitable for water-dependent or water-related industrial uses.

 (3) Areas with large amounts of submerged land in relation to dry land and sufficient wave protection for water-dependent recreation.

 (4) Areas where the predominant land use is water-dependent recreational or nonwater-dependent commercial.

 8. Urban Harborfront (UH) Environment

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the UH Environment is to encourage economically viable water-dependent uses to meet the needs of waterborne commerce, facilitate the revitalization of Downtown's waterfront, provide opportunities for public access and recreational enjoyment of the shoreline, preserve and enhance elements of historic and cultural significance and preserve views of Elliott Bay and the land forms beyond.

 b. Locational Criteria.

 (1) Areas where the underlying zoning is a Downtown zone.

 (2) Areas in or adjacent to a State Harbor Area.

 (3) Areas where the water area is developed with finger piers and transit sheds.

 9. Urban Maritime (UM) Environment.

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the UM environment is to preserve areas for water-dependent and water-related uses while still providing some views of the water from adjacent streets and upland residential areas. Public access shall be second in priority to water-dependent uses unless provided on street ends, parks or other public lands.

 b. Locational Criteria.

 (1) Areas where the underlying zoning is industrial or Commercial 2.

 (2) Areas with sufficient dry land for industrial uses but generally in smaller parcels than in UI environments.

 (3) Areas developed predominantly with water-dependent manufacturing or commercial uses or a combination of manufacturing- commercial and recreational water-dependent uses.

 (4) Areas with concentrations of state waterways for use by commerce and navigation.

 (5) Areas near, but not necessarily adjacent to residential or neighborhood commercial zones which require preservation of views and protection from the impacts of heavy industrialization.

 10. Urban General (UG) Environment.

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the UG environment is to provide for economic use of commercial and manufacturing areas which are not suited for full use by water-dependent businesses. Public access or viewing areas shall be provided by nonwater-dependent uses where feasible.

 b. Locational Criteria.

 (1) Areas with little or no water access, which makes the development of water-dependent uses impractical.

 (2) Areas where the underlying zoning is Commercial 2 or Industrial.

 (3) Areas developed with nonwater-dependent manufacturing, warehouses, or offices.

 11. Urban Industrial (UI) Environment.

 a. Purpose. The purpose of the Urban Industrial environment is to provide for efficient use of industrial shorelines by major cargo facilities and other water-dependent and water-related industrial uses. Views shall be secondary to industrial development and public access shall be provided mainly on public lands or in conformance with an area-wide Public Access Plan.

 b. Locational Criteria.

 (1) Areas where the underlying zoning is Industrial.

 (2) Areas with large amounts of level dry land in large parcels suitable for industrial use.

 (3) Areas with good rail and truck access.

 (4) Areas adjacent to or part of major industrial centers which provide support services for water-dependent and other industry.

 (5) Areas where predominant uses are manufacturing warehousing, major port cargo facilities or other similar uses.

D.Submerged lands. The environmental designation given to waterfront dry land shall be extended to the Outer Harbor Line, Construction Limit Line, or other navigational boundary on Lake Union, on Portage Bay, in industrially zoned areas, and in the Urban Harborfront area. On Puget Sound, Lake Washington and Green Lake submerged lands shall be designated to preserve them for public or recreational purposes.

 Section 10. Subsection C of Seattle Municipal Code 23.60.724, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117230, is amended as follows:

 23.60.724. Conditional uses on waterfront lots in the UM Environment.

 * * *

 C. Multifamily residential and research and development laboratory uses when:

 1. The lot abuts a lot designated Urban Residential

 2. All Urban Stable Development Standards are met;

 3. The facilities or amenities required by Section 23.60.600 C are provided;

 4. Residential uses are limited to locations on dry land above the ground floor of a structure; and

 5. Not located within one hundred feet (100') of an abutting lot designated ~~Urban Maritime or~~ Urban Industrial.

 * * *

 Section 11. The Subsection entitled "Substantial Development" of Section 23.60. 936 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117789, is further amended as follows:

 23.60.932 "S"

 "Substantial Development" means any development of which the total cost of fair market value exceeds Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) or any development which materially interferes with the normal public use of the water or shorelines of the City, except that the following shall not be considered substantial developments for the purposes of this subtitle:

 * * *

 G. Construction of a dock, including a community dock, designed for pleasure craft only, for the private noncommercial use of the owner, lessee or contract purchaser of ~~a~~ single~~family~~and multifamily residences. This exception applies if either:  1. In salt waters

, the ~~cost~~fair marker value of ~~which~~the dock does not exceed Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00); or

2. In fresh waters, the fair market value of the dock does not exceed Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00), but if subsequent construction having a fair market value exceeding Two Thousand Five Hundred dollars ($2,500.00) occurs within five (5) years of completion of the prior construction, the subsequent construction shall be considered a substantial development for the purpose of this Chapter.

 * * *

 Section 12. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 13. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force on whichever is the later of: the effective date of approval and adoption by the Department of Ecology; or thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1996, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1996.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1996.

 ___________________________________

 Norman B. Rice, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1996.

 __________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 kd u:common/ssmp-2 8/15/96

```
