

********

**Council Bill Number: 111436**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118315**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to occupational utility taxes; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 5.48.010, .020, .030, .050, .055, .060, .070, .072, .080, .090, .100, .110, .120, .140, .150, .160, .170, .200, and .210; adding Sections 5.48.095, .135, and .220; repealing Section 5.48.130, because it has been reworded and renumbered as 5.48.150; repealing 5.48.190 because it has been renumbered as 5.48.030(D) and (E); and repealing 5.48.250 because it has been renumbered as 5.48.070(D).

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 7, 1996
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 17, 1996
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 23, 1996
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-TAXES, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 62662, 117401,117183, 116951, 116955, 117169, 117408

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to occupational utility taxes; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 5.48.010, .020, .030, .050, .055, .060, .070, .072, .080, .090, .100, .110, .120, .140, .150, .160, .170, .200, and .210; adding Sections 5.48.095, .135, and .220; repealing Section 5.48.130, because it has been reworded and renumbered as 5.48.150; repealing 5.48.190 because it has been renumbered as 5.48.030(D) and (E); and repealing 5.48.250 because it has been renumbered as 5.48.070(D).

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 5.48.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 1) is amended to read as follows:

 5.48.010 Exercise of revenue license power.

 The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the power of The City of Seattle to license for revenue. The provisions of this chapter are subject to periodic statutory or administrative rule changes or judicial interpretations of the ordinances or rules. The responsibility rests with the taxpayer to reconfirm tax computation procedures and remain in compliance with the City code.

 Section 2. Section 5.48.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 2, as last amended by Ordinance 117401 Section 1) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.020 Definitions.

A. In construing the provisions of this chapter unless otherwise declared or clearly apparent from the context, the following definitions shall be applied:

1. "Business" includes all activities engaged in with the object of gain, benefit or advantage to the taxpayer or to another person or class, directly or indirectly.

2. "City" means The City of Seattle.

3.~~P.~~ "Cellular Telephone service" is a two (2) way voice and data telephone/telecommunications system based in whole or substantial part on wireless radio communications and which is not subject to regulation by the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission (WUTC). This includes cellular mobile service. Cellular mobile service includes other wireless radio communications services such as specialized mobile radio (SMR), personal communications services (PCS), and any other evolving wireless radio communications technology which accomplishes the same purpose as cellular mobile service. Cellular telephone service is included within the definitions of "telephone business" for purposes of this chapter and Chapter~~chapter~~ 5.44.

4.~~F.~~ "Competitive telephone service" means the providing by any person of telecommunications equipment or apparatus, directory advertising and lease of telephone street directories, or service related to that equipment or apparatus such as repair or maintenance service, if the equipment or apparatus is of a type which may be provided by persons not subject to regulation as telephone companies under Title 80 RCW, and for which a separate charge is made. Transmission of communication through cellular telephones is classified as "telephone business" rather than "competitive telephone service."

5.~~J.~~ "Construction, Demolition and Landclearing Waste" or "CDL Waste" has the meaning given in SMC Section 21.36.012.

6. "Department" or "Finance Department" means the Finance Department of The City of Seattle, or its functional successor.

7. "Director" or "Finance Director" means the Finance Director of The City of Seattle, or his or her functional successor.

8.~~K.~~ "Garbage" has the meaning given in SMC Section 21.36.014.

9.~~A.~~ "Gross income" means the value proceeding or accruing from the sale of tangible property or service, and receipts (including all sums earned or charged, whether received or not), by reason of the investment of capital in the business engaged in, including rentals, royalties, fees, or other emoluments, however designated (excluding receipts or proceeds from the use or sale of real property or any interest therein, and proceeds from the sale of notes, bonds, mortgages, or other evidences of indebtedness, or stocks and the like) and without any deduction on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor costs, interest or discount paid, or any expense whatsoever, and without any deduction on account of losses, including the amount of credit losses actually sustained by the taxpayer whose regular books or accounts are kept upon an accrual basis.

10. "Nonprofit tax-exempt organization" means an organization, corporation, or association which is currently recognized by the United States of America as exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to Section 501(c)(1), (3), (4), or (6) of the Internal Revenue code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. Section501, as now existing or hereafter amended.

11.~~B.~~ "Person or persons" means any individual ~~persons~~~~of either sex~~, firm~~s~~, receiver, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust, estate, firm,~~co~~ partnership(~~s~~), joint venture, joint-stock company, corporation~~s~~, association, society, limited liability corporation, and other association~~s~~ of natural persons, whether acting by themselves or by servants, agents, or employees and includes the United States or any instrumentality thereof, provided a valid tax may be levied upon or collected therefrom under the provisions of this chapter. The term includes all nonprofit tax-exempt organizations.

12.~~I.~~ "Recovered material" means a usable or marketable product or commodity that results from recycling or material owned or acquired from another, but excludes use for landfill or incineration.

13.~~G.~~ "Recyclable" means material:

a.~~1.~~ That is collected for recycling or reuse, such as papers, glass, plastics, used wood, sand, building debris, metals, yardwaste, used oil and tires; and

b.~~2.~~ That if not collected for recycling would otherwise be destined for disposal at a landfill or incineration.

14.~~H.~~ "Recycled material" means material that is in fact recycled, re-used, or reprocessed after collection; and if not recycled, re-used or reprocessed, would have been destined for disposal at a landfill or incineration.

15.~~M.~~ "Recycling" has the meaning given in SMC Section 21.36.016.

16.~~L.~~ "Rubbish" has the meaning given in SMC Section 21.36.016.

17.~~N.~~ "Solid waste" has the meaning given in SMC Section 21.36.016.

18. "Successor" means any person who through direct or mesne conveyance, purchases or succeeds to the business, or portion thereof, or the whole or any part of the stock of goods, wares or merchandise or fixtures or any interest therein of a taxpayer quitting, selling out, exchanging or otherwise disposing of his or her business. Any person obligated to fulfill the terms of a contract shall be deemed a successor to any contractor defaulting in the performance of any contract as to which such person is a surety or guarantor.

19.~~C.~~ "Taxpayer" means any person liable for~~to~~ the license fee or tax imposed by this chapter.

20.~~D.~~ "Tax year" or "taxable year" shall mean~~s~~either the calendar year ~~commencing March 1st and ending on the last day of February of the following year,~~ or~~, in lieu thereof,~~ the taxpayer's fiscal year when permission is obtained from the Finance Director to use a fiscal year in lieu of the calendar year~~the same as the tax period~~.

21.~~E.~~ "Telephone business" means the business of providing access to a local telephone network, local telephone network switching service, toll service, coin telephone services, telephonic, video, data, two-way pagers, or similar communication, or transmission for hire, via a local telephone network, toll line or channel, cable, microwave, or similar communication or transmission system. The term includes cooperative or farmer line telephone companies or associations operating exchanges. "Telephone business" does not include the providing of competitive telephone service, or providing of cable television service, or other providing of broadcast services by radio or television stations.

22. "Within the City" or "in the City" includes but is not limited to all federal areas lying within the boundaries of The City of Seattle.

23.~~O.~~ "Yardwaste" has the meaning given in SMC Section 21.36.016.

B. Words in the singular number shall include the plural, and plural shall include the singular. Words of one (a) gender shall include all other genders.

 Section 3. Section 5.48.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 3) is amended to read as follows:

 5.48.030 Occupation utility license required -- Display of license.

 A. After July 1, 1932, no person shall engage in or carry on any business, occupation, pursuit or privilege for which a license fee or tax is imposed by this chapter without having first obtained, and being the holder of, a valid and subsisting license so to do, to be known as an "occupation license."

 B. Any person engaging in, or carrying on, more than one (1) such business, occupation, pursuit or privilege shall pay the license tax so imposed upon each of the same.

 C. Any taxpayer who engages in, or carries on, any business subject to tax under this chapter without having his or her occupation license so to do, shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter for each day during which the business is so engaged in or carried on, and any taxpayer who fails or refuses to pay the license fee or tax or any part thereof on or before the due date shall be deemed to be operating without having his or her license so to do.

D.~~5.48.190 A.~~ All licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be kept posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place in the licensee's~~his~~ principal place of business in the City.

E.~~5.48.190 B.~~ No person to whom a license has been issued~~,~~ pursuant to this chapter shall suffer or allow any other person chargeable with a separate license to operate under or display his or her license, nor shall such other person operate under or display such license.

 Section 4. Section 5.48.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 5, as last amended by Ordinance 117183 Section 1(part is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.050 Occupations subject to tax -- Amount.

 There are levied upon, and shall be collected from everyone, including The City of Seattle, on account of certain business activities engaged in or carried on, annual license fees or occupation taxes in the amount to be determined by the application of rates given against gross income as follows:

 A. Upon everyone engaged in or carrying on a telephone business, a fee or tax equal to six percent (6%) of the total gross income from such business in the City; provided, ~~that the minimum fee or tax shall not be less than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per year; and provided further,~~ that effective January 1, 1987, the tax liability imposed under this section shall not apply for that portion of gross income derived from charges to another telecommunications company, as defined in RCW 80.04.010, for connecting fees, switching charges, or carrier access charges relating to intrastate toll telephone services, or for access to, or charges for, interstate services, which shall be taxed under SMC Chapter 5.44.

 B. Upon everyone engaged in or carrying on the business of selling, brokering, or furnishing gas for hire, a fee or tax equal to six percent (6%) of the total gross income from such business in the City ~~; provided, that the minimum fee or tax shall not be less than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) per tax year~~.

 C. Upon everyone, including The City of Seattle, engaged in or carrying on the business of selling or furnishing water for hire, a fee or tax equal to ten percent (10%) of the total gross income from such retail business in the City; ~~provided that the minimum fee or tax shall not be less than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) per tax year; and~~ provided ~~further~~ that as to The City of Seattle in the conduct of its municipal water utility, such tax shall be applicable to the business of such utility done without, as well as within, the City.

 D. Upon everyone, including The City of Seattle, engaged in or carrying on the business of selling or furnishing electric light and power, a fee or tax equal to six percent (6%) of the total gross income from such business in the City ~~; provided, that the minimum fee or tax shall not be less than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) per tax year; provided, that the tax liability imposed under this section shall not apply to The City of Seattle for that portion of the gross income derived by the imposition of the purchased power surcharge imposed upon the rates for the use of electric light and power pursuant to Section 1 of Ordinance 106481~~. The fee or tax imposed upon the municipal light and power system of the City shall be applicable to the business of such system both within and without the City; provided, that as to the gross income derived by such system from the production, sale or transfer of electric energy for resale or consumption outside the state the fee or tax shall be in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the gross income.

 E. Upon everyone conducting or engaged in the business of supplying steam heat or power to the public for hire, a fee or tax equal to six percent (6%) of the total gross income from such business in the City.

 F. Upon The City of Seattle in respect to the conduct, maintenance, and operation of its municipal drainage and wastewater system as a public utility a fee or tax equal to ten percent (10%) of the total gross income from the drainage and wastewater charges provided for under City ordinances.

 G. As to solid waste, see Section 5.48.055.

 H. Upon everyone engaged in the business of operating or conducting a cable television system (CATV), a fee or tax equal to ten percent (10%) of the total gross income from gross subscriber revenues. For purposes of this chapter, "gross subscriber revenues" means and includes those revenues derived from the supplying of subscription service, that is, installation fees, disconnect and reconnect fees, fees for regular cable benefits including the transmission of broadcast signals and access and origination channels and per-program or per-channel charges; provided the tax liability imposed under this section shall~~it does~~ not include leased channel revenue, advertising revenues, or any other income derived from the system, which shall be taxed under SMC Chapter 5.44.

 Section 5. Section 5.48.055 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 5, as last amended by Ordinance 117183 Section 1(part is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.055 Solid waste activities subject to tax -- Amount.

 There are levied upon, and shall be collected from everyone including The City of Seattle, on account of the following business activities engaged in or carried on with respect to solid waste, an annual license fee or occupation tax in the amount to be determined by the application of the rates given below:

 A. Upon everyone engaged in or carrying on the business of operating a garbage transfer station or upon the business of transferring solid waste generated in Seattle from one (1) mode of transportation to another a fee or tax equal to Eight Dollars and Eighty Cents ($8.80) per ton of the waste handled for transportation or transported for garbage disposal, landfill, or incineration purposes. To prevent pyramiding of the tax under this subsection when two (2) or more transfers occur in Seattle, the fee or tax is imposed only upon the last transferor and shall not apply to earlier transfers. Waste is transferred from one (1) mode of transportation to another whenever it is moved from a motor vehicle (including, for example, landgrading or earthmoving equipment), barge, train or other carrier to another motor vehicle (including landgrading or earthmoving equipment), barge, train or other carrier, irrespective of whether or not temporary storage occurs in the process. Solid waste transported for recycling or reuse as recovered material, yard waste destined for composting, items to be scrapped for salvage, and sand and gravel for construction of a public improvement shall not be included in the tonnage by which the fee or tax is measured.

 B. Upon everyone engaged in or carrying on the business of operating a garbage transfer station or upon the business of transferring solid waste generated outside of Seattle from one (1) mode of transportation to another a fee or tax equal to Four Dollars and Forty Cents ($4.40) per ton of the waste handled for transportation or transported for garbage disposal, landfill, or incineration purposes. To prevent pyramiding of the tax under this subsection when two (2) or more transfers occur in Seattle, the fee or tax is imposed only upon the last transferor and shall not apply to earlier transfers. Waste is transferred from one (1) mode of transportation to another whenever it is moved from a motor vehicle (including, for example, landgrading or earthmoving equipment), barge, train or other carrier to another motor vehicle (including landgrading or earthmoving equipment), barge, train or other carrier, irrespective of whether or not temporary storage occurs in the process, provided that waste shall not be considered transferred if it has been placed in a sealed shipping container prior to being moved from one mode of transportation to another in the City. Solid waste transported for recycling or reuse as recovered material, yardwaste destined for composting, items to be scrapped for salvage, and sand and gravel for construction of a public improvement shall not be included in the tonnage by which the fee or tax is measured.

 C. Upon everyone, including The City of Seattle, engaged in or carrying on the business of the collection of garbage, rubbish, trash, CDL Waste, and other solid waste, a fee or tax measured by the total of these two components:

 1. Ten percent (10%) of the total gross income from the collection of solid waste in Seattle, less income derived from the activities identified in subsection D~~C~~; and

 2. Eleven Dollars and Seventy Cents ($11.70) per ton of the materials collected in Seattle, excluding the tonnage identified in subsection D.

 D. The gross receipts factor identified in subsection ~~C1~~ C(1) above shall exclude income derived from:

 1. Collection and/or sale of recycled materials and/or recovered materials, including charges for the lease or rental of containers used in the collection of recycled/recovered materials;

 2. Collection and/or sale after processing of yardwaste products, including charges for the lease or rental of containers used in the collection of yardwaste products;

 3. Sale of containers used for collection of residential solid waste;

 4. Collection and disposal of bulky items and white goods;

 5. Grants and contracts from governmental agencies;

 6. The City of Seattle for collecting or disposing of residential garbage and other solid waste;

 7. The portion of the City's solid waste collection receipts expended for collection of recyclable materials and yardwaste; and

 8. Transportation or deposit of sand and gravel for construction or a public improvement.

 E. The tonnage factor identified in subsection ~~C2~~C(2) above shall exclude income derived from recycled materials and/or recovered materials; yardwaste destined for composting; items to be recycled, reused, or scrapped for salvage, and/or sand and gravel for construction of a public improvement.

 F. The tax imposed under subsection A applies to transferring in  the City~~Seattle~~ of all solid waste generated in the City ~~Seattle~~; the tax imposed under subsection B applies to transferring in the City~~Seattle~~ of all solid waste generated outside of the City~~Seattle~~; and the tax imposed under subsection C applies only to collecting solid waste in the City~~Seattle~~. The taxes imposed under subsections A and C are cumulative as to solid waste collected and transferred in the City~~Seattle~~, even though the same tonnage of solid waste may be involved at each successive stage in the disposal process, and the economic burden of the two (2) taxes may aggregate.

 G. Income derived from activities described in subsection D above~~C~~ shall be taxed under SMC Chapter 5.44.

 Section 6. Section 5.48.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 6, as last amended by Ordinance 117183 Section 2) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.060 City of Seattle subject to tax.

 Subsections C, D, and F~~H~~ of Section 5.48.050, Section 5.48.055, and Section 5.48.140 shall, so far as permitted by law, be applicable to The City of Seattle, except that the City shall not, as a taxpayer, be required to conform to the other provisions of this chapter. ~~The fee or tax imposed upon the municipal light and power system of the City shall be applicable to the business of such system both within and without the City; provided, that as to the gross income derived by such system from the production, sale or transfer of electric energy for resale or consumption outside the state the fee or tax shall be in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the gross income.~~

 Section 7. Section 5.48.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 9, as last amended by Ordinance 116951 Section 4) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.070 Exceptions and deductions.

 A. There shall be excepted and deducted from the total gross income upon which the license fee or tax is computed, amounts derived from business which the City is prohibited from taxing under the Constitution or laws of the United States, the Constitution or laws of the state, or the Charter of the City; and any amounts collected by the taxpayer as an excise tax (trust funds) and remitted to the taxing authority, including but not limited to the leasehold excise tax, retail sales and use tax, refuse collection tax, admission tax, and gambling tax.

 B. Any person subject to a license fee or tax under the provisions of any ordinance of the City, other than this chapter or Ordinance 98776, on account of engaging in any activity for which he or she is liable for tax under this chapter, may deduct the amount of such fee or tax from the amount of fee or tax imposed by this chapter on account of such activity, but such person shall nevertheless, in the manner provided for in this chapter, apply for and procure an occupation license.

~~C. There shall be excluded from the total gross income upon which the license fee or tax is computed the amount of state excise taxes, imposed pursuant to RCW 82.18.010 through RCW 82.18.080 upon persons using the service of a refuse collection business and collected by the refuse collection business.~~~~~~C.~~D.~~A taxpayer engaged in a telephone business ~~There~~ shall ~~be~~ exclude~~d~~ from the total  taxable gross income ~~upon which the license fee or tax is computed~~ charges ~~by a taxpayer engaging in a telephone business~~ to a telecommunications company, as defined in RCW 80.04.010, for network telephone service, as defined in RCW 82.04.065, that  the telecommunication company purchases~~the purchaser buys~~ for the purpose of resale. This excluded revenue shall be recorded and taxed under SMC 5.44.

D.~~5.48.250~~A deduction from gross income shall be allowed, only to cellular telephone service companies who keep their regular books of account on an accrual basis, for credit losses actually sustained by a taxpayer as a result of cellular telephone service business which shall be phased in as follows: twenty percent (20%) of the credit losses occurring in 1995; forty percent (40%) of the credit losses occurring in 1996; sixty percent (60%) of the credit losses occurring in 1997; and eighty percent (80%) of the credit losses occurring in 1998; and a complete deduction for the credit losses occurring in 1999 and thereafter.

 Section 8. Section 5.48.072 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 116955 Section 3) is amended to read as follows:

 5.48.072 Anti-pyramiding credit for haulers of CDL Waste.

 There shall be allowed to anyone who is engaged in ~~carrying on~~ the business of the collection of CDL Waste and subject to tax under subsection 5.48.055 (C)~~Section 5.48.050 H~~ a credit against the tax in the amount of One Dollar and Forty-three Cents ($1.43) per ton for each ton of CDL Waste collected in the City~~Seattle~~, delivered to a person engaged in or carrying on the business of transferring CDL Waste from one (1) mode of transportation to another under subsection 5.48.055(A)~~Section 5.48.050 G~~ (called the "transfer station"), and used by the transfer station in measuring the tax due under subsection 5.48.055(A)~~Section 5.48.050 G~~ upon the transfer station's~~stations's~~ activities of transferring CDL Waste from one (1) mode of transportation to another. When the transfer station engages in recycling activities, the tonnage used by the taxpayer in measuring the credit shall be reduced by the proportion of the transfer station's tonnage recycled.

 This section is intended to prevent pyramiding of the economic impact of the tax imposed under subsection~~s~~5.48.055(A)~~G and H of Section 5.48.050~~ on CDL Waste, and is limited in its application to fulfilling that purpose.

 Section 9. Section 5.48.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 10, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 45) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.080 Application for license.

 On or before the first day of each tax year, every taxpayer shall apply to the Finance Director for an occupation license, upon forms provided by the Director. Every such application shall be accompanied by ~~the specified minimum~~a license fee of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00)~~or tax, which amount shall be credited against future installments; provided Section 7A occupation license applications shall be accompanied by the specified annual fee or quarterly installment thereof~~.

 Section 10. Section 5.48.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 11, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 46) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.090 Monthly ~~and quarterly~~ payment of tax -- Returns.

 A. ~~Where the amount of the license fee or tax is based upon gross income, the~~The taxpayer shall pay the~~his~~ fee or tax ~~in~~ monthly ~~installments~~ during the tax year ~~life of his license,~~. Each~~each such installment to~~monthly remittance shall be paid on or before the last~~fifteenth~~ day of each month ~~during the tax year and to~~ and shall be based on the total gross income of the preceding month. ~~In all other cases the taxpayer may pay his fee or tax in equal installments during the life of his license, each such installment to be paid on or before March 1st, June 1st, September 1st, and December 1st respectively.~~The payment shall be made as provided in subsection B and shall be accompanied by a return, which consists of a form provided by the Finance Director and completed by the taxpayer. The return shall be signed by the taxpayer personally or by a responsible officer or agent of the taxpayer. The individual signing the return shall swear or affirm that the information in the return is full and true.

 B. Remittance~~Each such remittance~~ shall be by bank draft, certified check, cashier's check or money order, payable to  The City of Seattle~~the City Finance Director~~ or in cash, in the amount of the tax or fee ~~or installment~~ thereof required by the provisions of this chapter.~~, and shall be accompanied by a return on blanks or forms prepared and provided by the Director requesting such information as may be necessary to enable the Director to determine the lawful amount of the fee or tax. The taxpayer shall, in a legible manner, write in such blank or form or return the information required and shall sign the same and by affidavit at the foot thereof shall swear or affirm that the information given is full and true and that he or she knows the same to be so.~~If payment is made by draft or check, the tax or fee shall not be deemed paid unless the check or draft is honored in the usual course of business; nor shall the acceptance of any sum by the Finance Director be an acquittance of discharge of the tax or fee due unless the amount of the payment is in the full and actual amount due.

 C. If the taxpayer is a partnership, the return must be made by one of the partners; if a corporation, by one of the officers thereof; if a foreign corporation, copartnership or nonresident individual, by the resident agent or local manager of the corporation, copartnership or individual.

 Section 11. There is added a new Section 5.48.095 to Chapter 5.48 of the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

5.48.095 Mailing of notices.

Any notice required by this chapter to be mailed to any taxpayer shall be sent by ordinary mail, addressed to the address of the taxpayer as shown by the records of the Finance Director, or if no such address is shown, to such address as the Director is able to ascertain by reasonable effort. Failure of the taxpayer to receive any such mailed notice shall not release the taxpayer from any tax, fee, interest, or any penalties thereon, nor shall such failure operate to extend any time limit set by the provisions of this chapter.

 Section 12. Section 5.48.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 12, as last amended by Ordinance 113690 Section 7) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.100 Commencement of business during tax year.

 Whenever a taxpayer commences during any tax year to engage in any business, occupation, pursuit or privilege, for which an occupation license is required under the provisions of this chapter, and as to which the amount of the license fee or tax is based on gross income, his or her returns and the license fee or tax shall be based upon and cover the portion of the tax year during which he or she  is engaged in business, subject to the conditions as set forth in Section 5.48.090.

 Section 13. Section 5.48.110 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 14) is amended to read as follows:

 5.48.110 Quitting, selling~~Sale~~ or transferring of business.

~~Upon the sale or transfer during any tax year of a business on account of which a fee or tax is required by this chapter, the purchaser or transferee shall, if the fee or tax has not been paid in full for the year, be responsible for its payment for that portion of the year during which he carries on such business.~~~~~~Whenever any taxpayer quits business, or sells out, exchanges, or otherwise disposes of his or her business or stock of goods, any tax or fee payable hereunder shall become immediately due and payable, and such taxpayer shall, within twenty (20) days thereafter, make a return and pay the tax or fee due; and any person who becomes a successor shall become liable for the full amount of the tax or fee and withhold from the purchase price a sum sufficient to pay any amount due from the taxpayer until such time as the taxpayer shall produce a receipt from the Department showing payment of any amounts due for taxes or fees or a certificate that none is due, and if such tax or fees is not paid by the taxpayer within twenty (20) days from the date of such sale, exchange, or disposal, the successor shall become liable for the payment of the full amount of taxes and fees, and the payment thereof by such successor shall, to the extent thereof, be deemed a payment upon the purchase price, and if such payment is greater in amount than the purchase price the amount of the difference shall become a debt due such successor from the taxpayer. No successor shall be liable for any tax or fee due from the person from whom he or she has acquired a business or stock of goods if he or she gave written notice to the Director of such acquisition and no assessment is issued by the Department within six (6) months of such notice against the former operator of the business and a copy thereof mailed to such successor.

 Section 14. Section 5.48.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 15, as last amended by Ordinance 117408 Section 23) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.120 Taxpayer to keep books and records -- Failure to make return or provide records -- Returns confidential.

~~A. It shall be the duty of each taxpayer taxed upon his gross income to keep and enter in a proper book or set of books or records an account which shall accurately reflect the amount of his or her gross income, which account shall always be open to the inspection of the Finance Director, or his or her duly authorized agent, and from which the officer or his or her agent may verify the return made by the taxpayer.~~

A. It shall be the duty of every person liable for the payment of any tax or fee imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve for the period of five (5) years such books and records as will accurately reflect the amount of his or her gross income, gross proceeds of sale or value of products, as the case may be, and from which can be determined the amount of any tax or fee for which he or she may be liable under the provisions of this chapter; and all such books and records, including state and federal tax returns, and also invoices, vendor lists, inventories and stocks of goods, wares and merchandise shall be open for examination at all reasonable times by the Finance Director or his or her duly authorized agent.

B. In the case of any such person who does not keep the necessary books and records within the City for examination it shall be sufficient if such person produces within the City such books and records as may be required by the Director or bears the cost of examination by the Director's agent at the place where such books and records are kept; provided that the person electing to bear such cost shall pay in advance to the Director the estimated amount thereof including round-trip fare, lodging, meals and incidental expenses, subject to adjustment upon completion of the examination.

C. If any taxpayer fails, neglects or refuses to make his or her return as and when required in this chapter, or refuses to provide or make available records as requested by the Department, the Finance Director is authorized to determine the amount of the tax payable by obtaining facts and information upon which to base his or her estimate of the tax. Such assessment shall be deemed prima facie correct and shall be the amount of tax owing the City by the taxpayer. The taxpayer shall be notified by mail by the Director of the amount of tax so determined, together with any penalty, interest, and fees due under this chapter; the total of such amounts shall thereupon become immediately due and payable.

D~~B~~. The applications, statements or returns made to the Director pursuant to this chapter shall not be made public, nor shall they be subject to the inspection of any person except the Mayor, the City Attorney, the ~~City~~ Finance Director or his or her authorized agent, members of the City Council or their authorized agents, and the Director of the Office of Management and Planning or his or her authorized agent. Returns are also subject to disclosure when the Public Disclosure Act, RCW 42.17.160, et seq., requires disclosure.

 Section 15. Section 5.48.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 16, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 48) is repealed because it has been reworded and renumbered as 5.48.150:

~~5.48.130 Director to investigate returns.~~~~If any taxpayer fails to apply for license or make his return, or if the Finance Director is dissatisfied as to the correctness of the statements made in the application or return of any taxpayer, the officer, or his or her authorized agent, may enter the premises of such taxpayer at any reasonable time for the purpose of inspecting his or her books or records of account to ascertain the amount of the fee or tax or to determine the correctness of such statements, as the case may be, and may examine any person under oath administered by the officer or his or her agent touching the matters inquired into, or the officer or his or her authorized agent may fix a time and place for an investigation of the correctness of the return and may issue a subpoena to the taxpayer, or any other person, to attend upon such investigation and there testify, under oath administered by the officer or his or her agent in regard to the matters inquired into and may, by subpoena, require the taxpayer, or any person, to bring with him/her such books, records and papers as may be necessary.~~~~~~ Section 16. There is added a new Section 5.48.135 to Chapter 5.48 of the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

5.48.135 Computation of time.

Except as otherwise specifically provided by any other provisions of this chapter, in computing any period of days prescribed by this chapter the day of the act or event from which the designated period of time runs shall not be included. The last day of the period shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or City legal holiday, in which case the last day of such period shall be the next succeeding day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, or City legal holiday.

 Section 17. Section 5.48.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 16.A, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 49) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.140 Payments -- Extensions~~of time for filing returns~~ anagement ~~Late payment of tax --~~ Penalties.

 A. The Finance Director for good cause shown may extend the time for making and filing any return required under this chapter and may grant such reasonable additional time within which to make and file such return as he or she~~he/she~~ may deem proper.

 B. Failure to make payment or return by the due daterovidingIf  any tax return, or payment of any fee or tax, is not received by the ~~City~~ Finance Director on or before the last~~by the twenty-fifth~~ day of the month in which such fee or tax becomes due, there shall be assessed a penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount due with a minimum penalty of Ten~~Five~~ Dollars  ($10.00)~~($5.00)~~; and if the fee or tax is not received  within thirty (30) days from the due date~~by the twenty-fifth day of the month next succeeding the month in which the due date falls~~, there shall be assessed a total penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount due with a minimum penalty of Twenty~~Fifteen~~ Dollars $20.00~~($15.00)~~; and if the fee or tax is not received within sixty (60) days from the due date~~by the twenty-fifth day of the second month next succeeding the month in which the due date falls~~, there shall be assessed a total penalty of twenty percent (20%) of the amount due, with a minimum penalty of Forty~~Twenty-five~~ Dollars ($40.00) ~~($25.00)~~.

C. Interest and penalty on late payment--If the Finance Director finds that the tax, fee, or penalty paid is less than the amount due, the Director shall mail the taxpayer a notice showing the balance due and shall add thereto interest on such balance at the rate of ten percent (10%) per year from the date of underpayment until paid, and the taxpayer shall, within twenty (20) days from the notice date, pay the amount shown thereon as the balance due plus such interest. If payment of any tax, fee, penalty, or interest assessed by the Finance Director is not received by the Department within the twenty (20) days, or any extension thereof, the Director shall add a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the additional tax or assessment found due. No penalty so added shall be less than Twenty Dollars ($20.00).

D. Citation/Criminal Complaint--If a citation or criminal complaint is issued by the Director for the collection of taxes, assessments, interest, or penalties, there shall be added thereto a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount due, but not less than Twenty Dollars ($20.00).

E. Penalty for disregarding specific written instructions--If the Director finds that all or any part of a deficiency resulted from the disregard of specific written instructions as to reporting of tax liabilities, the Director shall add a penalty of twenty percent (20%) of the additional tax found due because of the failure to follow the instructions. A taxpayer will be deemed to disregard specific written instruction when the Director has informed the taxpayer in writing of the taxpayer's tax obligations and the taxpayer fails to act in accordance with those instructions unless the Department has not issued final instructions because the matter is under appeal pursuant to this Chapter. The Director shall not assess the penalty under this section upon any taxpayer who, in the Director's opinion, has made a good faith effort to comply with the specific written instructions provided by the Department to that taxpayer. Specific written instructions may be given as a part of a tax assessment, audit, determination, letter of instruction or closing agreement, provided that such specific written instructions shall apply only to the taxpayer addressed or referenced on such documents. Any specific written instructions by the Department shall be clearly identified as such and shall inform the taxpayer that failure to follow the instructions may subject the taxpayer to the penalties imposed by this subsection. No penalty so added shall be less than Twenty Dollars ($20.00).

 Section 18. Section 5.48.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 17, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 50) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.150 Over or under payment of tax.

A. If the Finance Director upon investigation or upon reviewing returns finds that the total tax paid is more than the amount due within the preceding three (3) year period, he or she shall allow the overpayment as a credit upon future taxes due and/or certify the amount overpaid for refund by a warrant upon the General Fund.

B.~~If the Director finds that the fee or tax is less than required, he or she shall mail the taxpayer a statement showing the balance due and shall add thereto interest on such balance at the rate of ten percent (10%) per year from the date of underpayment until paid and the taxpayer shall within ten (10) days from the date of mailing statement, pay the balance due plus interest shown thereon.~~ Assessments or demands for any~~The Director shall not make any demand for an~~ additional tax, fee, penalty or interest shall be made by the Director within~~more than~~ four (4) years after the close of the calendar year in which the same accrued with following exceptions~~unless~~:

1.~~A.~~Against a taxpayer who is not currently licensed or has not filed a tax return~~The taxpayer is not registered~~ as required by this chapter; assessments or demands for any additional tax, fee, penalty or interest due, as provided for in Section 5.48.140, as a result of failure to obtain and maintain a license as provided for under Section 5.48.080 and file a tax return as required by this chapter may be made by the Director within ten (10) years after the close of the calendar year in which the same accrued;

2.~~B.~~Against a~~The~~ taxpayer who has committed a fraud or misrepresented a material fact; or

3.~~C.~~ The taxpayer has waived this limitation in writing.

C. The Finance Director may enter into an agreement in writing with any person relating to the liability of such person in respect of any tax, fee, or assessment imposed by this chapter for any taxable period or periods.

 Section 19. Section 5.48.160 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 18, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 51) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.160 Remedy for nonpayment of tax anagement Tax and fees constitute debt.

~~A. If any taxpayer fails to apply for a license, or make his or her returns, or to pay the fee or tax therefor, or any part thereof, within fifteen (15) days after the same shall have become due, the Finance Director shall ascertain the amount of the fee or tax or installment thereof due and shall notify such taxpayer thereof, who shall be liable therefor in any suit or action by the City for the collection thereof.~~~~B. The Finance Director shall also notify the City Attorney in writing of the name of such delinquent taxpayer and the amount due from him or her, and the officer shall, with the assistance of the Finance Director, collect the same by any appropriate means or by suit or action in the name of the City.~~

Any tax or fee due and unpaid and delinquent under this chapter, and all penalties thereon, may be collected by civil action, which remedy shall be in addition to any and all other existing remedies.

Any tax or fee due and unpaid under this chapter, and all interest and penalties thereon, shall constitute a debt to The City of Seattle and may be collected by court proceedings in the same manner as any other debt in like amount which remedy shall be in addition to all other existing remedies.

 Section 20. Section 5.48.170 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 19, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 52) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.170 Appeals and Judicial Review.

 Any taxpayer aggrieved by the amount of the ~~fee or~~ tax, fee, interest, or penalty assessed~~found~~ by the Finance Director ~~to be required~~ under the provisions of this chapter, may file a written appeal ("petition") with the Office of the Hearing Examiner within twenty (20) days from the date that the assessment notice was mailed to the taxpayer, or within the period covered by any extension of said due date granted in writing by the Finance Director~~time such taxpayer was given notice of such amount and providing a copy of the notice of appeal to the Director and the City Attorney~~. The Finance Director may grant an extension of the appeal period only if the taxpayer, within the twenty (20) day period to appeal, makes written application showing good cause why an extension is necessary. A copy of the petition must be provided by the taxpayer to the Finance Director and the City Attorney on or before the date the petition is filed with the Hearing Examiner. If no such petition is filed with the Hearing Examiner and provided to the Finance Director and City Attorney within the twenty (20) day period, the assessment covered by the notice shall become final and no refund request maybe made for the audit period covered in this assessment.

B. The petition shall set forth the reasons why the assessment should be reversed or modified and the amount of the tax, fee, interest, or penalties which the taxpayer believes to be due. The Hearing Examiner shall fix the time and place of the hearing and notify the taxpayer thereof by mail. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures for hearing contested cases in the Seattle Administrative Code (SMC Chapter 3.02; Ordinance 102228).

C. The Finance Director's assessment~~determination~~ appealed from shall be regarded as prima facie correct. The Hearing Examiner may, by subpoena, require the attendance of any person at the hearing, and may also require him or her to produce pertinent books and records. Any person served with such a subpoena shall appear at the time and place therein stated and produce the books and records required, if any, and shall testify truthfully under oath administered by the Hearing Examiner as to any matter required of him or her pertinent to the appeal; and it shall be unlawful for him or her to fail or refuse to do so.

D. The Hearing Examiner may reverse or modify an action of the Director and ascertain the correct amount of the ~~fee or~~ tax, fee, interest, or penalty due if the Director's  assessment~~determination~~ violates the terms of this chapter or is contrary to law. The decision of the Hearing Examiner shall be final. The taxpayer and/or the Department of Finance may seek review of the decision of the Hearing Examiner to the Superior Court of Washington in and for King County within fourteen (14) days from the date of the decision.

 Section 21. Section 5.48.190 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 21 as last amended by Ordinance 102620 Section 10) is repealed because it has been reworded and renumbered as 5.48.030(D) and (E).

~~5.48.190 Display of licenses.~~

 Section 22. Section 5.48.200 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 22) is amended to read as follows:

 5.48.200 Unlawful acts~~False statements~~.

 It shall be unlawful for any person liable for the~~to~~ tax or fee under this chapter to fail or refuse to make application or secure~~return for~~ a license or to pay the fee or tax ~~or installment~~ thereof when due, or for any person to make any false or fraudulent application or return or any false statement or representation in, or in connection with, any such application or return, or to aid or abet another in any attempt to evade payment of the fee or tax, or any part thereof, or for any person to fail to appear and/or testify in response to subpoena issued pursuant to this chapter, or to testify falsely upon any investigation of the correctness of a return, or upon the hearing of any appeal, or in any manner to hinder or delay the City or any of its officers in carrying out the provisions of this chapter. Remedial action by the City may include fines as provided for in Section 5.48.210.

 Section 23. Section 5.48.210 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 62662 Section 24, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 54) is further amended to read as follows:

 5.48.210 Violation -- Penalty.

A~~Any~~ person who violates or fails~~violating or failing~~ to comply with any ~~of the~~ provision~~s~~ of this chapter or any ~~lawful~~ rule,~~or~~ regulation or order of the~~adopted by the Finance~~ Director is~~pursuant to this chapter, shall be deemed~~ guilty of a misdemeanor subject to the provisions of Chapters 12A.02 and 12A.04 of the Seattle Municipal Code, except that absolute liability shall be imposed for such a violation or failure to comply and none of the mental states described in Section 12A.04.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code need be proved. A corporation which violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter or any rule, regulation or order of the Director shall be punished by a fine of not more than One Thousand ($1,000). Each day of violation or failure to comply is a separate offense.~~and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine in any sum not to exceed Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00), or by imprisonment in the City Jail for a term not exceeding ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.~~

B. Prosecution for a criminal offense shall not be commenced more than four (4) years after the violation or failure to comply.

 Section 24. There is added a new Section 5.48.220 to Chapter 5.48, of the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

5.48.220 Fees for copies and research.

The Finance Director may charge a fee:

A. For making copies of books and records as authorized by Ordinance 100501, as now existing or hereafter amended or supplemented;

B. For compiling statistics and conducting special research as authorized in a fee schedule approved by the City Council by resolution from time-to-time to reimburse the City's cost therefor; and

C. For the bulk sale of City forms and printed brochures and other publications in an amount equal to the cost of preparing, reproducing and distributing them as determined by the Director by rule adopted pursuant to the Administrative Code, Sections 3.02.030 through 3.02.070.

 Section 25 . Section 5.48.250 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 117401 Section 2) is repealed because it has been renumbered as 5.48.070(D).

~~5.48.250 Bad Debt deduction -- cellular telephone service companies.~~

 Section 26. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance, or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 27. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council of the City of Seattle this ______ day of ______________, 1996, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1996.

 ______________________________________

 President _________of the City Council

 Approved by me this __________ day of _________________, 1996.

 ______________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this __________ day of _________________, 1996.

 ______________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

```
