

********

**Council Bill Number: 111409**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118389**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan by amending Transportation Element Figure 1, amending annexation policies in the Land Use Element and adding Potential Annexation Areas, adding Shorelines Policies to the Land Use Element, amending the Neighborhood Planning and Land Use Element regarding the content of neighborhood plans, making minor technical amendments to the Land Use Element, adding language regarding tree preservation in the Land Use Element, and adding the term technology to telecommunications policies, as part of the City's annual Plan amendment for 1996.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 18, 1996
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 26, 1996
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 26, 1996
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 16, 1996
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 117721

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan by amending Transportation Element Figure 1, amending annexation policies in the Land Use Element and adding Potential Annexation Areas, adding Shorelines Policies to the Land Use Element, amending the Neighborhood Planning and Land Use Element regarding the content of neighborhood plans, making minor technical amendments to the Land Use Element, adding language regarding tree preservation in the Land Use Element, and adding the term technology to telecommunications policies, as part of the City's annual Plan amendment for 1996.

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Council Resolution 29037 establishing procedures for amendment of the Comprehensive Plan, a number of proposals for Plan amendments were made, both from within the City and from the public; and

 WHEREAS, State law requires the City to incorporate Shorelines Master Program Policies into the Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Council Resolution 29355 and consistent with the Plan and other Council actions, the Council determined that the following amendments would be considered for possible adoption in 1996: reclassification of a portion of 15th Ave. S., amendment of annexation policies and addition of potential annexation areas, addition of shorelines policies, amendment of policies relating to the content of neighborhood plans, minor technical amendments to the Land Use Element, policies regarding tree preservation, and wording changes regarding technology; and

 WHEREAS, the City has provided for public participation in the development and review of these proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the proposed amendments are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public; NOW THEREFORE

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan, as adopted by Ordinance 117221 and last amended by Ordinance 118197, is hereby amended as follows:

 A. Transportation Figure 1 is hereby amended to change the designation of 15th Ave. S from Columbian Way to S. Albro Pl. from a Principal to a Minor Arterial, as shown in Attachment 1 to this ordinance.

 B. Land Use Element Policies L159 - L162 regarding annexations are hereby amended and Land Use Figure 8 adding Potential Annexation Areas is hereby added, as shown in Attachment 2 to this ordinance.

 C. The Land Use Element is hereby amended by adding Section H. Shorelines, as shown in Attachment 3 to this ordinance.

 D. Neighborhood Planning Element Policy N12 and N14, and Land Use Element Policy L148 are hereby amended as shown in Attachment 4 to this ordinance.

 E. Land Use Element Table of Contents, Policy L19, Land Use Figure 1 Policy L107 and Goal G74 are hereby amended as shown in Attachment 5 to this ordinance.

 F. Land Use Element Goal G73 and Policy L158 are hereby amended to add reference to tree preservation, as shown in Attachment 6 to this ordinance.

 G. Utilities Element Goal G6 and Economic Development Policies E22, E23, and E24 are hereby amended to add the term technology, as shown in Attachment 7 to this ordinance.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the __ day of _______, 1996, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of ____________, 1996.

 _________________________________________ President ___________ of the City Council Approved by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1996. __________________________________ Mayor Filed by me this ____ day of ________________________, 1996. __________________________________ City Clerk (Seal)

 TAC:tac August 21, 1996 Ordame96.doc (Ver. 1)

 ATTACHMENT 1

 15th Ave. S. Reclassification: Amendment of Transportation Figure 1 to change the designation of a portion of 15th Avenue South from Principal to Minor Arterial, and related amendments to the Seattle Comprehensive Transportation Plan (SCTP).

 Map

 ATTACHMENT 2

 Potential Annexation Areas: Amendment of annexation policies in the Land Use Element and addition of two areas as potential annexation areas.

 F. ANNEXATION

 POLICIES

 L159 Designate as Potential Annexation Areas areas that include parcels currently owned by the City or small areas almost completely surrounded by land currently within Seattle's city limits. Areas meeting these conditions are designated as Potential Annexation Areas as shown in Land Use Figure 8.~~Do not actively seek large-scale annexations of adjacent unincorporated areas.~~

 L160 Favorably consider annexation requests by the residents of unincorporated areas to meet regional growth management goals.

 L161 Support annexations of unincorporated areas to surrounding jurisdictions by being involved in public participation efforts to determine local sentiment regarding annexations, participating in the development of interlocal agreements concerning final annexation plans with the goal of eventually eliminating any unincorporated island areas, and participating in the evaluation of any proposals to create new jurisdictions in these areas.

 L162 Seek, through cooperative efforts with adjacent jurisdictions, an equitable and balanced resolution to jurisdictional boundaries of the remaining unincorporated areas adjacent to the City's limits. Future annexations to Seattle and/or Boundary changes shall be based on the following:  A. The area has access or can easily be connected to areas already served by the City, allowing efficient delivery of services;

 B. The City can readily provide services to the area; and

 C. The boundary changes or interjurisdictional agreements will result in a fair and equitable distribution of revenues, facilities development and maintenance and operating costs, and transfer of assets.

~~Consider it appropriate for Seattle to designate small areas that are not within another jurisdiction's Potential Annexation Area, for eventual annexation to the City. These areas might include parcels currently owned by a City utility or areas almost completely surrounded by land currently within Seattle's city limits.~~

 Land Use Figure 8

 ATTACHMENT 3

 Shorelines Policies: Addition of shorelines policies into the Land Use Element of the Comprehensive Plan and related amendments to the Land Use Code. All ShorelinesPolicies in the Land Use Code are new additions to the Comprehensive Plan.

 ATTACHMENT 3

 PROPOSED SHORELINES COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS

 H. SHORELINES

 Discussion: In conformance with the goals of the State Shoreline Act, the Seattle Shoreline Master Program is established to accommodate a variety of functions and activities unique to shoreline areas, especially water-dependent businesses and shoreline recreation activities, and to protect and enhance public access, natural areas and views of the water. Management of Seattle's shorelines is guided by the Area Objectives for Seattle's shorelines as established in these policies, and the purpose of the shoreline environments, the shoreline environment designations and the use regulations and development standards established in the Land Use Code. All these elements combined constitute the Seattle Shoreline Master Program.

 SHORELINE USE

 GOALS

 G75 Establish shoreline uses that result in long-term over short-term benefit.

 G76 Plan for and encourage the integration and location of compatible uses within segments of the shoreline.

 G77 Locate all non-water dependent uses upland to optimize shoreline use and access.

 G78 Provide a management system that will plan for and permit all reasonable and appropriate use through a system of priorities.

 G79 Protect those areas of shoreline that are geologically dangerous or fragile, or biologically fragile.

 POLICIES

 L163 Permit only those uses or conditions that allow uses for future generations unless identified benefits clearly outweigh the physical, social and/or economic loss to future generations since competition between uses for shoreline does not generally occur at one moment, but over a period of time. Water dependent uses generally shall have priority. Preference will be given in the following order:

 1st. Protection and enhancement of natural areas or systems: those identified as containing or having unique geological, ecological or biological significance.~~~~ 2nd. Water-dependent uses: all uses that cannot exist in any other location and are dependent on the water by reason of the intrinsic nature of their operations. However, because of their historic role and legal recognition by the City, floating home moorages are designated as a water dependent use. Such designation does not imply support for increase of floating home moorages. The intent of this policy is to recognize the existing floating home community in Lake Union and Portage Bay, while protecting natural areas, preserving public access to the shoreline, and preventing the displacement of water-dependent commercial and manufacturing uses by floating homes. Areas with substantial concentrations of existing floating homes shall be given a designation that preserves residential uses.~~~~ 3rd. Non-water dependent uses: those uses that do not need a waterfront location to operate.

 L164 Define in the Land Use Code all appropriate shoreline uses, and provide site development performance standards and other appropriate criteria indicating minimal acceptable standards to be achieved. Uses shall be preferred in the following order:

 A On waterfront lots:

 1. Protection and Enhancement. Uses that provide for protection and enhancement of natural areas or systems.

 2. Water-dependent uses. Uses that are dependent on the water by the intrinsic nature of their operation.

 3. Water-related uses. Uses that are not intrinsically dependent on a waterfront location but whose operation cannot occur economically without use of the water adjacent to the site.

 4. Nonwater-dependent uses with regulated public access. Uses that are neither water-dependent nor water-related because they do not use the water, although a waterfront location may increase their profitability. Such uses provide a public benefit because they provide an opportunity for substantial numbers of the people to enjoy the shorelines of the City.

 5. Nonwater-dependent uses without regulated public access.

 B. On upland lots: Preferred uses are those that complement uses on adjacent waterfront lots.

 C. The preference for natural areas shall be accomplished by prohibiting uses that would disrupt natural areas or by providing enhancement of such areas where necessary.

 D. Preferred uses will vary according to the purpose of the environment:

 1. If the purpose of the enviroment is to encourage water-dependent and water-related uses, these uses shall be preferred by prohibiting and/or restricting nonwater-dependent uses on waterfront lots.

 2. If the purpose fo the environment is to provide public access, providing public access shall be preferred by permitting nonwater- dependent uses and requiring public access.

 E. The determination that a shoreline area is suitable for a particular water-dependent use shall be made by comparing the area's physical characteristics and existing land use patterns to the locational requirements of water-dependent uses.

 L165 Identify those areas of shorelines that are geologically or biologically dangerous or fragile and regulate development to prevent damage to property or organisms and the general public.

 L166 Encouraged the development of support industries and services on upland lots by permitting a wider range of uses and more flexible development standards than waterfront lots, and avoiding potential incompatibility with water-dependent uses on waterfront lots.

~~~~

 SHORELINE ACCESS~~~~

 GOALS

 G80 Provide for the optimum amount of public access-both physical and visual-to the shorelines of Seattle.

 G81 Preserve and enhance views of the shoreline and water from upland areas where appropriate.

 POLICIES

 L167 Increase opportunities for substantial numbers of people to enjoy the shorelines, by permitting non-water-dependent uses providing public access to locate in waterfront areas less suited for water- dependent uses, and by requiring public access on public property.

 L168 Promote public enjoyment of the shorelines through public access standards by requiring~~~~improvements that are safe, well designed, and offer adequate access to the water.

 L169 Except for single family residences, maintain standards and criteria for public access and private use of publicly owned or controlled shorelines to achieve the following:

 A. Provide linkages between shoreline public facilities via trails, paths, etc., to connect with terminal boating and other recreational facilities.

 B. Indicate by use of signs and graphics all publicly owned or controlled shoreline.

 C. If appropriate, offer bonuses for the provision of public access in private property.

 D. Require public agencies such as the City, Port of Seattle, and King County Metro, etc., to provide public access opportunities at new shorelines facilities and encourage these agencies to provide similar opportunities in existing facilities.

 E. Provide standards and criteria for view and visual access from upland and shoreline areas.

 F. Give priority to the operating requirements of the water-dependent and water-related uses over preservation of views in those environments where water-dependent uses are encouraged.

 G. Limit off-premise signs and regulate other signs to enhance and protect views.

 TRANSPORTATION

 GOALS

 G82 Develop a transportation network that supports and enhances use of and access to the shorelines

 G83 Relocate transportation facilities that are functionally or aesthetically disruptive to the shoreline.

 POLICIES

 L170 Encourage the transport of materials and cargo via modes having the least environmental impact.

 L171 Encourage the maintenance and future development of inter-modal commuter ferry services, complementary to other public transportation systems, from both intracity locations and regional activity centers.

 L172 Streets, highways, freeways and railroads should be located away from the shoreline in order to maximize the area of waterfront lots and minimize the area of upland lots. Streets, highways, freeways and railroads not needed for access to shoreline lots shall be discouraged in the Shoreline District.

 L173 The primary purpose of waterways in Lake Union and Portage Bay is to facilitate navigation and commerce by providing navigational access to adjacent properties, access to the land for the loading and unloading of watercraft, and temporary moorage. The importance of waterways in providing public access from dry land to the water is also recognized.~~~~

 L174 Public access shall be the preferred use for recaptured rights- of-way. Public rights-of-way may be used or developed for uses other than public access, provided that such uses are determined by the City to be in the public interest, and that public access of substantial quality and at least comparable to the right-of-way is provided.

 L175 Shorelines street ends are a valuable resource for public use and access. Public or private use or development of street ends shall be designed to enhance rather than reduce public access.~~~~

 L176 Provide public transportation convenient to the shoreline.

 CONSERVATION

 GOALS

 G84 Preserve, protect and restore areas such as those necessary for the support of wild and aquatic life or those identified as having geological or biological significance.

 G85 Insure that all future uses will preserve and protect environmental systems, including wild and aquatic life.

 G86 Insure continuing scientific study of Seattle shoreline ecosystems.

 POLICIES

 L177 Protect the natural environment through use and development standards governing shoreline activities including Best Management Practices.

 L178 Areas identified as special wildlife or fisheries habitat should be developed only if no reasonable alternative locations exist and then only if the project is designed to minimize and mitigate habitat damage.

 L179 Require that all commercial, industrial or other high activity uses provide means for treating natural or artificial urban run-off to acceptable standards. Developments with industrial and commercial uses that use or process substances potentially harmful to public health and/or aquatic life shall provide means to prevent, to the extent possible, point and non-point discharge of the harmful substances.

 L180 Dredging and disposal of dredge materials shall be conducted in a manner that minimizes short and long-term environmental damage.

 L181 Permit landfill on submerged land that does not create dry land where necessary for a water-dependent or water-related use, for the installation of a bridge or utility line or for wildlife or fisheries habitat mitigation or enhancement. Permit landfill that creates dry land only where necessary for the operation of a water-dependent or water-related use, to repair pocket erosion, or for wildlife habitat mitigation or enhancement. Large amounts of dry land may be created in Lake Union only if specifically approved by the Council for a public park purpose.

 L182 Identify those areas that have potential for restoration to "natural" conditions, develop standards for the conditions in those areas, and provide incentives for achieving such standards.

 L183 Support programs that inform the public about shoreline conservation practices, and identify methods by which public and private shoreline owners or community groups may encourage wild, aquatic and botanical life, and require such methods when appropriate.

 L184 Support the study of the shoreline systems that will provide a continuously updated baseline against which to judge the impact of any action.

~~~~

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

 GOALS

 G87 Encourage economic activity and development of water-dependent uses by planning for the creation of new developments in areas now dedicated to such use.

 G88 Allow a multi-use concept of development, provided that the major use is water-dependent and that provides public access to the shoreline yet maintains the economic viability of the use.

 POLICIES

 L185 Concentrate industrial and commercial shoreline uses by planning for the creation of new developments in areas now dedicated to such use.

 L186 Identify and designate appropriate land adjacent to deep water for uses that require such condition, such as industry or commerce.

 L187 Provide incentives for public amenities on private property.

 L188 City-wide objectives for different types of water-dependent businesses and industries:

 A. Cargo Handling Facilities.

 1. Reserve space in deep water areas with adequate backup space to permit the Port of Seattle and other marine industries to remain competitive with other ports.

 2. Work with the Port of Seattle to develop a long-range harbor plan in order to provide predictability for property owners and private industry in the Duwamish and Elliott Bay.

 B. Tug and Barge Facilities. Retain Seattle's role as the Gateway to Alaska and maintain space for Puget Sound and Pacific trade.

 C. Shipbuilding, Boatbuilding, and Repairs. Maintain a critical mass of facilities in Seattle in order to meet the needs of the diverse fleets that visit or have a home port in Seattle, including fishing, transport, recreation and military vessels.

 D. Moorage. Meet the long-term and transient needs of all of Seattle's ships and boats including fishing, transport, recreation and military. Locate long-term unsheltered moorage areas close to services, and short-term moorages in more open areas. Support the efficient use of Fishermen's Terminal, the Shilshole Marina and other public moorage facilities. Reduce the displacement of commercial moorage by recreational moorage by encouraging the full use of submerged lands for recreational moorage in areas less suited for commercial moorage. Require large recreational marinas to provide some commercial transient moorage as part of their facilities.

 E. Recreational Boating. Maintain Seattle's unofficial status as a "boating capital." Allow a variety of boating facilities from launching ramps for small "car top" boats to major marinas. Provide long-term recreational moorage for residents and sufficient short-term moorage close to cultural and recreational centers for visitors.

 F. Passenger Terminals. Maintain and expand the opportunity for residents and visitors for convenient travel by ship to local and distant ports. Encourage more passenger-only ferries and cruise ships on the Central Waterfront.

 G. Fishing Industry. Maintain a critical mass of support services including boat building and repair, moorages, fish processors, and supply houses to permit Seattle fishermen to continue to service and have a home-port for their vessels in Seattle waters. Recognize the importance of the local fishing industry in supplying local markets and restaurants. Recognize the economic contribution of distant water fisheries to Seattle's maritime and general economy.

 RECREATION

 GOALS

 G89 Manage publicly owned shorelines that are suitable for public recreation to optimize their potential.

 G90 Increase the amount of shorelines dedicated to public recreation and open space.

 G91 Identify, protect and reserve for public use and/or enjoyment those areas containing special shoreline qualities that cannot be easily duplicated.

 POLICIES

 L189 Allow for increased opportunity for the public to enjoy water- dependent recreation including boating, fishing, swimming, diving and enjoyment of views.

 L190 Designate as suited for water-dependent recreation areas having natural beaches, large amounts of submerged land for moorage or sheltered waters and the absence of heavy ship traffic and incompatible heavy industry.

 L191 Provide for recreational boating facilities including terminals, moorage and service facilities on publicly-owned land and encourage the provision of such facilities on private property, if the environmental impact is acceptable.

 L192 Increase publicly-owned shorelines, giving priority to those areas that lack recreational facilities.

 L193 Explore alternative means (other than acquisition) to provide public recreation at the shoreline and on the water.

 L194 Use submerged lands for underwater parks when feasible.

 HISTORIC/CULTURE AND RESTORATION/ENHANCEMENT

 GOALS

 G92 Appropriately designate sites and areas of shoreline having historic or cultural significance.

 G93 Support and encourage the restoration of those areas or conditions of the shoreline now unsuitable for private or public use, consistent with economic and environmental goals.

 G94 Upgrade and/or beautify the public shoreline.

 POLICIES

~~~~L195 Support and encourage the restoration, preservation and maintenance of areasof the shoreline having significant historical or cultural significance, and a program for shoreline restoration and beautification.

 PROCESS

 GOALS

 G95 Continue shoreline planning by periodically updating the inventory, goals, policies and regulations to respond to changing attitudes and conditions in Seattle's shorelines.~~~~~~~~POLICIES

 L196 Conduct periodic assessments of the performance of and the need for change in the Shoreline Master Program. ~~~~

 AREA OBJECTIVES FOR SEATTLE'S SHORELINES

GOALS

G96 Recognize the unique opportunities in different areas of our shorelines to accommodate different types of water-dependent businesses and shoreline recreation, and to protect and enhance natural areas and views of the water.

 POLICIES

 L197 It is the intent of the Area Objectives to indicate which of the Shoreline Areas Goals and Policies are to be met on each specific section of shoreline. The Management System for Appropriate Uses as required by the Shoreline Management Act shall consist of the Area Objectives for the diverse areas of Seattle's shorelines, the purposes of the shoreline environments, the shoreline environment designations, and the use regulations and development standards of the Land Use Code.

 L198 The area objectives for Seattle Shorelines illustrated in Land Use Figure 9 are as follows:

 A. AREA OBJECTIVES FOR SHORELINES OF STATEWIDE SIGNIFICANCE

 1. Puget Sound (Residential/Recreational Areas)

 (The Puget Sound area includes all of the shorelines on Puget Sound within the City limits, except the Shilshole area, Elliott Bay, the Harborfront and the Duwamish Waterways.)

 Protect the fragile ecology of the natural beaches and fish migration routes.

 Encourage and enhance shoreline recreational activities, particularly in developed parks.

 Provide for quality public access to the shoreline.

 Preserve and enhance views of the water.

 Protect areas developed for residential use in a manner consistent with the Single Family and Multi~~-~~family Residential Area Policies.

 2. Elliott Bay

 (The Elliott Bay area is all shoreline area from 24th Avenue West to SW Atlantic Street, except the Harborfront, Harbor Island and the Duwamish Waterways.)

 Reserve waterfront lots for major port terminals, large water- dependent and water-related manufacturing and industrial facilities and major water-dependent recreational developments.

 Choose shoreline environments that are appropriate for recreational and industrial uses based on water depth, amount of dry land, topography and truck and rail access.

 Protect and enhance migratory fish routes and feeding areas.

 3. Harborfront (Central Waterfront)

 (The Harborfront area is the shoreline area from Bay Street on the north to S. Jackson Street on the south.)

 Encourage economically viable marine uses to meet the needs of waterborne commerce.

 Facilitate the revitalization of downtown's waterfront.

 Provide opportunities for public access and recreational enjoyment of the shoreline.

 Preserve and enhance elements of historic and cultural significance.

 Preserve views of Elliott Bay and the land forms beyond.

 4. The Duwamish

 (The Duwamish area includes the Duwamish river from the south city limits north to South Massachusetts on the east side and southwest Bronson Street on the west side, and including Harbor Island and the East and West Duwamish Waterways.)

 Preserve the statewide interest by encouraging industrial and port uses in this area where such uses are already concentrated while also protecting migratory fish routes.

 Protect Kellogg Island as an important natural resource for fish and wildlife habitat and the opportunity for the public to view those resources.

 Work with appropriate government agencies and shoreline users to reduce the input of pollutants, restore contaminated areas and regulate disposal of dredge spoils.

 Increase public access and recreational opportunities through the Duwamish Public Access Plan.

 5. The Shilshole Area

 (The Shilshole area is the shoreline area from Northwest 80th Street on the north, to the Chittenden Locks.)

 Retain the strong water-dependent recreational character of the area. Water-dependent recreational uses and their supporting services are the preferred uses for this area.

 Permit non-water-dependent commercial uses when providing access to the water, protecting views and not usurping land usable for future water-dependent recreational uses.

 On waterfront lots new residential uses may be permitted when adjacent to existing residences. Protect the fish migration routes.

 6. Lake Washington and Union Bay

 (The Lake Washington area is the shoreline area on Lake Washington from the north to south city limits, including Union Bay, to the Montlake Bridge.)

 Preserve the resources of natural areas and fish migration, feeding areas and spawning areas.

 Provide quality public access to the shoreline by encouraging and enhancing shoreline recreational activities, particularly in developed parks.

 Preserve and enhance views of the water.

 Protect developed residential and commercial areas in a manner consistent with adopted land use policies.

 Union Bay

 Protect fragile natural environments.

 Provide opportunities for the public to enjoy the natural environment.

 B. AREA OBJECTIVES FOR OTHER SHORELINE AREAS

 1. The Ship Canal

 (The Ship Canal area includes the Lake Washington Ship Canal from the Chittenden Locks to the Fremont Bridge.)

 Retain and encourage the important role that the Ship Canal plays in state, regional and local fisheries by reserving the Ship Canal primarily for water-dependent and water-related uses. Non-water- dependent uses shall be restricted, prohibited or allowed only on a limited basis by the selection of shoreline environments that favor water-dependent uses.

 Encourage the development of non~~-~~water-dependent commercial, institutional and manufacturing uses on those areas of the Fremont Cut that do not have water access.

 2. Lake Union and Portage Bay

 (The Lake Union area is all of Lake Union from the Fremont Bridge to the Montlake Bridge, and all of Portage Bay, from the I-5 Bridge to the Montlake Bridge.)

 Maintain and encourage a diversity of uses around Lake Union and Portage Bay by designating different areas of the shoreline with different shoreline environments.

 Retain the working character of Lake Union by reserving those areas of the lake's shorelines that are suitable for water-dependent uses for the use of marine businesses. Prohibit new residential uses on industrial shorelines.

 Allow a greater mix of uses, including non-water-dependent uses providing public access, in those areas that are not being preserved for water-dependent uses.

 Preserve the existing floating home community.

 Provide a maximum amount of public access in locations that do not conflict with water-dependent manufacturing uses.

 Provide for some open water and protect views of the Lake and Bay in all environments in Lake Union and Portage Bay.

 Restore and enhance and Lake's natural environment.

 3. Green Lake

 (The Green Lake area includes the lake, the park and its 200 foot- wide shoreline.)

 Encourage and enhance the shoreline recreational activities and opportunities in the area as a unique urban park.

 Explore restoration options for improving water quality, reducing algae and other plant growth and enhancing sports fishing.

 HEIGHT IN THE SHORELINE DISTRICT

 POLICY

 L199 The 35-foot height limit of the Shoreline Management Act shall be the standard for maximum height in the Seattle Shoreline District. Exceptions in the development standards of a shoreline environment may be made consistent with the Act and with the underlying zoning where:

 A. A greater height will not obstruct views of a substantial number of residences and the public interest will be served; and

 B. Greater height is necessary for bridges or the operational needs of water dependent or water-related uses or manufacturing uses; or

 C. A reduced height is warranted because of the underlying residential zone; or

 D. A reduced height is warranted because public views or the views of a substantial number of residences could be blocked.

 ATTACHMENT 4

 Neighborhood Planning Element and Related Land Use Element Amendments: Amendments to Policies N12, N14 and L148 to clarify the content of neighborhood plans.

 N12~~Permit~~Each neighborhood planning process may ~~to~~ vary to reflect~~ing~~ the different characteristics of the ~~area~~neighborhood and the different interests and ~~concerns~~perspectives of ~~participants~~ community members. ~~Permit neighborhood plans to vary in the geographic area and issues they cover. Permit the scope of neighborhood plans to range from those that focus on limited specific issues to plans which address a comprehensive set of community issues.~~Define neighborhood planning boundaries according to the purpose and scale of the plan. Permit each plan to examine the area's relationship to adjacent areas, as appropriate.

 N14 A. Each neighborhood plan must include a section for the following topics: land use, transportation, housing, capital facilities and utilities. A neighborhood plan may conclude that the Comprehensive Plan adequately expresses the vision and goals of the neighborhood for any of these topics. A statement reflecting this conclusion will satisfy this requirement.  B. Each neighborhood plan containing an urban center village, hub urban village, or residential urban village must:

 1) amend or confirm the designation;

 2) establish, amend or confirm boundaries of the urban village;

 3) establish growth targets for the urban village that either confirm or modify the growth planning estimates or growth targets in this Plan; and

 4) amend or confirm transportation, capital facilities and utilities inventories and analyses for the urban village provided by the City.

 The unadopted village boundaries in Land Use Appendix A and the growth planning estimates in Land Use Appendix B serve as starting points for neighborhood plans containing an urban village(s).

 Each neighborhood plan containing a neighborhood anchor must confirm or propose a change to the preliminary designation.

 If a neighborhood chooses not to propose changes to the above items in its plan, they will be made final. Any of the above items for areas not covered by a neighborhood plan will be made final as part of the 1999 annual Comprehensive Plan amendments process.

 C. Urban centers and manufacturing/industrial centers are designated in this Comprehensive Plan and in the Countywide Planning Policies for King County. A neighborhood plan containing an urban center or manufacturing/industrial center may amend or confirm the boundaries; growth targets; and transportation, capital facilities and utilities inventories and analyses for such areas provided by the City.

 D. A neighborhood plan may also make neighborhood-specific policy recommendations on other issues of interest to the neighborhood

.

~~Ensure that all urban centers, urban villages and manufacturing/industrial centers are included in comprehensive neighborhood plans, which at a minimum do the following:~~a. Review and amend or confirm the preliminary urban center villages boundaries;

 b. Review and amend or confirm preliminary hub urban village, residential urban village and neighborhood anchor designations;

 c. Establish boundaries for hub urban villages and residential urban villages considering as one option the boundaries identified in Appendix A for each urban village, provided, that: if at the end of the neighborhood planning cycle, a village boundary has not been established for a hub or residential urban village, the boundary shown in Land Use Appendix A of this plan shall become the boundary for that urban village;

 d. Establish growth targets in urban villages which either confirm or modify growth planning estimates and review or amend growth targets for urban centers and manufacturing/industrial centers;

 e. Confirm or amend other area-specific goals contained in other elements of the Comprehensive Plan;

 f. Address the concerns of people in surrounding neighborhoods;

 g. Include a programmatic environmental impact statement for each urban center and manufacturing/industrial center as required by the Countywide Planning Policies.

 h. Include in the scope of all plans for urban villages the following elements: the urban villages strategy, land use, transportation, housing, capital facilities, community economic development, urban design and open space.

L148 Encourage neighborhood plans for urban villages to develop the configuration, location, and distribution of urban village open space ~~facilities as part of the village neighborhood planning process~~.

 ATTACHMENT 5

 Land Use Element Minor Technical Amendments: Amendments regarding open space goals, correction on neighborhood anchor at 20th and Dravus, clarification of applicability of urban center village policies, and grammar corrections.

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 Relabel "Areas Outside Urban Centers" in the Table of Contents and where the section appears in the Plan as Section C of the Land Use Element, changing the subsequent section lettering.

 B. CATEGORIES OF URBAN VILLAGES

 URBAN CENTERS

 POLICIES

 L19 Designate urban center villages within the Downtown, First Hill/Capitol Hill and University District urban centers as shown in Land Use Figures 2, 3, and 5. The boundaries and names used to identify these urban villages are provided for planning guidance and subject to change under future neighborhood plans. While the Seattle Center and Northgate centers are presently considered to be too small to be subdivided into center villages, this shall not preclude the designation of urban villages within those urban centers in future neighborhood planning processes. Goals and policies that are applicable to urban center villages are considered to also apply to the Seattle Center and Northgate urban centers.

 LAND USE FIGURE 1

 Change the title and location of neighborhood anchor at 20th Ave. W. @ W. Dravus to 16th Ave. W. @ W. Dravus.

 E. THE SYSTEM OF LAND USE REGULATION

 PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED COMMERCIAL ZONES

 POLICIES

 L107 Neighborhood Commercial Residential (NC/R) Zones may be located only:

 1. a. in urban center villages~~,~~;

b. in the village cores of hub urban villages when consistent with the urban village strategy ~~and within any boundary established for the village, and,~~or;

c. in some instances, in residential urban villages, where it is desirable to accommodate a concentrated mix of shopping activity and residential support services at appropriate intensities, while also promoting moderate and high density housing development.

 2. pursuant to a neighborhood plan adopted by the City Council.

 F. OPEN SPACE NETWORK

 GOALS

 G74 .... (entire table is NOT shown)

 URBAN CENTER VILLAGES HUB URBAN RESIDENTIAL URBAN VILLAGES VILLAGES

 VILLAGE At least one usable At least one At least one usable COMMONS, open space of at least usable open open space of at

 RECREATION one acre in size space of at least one acre in FACILITY (Village Commons)  least one acre size (Village  AND where the existing and in size Commons) where

 COMMUNITY target households total overall residential GARDEN 2,500 or more.

~~density is 10~~GOALS with growth target of households per gross more than 2,500 One facility acre or more. households. for indoor

 public One facility for One indoor, multiple assembly indoor public use recreation facility assembly in Villages serving each Urban with greater than

 Center. Same as for 2,000 households Urban Center Villages Same as for Urban

 One dedicated community Center and Hub garden for each 2,500 Villages households in the Village with at least one dedicated garden site.

 ATTACHMENT 6

 Tree Policies: Amendment to Land Use Goal G73 and Policy L158 to add reference to enhancing the tree canopy and preserving trees of special significance.

 F. OPEN SPACE NETWORK

 GOALS

 G73 Support the objectives of the urban village strategy through strategies to achieve the following:

 A. provide amenities in more densely populated areas;

 B. provide recreational opportunities for daytime populations in urban centers.

 C. mitigate the impacts of large scale development;

 D. increase opportunities to walk regularly to open spaces by providing them close by;

 E. create connections linking Urban Centers and Villages, through a system of parks, boulevards, community gardens, urban trails, and natural areas;

 F. establish a network of connections to the regional open space system, including the vision for the Mountains to Sound Greenway; ~~and~~

 G. protect environmentally critical areas; and

H. enhance the tree canopy throughout the City.

 POLICIES

 L158 Consider use of various means of providing open space including but not limited to:

 A. Use of existing public lands;

 B. Shared-use Agreements;

 C. Incorporating open space in major public projects;

 D. incentives for open space preservation in private ownership, including preservation of trees of special community value or significance; and

 E. Use of the street system.

 ATTACHMENT 7

 Technology Changes: Amendment to add the term "technology" to several utilities and economic development policies.

 UTILITIES ELEMENT

 B. GOALS

 G6 Achieve universal access to state-of-the-art technology and telecommunication services. (Policies relating to technology and telecommunication ~~technology and~~ services are in the economic development element).

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT

 C. INFRASTRUCTURE AND CAPITAL FACILITIES

 E22 Strive to encourage early deployment of improvements in  technology and the combined telecommunications distribution system (including fiber, coaxial and wireless elements of the system) within the greater Seattle area with the goal of having:

 a. Equitable access to all service providers that seek to use the distribution network in reaching their customers.

 b. Competition that will result in state-of-the-art services and competitive with pricing.

 c. Universal access to all citizens, businesses, and institutions within the greater Seattle area.

 d. Effectiveness based on: (I) flexibility, (ii) system security, (iii) reliability, (iv) affordability.

 E23 Take into consideration the ability of technology and telecommunications technology to enhance the provision of City services to citizens and businesses when making City investments in communications and computer systems.

 E24 Encourage the development of technology and telecommunications infrastructure city-wide and region-wide.

 G:

```
