

********

**Council Bill Number: 111521**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118395**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to business licenses and regulatory and personal licenses; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 5.44.300; 6.08.010; 6.20.050; 6.36.020,.030, and .040; 6.42.030; 6.48.030 [6.48.020]; 6.102.020 [6.102.030]; 6.204.030, .040, .070 and .080; 6.207.060 [6.270.060]; 6.294.105; 7.04.570; 9.26.005 [9.26.025], .040, .050 and .060; and 22.904.040.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 18, 1996
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 26, 1996
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 26, 1996
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Typographical errors in ordinance title are corrected by text in square brackets.

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 21, 1996
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** LICENSES, FEES, BUDGET

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 72630, 118314, 48022, 116464, 117002, 117169, 3302, 80818, 109081, 116463, 109763, 114225, 116466, 112373, 113826, 98820, 116694, 110250, 116926, 89715, 116467

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to business licenses and regulatory and personal licenses; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 5.44.300; 6.08.010; 6.20.050; 6.36.020, .030, and .040; 6.42.030; 6.48.030 [6.48.020]; 6.102.020 [6.102.030]; 6.204.030, .040, .070, and .080; 6.207.060 [6.270.060]; 6.294.105; 7.04.570; 9.26.005 [9.26.025], .040, .050 and .060; and 22.904.040.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 5.44.300 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 72630, Section 12, as last amended by Ordinance _______ Section _) is amended to read as follows:

 5.44.300 Business license required.

 A. No person, whether or not subject to the payment of a tax or fee imposed by this chapter, shall engage in any business activity, profession, trade, or occupation in the City for which a license fee or tax is imposed by this chapter without having first obtained and being the holder of a valid and subsisting license to do so, to be known as a "business license." The fee for the business license shall be the license fee or tax imposed by this chapter and Seventy-five Dollars ($75.00)~~Sixty-five Dollars ($65.00)~~ which shall accompany the application for the license.

 The license shall be personal and nontransferable. Applications for the business license shall be made to the Finance Director on forms provided by the Director. Each license shall be numbered, shall show the name, place and character of the business of the licensee, and such other information as the Director deems necessary, and shall at all times be conspicuously posted in the place of business for which it is issued.

 Where a place of business of the licensee is changed, the taxpayer shall return the license to the Director and a new license shall be issued for the new place of business free of charge.~~~~ B. Where business is transacted at two (2) or more separate places by one (1) taxpayer, a separate license for each place at which business is transacted with the public shall be required. A Ten- Dollar ($10.00) license fee shall be imposed and accompany each application for the license required for each additional business location.~~~~ C. No person to whom a license has been issued pursuant to this chapter shall suffer or allow any other person for whom a separate license is required to operate under or display his or her license; nor shall such other person operate under or display such license.

 D. As provided in SMC Section 6.20.040, a participant at an event, identified in the list supplied by the promoter or organizer, shall be exempt from the minimum fee established by subsection A or the fee for a separate business location established by subsection B on account of business activities at the licensed event for the duration of the license.

 E. The business license shall be issued for a calendar year and shall expire on December 31; no portion of the fee may be prorated.

 Section 2. Section 6.08.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 48022, Section 305.1, as last amended by Ordinance 116464 Section 1) is amended to read as follows:

 6.08.010 License required.

 It is unlawful for any person to engage in, or to represent himself or herself as being engaged in, the business of selling, leasing, renting, servicing, inspecting, installing, maintaining, or repairing alarms or alarm systems for the purposes of preventing or detecting burglaries or robberies without complying with the provisions of this chapter and without first obtaining a valid and subsisting license so to do to be known as a "burglar alarm dealer's license," the fee for which shall be Seventy-five Dollars ($75.00)~~Sixty-five Dollars ($65.00)~~ per year; provided that such license shall not be required of any person for the purpose of installing wires or equipment to convey electric current, or installing apparatus or appliances to be operated by such current and who is required by the laws of the state to have a license to engage in, conduct or carry on the business of installing such wires, equipment, apparatus, or appliances.

 Section 3. Section 6.20.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 117002, Section 2(part is amended to read as follows:

 6.20.050 Relation to annual City business license.

 A. A participant at a trade show, who (a) has been identified in a listing supplied to the City by the trade show's promoter or organizer under Section 6.20.030 and (b) limits his or her business activities in Seattle to a trade show ancillary to a convention, shall be exempt from paying the minimum business license fee required by Section  5.44.300 (A)~~5.44.130 A or 5.44.140 in the amount of be Sixty- five Dollars ($65.00)~~ on account of his or her business activities at the trade show, or in the event that the participant already has a City business license, from securing a license for a separate business location at the trade show under Section 5.44.300 (B)~~5.44.130 B~~, each for the duration of the trade show license.

 B. A participant at a trade show remains subject to the other provisions of Chapters 5.44 or 5.48, as the case may be, and if the gross proceeds of sales, value of products, or gross income of the participant on account of his or her business activities at the trade show or elsewhere in Seattle is equal to or exceeds Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) in the tax year, the participant shall file and pay the City's business or utility tax as contemplated by Chapter 5.44 or 5.48, respectively.

 C. Registration of a participant at a trade show of collectibles for hobbyists sponsored by an association of such collectors or an incorporated association of dealers in such collectibles substitutes for applying for a "used goods dealers" license with respect to transactions at the trade show in that line of collectibles, but not of other objects. The trade show license shall be in lieu of the license and fees required by Sections 6.288.030 and 6.204.080. The participants are subject to Section 6.288.050 (unlawful acts) and Sections 6.288.070 through 6.288.110, inclusive (recordkeeping, reporting to police, police holds, and inspection).

 Section 4. Section 6.36.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 48022, Section 172, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 76) is amended to read as follows:

 6.36.020 Massage premises, public bathhouse, and reducing salon licenses.

 It is unlawful to conduct, manage, operate, or work in any massage premises, public bathhouse, or reducing salon unless such establishment is licensed as provided in this section.

 A. Original application for such licenses shall be made and original licenses issued in the manner provided in Sections 6.02.190 and 6.02.210 of this subtitle. All applications for renewal shall be filed with the Director on forms furnished by him/her for such purpose and he/she shall refer the same to the Chief of Police who shall within five (5) days furnish a written report to the Director containing the result of his/her investigation and any other matters which might aid the Finance Director in determining whether or not to issue the license.

 B. The fee for a reducing salon or public bathhouse license is Three Hundred and Forty Dollars ($340.00)~~Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00)~~ per year; the fee for a massage premises license is  Ninety Dollars ($90.00)~~Eighty Dollars ($80.00)~~ per year.

 C. No such license shall be granted for any massage premises, public bathhouse or reducing salon until inspection and report as to the sanitary condition thereof by the Director of Health to the Finance Director. Massage premises, public bathhouses, and reducing salons must be similarly inspected at least once a year when renewal of a license is requested, and must at all times be open to inspections by the City as to sanitary conditions and to enforce compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

 D. It is unlawful for the owner, proprietor, manager, or such person in charge of any public bathhouse or reducing salon to employ in such place any person who is not at least eighteen (18) years of age and of good moral character.

 E. It is unlawful for the owner, proprietor, manager, or such person in charge of any massage premises to employ in such place any person who is not at least eighteen (18) years of age.

 F. It is unlawful to advertise the giving of massages or public baths by an establishment, massage practitioner or other person not licensed pursuant to this subtitle.

 G. A record of all massage treatments showing the date given, the name and address of the recipient, and the name and address of the massage practitioner shall be kept and be open to inspection by the Police Department and License and Health Department inspectors at all times.

 Section 5. Section 6.36.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 48022, Section 173, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 77) is amended to read as follows:

 6.36.030 Massage practitioner's license.

 It is unlawful for any person, except as provided in Section 6.36.060, to give a massage or other treatment of the body by rubbing, kneading, or manipulation, whether in a massage premises or public bathhouse, or otherwise, without first obtaining a massage practitioner's license, the fee for which is Thirty-five Dollars ($35.00)~~Thirty Dollars ($30.00)~~ per year. The license application shall be made in the true name of the applicant and shall be accompanied by evidence that the applicant holds a valid State Massage Practitioner's License. If the Finance Director finds that the information in the application is true and accurate, that the applicant holds a valid State Massage Practitioner's License, and that the applicant has not been convicted of a crime involving or related to prostitution, lewd conduct, or narcotic drugs within the seven (7) years immediately prior to the date of application, the Director shall approve the application and issue the license; otherwise, the Director shall deny the application.

 Section 6. Section 6.36.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 48022, Section 173, as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 173) is amended to read as follows:

 6.36.040 Athletic massage operator's license.

 It is unlawful for any person to be employed or work as an athletic massage operator unless such person is licensed as provided in this section:

 A. The fee for an athletic massage operator's license is Thirty- five Dollars ($35.00)~~Thirty Dollars ($30.00)~~ per year.

 B. Application for an athletic massage operator's license or for any renewal thereof shall be made to the Finance Director on forms furnished by him/her for such purpose. It shall state the true name of the applicant, who shall be not less than eighteen (18) years of age, and as to an original application shall be accompanied by references as to the moral character and ability of the applicant from four (4) reputable citizens of the City.

 C. If the Director finds the application to be in proper form and upon investigation such references to be authentic, he/she shall transmit the same to the Chief of Police.

 D. The Chief of Police shall investigate the applicant's reputation and record and transmit such application, his/her written report, and all other reports thereon, to the Director of Health, who shall examine the applicant physically to ascertain if the applicant is free

 from contagious or infectious disease in a communicable stage and otherwise physically fit to give athletic massages, and shall make a written report thereon.

 E. If the Director of Health finds that the applicant is physically competent to give athletic massages he/she shall transmit the application, accompanied by all reports thereon, to the Finance Director. If from the reports the Finance Director deems the applicant a fit and proper person, he/she shall issue the license; otherwise he/she shall deny the license.

 Section 7. Section 6.42.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 3302 Section 330.2, as last amended by Ordinance 116464 Section 3) is amended to read as follows:

 6.42.030 License fees.

 The license year shall be from January 1st to December 31st. All license fees shall be payable on an annual basis. Fees shall be as follows:

 A. Panoram location license Forty Dollars ($40.00)~~Thirty- five Dollars ($35.00)~~ per year for each location;

 B. Panoram device license Forty Dollars ($40.00)~~Thirty- five Dollars ($35.00)~~ per year for each device.

 Section 8. Section 6.48.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 48022, Section 147, as last amended by Ordinance 116464 Section 4) is amended to read as follows:

 6.48.020 License required -- Fee.

 It is unlawful for any person to own, operate, or maintain a public garage or parking lot without first having obtained a license to do so. The fee for such license is hereby fixed at the rate of Forty- Five Dollars ($45.00)~~Forty Dollars ($40.00)~~ per year for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor or ground space contained in such parking garage or parking lot and used for parking or storage purposes.

 Section 9. Section 6.102.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 80818, Section 6, as last amended by Ordinance 116464 Section 6) is amended to read as follows:

 6.102.030 License fee.

 License fees shall be annual and licenses may be renewed upon payment of the annual fee. The annual fee for a tattoo shop license shall be Five Hundred Thirty Dollars ($530.00)~~Four Hundred Sixty-five Dollars ($465.00)~~. All licenses shall expire on February 28th but where application for license is made less than six (6) months before such date of

 expiration the amount of the fee shall be one-half (1/2) of the annual fee. The tattoo shop license shall designate the place of operation and may be transferred to a new location upon payment of ten percent (10%) of the annual fee. No license shall be issued under this chapter to any person under eighteen (18) years of age. It shall be unlawful to practice as a tattoo operator except in a licensed tattoo shop.

 Section 10. Section 6.204.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 109081 Section 3, as last amended by Ordinance 116463 Section 2) is amended to read as follows:

 6.204.030 Residential sellers.

 Annual fees for residential sellers licenses shall be:

 Residential seller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $155.00~~$135.00~~

 Residential seller having one or more employees. . . . . . . . . . . . 225.00~~200.00~~

 Residential seller's agent card . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.00~~45.00~~

 Section 11. Section 6.204.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 109081 Section 4, as last amended by Ordinance 116463 Section 3) is amended to read as follows:

 6.204.040 Tow trucks.

 The annual fees for tow truck licenses shall be:

 Tow truck (operator) . . . . . . . $370.00~~$325.00~~

 Tow truck (vehicle) . . . . . . . . 115.00~~100.00~~

 Section 12. Section 6.204.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 109081 Section 7, as last amended by Ordinance 1097632 Section 3) is amended to read as follows:

 6.204.070 Rental agencies.

 Annual fees for rental agency licenses shall be:

 Rental housing agency . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$285.00~~$250.00~~

 Section 13. Section 6.204.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 109081 Section 8, as last amended by Ordinance 116463 Section 5) is amended to read as follows:

 6.204.080 Used goods.

 The annual fee for a used goods license shall be:

 Used goods dealer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$130.00~~$115.00~~

 Section 14. Section 6.270.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 114225 Section1(part), as last amended by Ordinance 116466 Section 1) is amended to read as follows:

 6.270.060 License fees.

 The license year for all fees required under this chapter shall be from January 1st to December 31st. All license fees shall be payable on an annual basis, which fees shall be as follows:

 A. Adult entertainment premises license, Seven Hundred Twenty Dollars ($720.00)~~Six Hundred Thirty-five Dollars ($635.00)~~ per year;

 B. Adult entertainer's license, Seventy-five Dollars ($75.00)~~Sixty-five Dollars ($65.00)~~ per year;

 C. Adult entertainment manager's license, Seventy-five Dollars ($75.00)~~Sixty-five Dollars ($65.00)~~ per year.

 Section 15. Section 6.294.105 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 112373 Section 1(part), as last amended by Ordinance 113826 Section 9) is amended to read as follows:

 6.294.105 Fees.

 The fee for a teen dance hall license shall be One Hundred Thirty-Five Dollars ($135.00)~~One Hundred Twenty Dollars ($120.00)~~.

 Section 16. Section 7.04.570 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 98820, Section 35(B), as last amended by Ordinance 117169 Section 120) is amended to read as follows:

 7.04.570 Weighmaster license--Application, issuance and fee.

 Any person, firm or corporation possessing a scale that complies with the specifications, tolerances, and other technical requirements for weighing devices, together with amendments thereto, as recommended by the National Bureau of Standards and published in National Bureau of Standards Handbook 44, may make application to the City Sealer (Finance Director) to be appointed a Licensed City Weighmaster. If the scale is approved by the City Sealer, he or she may in his or her discretion so appoint the applicant and shall issue a City Weighmaster license in accordance with such appointment. The annual fee for such license shall be Forty Dollars ($40.00)~~Thirty-five Dollars ($35.00)~~ which shall accompany the application, and all such licenses shall expire at midnight April 30th of each year, but may be renewed from year to year by the City Sealer upon payment of the annual fee. If the original application for a City Weighmaster's license and/or a City Weigher's license is made within six (6) months of the date fixed for expiration of the annual license, the fee shall be one-half (1/2) the annual fee.

 Section 17. Section 9.26.025 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 116694 Section 10) is amended as follows:

 9.26.025 Miniature potbelly pig license fee.

 A. The fee for the initial annual potbelly pig license shall be  One Hundred Fifteen Dollars ($115.00)~~One Hundred Dollars ($100.00)~~.

 B. The fee for each annual period of license renewal for miniature potbelly pigs shall be Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00).

 Section 18. Section 9.216.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 110250 Section 1(part is amended to read as follows:

 9.26.040 Guard dog license.

 The fee for each guard dog license shall be Fifty five Dollars ($55.00)~~Fifty Dollars ($50.00)~~.

 Section 19. Section 9.26.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 110250 Section 1(part), as last amended by Ordinance 116926 Section 1) is amended to read as follows:

 9.26.050 Other animal control fees and charges.

 Other animal control fees shall be:

 A. Administrative fee for each detained animal:

 First detainment $40.00~~$ 35.00~~~~~~Second detainment 80.00~~70.00~~

 Third detainment 120.00~~105.00~~~~~~ B. For each twenty-four (24) hour period or part thereof for kenneling 10.00~~7.00~~

 C. For each animal adopted 5.00

 D. For each dangerous animal permit30.00~~25.00~~

 E. For collecting and disposing of an owner's animal, whether the animal is dead or alive$15.00; F.~~or when~~For euthanizing an owner's animal ~~is brought to the shelter for euthanasia~~$15.00~~10.00~~

G.~~F.~~ For the handling of animals, other than dogs and cats, charges may be assessed to recover the cost of special equipment.

 Section 20. Section 9.26.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance110250 Section 1(part), as last amended by Ordinance 116926 Section 2) is amended to read as follows:

 9.26.060 Spaying and neutering fees.

 The fees at the Municipal Spay and Neuter Clinic shall be:

 A. Surgery fees:

 Cats

 Spaying $30.00~~$25.00~~

 Neutering 25.00~~20.00~~

 Dogs

 Dog neuter under 50 pounds 30.00~~25.00~~

 Dog neuter 5080 pounds 40.00~~35.00~~

 Dog neuter over 80 pounds 50.00 4~~5.00~~

 Dog spay under 50 pounds 35.00~~30.00~~

 Dog spay 5080 pounds 45.00~~40.00~~

 Dog spay over 80 pounds 55.00~~50.00~~

 B. Vaccination fees:

 Cat FvRCP 5.00

 Dog DHLP 5.00

 Cat and dog rabies 5.00

 C. Microchip implant fees:

 Animals adopted from the

 shelter 10.00

 Non-shelter animals 25.00~~20.00~~

 Animals reclaimed from the shelter 25.00~~20.00~~

 Section 21. Section 22.904.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 89715, Section 2.010, as last amended by Ordinance 116467 Section 1) is amended to read as follows:

 22.904.040 Mobile home park license--Fee and expiration.

 It is unlawful to operate a mobile home park without a valid and subsisting mobile home park license which shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office thereof at all times. The fee for such license shall be Fifty-five Dollars ($55.00)~~Fifty Dollars ($50.00)~~, plus Twelve Dollars and Fifty Cents ($12.50) ~~Ten Dollars ($10.00)~~ per year for each mobile home lot therein in excess of ten (10). The fee for any such license issued during the last six (6) months of the license year shall be one-half (1/2) the annual fee. Mobile home park licenses shall expire at midnight July 31st of each year, and applications for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days prior to expiration.

 Section 22. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance, or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 23. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after its presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council of the City of Seattle this ______ day of ______________, 1996, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1996.

 ______________________________________

 President _________of the City Council

 Approved by me this __________ day of _________________, 1996.

 ______________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this __________ day of _________________, 1996.

 ______________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

```
