

********

**Council Bill Number: 111733**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118598**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of Seattle Transportation to enter into agreements related to Transportation Management Program reporting and monitoring enhancements, and parking management and commute trip reduction activities in the First Hill Urban Village, with the King County Department of Transportation, Washington State Transportation Center, and The Commuter Challenge; and authorizing an expenditure increase relating to said activities from the Transportation Operating Fund, specifically, carpool parking revenues; all by a three-quarters vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 27, 1997
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 4, 1997
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 4, 1997
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 19, 1997
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** TRANSPORTATION-DEMAND-MANAGEMENT, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, KING-COUNTY, GRANTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Transportation is authorized to enter into agreements (substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachments A, B, C, and D) with the King County Department of Transportation, Washington State Transportation Center, and The Commuter Challenge for a total of $109,000 (One-Hundred Nine-Thousand Dollars) for activities related to Transportation Management Program reporting and monitoring enhancements, parking management and commute trip reduction activities in the First Hill Urban Village, and to use inter-jurisdictional, collaborative partnerships to facilitate transportation demand and parking management solutions. All work described therein shall be completed on or before May 31, 1998.

 Section 2. The expenditure authority in the 1997 Budget of Seattle Transportation is hereby increased as follows:

 Program Category Objective of Expenditure Dollar Amount

 ET0/ET664 OC $109,000.00

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. The foregoing appropriations are made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient or no appropriations have been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the adoption of the 1997 Budget; Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its passage and approval, if approved by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by three-fourths vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of ____________ , 1997, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of _____________, 1997.

 ____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of ___________, 1997. _____________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1997. ______________________________________ City Clerk Attachment A.

 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

 TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT PLAN REPORTING PROJECT

 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into between King County, acting through its Department of Transportation Commute Trip Reduction (CTR) Services Section, (hereinafter called "King County") and The City of Seattle, (hereinafter call "the City") acting by and through the City's Director of Transportation (hereinafter called "SEATRAN").

 WHEREAS, King County and the City desire to reduce automobile- related air pollution, energy consumption, and traffic congestion; and

 WHEREAS, the City does not have sufficient staff available to complete the services within the time required and is desirous of engaging King County under this agreement to perform the work; and

 WHEREAS, King County has signified a willingness to perform the necessary work; and

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants, and performance contained herein, it is mutually agreed as follows:

 I. TERM OF AGREEMENT

 This agreement shall be effective May 31, 1997. All substantive work must be performed and costs incurred pursuant to this Agreement on or before May 31, 1998, and all invoices must be submitted on or before June 31, 1998, unless terminated earlier or extended pursuant to the provisions hereof. The City shall not be responsible in any way for work performed, costs incurred, or bills not submitted by the deadlines set forth above.

 II. SCOPE OF WORK

 The Scope of Work to be performed by King County on behalf of the City is specified in Attachment A, "Scope of Work," which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

 III. SCHEDULE AND REVIEWS

 The schedule for completion of work elements is specified in Attachment A, "Scope of Work," which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

 The City reserves the right to modify any draft products from King County. King County shall revise each draft product in response to the City's comments.

 IV. BUDGET

 The budget amount of Twenty-Nine Thousand and Ninety-Two Dollars ($29,092.00) (hereinafter called the "Contract Amount") is the total compensation available to King County for activities outlined in Attachment A, "Scope of Work."

 Any amendment to this Agreement will be as provided in Section VII below. The parties agree to review progress reports each quarter, and to revise the budget, scope, work, and payment schedule by amendment as necessary to conform to the level of funding available for the Project.

 V. PAYMENT

 During the term of this Agreement , King County shall submit to the City of Seattle SEATRAN Director's Office a written report describing the progress made during the immediately preceding quarter (three- month period) on the tasks specified in the Scope of Work. The report shall accompany the invoice for the same period and shall account for any differences in the status of work anticipated in the schedule and the actual status of the work. The report shall state, as applicable, transportation products and programs implemented, contacts made in the community and with employers/developers/organizations/community leaders, and work tasks anticipated for the next quarter.

 Compensation for the work performed by King County shall be payable according to the schedule and amounts set forth below. The Director of SEATRAN shall make payment within 30 days after receipt of the invoice and progress report, provided said official determines King County's performance as described in this progress report satisfies the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 INVOICE INVOICE PERIOD TOTAL COMPENSATION NUMBER EARLIEST SUBMITTAL DATE PAYABLE PER INVOICE 1 June - Aug 1997; Sept 1, 1997 $7,273.00

 2 Sept - Nov 1997; Dec 1, 1997 $7,273.00

 3 Dec 1997 - Feb 1998; Mar 1, 1998 $7,273.00

 4 Mar - May 1998; June 1, 1998 $7,273.00

 Maximum Compensation Payable: $29,092.00

 The payments set forth above shall be full compensation for work performed and/or services rendered and for all other expenses and incidentals necessary to support the work of the staff person employed to perform the tasks and produce the deliverables specified in Attachment A.

 VI. COMPLIANCE

 The City, King County, and every subcontractor engaged for work related to this Agreement shall comply with all Federal, State, and local laws applicable to the work being done under this Agreement.

 VII. AGREEMENT MODIFICATIONS AND CONTRACT EXTENSION

 Either party may request any number of changes in these provisions. Every change to this Agreement that is mutually agreed upon shall be incorporated as a written amendment to this Agreement. No variation or alteration of the terms of this Agreement shall be valid unless and until made in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 VIII. SUBCONTRACTS AND ASSIGNMENTS

 Except as expressly provided herein, neither King County nor the City shall subcontract or assign any of the rights, duties, or obligations covered by this Agreement without the prior express written consent of the other

 IX. TERMINATION

 A. The City may terminate this Agreement for any reason, including, but not limited to, for its convenience, at any time by giving notice thereof, in writing and not less than twenty (20) days prior to the effective date of termination, to King County specifying the effective termination date. If this Agreement is terminated by the City pursuant to this subsection, King County will be paid an amount equal to one-twelfth of the maximum compensation payable for each full month of work performed plus a pro rata share for any partial month of work performed, less any amounts previously paid to King County pursuant to this Agreement.

 King County agrees that the payment provided in this Section shall fully and adequately compensate the Consultant and all subcontractors for all profits, costs, expenses, losses, liabilities, damage, taxes, and charges of any kind whatsoever (whether foreseen or unforeseen) attributable to the termination of this Agreement.

 B. For Default: In the event either party fails to comply with any provision of this Agreement (a "default"), and fails to cure such default within twenty (20) days after receiving from the non- defaulting party written notice specifying such default, then the non- defaulting party immediately thereafter may terminate this Agreement by delivering written notice of such termination to the defaulting party; provided, that if the nature of the obligation is such that more than twenty (20) days are required for performance, then the party shall not be in default if it commences performance within such twenty (20) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 C. For Reasons Beyond the Control of the Parties: Either party may terminate this Agreement without recourse by the other party, where performance is rendered impossible or impracticable for reasons beyond the terminating party's reasonable control, such as but not limited to: acts of nature; war or warlike operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including strike, walkout or lockout; sabotage; or superior governmental regulation or control. In the event of termination of the Agreement as provided for in this subsection, the City shall make payment to King County through the date of termination as provided in Subsection A.

 D. Non-appropriation: In the event the City does not receive funds to pay for the work of this Agreement, the City may terminate this Agreement by providing King County written notice of termination thirty (30) days in advance of the effective date of termination. In the event of termination of this Agreement as provided in this subsection, the City shall reimburse King County all reasonable expenses and obligations incurred through the date of termination, provided that, the City shall not be obligated to pay King County any amounts in excess of the amount of funds received to pay for work under this Agreement.

 X. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

 All drawing, prints, plans, field notes, report documents, files, input materials, output materials, the media upon which they are located (including cards, tapes, discs and other storage facilities), software programs or packages (including source code or codes, object codes, upgrades, revisions, modifications and any related materials) and/or any other related documents or materials which are developed solely for, and paid for by, the City in connection with the performance of the work hereunder, shall be the property of the City. King County shall place an appropriate plaque, emblem, and/or decal thereon, including evidence of the City's ownership of such documents and/or materials. Further, at the discretion of SEATRAN, any promotional materials relating to this project, produced jointly between King County and the City, shall be published, reviewed, and printed by SEATRAN and shall bear SEATRAN's emblem.

 XI. NONDISCRIMINATION AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

 King County agrees to comply with all state and local laws prohibiting discrimination with regard to race, color, sex, marital status, secular orientation, political ideology, age, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. The following provisions of Seattle Municipal Code 20.44.040 shall be deemed to be incorporated herein:

 "During the performance of this Agreement, King County agrees as follows:

 'King County will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of creed, relation, race, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupation qualification. King County will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their creed, religion, race, color, sex, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rate of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship.

 'King County agrees to post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment notices to be provided by the Director or the City's Executive Services Department (ESD) or his/her designee (hereinafter called "ESD Director") setting forth the provisions on this nondiscrimination clause. King County will take affirmative action to ensure that all of its employees, agents and subcontractors adhere to these provisions.

 'King County will, upon request of the ESD Director furnish to the ESD Director on such form as may be provided therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by King County in implementing the terms of this provision, and will permit access to its records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the ESD Director for the purpose of investigations to determine compliance with these provisions.

 'If, upon investigation, the ESD Director determines that there is probably cause to believe that King County has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provision, King County shall be so notified in writing. SEATRAN shall give King County an opportunity to be heard, after ten days notice. If SEATRAN concurs in the findings of the ESD Director, SEATRAN my suspend of terminate this Agreement in accordance with the law. Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be material breach of this Agreement.

 'The foregoing provision shall be inserted in all subcontracts for work covered by this Agreement:"

 King County's sworn statement specifically setting forth what affirmative action King County will take to ensure equality of opportunity in employment during the term of this Agreement is attached hereto and, by this reference, is incorporated herein.

 King County shall not illegally discriminate against any employee who is paid with funds received from the City pursuant to this Agreement or against any applicant for such employment because of Vietnam era/disabled veterans status. This obligation shall extend but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading demotion, transfer, recruitment, advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training.

 XII. AUDIT

 King County, the City, the State Auditor, the State Legislature, the granting agency and any of their representatives shall have full access and the right to examine during normal business hours, all records maintained by King County, the City, and any of their subcontractors with respect to all matters covered by this Agreement. Such representatives shall be permitted to audit, examine and make excerpts or transcripts from such records, and other matters covered by this Agreement. The rights specified in this section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. King County shall include this provision in every subcontract and Agreement for consulting services entered into to implement this Agreement.

 XIII. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR

 King County shall be deemed an independent contractor for purposes of this Agreement. The employee of King County or of any of its consultants or subcontractors shall not in any manner be deemed to be employees or agents of the City.

 XIV. CONTRACT EXTENSION

 In the event that both SEATRAN and King County, each in its sole discretion, desire to extend the current Agreement, SEATRAN and King County will review King County's performance under this Agreement prior to March 31, 1998. SEATRAN and King County shall:

 1. Review implementation activities completed and associated costs of the CTR program to date; and

 2. Compare expenditures to budget, review procedures, identify issues and propose solutions.

 3. Discuss potential work activities made apparent in such review and an associated expenditure budget for any future contract period.

 King County shall assist City staff in developing and presenting a scope of work, for Phase II should the project be continued, to the City's elected officials as requested by the Director of SEATRAN. The performance of the above activities shall not obligate either party to extend this Agreement and either party may choose to not extend the Agreement at any time prior to the execution by both parties of a written amendment extending the Agreement.

 XV. INDEMNIFICATION

 King County shall indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out of or resulting from King County's negligent or willful performance or lack of performance under this Agreement. King County waives any immunity under industrial insurance, Title 51 RCW, it may have, to claims brought against it by the City in connection with this Agreement.

 No liability shall attach to King County or the City by reason of entering into this Agreement except as expressly provided herein. The indemnification provided in this section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 XVI. WAIVERS

 Nothing other than a written document signed personally by the Director of SEATRAN and specifically declaring the SEATRAN's intent to waive a particular breach or default by King County shall constitute a waiver of such breach or default. No such notice shall waive King County's failure to fully comply with any other term, condition, or provision of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any City officer, employee, or agent may have of any breach or default of, or noncompliance with, such other term, condition or provision. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of compensation for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 XVII. SEVERABILITY

 Should any clause, phrase, sentence or paragraph of this Agreement be declared invalid or void, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect if such remainder continues to conform to the terms and requirements of applicable law and the intent of this Agreement.

 XVIII. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT

 The parties hereto acknowledge that this document is a negotiated Agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this document reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of that party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS THEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year last written below

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 by ___________________________________________

 Daryl Grigsby, Director SEATRAN

 ____________________________________________

 Date

 KING COUNTY

 by ______________________________________________

 Rick Walsh, General Manager, Transit

 _______________________________________________

 Date

 Attachment A

 Scope of Work

 City of Seattle

 Transportation Management Plan Reporting

 This Scope reflects the role and responsibility of King County Metro Commute Trip Reduction (CTR) Services section in support of the City of Seattle Transportation Management Plan (TMP) Reporting project. The goal of the project is to develop consistency in reporting requirements, monitoring, and measurement methodology between TMP- affected building sites and CTR-affected employment sites. The contract and budget assume that; 1) TMP reporting methodology will be based on the established CTR methodology, tools, and process and 2) building managers that participate in new promotions will fund those costs. King County's contractual tasks are as follows:

 1. Participate on an internal project management team coordinated by SEATRAN. (On-going)

 2. Facilitate communication with building management staff at designated TMP buildings in downtown Seattle. (On-going)

 3. Develop new reporting and monitoring systems consistent with CTR requirements, process and tools. (June - September 1997)

 4. Develop a survey process consistent with CTR requirements, process and tools. (June - September 1997)

 5. Develop and implement new promotional strategies in conjunction with building management at designated TMP sites. (January, 1997 - May, 1998)

 Products:

 1. If the City decides to change TMP reporting requirements (December 31, 1997):

 A. Training in new reporting requirements and procedures for building transportation coordinators and SEATRAN Commuter Services staff

 B. Report form and database designed for monitoring TMPs

 C. Survey procedure for conducting required surveys

 2. Recommended promotional strategies for designated TMP sites. (November 30, 1997)

 3. If TMP buildings fund new promotions (January 15, 1998 - May 15, 1998):

 A. Promotional materials design

 B. Implementation of approved and funded promotions

 Budget:

 37.5% FTE of an Employer Transportation Representative May 15, 1997 - May 14, 1998 $23,873 21.858% indirect rate 5,218 Total contract cost $29,092

 Attachment B.

 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT FOR FIRST HILL

 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into between King County, acting through its Department of Transportation Commute Trip Reduction (CTR) Services Section, (hereinafter called "King County") and The City of Seattle, (hereinafter call "the City") acting by and through the City's Director of Transportation (hereinafter called "SEATRAN").

 WHEREAS, King County and the City desire to reduce automobile-related air pollution, energy consumption, and traffic congestion; and

 WHEREAS, the City does not have sufficient staff available to complete the services within the time required and is desirous of engaging King County under this agreement to perform the work; and

 WHEREAS, King County has signified a willingness to perform the necessary work; and

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants, and performance contained herein, it is mutually agreed as follows:

 I. TERM OF AGREEMENT

 This agreement shall be effective May 31, 1997. All substantive work must be performed and costs incurred pursuant to this Agreement on or before May 31, 1998, and all invoices must be submitted on or before June 31, 1998, unless terminated earlier or extended pursuant to the provisions hereof. The City shall not be responsible in any way for work performed, costs incurred, or bills not submitted by the deadlines set forth above.

 II. SCOPE OF WORK

 The Scope of Work to be performed by King County on behalf of the City is specified in Attachment A, "Scope of Work." Which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

 III. SCHEDULE AND REVIEWS

 The schedule for completion of work elements in the Scope of Work is specified in Attachment A, "Scope of Work," which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

 The City reserves the right to modify any draft products from King County. King County shall revise each draft product in response to the City's comments.

 IV. BUDGET

 The budget amount of Sixteen Thousand and Nine-Hundred-Eight Dollars ($16,908.00) (hereinafter called the "Contract Amount") is the total compensation available to King County for activities outlined in Attachment A, "Scope of Work."

 Any amendment to this Agreement will be as provided in Section VII below. The parties agree to review progress reports each quarter, and to revise the budget, scope, work, and payment schedule by amendment as necessary to conform to the level of funding available for the Project.

 V. PAYMENT

 During the term of this Agreement , King County shall submit to the City of Seattle SEATRAN Director's Office a written report describing the progress made during the immediately preceding quarter (three- month period) on the tasks specified in the Scope of Work. The report shall accompany the invoice for the same period and shall account for any differences in the status of work anticipated in the schedule and the actual status of the work. The report shall state, as applicable, transportation products and programs implemented, contacts made in the community and with employers/developers/organizations/community leaders, and work tasks anticipated for the next quarter.

 Compensation for the work performed by King County shall be payable according to the schedule and amounts set forth below. The Director of SEATRAN shall make payment within 30 days after receipt of the invoice and progress report, provided said official determines King County's performance as described in this progress report satisfies the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 INVOICE INVOICE PERIOD TOTAL COMPENSATION NUMBER EARLIEST SUBMITTAL DATE PAYABLE PER INVOICE

 1 June - Aug 1997; Sept 1, 1997 $4,227.00 2 Sept - Nov 1997; Dec 1, 1997 $4,227.00 3 Dec 1997 - Feb 1998; Mar 1, 1998 $4,227.00 4 Mar - May 1998; June 1, 1998 $4,227.00 Maximum Compensation Payable: $16,908.00

 The payments set forth above shall be full compensation for work performed and/or services rendered and for all other expenses and incidentals necessary to support the work of the staff person employed to perform the tasks and produce the deliverables specified in Attachment A.

 VI. COMPLIANCE

 The City, King County, and every subcontractor engaged for work related to this Agreement shall comply with all Federal, State, and local laws applicable to the work being done under this Agreement.

 VII. AGREEMENT MODIFICATIONS AND CONTRACT EXTENSION

 Either party may request any number of changes in these provisions. Every change to this Agreement that is mutually agreed upon shall be incorporated as a written amendment to this Agreement. No variation or alteration of the terms of this Agreement shall be valid unless and until made in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 VIII. SUBCONTRACTS AND ASSIGNMENTS

 Except as expressly provided herein, neither King County nor the City shall subcontract or assign any of the rights, duties, or obligations covered by this Agreement without the prior express written consent of the other.

 IX. TERMINATION

 A. The City may terminate this Agreement for any reason, including, but not limited to, for its convenience, at any time by giving notice thereof, in writing and not less than twenty (20) days prior to the effective date of termination, to King County specifying the effective termination date. If this Agreement is terminated by the City pursuant to this subsection, King County will be paid an amount equal to one-twelfth of the maximum compensation payable for each full month of work performed plus a pro rata share for any partial month of work performed, less any amounts previously paid to King County pursuant to this Agreement.

 King County agrees that the payment provided in this Section shall fully and adequately compensate the Consultant and all subcontractors terminate this Agreement without recourse by the other party, where performance is rendered impossible or impracticable for reasons beyond the terminating party's reasonable control, such as but not limited to: acts of nature; war or warlike operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including strike, walkout or lockout; sabotage; or superior governmental regulation or control. In the event of termination of the Agreement as provided for in this subsection, the City shall make payment to King County through the date of termination as provided in Subsection A.

 D. Non-appropriation: In the event the City does not receive funds to pay for the work of this Agreement, the City may terminate this Agreement by providing King County written notice of termination thirty (30) days in advance of the effective date of termination. In the event of termination of this Agreement as provided in this subsection, the City shall reimburse King County all reasonable expenses and obligations incurred through the date of termination, provided that, the City shall not be obligated to pay King County any amounts in excess of the amount of funds received to pay for work under this Agreement.

 X. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

 All drawing, prints, plans, field notes, report documents, files, input materials, output materials, the media upon which they are subsection, the City shall reimburse King County all reasonable expenses and obligations incurred through the date of termination, provided that, the City shall not be obligated to pay King County any amounts in excess of the amount of funds received to pay for work under this Agreement.

 X. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

 All drawing, prints, plans, field notes, report documents, files, input materials, output materials, the media upon which they are subsection, the City shall reimburse King County all reasonable expenses and obligations incurred through the date of termination, provided that, the City shall not be obligated to pay King County any amounts in excess of the amount of funds received to pay for work under this Agreement.

 X. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

 All drawing, prints, plans, field notes, report documents, files, input materials, output materials, the media upon which they are located (including cards, tapes, discs and other storage facilities), software programs or packages (including source code or codes, object codes, upgrades, revisions, modifications and any related materials) and/or any other related documents or materials which are developed solely for, and paid for by, the City in connection with the performance of the work hereunder, shall be the property of the City. King County shall place an appropriate plaque, emblem, and/or decal thereon, including evidence of the City's ownership of such documents and/or materials. Further, at the discretion of SEATRAN, any promotional materials relating to this project, produced jointly between King County and the City, shall be published, reviewed, and printed by SEATRAN and shall bear SEATRAN's emblem.

 XI. NONDISCRIMINATION AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

 King County agrees to comply with all state and local laws prohibiting discrimination with regard to race, color, sex, marital status, secular orientation, political ideology, age, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. The following provisions of Seattle Municipal Code 20.44.040 shall be deemed to be incorporated herein:

 " During the performance of this Agreement, King County agrees as follows:

 'King County will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of creed, relation, race, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupation qualification. King County will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their creed, religion, race, color, sex, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rate of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship.

 'King County agrees to post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment notices to be provided by the Director or the City's Executive Services Department (ESD) or his/her designee (hereinafter called "ESD Director") setting forth the provisions on this nondiscrimination clause. King County will take affirmative action to ensure that all of its employees, agents and subcontractors adhere to these provisions.

 'King County will, upon request of the ESD Director furnish to the ESD Director on such form as may be provided therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by King County in implementing the terms of this provision, and will permit access to its records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the ESD Director for the purpose of investigations to determine compliance with these provisions.

 'If, upon investigation, the ESD Director determines that there is probably cause to believe that King County has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provision, King County shall be so notified in writing. SEATRAN shall give King County an opportunity to be heard, after ten days notice. If SEATRAN concurs in the findings of the ESD Director, SEATRAN my suspend of terminate this Agreement in accordance with the law. Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be material breach of this Agreement.

 'The foregoing provision shall be inserted in all subcontracts for work covered by this Agreement:"

 King County's sworn statement specifically setting forth what affirmative action King County will take to ensure equality of opportunity in employment during the term of this Agreement is attached hereto and, by this reference, is incorporated herein.

 King County shall not illegally discriminate against any employee who is paid with funds received from the City pursuant to this Agreement or against any applicant for such employment because of Vietnam era/disabled veterans status. This obligation shall extend but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading demotion, transfer, recruitment, advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training.

 XII. AUDIT

 King County, the City, the State Auditor, the State Legislature, the granting agency and any of their representatives shall have full access and the right to examine during normal business hours, all records maintained by King County, the City, and any of their subcontractors with respect to all matters covered by this Agreement. Such representatives shall be permitted to audit, examine and make excerpts or transcripts from such records, and other matters covered by this Agreement. The rights specified in this section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. King County shall include this provision in every subcontract and Agreement for consulting services entered into to implement this Agreement.

 XIII. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR

 King County shall be deemed an independent contractor for purposes of this Agreement. The employee of King County or of any of its consultants or subcontractors shall not in any manner be deemed to be employees or agents of the City.

 XIV. CONTRACT EXTENSION

 In the event that both SEATRAN and King County, each in its sole discretion, desire to extend the current Agreement, SEATRAN and King County will review King County's performance under this Agreement prior to March 31, 1998. SEATRAN and King County shall:

 1. Review implementation activities completed and associated costs of the CTR program to date; and

 2. Compare expenditures to budget, review procedures, identify issues and propose solutions.

 3. Discuss potential work activities made apparent in such review and an associated expenditure budget for any future contract period.

 King County shall assist City staff in developing and presenting a scope of work for Year 2, should the project be continued, to the City's elected officials as requested by the Director of SEATRAN. The performance of the above activities shall not obligate either party to extend this Agreement and either party may choose to not extend the Agreement at any time prior to the execution by both parties of a written amendment extending the Agreement.

 XV. INDEMNIFICATION

 King County shall indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out of or resulting from King County's negligent or willful performance or lack of performance under this Agreement. King County waives any immunity under industrial insurance, Title 51 RCW, it may have, to claims brought against it by the City in connection with this Agreement.

 No liability shall attach to King County or the City by reason of entering into this Agreement except as expressly provided herein. The indemnification provided in this section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 XVI. WAIVERS

 Nothing other than a written document signed personally by the Director of SEATRAN and specifically declaring the SEATRAN's intent to waive a particular breach or default by King County shall constitute a waiver of such breach or default. No such notice shall waive King County's failure to fully comply with any other term, condition, or provision of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any City officer, employee, or agent may have of any breach or default of, or noncompliance with, such other term, condition or provision. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of compensation for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 XVII. SEVERABILITY

 Should any clause, phrase, sentence or paragraph of this Agreement be declared invalid or void, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect if such remainder continues to conform to the terms and requirements of applicable law and the intent of this Agreement.

 XVIII. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT

 The parties hereto acknowledge that this document is a negotiated Agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this document reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of that party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS THEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year last written below

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 by ___________________________________________ Daryl Grigsby, Director SEATRAN ____________________________________________ Date

 KING COUNTY by ______________________________________________ Rick Walsh, General Manager, Transit _______________________________________________ Date

 Attachment A Scope of Work City of Seattle

 Transportation Demand Management for First Hill

 This Scope reflects the role and responsibility of King County Metro Commute Trip Reduction (CTR) Services section in support of the City of Seattle's Transportation Demand Management (TDM) project. The goal of the project is to implement community based transportation demand management strategies to mitigate traffic problems in the First Hill Urban Village. The purpose of King County's involvement is to facilitate employer involvement in the neighborhood planning process. King County's contractual tasks are as follows:

 1. Participate on a project management team coordinated by SEATRAN.

 2. Facilitate communication about the project with small employers who are not affected by the CTR law.

 3. Coordinate communication about and involvement in the project with other interested King County staff including Market Development, Service Implementation and Rideshare Operations.

 Products:

 1. Communication plan for small businesses identified by the City and by the community planning group. Implement the plan approved by the City in support of the project as a whole. (June 1997 through May 15, 1998)

 2. Focus-group support consisting of identification and recruitment of unaffected businesses for participation in planned focus groups. (October 1997)

 3. Summarized information about King County transit and partnership plans for First Hill.

 (June 1997 and on-going)

 4. Program information from CTR-affected employment sites in the First Hill area. (July, 1997)

 Budget:

 12.5% FTE for an Employer Transportation Representative May 15, 1997 - May 14, 1998 $13, 875 21.858% indirect rate 3,033 Total contract costs $16, 908

 Attachment D. MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT PLAN REPORTING PROJECT

 I. Purpose

 The purpose of this Memorandum of Agreement is to provide a contract between Seattle Transportation (SEATRAN) and The Economic Development Council of Seattle and King County, herein also referred to as "The EDC," to participate in the Commuter Challenge program. SEATRAN shall contribute a total of $50,000 cash to The EDC for the purpose of planning, organizing, and carrying out the program, and an additional $28,000 in in-kind services in support of this campaign. SEATRAN understands that the Puget Sound Air Pollution Control Agency, the Washington State Department of Transportation, King County and the cities of Algona, Auburn, Bellevue, Bothell, Burien, Enumclaw, Federal Way, Issaquah, Kent, Kirkland, Mercer Island, Redmond, Renton, Sea- Tac, Tukwila, and Woodinville are also participating in funding this program. Other local governments and organizations may also participate in the Commuter Challenge program but will not be a party to this agreement.

 Program Goals:

 xpenditure Build leadership among employers to become partners in reducing single occupant vehicle (SOV) commuting and vehicle mile traveled (VMT) by commuters.

 xpenditure Facilitate and foster on-going communication among the public and private sectors about transportation demand management issues.

 II. Responsibilities

 A. The EDC shall act as the lead agency for the program.

 B. SEATRAN shall provide a $50,000 cash contribution for the period May 31, 1997 through May 31, 1998 to The EDC for the program. The money shall be used for staffing, supplies, and/or marketing, promotional, or educational activities involved in organizing and carrying out the Commuter Challenge program for the stated period. In addition to the cash contribution, SEATRAN will contribute $28,000 in in-kind services. These services will include: Steering Committee participation at monthly committee and sub-committee meetings; writing, editing and graphic design tasks; and printing services.

 C. Each party to the agreement agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other party, its officers, agents and employees for all claims (including demands, suits, penalties, losses, damages, or costs of any kind whatsoever) to the extent such claim arises or is caused by the indemnifying party's negligence or that of its officers, agents, or employees in performance of this agreement.

 D. The EDC, in doing business with SEATRAN, or furnishing workers or services in connection herewith, shall not discriminate against any person on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age, nationality, marital status, sexual orientation, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap in an otherwise qualified handicapped person in employment, and The EDC shall not violate any of the terms of RCW chapter 49.60, Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, or any other applicable federal, state or local law or regulation regarding nondiscrimination in employment.

 III. Effective Date

 The undersigned, the successors and assigned, hereby acknowledge, agree and accept the provisions and stipulations as set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.

 This Agreement shall be effective upon authorized signature of each of the parties and shall terminate on May 31, 1998, unless amended. The Memorandum of Agreement may be amended or terminated by written agreement from both parties.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE by ___________________________________________ Daryl Grigsby, Director SEATRAN Date

 THE EDC OF SEATTLE AND KING COUNTY by ______________________________________________ Chairman _______________________________________________ Date

 Attachment A

 1997/1998 Commuter Challenge Program Activities

 Transportation Management Plan Reporting

 The Commuter Challenge

 The Commuter Challenge program works to build leadership among King County employers to reduce commute trips to worksites. The program also facilitates and fosters communication between government and business on transportation demand management (TDM) issues.

 Through this agreement, the following activities will be funded in 1997/1998:

 Employer Recognition ($50,000)

 Recognize CTR-affected and non-affected employers with exemplary trip reduction programs through a year-long campaign and regional recognition event. Using professional counsel, the Commuter Challenge program will provide the following recognition activities:

 Conduct the Diamond Award ceremony mid-January which is attended by top management and staff from winning organizations

 Use a variety of media to recognize up to 15 King County employers as Diamond Award winners and approximately 150 Pacesetters each year

 Place advertisements in newspaper, radio, direct mail, transit and regional magazines congratulating the winners for their commitment and success at reducing employee commute trips

 This contribution will be leveraged with the following other program activities:

 Employer Education

 Since 1989, the Commuter Challenge has presented a number of educational and interactive workshops for employers, coordinated opportunities for employers to present their views and shape public policy, and provide TDM information to employers through a newsletter and other printed materials. Through this agreement, the Commuter Challenge will provide the following educational opportunities for employers in the Seattle and greater King County area:

 Determining How to Promote Trip Reduction in the High Tech Industries

 The high-tech industry (an umbrella term which applies to electronics and bio-technology, among others) is a difficult one to convince that reducing commute trips makes "good business sense." They are different from most other more traditional industries because they tend to ask their employees to work very long hours, which makes transit use or ridesharing more difficult.

 The successful ones can experience very rapid growth, which is difficult to accommodate with traditional transit service because of the time required to plan and implement service. Also, high-tech companies that achieve success tend to locate in campus-like or re- developed urban settings with abundant no-cost parking.

 Under the terms of this agreement, the Commuter Challenge will explore the uniqueness of this industry and how best to serve it with commute trip reduction products and services. The resulting product could be shared state-wide.

 The proposed activity is a series of facilitated round-table discussions and telephone interviews with high tech industry representatives located in Seattle and King County. The proposed product is a summary report.

 RSE: rse May 15, 1997 111733.DOC (Ver. ) RSErse

```
