

********

**Council Bill Number: 111765**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118672**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and environmental protection; amending Chapter 23.44 and Sections 23.41.008, 23.44.036, 23.44.041, 23.45.106, 23.47.004, 23.47.006, 23.49.008, 23.49.042, 23.49.046, 23.49.060, 23.49.066, 23.49.090, 23.49.096, 23.49.116, 23.49.122, 23.49.142, 23.49.148, 23.49.318, 23.49.324. 23.49.336, 23.50.012, 23.76.004, 23.76.011, 23.76.012, 23.76.036, 23.76.052, 23.76.058, 23.76.062, 23.76.064, 23.78.006, 23.79.006, 23.84.024, 23.84.025, and 23.84.036, and repealing Section 23.66.132 of the Seattle Municipal Code (title 23, Land Use Code); and amending Section 25.09.080 (Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas) of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 4, 1997
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 7, 1997
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 7, 1997
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 9, 1997
   
**Committee:** Parks, Public Grounds and Recreation
   
**Sponsor:** DONALDSON
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, LAND-USE-PERMITS, DESIGN-REVIEW, CITY-COUNCIL, FACILITIES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 118012, 117430, 118472, 117432, 116295, 116907, 118216, 116909, 118181, 115002, 112522, 110381, 112539, 117929, 118409, 116976

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and environmental protection; amending Chapter 23.44 and Sections 23.41.008, 23.44.036, 23.44.041, 23.45.106, 23.47.004, 23.47.006, 23.49.008, 23.49.042, 23.49.046, 23.49.060, 23.49.066, 23.49.090, 23.49.096, 23.49.116, 23.49.122, 23.49.142, 23.49.148, 23.49.318, 23.49.324, 23.49.336, 23.50.012, 23.76.004, 23.76.011, 23.76.012, 23.76.036, 23.76.052, 23.76.058, 23.76.062, 23.76.064, 23.78.006, 23.79.006, 23.84.024, 23.84.025, and 23.84.036, and repealing Section 23.66.132 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Title 23, Land Use Code); and amending Section 25.09.080 (Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas) of the Seattle Municipal Code. NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection D of Section 23.41.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 23.41.008 Design Review Board.

 * * *

 D. Meetings of the Design Review Board.

 1. Project-specific pre-design public meetings shall be held as required in Section 23.41.014B, at a location in the same general neighborhood as the proposed project.  As described in Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, the Director shall provide Mmailed notice , and ~~placards~~the applicant shall post one (1) land use sign visible to the public at each street frontage abutting the site except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall require either more than one (1) sign and/or an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public~~for the pre-design public meeting shall be provided as described in Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions~~. The land use sign may be removed by the applicant the day after the public meeting.

2. Regularly scheduled meetings of the Design Review Board shall be held in the evening in a location which is accessible and conveniently located in the area of the city to which the Board is assigned. Public notice for the regularly scheduled Design Review Board meetings shall be posted in the Department and published in the General Mailed Release.

 3. All meetings of the Design Review Board are open to the general public, and the actions of the Board are not quasi-judicial in nature.

 Section 2. The title of Part 3 of Chapter 23.44 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 Part 3 Public ~~Projects and City~~ Facilities

 Section 3. Section 23.44.036 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 23.44.036 ~~Council approval of p~~Public ~~projects and City~~ facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsections B, D and E below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as an administrative conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright or as an administrative conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards and administrative conditional use criteria that govern the similar use. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or administrative conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

~~A~~B. Permitted Uses in Public ~~Projects and City~~ Facilities Requiring City Council Approval. The ~~establishment or expansion of the~~ following ~~public~~ uses in public facilities in single-family zones may be permitted by the  City Council, according to the ~~procedures for approving public projects and City facilities provided in~~provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions~~.~~:

 1. Police precinct station;

 2. Fire station;

 3. Public boat moorage;

 4. Utility services use; and

 5. Other similar uses.

 The proponent of any such use shall demonstrate the existence of a public necessity for ~~location or expansion of~~ the public facility use in a single-family zone. The public facility use shall be developed according to the development standards for institutions (Section 23.44.022), unless the City Council makes a determination to waive or modify applicable development standards according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi- judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.  C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

~~B~~D.Sewage Treatment Plants. The expansion or reconfiguration (which term shall include reconstruction, redevelopment, relocation on the site, or intensification of treatment capacity) of existing sewage treatment plants in single-family zones may be permitted if there is no feasible alternative location in a zone where the use is permitted and the conditions imposed under subsections ~~B~~D3 and ~~B~~D4 are met.

 1. Applicable Procedures. The decision on an application for the expansion or reconfiguration of a sewage treatment plant shall be a Type IV Council land use decision. If an application for an early determination of feasibility is required to be filed pursuant to subsection ~~B~~D2 of this section, the early determination of feasibility will also be a Council land use decision subject to Sections 23.76.038 through 23.76.056.

 2. Need for Feasible Alternative Determination. The proponent shall demonstrate that there is no feasible alternative location in a zone where establishment of the use is permitted.

 a. The Council's decision as to the feasibility of alternative location(s) shall be based upon the Single-Family Policies and a full consideration of the environmental, social and economic impacts on the community.

 b. The determination of feasibility may be the subject of a separate application for a Council land use decision prior to submission of an application for a project-specific approval if the Director determines that the expansion or reconfiguration proposal is complex, involves the phasing of programmatic and project-specific decisions or affects more than one site in a single-family zone.

 c. Application for an early determination of feasibility shall include:

 (1) The scope and intent of the proposed project in the single-family zone and appropriate alternative(s) in zones where establishment of the use is permitted, identified by the applicant or the Director;

 (2) The necessary environmental documentation as determined by the Director, including an assessment of the impacts of the proposed project and of the permitted-zone alternative(s), according to the state and local SEPA Guidelines;

 (3) Information on the overall sewage treatment system which outlines the interrelationship of facilities in single-family zones and in zones where establishment of the use is permitted;

 (4) Schematic plans outlining dimensions, elevations, locations on site and similar specifications for the proposed project and for the alternative(s).

 d. If a proposal or any portion of a proposal is also subject to a feasible or reasonable alternative location determination under Section 23.60.066 of Title 23, the Plan Shoreline Permit application and the early determination application will be considered in one determination process.

 3. Conditions for Approval of Proposal.

 a. The project shall be located so that adverse impacts on residential areas shall be minimized;

 b. A facility management and transportation plan shall be required. The level and kind of detail to be disclosed in the plan shall be based on the probable impacts and/or scale of the proposed facility, and shall at a minimum include discussion of sludge transportation, noise control, and hours of operation;

 c. Measures to minimize potential odor emission and airborne pollutants including methane shall meet standards of and be consistent with best available technology as determined in consultation with the Puget Sound Air Pollution Control Agency (PSAPCA), and shall be incorporated into the design and operation of the facility;

 d. Methods of storing and transporting chlorine and other hazardous and potentially hazardous chemicals shall be determined in consultation with the Seattle Fire Department and incorporated into the design and operation of the facility;

 e. Vehicular access suitable for trucks is available or provided from the plant to a designated arterial improved to City standards;

 f. Landscaping and screening, separation from less intensive zones, noise, light and glare controls, and other measures to ensure the compatibility of the use with the surrounding area and to mitigate adverse impacts shall be incorporated into the design and operation of the facility.

 4. Substantial Conformance. If the application for a project-specific proposal is submitted after an early determination that location of the sewage treatment plant is not feasible in a zone where establishment of the use is permitted, the proposed project must be in substantial conformance with the feasibility determination.

 Substantial conformance shall include, but not be limited to, a determination that:

 a. There is no net substantial increase in the environmental impacts of the project-specific proposal as compared to the impacts of the proposal as approved in the feasibility determination.

 b. Conditions included in the feasibility determination are met.

~~C. Development Standards. Public projects and City facilities shall be developed according to the development standards applicable to institutions, Section 23.44.022, unless the Council determines that a particular standard must be waived or changed.~~

~~D. Uses Accessory to a Public Project or City Facility. Any use permitted elsewhere in this chapter as accessory to a principal use permitted outright or as an administrative conditional use is also permitted as an accessory use to a public project or City facility unless otherwise specified in this subtitle.~~

 E. Prohibited Uses. The following public ~~projects and City~~ facilities are prohibited in single-family zones:

 1. Jails;

 2. Metro operating bases;

 3. Park and ride lots;

 4. Establishment of new sewage treatment plants;

 5. Solid waste transfer stations;

 6. Animal control shelters;

 7. Post Office distribution centers; and

 8. Work-release centers~~;~~.

~~9. Other similar uses.~~

 * * *

 Section 4. Subsection D of Section 23.44.041 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118472, is amended as follows:

 23.44.041 Accessory dwelling units.

 * * *

 D. Notice of Application for an Accessory Housing Unit. The Director shall provide notice of the application of a permit for an accessory housing unit by general mailed release, and the applicant shall ~~by posting four (4) placards~~post one (1) land use sign visible to the public at each street frontage abutting ~~near~~ the site except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall require either more than one (1) sign and/or an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public.~~or when possible~~Additional notice may be provided by door to door delivery to properties within two hundred feet (200') of the site. The notice shall state the criteria the proposed unit must meet in order for a permit to be granted and that the DCLU decision is non-appealable, and shall explain how to obtain general information and how to report non- compliance with the criteria before and after the permit is issued. The land use sign may be removed by the applicant within fourteen (14) days after final action on the application has been completed.

 * * *

 Section 5. Section 23.45.106 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, are amended as follows:

 23.45.106 Public ~~projects and City~~ facilities.

A. Except as provided in subsections B, E, F, and G below, uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as an administrative conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright or as an administrative conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, and administrative conditional use criteria that govern the similar use. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or administrative conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

~~A~~B. Other Permitted Uses in Public Facilities Requiring City Council Approval. The ~~location or expansion of the~~ following uses in public ~~projects and City facilities~~facilities shall be permitted outright in all multi-family zones, ~~if all of~~when the development standards for institutions (Sections 23.45.092 through 23.45.102) are met:

 1. Police precinct stations;

 2. Fire stations;

 3. Public boat moorages;

 4. Utility service uses; and

 5. Other similar uses.

 If the proposed public facility use does not meet the development standards for institutions, the City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

~~B. If the proposed public facility does not meet the development standards for institutions, it may be permitted by the Council, according to the procedures for public projects and City facilities provided in Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions. The Council may waive or change development standards.~~

C. In all multifamily zones, uses in public facilities not meeting development standards may be permitted by the Council if the following criteria are satisfied:  1. The project provides unique services which are not provided to the community by the private sector, such as police and fire stations; and

 2. The proposed location is required to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 3. The waiver or modification to the development standards is necessary to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 4. The relationship of the project to the surrounding area has been considered in the design, siting, landscaping and screening of the facility.

D. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.  1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

~~C~~E.The following public ~~projects or City~~ facilities shall be prohibited in all multi-family zones:

 1. Jails;

 2. Work-release centers;

 3. METRO operating bases;

 4. Park and Ride lots;

 5. Sewage treatment plants;

 6. Solid waste transfer stations;

 7. Animal control shelters; and

 8. Post office distribution centers~~;~~.

~~9. Other similar uses.~~

~~D~~F.Specific Development Standards for Public Facilities.

 1. Sale and consumption of beer during daylight hours on public park premises shall be permitted in a building or within fifty feet (50') of the building on an adjoining terrace; provided, that such use shall be in a completely enclosed building or enclosed portion of building when within one hundred feet (100') of any lot in a residential zone.

 2. Sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages under a Class H liquor license on municipal golf course premises during the established hours of operation of the golf course shall be permitted in a building or within fifty feet (50') of the building on an adjoining terrace, provided, that such use shall be in a completely enclosed building or enclosed portion of building when within one hundred feet (100') of any lot in a residential zone.

~~E. Uses Accessory to a Public Project or City Facility. Any use permitted elsewhere in this chapter as accessory to a principal use permitted outright or as an administrative conditional use is also permitted as an accessory use to a public project or City facility unless otherwise specified in this chapter.~~

~~F~~G.Convention Center. The location or expansion of a public convention center may be permitted in the Highrise Zone ~~with~~througha Type IV Council ~~approval~~land use decision. The following shall be considered in evaluating and approving, conditioning or denying public convention center proposals:

 1. In making its decision, the Council shall determine whether the facility serves the public interest. This determination shall be based on an evaluation of the public benefits and the adverse impacts of the facility. The Council shall approve the facility only if it finds that public benefits outweigh the adverse impacts of the facility which cannot otherwise be mitigated.

 2. In evaluating the public benefits and adverse impacts of a proposed convention center, the Council shall consider, but is not limited to, the following factors:

 a. Economic impacts including, but not limited to, the net fiscal impacts on the State of Washington and City of Seattle, increased employment opportunities, demand for new development and increased tourism in the City and state;

 b. Public amenities incorporated in the project including, but not limited to, open spaces accessible to the public and improved pedestrian circulation systems;

 c. The relationship of the project to its surroundings with respect to height, bulk, scale, massing, landscaping, aesthetics, view enhancement or blockage, shadows and glare;

 d. Impacts of the facility on traffic, parking, street systems, transit and pedestrian circulation;

 e. Impacts of the facility on existing residential development in the vicinity of the project, including but not limited to direct and indirect housing loss;

 f. Impacts of the facility on local governmental services and operations, including, but not limited to police and fire protection, and water, sewer and electric utilities;

 g. Impacts of the facility relative to noise and air quality;

 h. Cumulative impacts of the project on governmental services and facilities, natural systems, or the surrounding area, considering the project's impacts in aggregate with the impacts of prior development and the impacts of future development which may be induced by the project;

 i. Additional information as the Council deems necessary to fully evaluate the proposal.

 3. If the Council approves a convention center, it may attach conditions to its approval as necessary to protect the public interest or to mitigate adverse impacts. Conditions required by the Council may include, but are not limited to, landscaping, screening or other design amenities; parking facilities adequate to accommodate potential parking demands; a traffic management plan; measures to mitigate housing loss; and measures to reduce energy consumption.

~~G~~H.Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 6. Subsection E of Section 23.47.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118472, is amended as follows:

 23.47.004 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 * * *

 E. Public Facilities.

 1. ~~Public facilities which are similar to those provided by the private sector, such as offices, athletic facilities or medical service uses, shall be permitted or prohibited in all commercial zones according to the use regulations for the particular type of use. These public facilities shall meet the development standards for the use to which they are similar. If the development standards cannot be met, the City Council may waive or change the standards for reasons of public necessity, according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.~~Except as provided in subsection E2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright or as a conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. ~~Public facilities which are not similar to those provided by the private sector, such as police and fire statiions, shall be permitted unless specifically prohibited in Chart A. These public facilities shall meet the development standards of the zone in which they are located. If the development standards cannot be met, the City Council may waive or change the standards for reasons of public necessity, according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Actions.~~ Other Permitted Uses in Public Facilities Requiring City Council Approval. Unless specifically prohibited in Chart A, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter may be permitted by the City Council. Uses in public facilities shall meet the development standards of the zone in which they are located. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

3. In all commercial zones, uses in public facilities not meeting development standards may be permitted by the Council if the following criteria are satisfied:  a. The project provides unique services which are not provided to the community by the private sector, such as police and fire stations; and

 b. The proposed location is required to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 c. The waiver or modification to the development standards is necessary to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 d. The relationship of the project to the surrounding area has been considered in the design, siting, landscaping and screening of the facility.

 4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 a. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections E1 and E2 above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections E1 and E2 above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

~~3~~5. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 7. Subsection C of Section 23.47.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117432, is amended as follows:

 23.47.006 Conditional uses.

 * * *

 C. The following uses, identified as Council Conditional Uses on Chart A of Section 23.47.004, may be permitted by the Council when the provisions of this subsection and subsection A are met.

 1. New bus bases for one hundred and fifty (150) or fewer buses, or existing bus bases which are proposed to be expanded to accommodate additional buses, in C1 or C2 zones.

 a. Conditional Use Criteria.

 (1) The bus base has vehicular access suitable for use by buses to a designated arterial improved to City standards; and

 (2) The lot is of sufficient size so that the bus base includes adequate buffer space from the surrounding area.

 b. Mitigating measures may include, but are not limited to:

 (1) Noise mitigation measures, such as keeping maintenance building doors closed except when buses are entering or exiting; acoustic barriers; and noise-reducing operating procedures, shall be required when necessary.

 (2) An employee ridesharing program established and promoted to reduce the impact of employee vehicles on streets in the vicinity of the bus base.

 (3) Landscaping and screening, noise and odor mitigation, vehicular access controls, and other measures may be required to insure the compatibility of the bus base with the surrounding area and to mitigate any adverse impacts.

 2. Helistops in NC3, C1 and C2 zones as accessory uses, according to the following standards and criteria:

 a. The helistop is to be used for the takeoff and landing of helicopters serving public safety, news gathering or emergency medical care functions; is part of a City and regional transportation plan approved by the City Council and is a public facility; or is part of a City and regional transportation plan approved by the City Council and is not within two thousand feet (2,000') of a residential zone.

 b. The helistop is located so as to minimize impacts on surrounding areas.

 c. The lot is of sufficient size that the operations of the helistop are buffered from the surrounding area.

 d. Open areas and landing pads are hard-surfaced.

 e. The helistop meets all federal requirements, including those for safety, glide angles and approach lanes.

~~3. In all commercial zones, permitted public projects not meeting development standards may be permitted by the Council if the following criteria are satisfied:~~a. The project provides unique services which are not provided to the community by the private sector, such as police and fire stations; and

 b. The proposed location is required to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 c. The waiver or modification to the development standards is necessary to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 d. The relationship of the project to the surrounding area has been considered in the design, siting, landscaping and screening of the facility.

~~~~~~4~~3. Work-Release Centers in all Commercial Zones -- Conditional Use Criteria.

 a. Maximum Number of Residents. No work-release center shall house more than fifty (50) persons, excluding resident staff.

 b. If the work-release center is in a single-purpose residential structure, the requirements of Section 23.47.023 shall be followed. If the work-release center is in a mixed-use structure, the requirements for mixed-use structures in Chapter 23.47 shall be followed.

 c. Dispersion Criteria.

 (1) The lot line of any new or expanding work-release center shall be located six hundred feet (600') or more from any residential zone, any lot line of any special residence, and any lot line of any school.

 (2) The lot line of any new or expanding work-release center shall be located one mile or more from any lot line of any other work-release center.

 (3) The Director shall determine whether a proposed facility meets the dispersion criteria from maps which shall note the location of current work-release centers and special residences. Any person who disputes the accuracy of the maps may furnish the Director with the new information and, if determined by the Director to be accurate, this information shall be used in processing the application.

 d. The Council's decision shall be based on the Commercial Areas Policies and the following criteria:

 (1) The extent to which the applicant can demonstrate the need for the new or expanding facility in the City, including a statement describing the public interest in establishing or expanding the facility;

 (2) The extent to which the applicant has demonstrated that the facility can be made secure. The applicant shall submit a proposed security plan to the Director, and the Director, in consultation with the Seattle Police Department, shall consider and evaluate the plan. The security plan shall address, but is not limited to, the following:

 i. Plans to monitor and control the activities of residents, including methods to verify the presence of residents at jobs or training programs, policies on sign-outs for time periods consistent with the stated purpose of the absence for unescorted trips by residents away from the center, methods of checking the records of persons sponsoring outings for work-release residents, and policies on penalties for drug or alcohol use by residents, and

 ii. Staff numbers, level of responsibilities, and scheduling, and

 iii. Compliance with the security standards of the American Corrections Association;

 (3) The extent to which proposed lighting is located so as to minimize spillover light on surrounding properties while maintaining appropriate intensity and hours of use to ensure that security is maintained;

 (4) The extent to which the facility's landscape plan meets the requirements of the zone while allowing visual supervision of the residents of the facility;

 (5) The extent to which appropriate measures are taken to minimize noise impacts on surrounding properties. Measures to be used for this purpose may include: landscaping, sound barriers or fences, berms, location of refuse storage areas, and limiting the hours of use of certain areas;

 (6) The extent to which the impacts of traffic and parking are mitigated by increasing on-site parking or loading spaces to reduce overflow vehicles or changing the access to and location of off-street parking;

 (7) The extent to which the facility is well-served by public transportation or to which the facility is committed to a program of encouraging the use of public or private mass transportation;

 (8) Verification from the Department of Corrections (DOC), which shall be reviewed by the Police Department, that the proposed work- release center meets DOC standards for such facilities and that the facility will meet state laws and requirements.

 * * *

 Section 8. Subsection C of Section 23.49.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.49.008 Structure height.

 * * *

 C. Rooftop Features.

 1. Open railings, planters, cle~~a~~restories, skylights, play equipment, parapets and firewalls may extend up to four feet (4') above the maximum height limit with unlimited rooftop coverage.

 2. Solar collectors may extend up to seven feet (7') above the maximum height limit with unlimited rooftop coverage.

 3. The following rooftop features may extend up to fifteen feet (15') above the maximum height limit, as long as the combined coverage of all features listed in this subsection does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the roof area, or twenty-five percent (25%) if the total includes stair or elevator penthouses or screened mechanical equipment:

 a. Solar collectors;

 b. Stair and elevator penthouses;

 c. Mechanical equipment; and

 d. Play equipment and open-mesh fencing, as long as the fencing is at least fifteen feet (15') from the roof edge.

 4. ~~Radio and television receiving~~Major or minor communication utilities; religious symbols ~~such as belfries or spires,~~ and that portion of the roof which supports them, such as belfries or spires; smokestacks; and flagpoles may extend up to fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure on which they are located or fifty feet (50') above the maximum height limit, whichever is less, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport Height District. They shall be located a minimum of ten feet (10') from all lot lines.

 5. ~~Council~~Administrative Conditional Use for Rooftop Features. The rooftop features listed in subsection C4 may exceed a height of fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure on which they are located if authorized by the Director through an~~Council~~Administrative Conditional Use, Chapter 23.76. The request for additional height shall be evaluated on the basis of public benefits provided, the possible impacts of the additional height, consistency with the City's land use policies, and the following specific criteria:

 a. The feature shall be compatible with and not adversely affect the downtown skyline.

 b. The feature shall not have a significant adverse effect upon the light, air, solar and visual access of properties within a three- hundred-foot (300') radius.

 c. The feature, supporting structure and structure below shall be compatible in design elements such as bulk, profile, color and materials.

 d. The feature shall not adversely affect the function of existing transmission or receiving equipment within a five (5) mile radius.

 e. The increased size is necessary for the successful physical function of the feature, except for religious symbols.

 Section 9. Subsection C of Section 23.49.042 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 Section 23.49.042 Downtown Office Core 1, permitted uses.

 * * *

 C. Public Facilities.

1. Except as provided in subsection 23.49.046.D.2, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright subject to the same use regulations and development standards that govern the similar uses.

2. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 10. Subsections D and E of Section 23.49.046 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116907, are amended as follows:

 23.49.046 Downtown Office Core 1, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 * * *

 D. ~~City facilities and public projects which do not meet development standards may be permitted by the City Council pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.~~Public Facilities.  1. Uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted as a conditional use subject to the same conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 2. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 3. Other Permitted Uses in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter may be permitted by the City Council. City Council may waive or modify development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi- judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 a. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 E. Rooftop features listed in subsection C4 of Section 23.49.008 more than fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure on which they are located may be authorized by the ~~Council~~Director as an administrative conditional use pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, according to the criteria of Section 23.49.008, Structure height.

 Section 11. A new subsection C of Section 23.49.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 Section 23.49.060 Downtown Office Core 2, permitted uses.

 * * *

C. Public Facilities.

1. Except as provided in subsection 23.49.066.D.2, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright subject to the same use regulations and development standards that govern the similar uses.  2.

Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 12. Subsections D and E of Section 23.49.066 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116907, are amended as follows:

 23.49.066 Downtown Office Core 2, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 * * *

 D. ~~City facilities and public projects which do not meet development standards may be permitted by the Council pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.~~Public Facilities.  1. Uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted as a conditional use subject to the same conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 2. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as an administrative conditional use according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 3. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter may be permitted by the City Council. The City Council may waive or modify development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 a. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 E. Rooftop features listed in subsection C4 of Section 23.49.008 more than fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure on which they are located may be authorized by the ~~Council~~Director as an administrative conditional use pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, according to the criteria of Section 23.49.008, Structure height.

 * * *

 Section 13. Subsection C of Section 23.49.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 Section 23.49.090 Downtown Retail Core, permitted uses.

 * * *

 C. Public Facilities.

1. Except as provided in subsection 23.49.096.E.2, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright subject to the same use regulations and development standards that govern the similar uses.

2. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 14. Subsections B, E and F of Section 23.49.096 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116907, are amended as follows:

 23.49.096 Downtown Retail Core, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 * * *

 B. Major retail stores and performing arts theaters may be granted a public benefit feature bonus through ~~a Council~~an administrative conditional use process, Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions. Through the bonus, increases in permitted height and floor area ratios, and changes in development standards may be granted if the desired quality of the public environment can be maintained, according to the following standards:

 1. Standards for Major Retail Store.

 a. Type of Store. Major retail stores shall be operated by an established concern with a reputation for quality and service, which is not located in the Downtown Retail Core when the conditional use is sought and shall provide a range of merchandise and services.

 b. Size Standards and Bonus Ratio.

 (1) Minimum lot size shall be twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet.

 (2) The minimum size of a major retail store shall be eighty thousand (80,000) square feet. Major retail stores shall be under the management of a single retail firm and shall function as a single business establishment. Storage area, store offices, and other support space necessary for the operation of the retail sales area shall also be bonused.

 (3) For each square foot of major retail store, two and one- half (2-1/2) square feet of additional floor area shall be granted, up to the maximum set in subsection B1b(4).

 (4) Up to two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of the store shall be eligible for a floor area bonus.

 c. Access. The store should be oriented to activity on the street and should, wherever possible, provide opportunities for through block circulation.

 (1) At least one (1) major pedestrian entrance shall be provided directly from the sidewalk of each street frontage of the store. All entrances shall be at the same elevation as the sidewalk.

 (2) Bonused major retail store space may be provided above and below street level as long as all areas are connected and function as a single retail establishment.

 d. Hours of Operation. Major retail stores shall be open to the general public during established shopping hours for a minimum of eight (8) hours a day, six (6) days per week.

 2. Standards for Performing Arts Theater.

 a. Type of Theater. Theaters shall provide a place for live performances of drama, dance and music. The auditorium area should be specifically designed for the presentation of live performances under optimum viewing and acoustical conditions. Theaters principally intended for nightclub or cabaret type entertainment or adult entertainment will not qualify for conditional use approval. The developer shall commit to manage the theater or shall secure a lease for at least ten (10) years from a theater operator or resident theater group with acceptable credentials.

 b. Area, Dimensions and Bonus Ratio. Theaters eligible for conditional use approval may include a wide variety of theater sizes and types to encourage a broad range of live entertainment offerings downtown.

 (1) The minimum theater size eligible for a bonus shall have a seating area of at least two hundred (200) seats and the necessary support areas.

 (2) For each square foot of performing arts theater, twelve (12) square feet of additional floor area shall be granted.

 (3) The maximum area eligible for a bonus shall be established as part of the review process. The process shall include an assessment of existing theaters and the sizes of future theaters needed to provide a range of performing arts facilities in the downtown.

 (4) The arrangement of seating and stage areas of the theater shall be expressly designated for the presentation of performing arts. The size of the stage area, floor slopes, ceiling heights and acoustical and lighting systems shall be adequate to meet the viewing requirements of the audience relative to the size of the auditorium.

 c. Access and Street Orientation. The theater shall be designed to promote activity on the street and add visual interest. It shall be highly accessible and visible from a street or public open space.

 (1) A lighted marquee, display signs, and/or banners related to the theater operation shall be located above the main street entrance. Lobby areas with transparent walls located on the streetfront are desirable.

 (2) To avoid creating large expanses of street frontage with limited visual interest or activity, theater street frontage shall be limited. Theater frontage shall be limited to sixty (60) feet; any street-level area of the theater exceeding this limit must be separated from the street by another use. Departure from these standards may be permitted to address special conditions of the lot which may affect the theater's street orientation or to accommodate specific needs related to the theater's operation.

 (3) A covered queuing area shall be provided; interior lobby space may satisfy this requirement.

 (4) Direct access shall be provided to the theater lobby from the street or a bonused public open space. The theater itself, however, may be above or below street level.

 (5) Truck loading/unloading space shall be provided off- street, preferably off an alley.

 3. Restrictions on Demolition and Alteration of Existing Structures.

 a. The design of projects including a major retail store or performing arts theater shall incorporate the existing exterior street front facade(s) of the structures listed below which are significant to the architecture, history and character of downtown. Changes may be permitted to the exterior facade(s) to the extent that significant features are preserved and the visual integrity of the design is maintained. The degree of exterior preservation required will vary, depending upon the nature of the project and the characteristics of the affected structure(s).

 b. The Director shall evaluate whether the manner in which the facade is proposed to be preserved meets the intent to preserve the architecture, character and history of the Retail Core. If the listed structures are also Landmark structures, approval by the Landmarks Board shall be required prior to consideration of the project by the ~~Council~~Director. The Landmarks Board's recommendation shall be incorporated into the Director's ~~report to the Council~~decision. Inclusion of a structure on the list below is solely for the purpose of approving additional height and FAR under Section 23.49.096 B, and shall not be interpreted in any way to prejudge the structure's merit as a Landmark.

 Sixth and Pine Building 523 Pine Street

 Decatur Building 1513 - 6th Avenue

 Coliseum Theater 5th and Pike

 Seaboard Building 1506 Westlake Avenue

 Fourth and Pike Building 1424 - 4th Avenue

 Pacific First Federal Savings 1400 - 4th Avenue

 Joshua Green Building 1425 - 4th Avenue

 Equitable Building 1415 - 4th Avenue

 1411 Fourth Avenue Building 1411 - 4th Avenue

 Mann Building 1411 - 3rd Avenue

 Olympic Savings Tower 217 Pine Street

 Fischer Studio Building 1519 - 3rd Avenue

 Bon Marche 3rd and Pine

 Melbourne House 1511 - 3rd Avenue

Former Woolworth's Building 1512 - 3rd Avenue

 4. Height and Scale. In determining the amount of change permitted in development standards for height and setbacks, the primary objective shall be the preservation of the existing sense of openness and the human scale environment in the Downtown Retail Core. The acceptability of negative impacts associated with departure from the base regulations shall depend on the priority of the streets adjacent to the proposed project, according to Map IVB.1

 a. An increase in the height up to one hundred fifty feet (150') may be permitted when the primary objective described above will be furthered and:

 (1) The additional height and bulk will not result in substantial wind impacts on public open spaces and sidewalks; and

 (2) The shadows cast on the Westlake Park south of Pine Street, and all Priority 1 Streets shown on Map IVB,1 from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on March 21st and September 21st will not be increased beyond those cast by existing structures.

 b. When an increase in the height limit is permitted, upper- level setbacks shall be provided. The applicant may choose to provide the upper-level setbacks pursuant to the provisions of subsection B of Section 23.49.106, or as follows:

 (1) Coverage limit areas shall be established at two (2) elevations:

 i. Between an elevation of sixty-five feet (65') and two hundred forty feet (240') above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within twenty feet (20') of each street property line and sixty feet (60') of intersecting street property lines shall be the coverage limit area. (See Exhibit 23.49.096 A.)

 ii. Above an elevation of two hundred forty feet (240') above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within forty feet (40') of each street property line and sixty feet (60') of intersecting street property lines shall be the coverage limit area. (See Exhibit 23.49.096 A.)

 iii. Within the coverage limit area, coverage and maximum facade lengths shall be as follows:

 Structure Elevation

 Less than 65' 65' and Above

 Priority 1 streets shown on Map IVB

 Maximum coverage in coverage

 limit area 100% 20%

 Maximum facade length1 no limit 90'

 Priority 2 streets shown on Map IVB

 Maximum coverage in coverage

 limit area 100% 30%

 Maximum facade length1 no limit 90'

 Priority 3 streets shown on Map IVB

 Maximum coverage in coverage

 limit area Upper-level development

 standards of abutting zones shall

 apply

 Maximum facade length1

 1 Facade length limited only within fifteen (15') feet of street property

 line. The minimum distance between facades within fifteen (15') feet

 of street property lines shall be sixty feet (60').

 (2) All existing structures retained as part of the proposed project shall be calculated together with the new structure to determine permitted coverage.

 c. To contribute to a sense of openness and increase opportunities for light and air to streets, portions of facades of new structures which exceed an elevation of one hundred twenty-five feet (125') shall be separated from all other portions of facades on the same block front which exceed that elevation, both on the project lot and abutting lots, by a minimum distance of sixty feet (60') above an elevation of one hundred feet (100'). (See Exhibit 23.49.096 B.) The depth of the separation shall be at least sixty feet (60'), measured from the street property line.

 5. Design Treatment. The materials, scale and details of new development using the major retail store or performing arts theater bonus shall harmonize with existing development in the area and contribute to the visual interest of the pedestrian environment.

 a. In addition to the street facade requirements of Section 23.49.106, large expanses of blank walls above street level which are visible from any street or public open space are prohibited. Below an elevation of sixty-five feet (65'), all street facades shall be articulated and contain architectural design features such as windows, columns or other structural features, belt courses, cornices, setbacks, ornamentation, awnings, or canopies, that reflect the character of nearby structures.

 b. Building materials shall be compatible with those of existing structures in the Downtown Retail Core. Large areas of dark or reflective materials are prohibited.

 c. Overhead weather protection is required on all street frontages of the project. Coverings that are transparent and allow sunlight to reach the sidewalk are preferred.

 6. Scale of Surrounding Development. Project proposals using the major retail store or performing arts theater bonus shall be considered with respect to similar scale developments in the Downtown Retail Core. The bonus shall not be granted if it would result in additional large-scale development which, considered together with other projects of similar scale, would create traffic and pedestrian circulation problems and would conflict with the desired scale and pedestrian character of the area.

 7. Combined Lot Option.

 a. Two (2) lots located in the DRC zone may be combined for the purpose of calculating the density for a total project incorporating a major retail store or a performing arts theater. The lots may be located on the same block or on different blocks. The ~~Council~~ administrative conditional use process shall apply to both lots.

 b. The density for all development shall be calculated as if both lots were a single lot and shall conform to the permitted FAR set forth in Section 23.49.098 B. In no circumstance shall the FAR for the two (2) lots taken together exceed the permitted density.

 c. The height limits and development standards of subsection B4 shall apply to each lot.

 d. The fee owners of each of the combined lots shall execute a deed or other agreement which shall be recorded with the titles to both lots. In the agreement or deed, the owners shall acknowledge that development on the combined lots shall not exceed the combined FAR limits for both lots and, should development on one (1) lot exceed the FAR limit for that lot, then development on the other lot shall be restricted by the amount of excess FAR used on the more developed lot, for the life of the improvement on the more developed lot. The deed or agreement shall also provide that its covenants and conditions shall run with the land and shall be specifically enforceable by the parties and by The City of Seattle.

 * * *

 E. ~~City facilities and public projects which do not meet development standards may be permitted by the Council pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.~~Public Facilities.  1. Uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted as a conditional use subject to the same conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 2. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 3. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter may be permitted by the City Council. The City Council may waive or modify development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 a. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections E1, E2 and E3 above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections E1, E2 and E3 above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 F. Rooftop features listed in subsection C4 of Section 23.49.008 more than fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure on which they are located may be authorized by the ~~Council~~Director as ~~a Council~~an administrative conditional use pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, according to the criteria of Section 23.49.008, Structure height.

 * * *

 Section 15. Subsection C of Section 23.49.116 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 Section 23.49.116 Downtown Mixed Commercial, permitted uses.

 * * *

 C. Public Facilities.

1. Except as provided in subsection 23.49.122.D.2, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright subject to the same use regulations and development standards that govern the similar uses.

2. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 16. Subsections D and E of Section 23.49.122 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116907, are amended as follows:

 23.49.122 Downtown Mixed Commercial, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 * * *

 D. ~~City facilities and public projects which do not meet development standards may be permitted by the Council pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.~~Public Facilities.  1. Uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted as a conditional use subject to the same conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 2. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 3. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter may be permitted by the City. The City Council may waive or modify development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi- judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 a. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 E. Rooftop features listed in subsection C4 of Section 23.49.008 more than fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure on which they are located may be authorized by the ~~Council~~Director as an administrative conditional use pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, according to the criteria of Section 23.49.008, Structure height.

 * * *

 Section 17. Subsection C of Section 23.49.142 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 Section 23.49.142 Downtown Mixed Residential, permitted uses.

 * * *

 C. Public Facilities.

1. Except as provided in subsection 23.49.148.D.2, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright subject to the same use regulations and development standards that govern the similar uses.

2. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 18. Subsections D and E of Section 23.49.148 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116295, are amended as follows:

 23.49.148 Downtown Mixed Residential, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 * * *

 D. ~~City facilities and public projects which do not meet development standards may be permitted by the Council pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.~~Public Facilities.  1. Uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted as a conditional use subject to the same conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 2. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 3. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter may be permitted by the City Council. The City Council may waive or modify development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi- judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 a. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 E. Rooftop features listed in subsection C4 of Section 23.49.008 more than fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure on which they are located may be authorized by the ~~Council~~Director as an administrative conditional use pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, according to the criteria of Section 23.49.008, Structure height.

 * * *

 Section 19. Subsection C of Section 23.49.318 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 Section 23.49.318 Downtown Harborfront 2, permitted uses.

 * * *

 C. Public Facilities.

1. Except as provided in subsection 23.49.324.D.2, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright subject to the same use regulations and development standards that govern the similar uses.

2. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 20. Subsections D and E of Section 23.49.324 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116907, are amended as follows:

 23.49.324 Downtown Harborfront 2, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 * * *

 D. ~~City facilities and public projects which do not meet development standards of this subchapter but do meet the development standards of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program, where applicable, may be permitted by the Council pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.~~Public Facilities.  1. Uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter shall also be permitted as a conditional use subject to the same conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 2. When uses in public facilities meet the development standards of the Shoreline Master Program, where applicable, the City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards of the underlying zone or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 3. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. When uses in public facilities meet the development standards of the Shoreline Master Program, where applicable, and unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this Chapter may be permitted by the City Council. City Council may waive or modify development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 a. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections D1, D2 and D3 above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 E. Rooftop features listed in subsection C4 of Section 23.49.008 more than fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure on which they are located may be authorized by the ~~Council~~Director as an administrative conditional use pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, according to the criteria of Section 23.49.008, Structure height.

 Section 21. Subsection A of Section 23.49.336 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 Section 23.49.336 Pike Market Mixed, permitted uses.

 A. Permitted uses within the Pike Market Historic District, shown on Map XIIA,1 shall be determined by the Pike Place Market Historical Commission pursuant to the Pike Market Historical District Ordinance, Chapter 25.~~1~~24, Seattle Municipal Code.

 * * *

 Section 22. Subsections C and D of Section 23.50.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118216, are amended as follows:

 23.50.012 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 * * *

 C. ~~City facilities and public projectswhich do not meet development standards may be permitted by the City Council pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use decisions.~~Public Facilities.

1. Except as provided in subsections 2a and 2b below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright or permitted by conditional use in this Chapter shall also be permitted outright or by conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards and administrative conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.  2. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 a. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted by conditional use according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 b. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted by conditional use under this Chapter may be permitted by the City Council. City Council may waive or modify development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi- judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

3. In all industrial zones, uses in public facilities not meeting development standards may be permitted by the Council if the following criteria are satisfied:  a. The project provides unique services which are not provided to the community by the private sector, such as police and fire stations; and

 b. The proposed location is required to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 c. The waiver or modification to the development standards is necessary to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 d. The relationship of the project to the surrounding area has been considered in the design, siting, landscaping and screening of the facility.

4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.  a. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections C1, C2a and C2b above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not met development standards or not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections C1, C2a and C2b above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

~~D~~5.Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 23. Exhibit 23.76.004A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 Exhibit 23.76.004A

 LAND USE DECISION FRAMEWORK

 DIRECTOR'S AND HEARING EXAMINER'S DECISIONS REQUIRING MASTER USE PERMITS

 TYPE I TYPE II TYPE III Director's Decision Director's Decision Hearing Examiner's (No Administrative (Appealable to Hearing Decision Appeal) Examiner*) (No Administrative Appeal)

 Compliance with Temporary uses, more Subdivisions development standards than four weeks (Preliminary Plats)

 Uses permitted outright Certain street uses

 Temporary uses, four Variances weeks or less Administrative Certain street uses conditional uses

 Lot boundary Shoreline decisions adjustments (*Appealable to Shorelines Hearings Modifications of Board along with all features bonused under related environmental Title 24 appeals)

 Determinations of Short subdivisions significance (EIS required) except for Special exceptions determinations of significance based Design Review solely on historic and cultural preservation Northgate General development Plan Temporary uses, twelve months or less, for The following relocation of police environmental and fire protection determinations: 1. Determination of nonsignificance (EIS not Exemptions from required) right-of-way 2. Determination of improvement final EIS adequacy requirements 3. Determinations of significance based Special accommodation solely on historic and cultural preservation Reasonable 4. A decision by the accommodation Director to approve, condition or deny a Minor amendment to a project based on SEPA Major Phased Policies Development Permit Major Phased Development

 COUNCIL LAND USE DECISIONS

 TYPE IV TYPE V (Quasi-Judicial) (Legislative)

 Land use map amendments (Rezones) Land Use Code text amendments

 Public project approvals Rezones to implement new City policies Major institution master plans

 Council conditional uses Concept approval for City facilities

 Downtown planned community Major institution designations developments Waive or modify development Standards for City facilities

 Section 24. Section 23.76.011 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 116909, is amended as follows:

 23.76.011 Notice of pre-design public meeting.

 For projects subject to design review, the Director shall provide notice of the required pre-design public meeting by general mailed release. In addition, the Director shall provide mailed notice, and theapplicant shall post ~~four (4) placards~~one (1) land use sign visible to the public at each street frontage~~on or near~~abutting the site except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall require either more than one (1) sign and/or an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public~~, and shall provide mailed notice~~. The land use sign may be removed by the applicant the day after the public meeting.

 Section 25. Subsections B and C of Section 23.76.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118181, are amended as follows:

 23.76.012 Notice of application.

 * * *

 B. Types of Notice Required.

 1. For projects subject to design review or environmental review, the applicant shall post an~~large~~environmental review sign on the site, unless an exemption or alternative posting as set forth in this subsection is applicable. The ~~large~~ environmental review sign shall be located so as to be clearly visible from the adjacent street or sidewalk, and ~~shall remain posted until~~may be removed by the applicant within fourteen (14) days after final City action on the application has been completed.

 a. In the case of submerged land, the ~~large~~environmental review sign shall be posted on adjacent dry land, if any, owned or controlled by the applicant. If there is no adjacent dry land owned or controlled by the applicant, notice shall be provided according to subsection B1c.

 b. Projects limited to interior remodeling, or which are subject to environmental review only because of location over water or location in an environmentally critical area, are exempt from the ~~large~~environmental review sign requirement.

 c. ~~As an alternative to the large~~When use of an environmental review sign ~~requirement~~is neither feasible nor practicable to assure that notice is clearly visible to the public , the Director shall post ten (10) placards within three hundred feet (300') of the site and at the closest street intersections when one (1) or more of the following conditions exist:

 (1) The project site is over five (5) acres;

 (2) The applicant is not the property owner, and the property owner does not consent to the proposal;

 (3) The site is subject to physical characteristics such as steep slopes or is located such that the ~~large~~environmental review  sign would not be highly visible to neighboring residents and property owners or interested citizens.

 d. The Director may require both an~~large~~ environmental review sign and the alternative posting measures described in subsection B1c, or may require that more than one (1) ~~large~~environmental review sign be posted, when necessary to assure that notice is clearly visible to the public.

 2. For projects which are categorically exempt from environmental review, the ~~Director~~applicant shall post ~~four (4) placards~~one (1) land use sign visible to the public at ea ch street frontage ~~on or near~~ abutting the site  except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall require either more than one (1) sign and/or an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public. The land use sign may be removed by the applicant within fourteen (14) days after final action on the application has been completed.

 3. For all projects requiring notice of application, the Director shall provide notice by General Mailed Release. For projects subject to the ~~large~~environmental reviewand land use sign requirements, notice in the General Mailed Release shall be published after certification is received by the department that the ~~large~~environmental review and land use signs~~has~~have been installed and posted.

 4. In addition, for variances, administrative conditional uses, temporary uses for more than four (4) weeks, shoreline variances, ~~and~~ shoreline conditional uses, short plats, pre-design review, School Use Advisory Committee (SUAC) formation, and school development standard departure, the Director shall provide mailed notice.

 5. Mailed notice of application for a project subject to design review shall be provided to all persons establishing themselves as parties of record by attending the pre-design public meeting for the project or by corresponding with the Department about the proposed project before the date of publication.

 6. Additional notice for subdivisions shall include mailed notice and publication in at least one (1) community newspaper in the area affected by the subdivision.

 C. Contents of Notice.

 1. The City's official notice of application shall be the notice placed in the General Mailed Release, which shall include the following required elements as specified in RCW 36.70B.110;

 a. Date of application, date of notice of completion for the application, and the date of the notice of application;

 b. A description of the proposed project action and a list of the project permits included in the application and, if applicable, a list of any studies requested by the Director;

 c. The identification of other permits not included in the application to the extent known by the Director;

 d. The identification of existing environmental documents that evaluate the proposed project, and the location where the application and any studies can be reviewed;

 e. A statement of the public comment period and the right of any person to comment on the application, request an extension of the comment period, receive notice of and participate in any hearings, and request a copy of the decision once made, and a statement of any administrative appeal rights;

 f. The date, time, place and type of hearing, if applicable and if scheduled at the date of notice of the application;

 g. A statement of the preliminary determination, if one has been made at the time of notice, of those development regulations that will be used for project mitigation and the proposed project's consistency with development regulations; and

 h. Any other information determined appropriate by the Director.

 2. All other additional forms of notice, including, but not limited to environmental review and land use signs, placards and mailed notice, shall include the following information: the project description, location of the project, date of application, location where the complete application file may be reviewed, and a statement that persons who desire to submit comments on the application or who request notification of the decision may so inform the Director in writing within the comment period specified in subsection D. The Director may, but need not, include other information to the extent known at the time of notice of application. Except for the ~~large~~environmental review sign requirement, each notice shall also include a list of the land use decisions sought. The Director shall specify detailed requirements for ~~large~~environmental review and land use signs.

 * * *

 Section 26. Subsection B of Section 23.76.036 of the Seattle Municipal code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 23.76.036 Council decisions required.

 * * *

 B. Council action shall be required for the following Type V land use decisions:

 1. City-initiated amendments to the Official Land Use Map to implement new land use policies;

 2. Amendments to the text of SMC Title 23, Land Use Code;

 3. Concept approval for the location or expansion of City facilities requiring Council land use approval by SMC Title 23, Land Use Code; ~~and~~

 4. Major Institution designations and revocations of Major Institution designations; and  5. Waive or modify development standards for City facilities

.

 Section 27. Subsection C of Section 23.76.052 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 23.76.052 Hearing Examiner open record predecision hearing and recommendation.

 * * *

 C. Notice.

 1. The Director shall give notice of the Hearing Examiner's hearing, the Director's environmental determination, and of the availability of the Director's report at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing by:

 a. General Mailed Release;

 b. Publication in the City official newspaper;

 c. Submission of the General Mailed Release to at least one (1) community newspaper in the area affected by the proposal;

 d. ~~At least four (4) placards~~One (1) land use sign visible to the public posted at each street frontage abutting the site except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall either post more than one (1) sign and/or select an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public ~~places visible to the public, including street intersections, within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the project~~. For hearings on Major Institution Master Plans, ~~a minimum of ten (10) placards shall be posted~~ one (1) land use sign posted at each street frontage abutting the site but not to exceed ten (10) land use signs;

 e. Mailed notice; and

 f. Posting in the Department.

 2. DNSs shall also be filed with the SEPA Public Information Center. If the Director's decision includes a mitigated DNS or other DNS requiring a fifteen (15) day comment period pursuant to SMC Section 25.05.340, the notice of DNS shall include notice of the comment period. The Director shall distribute copies of such DNSs as required by SMC Section 25.05.340.

 3. The notice shall state the project description, type of land use decision under consideration, a description sufficient to locate the subject property, where the complete application file may be reviewed, and the Director's recommendation and environmental determination. The notice shall also state that the environmental determination is subject to appeal and shall describe the appeal procedure.

 * * *

 Section 28. A new subsection D is added to Section 23.76.058 of the Seattle Municipal code, which Section was last amended by ordinance 118012, as follows:

 23.76.058 Rules for special decisions

 * * *

D. Public Projects not meeting Development Standards. The City Council may waive or modify applicable developments standards, accessory use requirements, special use requirements, or conditional use criteria for public projects.

 Section 29. Subsection B of Section 23.76.062 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 115002, is amended as follows:

 23.76.062 Council hearing and decision.

 * * *

 B. Notice of Hearings.

 1. Notice of the Council hearing on a Type V decision shall be provided by the Director at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing in the following manner:

 a. Inclusion in the General Mailed Release;

 b. Posting in the Department; and

 c. Publication in the City's official newspaper.

 2. Additional notice shall be provided by the Director for public hearings on City facilities, Major Institution designations and revocation of Major Institution designations, as follows:

 a. Mailed notice; and

 b. ~~At least four (4) placards~~One (1) land use sign posted visible to the public at each street frontage abutting ~~on or near~~ the site except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall either post more than one (1) sign and/or select an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public.

 * * *

 Section 30. Section 23.76.064 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 112522, is amended as follows:

 23.76.064 Approval of city facilities.

A. Concept Approval for City Facilities.

~~A~~1. In acting on the proposed siting or expansion of a City facility, the Council shall decide whether to approve in concept the facility. If concept approval is granted, the Council may impose terms and conditions, including but not limited to design criteria and conditions relating to the size and configuration of the proposed facility.

~~B~~2. Following Council approval, final plans for a City facility shall be submitted to the Director. If the Director determines that the project is consistent with the Council's concept approval, the Director shall issue the necessary permits for the facility.

~~C~~3. No further Council action is required for a City facility unless the Director determines that the final plans represent a major departure from the terms of the original Council concept approval, in which case the final plan shall be submitted to the Council for approval in the same manner as the original application.

B. City Facilities not meeting development standards. The Council may waive or modify applicable development standards, accessory use requirements, special use requirements, or conditional use criteria for City facilities.

 Section 31. Section 23.78.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 110381, is amended as follows:

 23.78.006 Notice provided.

 Notification of the application and formation of a SUAC and the first meeting of the SUAC shall be provided by the Director through mailed notice, general mailed release, ~~four (4) placards posted on or near the site and~~ publishing in a newspaper of substantial local circulation, and posting one (1) land use sign visible to the publicat each street frontage abutting the site except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall either post more than one (1) sign and/or select an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public. If there is an existing parents' organization, notice shall be given through their regular processes.

 Section 32. Section 23.79.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 112539, is amended as follows:

 23.79.006 Notice provided for development standard departure.

 Notification of the application and formation of a Development Standard Advisory Committee and the first meeting of the advisory committee shall be provided by the Director through mailed notice, general mailed release, ~~four (4) placards posted on or near the site and~~ publishing in a newspaper of substantial local circulation and any relevant ethnic publications having substantial local circulation, and posting one (1) land use sign visible to the publicat each street frontage abutting the site except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall either post more than one (1) sign and/or select an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public. If there is an existing parents' organization, notice shall be given through its regular processes. Notice shall also be given to community organizations known to the Department as representing the local area and to other related organizations who have requested notice.

 Section 33. Section 23.84.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117929, is amended to delete one definition in alphabetical order as follows:

 SMC 23.84.024 "L."

 * * *

~~"Large sign." See "Sign, large."~~

 * * *

 Section 34. Section 23.84.025 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 23.84.025 "M."

 "Mailed notice" means notice mailed to such property owners, commercial lessees and residents of the area within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of a specific site as can be determined from the records of the King County Department of Assessments and such additional references as may be identified by the Director; provided, that in the downtown area bounded by Denny Way, Interstate 5, South Royal Brougham Way and Elliott Bay, mailed notice provided by the Director shall mean notice mailed to owners, lessees and building managers on the project site and to property owners and building managers within three hundred feet (300') of a specific site, and the posting by the applicant of ~~two (2) placards at each of the four (4) intersections around the site~~one (1) land use sign visible to the public at each street frontage abutting the site but not to exceed ten (10) land use signs. When there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall require either more than one (1) sign and/or an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public. The land use sign may be removed by the applicant within fourteen (14) days after final action on the application has been completed. Annually, the Director shall publish in the City's official newspaper additional reference(s) to be used to supplement the information obtained from the King County records. The mailed notice shall request that property managers post the notice in a public area of the commercial or multifamily building.

 * * *

 Section 35. Section 23.84.036 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118409, is amended to add seven definitions, amend two definitions, and delete two definitions in alphabetical order as follows:

 23.84.036 "S."

 * * *

"Sign, chasing" means a sign which includes one or more rows of lights which light up in sequence.

 * * *

"Sign, double-faced" means a sign which has two display surfaces in approximately parallel planes backed against each other or against the same background, one face of which is designed to be seen from one direction and the other from the opposite direction.

* * *

"Sign, Environmental Review" means a sign with dimensions of four feet (4') by eight feet (8') constructed of a durable material, required for public notice of proposed land use actions according to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use permits and council Land Use Decisions.

 * * *

"Sign, fabric" means a sign made of canvas, cloth or similar non- rigid material.

 * * *

 "Sign, flashing" means ~~a sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light source, or an externally mounted, intermittent light source~~an electrical sign or portion of an electrical sign which changes light intensity in sudden transitory bursts. Flashing signs do not include changing image or chasing signs.

"Sign, freestanding" means a pole or ground sign.

 * * *

"Sign, Land Use" means a sign with dimensions of at least eighteen inches (18") by twenty-four inches (24") but smaller than an environmental review sign, constructed of a durable material, required for public notice of proposed land use actions according to Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use permits and council Land Use Decisions.

~~"Sign, large" means a sign four (4) by eight feet (8'), constructed of a~~durable material.

 * * *

"Sign, message board" means an electric sign which has a readerboard for the display of information, such as time, temperature, of public service or commercial messages, which can be changed through the turning on and off of different combinations of light bulbs within the display area.

* * *

"Sign, wall" means any sign attached to and supported by a wall of a structure, with the exposed face of the sign on a plane parallel to the plane of the wall, or any sign painted directly on a building facade.

~~"Sign, wall" means a sign painted directly on a building facade.~~

* * *

 Section 36. Subsection B of Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.09.080, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116976, is amended as follows:

 25.09.080 Development standards for landslide-prone hazard areas.

 * * *

 B. Staged Review Process. Projects proposed in landslide-prone areas shall be subject to a staged review process.

 1. The Staged Review Process may consist of one (1) or more of the following steps:

 a. Site visit and reconnaissance;

 b. Preliminary soils investigations including tests and borings; and

 c. Detailed geotechnical studies and engineering plans.

 2. During the staged review process, more extensive studies and investigations may be required for more hazardous sites, based on the degree of slope, hydrology and underlaying soils and geology. The Director may require detailed site investigation including, but not limited to the following:

 a. Review of available literature regarding the site and surrounding areas;

 b. Detailed topographic analysis;

 c. Subsurface data and exploration logs;

 d. Ground surface profiles;

 e. Analysis of relationship of vegetated cover and slope stability;

 f. Site stability analysis;

 g. Geotechnical considerations to reduce risk; and

 h. Construction and post-construction monitoring.

 3. The Director shall determine the amount of additional study necessary depending on the degree of landslide-prone hazard on a site based on the information disclosed during the staged review process. The Director may require third-party review.

 4. As part of the staged review process, the Director shall provide mailed notice to adjacent property owners, and the applicant shall post ~~placards~~one (1) land use sign visible to the public at each street frontage abutting ~~on~~the site except, when there is no street frontage or the site abuts an unimproved street, the Director shall require either more than one (1) sign and/or an alternative posting location so that notice is clearly visible to the public. The land use sign may be removed by the applicant within fourteen (14) days after final action on the application has been completed. The purpose of this notice is to allow for an exchange of information between the applicant, adjacent property owners and the

 Director. Adjacent property owners may review and comment on site investigations and technical studies, and provide information and documentation of any previous landslide problems on the site. Notice will include information on how to find out whether or not third-party review is required.

 * * *

 Section 37. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 38. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force on

 September 30, 1997.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1997, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1997.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1997.

 ___________________________________

 Norman B. Rice, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1997.

 __________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 kd/gbh rr3-ord4 7/31/97 KD:GBH 446

```
