

********

**Council Bill Number: 111766**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118663**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and shorelines, amending Sections 23.60.090, 23.60.246, 23.60.306, 23.60.365, 23.60.368, 23.60.430, 23.60.544, 23.60.606, 23.60.664, 23.60.666, 23.60.728 and 23.60.848; adding Sections 23.60.248, 23.60.308, 23.60.370, 23.60.436, 23.60.490, 23.60.550, 23.60.612, 23.60.734, 23.60.800, and 23.60.854; and repealing Section 23.60.366 of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program, Chapter 23.60 of the Seattle Municipal (Land Use) Code.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 21, 1997
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Podlodowski)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 25, 1997
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 25, 1997
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 9, 1997
   
**Committee:** Parks, Public Grounds and Recreation
   
**Sponsor:** DONALDSON
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, LAND-USE-PERMITS, CITY-COUNCIL

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 116328, 113764, 116325, 113466, 117571, 118415, 116907, 117230

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection I of Section 23.60.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116328, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.60.090 Identification of principal permitted uses.

 I. As determined by the Director, uses in ~~P~~p ublic facilities ~~which~~that are most similar to ~~other~~ uses ~~as determined by the Director~~ permitted outright, permitted as an accessory use, permitted as a special use, permitted conditionally, or prohibited under this Chapter shall also be permitted outright, permitted as an accessory use, permitted as a special use, permitted conditionally or prohibited subject~~on~~to the same ~~basis as the similar~~ use regulations, development standards, accessory use requirements, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar use unless otherwise specified.

 Section 2. Subsection H of Section 23.60.246 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.60.246 Prohibited uses in the CN Environment.

 The following uses shall be prohibited as principal or accessory uses in the CN Environment:

 H. Public facilities not authorized by Section 23.60.248;

 Section 3. A new Section 23.60.248 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.248 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.242 and 23.60.244 shall also be permitted as a special use or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.242 through 23.60.244 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.242 and 23.60.244 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 4. Subsection H of Section 23.60.306 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 23.60.306 Prohibited uses in the CP Environment.

 The following uses shall be prohibited as principal or accessory uses in the CP Environment:

 H. Public facilities not authorized by Section 23.60.308;

 Section 5. A new Section 23.60.308 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.308 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.302 and 23.60.304 shall also be permitted as a special use or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.302 and 23.60.304 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.302 and 23.60.304 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 6. Section 23.60.365 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 116325, is amended as follows:

 23.60.365 Administrative Conditional Uses in the CR Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as principal or accessory use, if the criteria for administrative conditional uses in WAC 173- ~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 A. Single~~-~~ family dwelling units constructed partially or wholly over water and meeting the following conditions:

 1. If located on a residentially zoned and privately owned lot established in the public records of the County or City prior to March 1, 1977 by deed, contract of sale, mortgage, platting, property tax segregation or building permit; and

 2. If the lot has less than thirty feet (30') but at least fifteen feet (15') of dry land calculated as provided for in measurements Section 23.60.956; and

 3. If the development is limited to the dry-land portion of the site, to the greatest extent possible, and particularly to the most level and stable portions of the dry-land area.

 B. Development standards of the underlying zone applicable to the single~~-~~ family use in a CR environment may be waived or modified by the Director to minimize the amount of development over submerged lands.

 C. The following uses may be authorized in the CR Environment either as principal or accessory uses:  1. The following uses when associated with a public park:

 a. Small craft center,

 b. Boat launching ramp for auto-trailered boats,

 c. The following non-water-dependent commercial uses:

 (1) Sale of boat parts or accessories,

 (2) Personal and household retail sales and services, and

 (3) Eating and drinking establishments.

 2. Community yacht, boat and beach clubs when:

 a. No eating and drinking establishments are included in the use,

 b. No more than one (1) pier or float is included in the use, and

 c. Any accessory pier or float meets the standards of Section 23.60.204 for piers and floats accessory to residential development.

 Section 7. Section 23.60.366 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is repealed.

 Section 8. Subsection H of Section 23.60.368 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117571, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.60.368 Prohibited uses in the CR Environment.

 The following uses shall be prohibited as principal uses in the CR Environment:

 H. Public facilities not authorized by Section 23.60.370;

 Section 9. A new Section 23.60.370 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.370 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.360 through 23.60.366 shall also be permitted outright, as a special use or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.360 through 23.60.366 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.364 through 23.60.366 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 10. Subsection I of Section 23.60.430 of the Seattle Municipal code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.60.430 Prohibited principal uses on waterfront lots in the CM Environment.

 The following uses are prohibited as principal uses on waterfront lots in the CM Environment:

 I. Public facilities not authorized by Section 23.60.436 and those that are ~~,~~ non-water-dependent;

 Section 11. A new Section 23.60.436 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.436 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to permitted and accessory uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.420 through 23.60.428 shall also be permitted outright, as an accessory use, as a special use, or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, accessory use requirements, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable development standards, accessory use requirements, special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as an accessory use, permitted as a special use, or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.420 through 23.60.428 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as an accessory use, permitted as a special use, or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.420 through 23.60.428 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology may waive or modify development standards, accessory use requirements, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 12. A new Section 23.60.490 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.490 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.484 through 23.60.486 shall also be permitted as a special use or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.484 through 23.60.486 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.484 through 23.60.486 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 13. Subsection G of Section 23.60.544 of the Seattle Municipal code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118415, is amended as follows:

 SMC 20.60.544 Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the UR Environment.

 The following uses shall be prohibited as principal uses on waterfront lots in the UR Environment:

 G. Public facilities not authorized by Section 23.60.550;

 Section 14. A new Section 23.60.550 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.550 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a special use under Sections 23.60.540 through 23.60.542 shall also be permitted outright or as a special use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, and special use requirements that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable development standards or special use requirements for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a special use under Sections 23.60.540 through 23.60.542 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a special use under Sections 23.60.540 through 23.60.542 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council , with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards or special use requirements according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi- judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 15. Subsection G of Section 23.60.606 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.60.606 Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the US Environment.

 The following uses shall be prohibited as principal uses on waterfront lots in the US environment:

 G. Public facilities not authorized by Section 23.60.612 and those that are ~~,~~ non-water-dependent;

 Section 16. A new Section 23.60.612 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.612 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.600 through 23.60.604 shall also be permitted outright, as a special use or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.600 through 23.60.604 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.600 through 23.60.604 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council , with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 17. Section 23.60.664 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116907, is amended as follows:

 23.60.664 Administrative Conditional uses permitted on waterfront lots in the UH

 Environment.

~~A.~~ The following uses may be authorized over water or on dry-land portions of waterfront lots in the UH Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-14-140 are satisfied:

~~1~~A. The following commercial uses:

~~a~~1. Outdoor storage, water-related or water- dependent,

~~b~~2. Warehouses, water-related or water-dependent,

~~c~~3. Wholesale showrooms, and

~~d~~4. Research and development laboratories, non-water- dependent;

~~2~~B. Non-water-dependent commercial uses on historic ships:

~~a~~1. The following uses may be permitted on an historic ship when meeting the criteria in subsection C2 below:

~~i~~a. Sale of boat parts or accessories,

~~ii~~b. Personal and household retail sales and services,

~~iii~~c. Eating and drinking establishments;

~~b~~2. ~~i~~a. The ship is designated as historic by the Landmarks

 Preservation Board or listed on the National Register of Historic Places,

~~ii~~b. The use is compatible with the existing design and/or construction of the ship without significant alteration,

~~iii~~c. Uses permitted outright are not practical because of ship design and/or cannot provide adequate financial support necessary to sustain the ship in a reasonably good physical condition,

~~iv~~d. The use shall obtain a certificate of approval from the Landmarks Preservation Board, and

~~v~~e. No other historic ship containing restaurant or retail uses is located within one-half (1/2) mile of the proposed site, unless the proposed site is within the Historic Character Area;

~~3~~C. Light manufacturing uses, non-water-dependent which:

~~a~~1. Are part of a mixed-use development when the light manufacturing uses occupy no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the developed portion of the lot,

~~b~~2. Contribute to the maritime or tourist character of the area, and

~~c~~3. Are located to accommodate water-dependent or water-related uses on site;

~~4~~D. The following non-water-dependent institutions:

~~a~~1. Institutes for advanced study,

~~b~~2. Museums,

~~c~~3. Colleges, and

~~d~~4. Vocational schools.

~~B. The following use may be authorized over water or on dryland portions of waterfront lots in the UH Environment by the City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-14-140 are satisfied:~~1. Helistops, subject to the following criteria:

 a. The helistop is for takeoff and landing of helicopters which serve a public safety, news gathering or emergency medical care function, is part of an approved transportation plan and is a public facility, or is part of an approved transportation plan and located at least two thousand feet (2,000') from a residential zone,

 b. The helistop is located so as to minimize adverse physical environmental impacts on lots in the surrounding area, and on public parks and other areas where substantial public gatherings may be held,

 c. The lot is of sufficient size that operations of the helistop and flight paths of helicopters can be buffered from the surrounding area,

 d. Open areas and landing pads shall be hardsurfaced, and

 e. The helistop meets all federal requirements including those for safety, glide angles and approach lanes.

 Section 18. Section 23.60.666 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 118415, is amended as follows:

 23.60.666 Council conditional uses permitted on waterfront lots ~~-- Water-Dependent incentive~~in the UH Environment.

 A. Water-Dependent Incentive.

1. Developments which include major water-dependent uses may be permitted to increase height and lot coverage and to depart from the other development standards of Part 2 of this subchapter through the Council conditional use process set forth in Section 23.60.068, Council conditional use authorization, if the Council finds that such departures would encourage the retention of existing and/or development of new water- dependent uses.

~~B~~2. The following development standards shall be used as criteria in evaluating projects which include a major water- dependent use:

~~1~~a. The project may be located in any area of a Downtown Harborfront 1 zone except the Historic Character Area established by Section 23.60.704.

~~2~~b. Siting of project components shall be designed to facilitate the operation of the water-dependent component(s). Views from Alaskan Way of activity over water and the harbor itself are encouraged, and the frontage of the project on Alaskan Way should contribute to an interesting and inviting pedestrian environment.

~~3~~c. The area of the project shall be adequate to accommodate the operations of a major water-dependent use suited to a downtown harbor area location.

~~a.~~(1)Area. A minimum of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or square footage equivalent to twenty percent (20%) of the developed lot area, whichever is greater, shall be dedicated to water-dependent use.

~~b.~~(2)Moorage. The moorage required by Section 23.60.698 shall not be calculated as part of the major water-dependent use. Moorage provided in excess of the requirement shall be credited as part of the minimum square footage requirement for water-dependent use.

~~c.~~(3)Lot coverage. An increase in the base lot coverage from fifty percent (50%) to a maximum of sixty-five percent (65%) may be permitted by the Council. Structures excluding floats permitted by Section 23.60.694 C, shall not occupy more than sixty- five percent (65%) of the submerged land and sixty-five percent (65%) of the dry land of any lot. To exceed the base lot coverage, development shall be modified to accomplish the following objectives:

~~(1)~~(a)Prevent building bulk from being concentrated along the Alaskan Way frontage of the lot;

~~(2)~~(b)Promote an overall massing of the pier superstructure to reflect some of the qualities of traditional pier development;

~~(3)~~(c)Site view corridors and public access areas to reduce the appearance of building bulk over water; and

~~(4)~~(d)Ensure coverage configuration that permits the water abutting the Alaskan Way seawall to be visible so that the seawall will be perceived as the edge of the water.

~~4~~d.Height. The Council may permit increases in building height up to sixty (60) or seventy-five feet (75') above Alaskan Way in the areas shown on Exhibit 23.60.666. (See Exhibit 23.60.666.) Structure heights of seventy-five feet (75') shall be permitted only on dry-land portions of a lot located inside the Inner Harbor Line. Portions of the structures that are above forty-five feet (45'), as measured from Alaskan Way, shall not occupy more than forty percent (40%) of the submerged land and forty percent (40%) of the dry land of the lot. Heights above forty-five feet (45') shall not be permitted within one hundred feet (100') of the Outer Harbor Line. To exceed forty-five feet (45'), the development should accomplish the following objectives:

~~a.~~(1)Maintain views from upland public spaces and rights-of-way;

~~b.~~(2)Ensure structure heights that provide a transition to the lower pier structures in the Historic Character Area;

~~c.~~(3)Maintain a structure height along Alaskan Way frontage that is consistent with existing pier development, maximizes solar access to Alaskan Way and establishes a scale of development in keeping with the pedestrian character; and

~~d.~~(4) Provide a transition in height and scale between the waterfront and abutting upland development.

~~5~~e. Public Access. Public access shall be required according to the following guidelines to ensure access to the water and marine activity without conflicting with the operation of water dependent uses:

~~a.~~(1)Public access shall be provided approximately equivalent to fifteen percent (15%) of the lot coverage or five thousand (5,000) square feet, whichever is greater, except as provided in subsection b3 below.

~~b.~~(2)Area designated for public access shall be subject to the following conditions:

~~(1)~~(a)Where the water-dependent use will benefit from or is compatible with public access, such as passenger terminals, ferry operations and tour boats, the access shall be provided in conjunction with the water-dependent use;

~~(2)~~(b)Where public access would conflict with the operations of the water-dependent use, access requirements may be met on alternative portions of the lot;

~~(3)~~(c)Where the entire lot is to be occupied by a water-dependent use, the Council may permit a partial waiver of the public access requirement;

~~(4)~~(d)To qualify as public access, an area shall be directly accessible from Alaskan Way and clearly related to public open spaces. Efforts should also be made to physically and visually link public access areas over water with the east/west streets providing links to upland areas;

~~(5)~~(e)The public access area shall provide the public with visual and physical access to the shoreline area. Preference shall be given to perimeter access on over-water structures providing maximum exposure to the bay and surrounding activity;

~~(6)~~(f)Interpretive features such as displays or special viewing equipment shall be incorporated in public access areas. Maritime museum space which is fully enclosed will not count as public access space;

~~(7)~~(g)Up to fifty percent (50%) of the total public access area may be covered, provided that at least fifty percent (50%) of the perimeter of any covered area is open to views of the water;

~~(8)~~(h)A portion of the required public access area, not to exceed fifty percent (50%), may be provided at an elevation exceeding two feet (2') above or below the grade of Alaskan Way. The area must be open to views of the water along at least fifty percent (50%) of the perimeter, be easily identifiable as public space and be fully accessible to the public.

~~6~~f.View Corridors. View corridors shall be provided equivalent to thirty percent (30%) of the street frontage of the lot. The following conditions for view corridors shall be met:

~~a.~~(1)View corridors shall allow views of the water from the street. View corridors shall maintain and enhance pedestrian views from Alaskan Way along traditional view corridors established by submerged street rights-of- way, as well as views from upland areas along east/west rights-of-way. View corridors shall provide views past pier development out into the open water of Elliott Bay and to the Olympic Mountains where possible;

~~b.~~(2)View corridors shall maximize opportunities for views of the bay and waterfront activity along Alaskan Way to enhance public open space and public access areas;

~~c.~~(3)View corridors through a development site shall be encouraged to assist in relieving the overall sense of bulk of development over water; and

~~d.~~(4)Overhead weather protection, arcades or other architectural features may extend into the view corridor only if they do not obstruct views from pedestrian areas at Alaskan Way or on upland streets.

B. Helistops may be authorized over water or on dryland portions of waterfront lots in the UH Environment by the City Council according to the procedures of Section 23.60.068, with concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if both the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-27-160and the following criteria are satisfied:  1. The helistop is for takeoff and landing of helicopters which serve a public safety, news gathering or emergency medical care function, is part of an approved transportation plan and is a public facility, or is part of an approved transportation plan and located at least two thousand feet (2,000') from a residential zone,

 2. The helistop is located so as to minimize adverse physical environmental impacts on lots in the surrounding area, and on public parks and other areas where substantial public gatherings may be held,

 3. The lot is of sufficient size that operations of the helistop and flight paths of helicopters can be buffered from the surrounding area,

 4. Open areas and landing pads shall be hardsurfaced, and

 5. The helistop meets all federal requirements including those for safety, glide angles and approach lanes.

 Section 19. Subsection H of Section 23.60.728 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by ordinance 117230, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.60.728 Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the UM Environment.

 The following principal uses are prohibited on waterfront lots:

 H. Public facilities not authorized by Section 23.60.734 and those that are ~~,~~ non-water-dependent;

 Section 20. A new Section 23.60.734 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.734 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.720 through 23.60.724 shall also be permitted outright, as a special use or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.720 through 23.60.724 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.720 through 23.60.724 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 21. A new Section 23.60.795 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.795 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.780 through 23.60.784 shall also be permitted outright, permitted as a special use or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.780 through 23.60.784 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.780 through 23.60.784 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 22. Subsection G of Section 23.60.848 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.60.848 Principal uses prohibited on waterfront lots in the UI Environment.

 The following principal uses are prohibited on waterfront lots in the UI Environment:

 G. Public facilities not authorized by Section 23.60.854 and those that are ~~,~~ non-water-dependent or non-water-related;

 Section 23. A new Section 23.60.854 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.60.854 Public facilities.

 A. Except as provided in subsection B1 or B2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.840 through 23.60.846 shall also be permitted outright, as a special use or conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards, special use requirements, and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses.

 B. Public Facilities not Meeting Development Standards Requiring City Council Approval.

 1. The City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify applicable development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria for those uses in public facilities that are similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.840 through 23.60.846 according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Uses Permitted in Public Facilities. Unless specifically prohibited, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright, permitted as a special use or permitted as a conditional use under Sections 23.60.840 through 23.60.846 may be permitted by the City Council. City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, may waive or modify development standards, special use requirements or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 C. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 1. Major Expansion. Major expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven-hundred-fifty (750) square feet or ten percent (10%) of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 2. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections A and B above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 D. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 24. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 25. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force on whichever is the later of: the effective date of approval and adoption by the Department of Ecology; or thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1997, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1997. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1997. ___________________________________ Norman B. Rice, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1997. __________________________________ City Clerk KD 5/2/97 RR3S-V1

```
