

********

**Council Bill Number: 111799**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118664**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Building Code, changing references to the Seattle Engineering Department, adding an exemption from building permit requirements for certain telecommunications equipment, amending provisions related to renewal of certain building permits; amending provisions related to construction of elementary classrooms, buildings of mixed use and mixed construction type and boat moorage; amending certain exiting provisions, amending provisions related to special inspection, and correcting errors.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 21, 1997
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 25, 1997
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 25, 1997
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 30, 1997
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES, COMMUNICATIONS-FACILITIES, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 117721, 117865

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE_____________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Building Code, changing references to the Seattle Engineering Department, adding an exemption from building permit requirements for certain telecommunications equipment, amending provisions related to renewal of certain building permits; amending provisions related to construction of elementary classrooms, buildings of mixed use and mixed construction type and boat moorage; amending certain exiting provisions, amending provisions related to special inspection, and correcting errors.

 Section Section 104.2 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 104.2 Powers and Duties of the Building Official. The building official is authorized and directed to enforce this building code, except where authority as elsewhere provided in this building code is specifically vested in the Director of Public Health, the fire chief ,~~or~~ the Director of ~~Engineering~~Transportation or the Director of Seattle Public Utilities. Compliance with the requirements of this building code shall be the obligation of the owner of the building, structure, or premises, the duly authorized agent of the owner, or other person responsible for the condition or work, and not of the City or any of its officers or employees.

 Section Section 106.2 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 106.2 Exempted Work. A building permit shall not be required for the following:

 1. Minor repairs or alterations which, as determined by the building official, cost the owner $2,500 or less in any 6-month period, provided that no structural changes are made and egress, light, air and ventilation are not reduced.

 2. Miscellaneous minor work including the following: patio and concrete slabs on grade, painting a building, repointing a chimney unless structural changes are made, installing kitchen cabinets, paneling or other surface finishes over existing wall and ceiling systems applied in accordance with Sections 801-806 and insulating existing buildings where no structural changes are made.

 3. One-story detached accessory buildings used for greenhouse, tool or storage shed, or similar uses, provided:

 3.1. The projected roof area does not exceed 120 square feet; and

 3.2. The building is not placed on a concrete foundation other than a slab on grade.

 4. Fences not over 8 feet high which do not have masonry or concrete elements above 6 feet.

 5. Cases, counters and partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches high.

 6. Retaining walls and rockeries which are not over 4 feet in height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, provided:

 6.1 There is no surcharge or impoundment of Class I, II or III-A liquids.

 6.2 Construction is not in a critical area or an environmentally sensitive area, nor supports soils in areas of geologic hazard, steep slope or having landslide potential as identified in the environmentally sensitive and critical area regulations contained in Chapters 25.05 and 25.09 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 6.3 Possible failure would likely cause no damage to adjoining property or structures.

 7. Platforms, walks and driveways not more than 18 inches above grade and not over any basement or story below.

 8. Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery.

 9. Window awnings supported by an exterior wall of Group R, Division 3, and Group U Occupancies when projecting not more than 54 inches.

 10. Prefabricated swimming pools, spas and similar equipment accessory to a Group R, Division 3 occupancy in which the pool walls are entirely above the adjacent grade and if the capacity does not exceed 5,000 gallons.

 11. Replacement of roofing materials and siding. This shall not include structural changes, replacement of sheathing or alterations to doors and windows.

 12. School, park or private playground equipment including playhouses and tree houses.

 13. Removal and replacement of underground storage tanks that are subject to regulation by a state or federal agency.

14. Installation of the following types of antennas:  A. Satellite earth station antennas 6through feet (2 m) or less in diameter in zones other than residential zones;

 B. Satellite earth station antennas 3toward feet (1 m) or less in diameter in residential zones; and

 C. Video programming service antennas 3toward feet (1 m) or less in diameter or diagonal dimension, regardless of zone.

 Exemption from the permit requirements of this building code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this building code or any other laws or ordinances of the City.

 Section Section 106.5 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 106.5 Application for Permit

 106.5.1 Application. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished by the Department of Construction and Land Use for that purpose. Every such application shall:

 1. Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which application is made.

 2. Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal description, property address or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.

 3. Provide contractor's business name, address, phone number and current contractor registration number (required if contractor has been selected).

 4. Be accompanied by plans, and other data as required in Section 106.5.2.

 5. State the valuation of any new building or structure or any addition, remodeling or alteration to an existing building including cost breakdown between additions and alterations.

 6. Be signed by the owner of the property or building, or his/her authorized agent who may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.

 7. Give such other data and information as may be required by the building official, including, but not limited to, master use and shoreline permits and building identification plans.

 8. Indicate the name of the owner and contractor and the name, address and phone number of a contact person.

 9. Substantially conform with the Land Use Code, critical areas regulations and building code regulations in effect on the date that the application is submitted.

 106.5.2 Plans and Specifications.

 106.5.2.1 General. Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams and other data shall be submitted in two or more sets with each application for a permit.

 EXCEPTION: The building official may waive the submission of plans, calculations, diagrams and other data, if he/she finds that the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain compliance with this building code.

 106.5.2.2 Preparation by Licensed Professionals. Plans, computations and specifications for all work shall be prepared and designed by or under the direct supervision of an architect or structural engineer licensed to practice under the laws of the State of Washington. Plans and specifications for work not involving structural design shall be prepared by a professional engineer or architect qualified in the proposed work. Each sheet of plans shall bear the seal and the signature of the licensee.

 EXCEPTION: When authorized by the building official, plans and specifications need not be prepared by an engineer or architect licensed by the State of Washington for the following:

 1. One- and two-family dwellings.

 2. New buildings or structures, and additions, alterations or repairs of conventional light frame construction, having a total valuation of less than $30,000.

 3. Nonstructural alterations and repairs having a total valuation of less than $30,000, excluding electrical and mechanical systems, fixtures, equipment, interior finish and millwork.

 4. The building official may accept the design of a licensed professional engineer for assembly line products or designed specialty structural products.

 5. Other work as specified in rules promulgated by the Director.

 106.5.2.3 Clarity of Plans. Plans shall be drawn to a clearly indicated and commonly accepted scale upon substantial paper such as blueprint quality or standard drafting paper. Tissue paper, posterboard or cardboard will not be accepted. The plans shall be of microfilm quality and limited to a minimum size of 18 inches by 18 inches and a maximum size of 41 inches by 54 inches.

 EXCEPTION: The plans for metal plate connected wood trusses may be not less than 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches for single family structures and no less than 11 inches by 17 inches for all other structures.

 106.5.2.4 Information Required on Plans. Plans shall include the following, as applicable:

 1. A plot plan showing the width of streets, alleys, yards and courts.

 2. The location (and/or location within a building), floor area, story, height, type of construction and occupancy classification as defined by the building code and use as defined by the Land Use Codes of the proposed building and of every existing building on the property.

 3. Where there are more than two buildings located on a property, a building identification plan identifying the location of each building on the property and identifying each building by a numbering system unrelated to address. Such plan shall not be required where a plan for the site is already on file and no new buildings are being added to the site.

 4. Types of heating and air conditioning systems.

 5. Architectural plans, including floor plans, elevations and door and finish schedules showing location of all doors, windows, mechanical equipment, shafts, pipes, vents and ducts.

 6. Structural plans, including foundation plan and framing plans.

 7. Cross-sections and construction details for both architectural and structural plans including wall sections, foundation, floor and roof details, connections of structural members and types of construction material.

 8. Topographic plans, including original and final contours, location of all buildings and structures on and, when required by the building official, adjacent to the site, and cubic yards of cut and fill.

 A survey of the property prepared by a land surveyor licensed by the State of Washington shall be required for all new construction, and for additions or accessory buildings where the building official has reason to believe that there may be an intrusion into required open areas or over the property line.

 9. Where any building or structure is to be erected or constructed on property abutting an unimproved or partially improved street or alley, such plans shall also include a profile showing the established or proposed grade of such street or alley, based upon information obtained from the Director of ~~Engineering~~Transportation relating to the proposed finished elevations of the property and improvements thereon.

 106.5.2.5 Information on First Sheet. The first or general note sheet of each set of plans shall specify the following, as applicable:

 1. The building and street address of the work.

 2. The name and address of the owner and person who prepared the plans.

 3. Legal description of the property.

 4. Type of occupancy of all parts of the building as defined in this building code including notation of fixed fire protection devices or systems.

 5. Zoning classification of the property and existing and proposed uses of the structure as defined in the Land Use Code.

 6. Indication of location within the fire district as defined in this building code, if applicable.

 7. Type of construction as defined in this building code.

 8. Number of stories and basements as defined in this building code.

 9. Variances, conditional uses, special exceptions, including project numbers, approval and approval extension dates.

 10. Where applicable, a description of the design selected and approved at a Section 307 hazardous occupancy pre-design conference, a Section 402 atrium pre-design conference, a Section 403 highrise building pre-design conference, a Section 1627 seismic design pre- design conference or a similar conference on a building subject to Fire Code Article 93.

 106.5.2.6 Structural Notes. Plans submitted for buildings with an occupant load of 50 or more, buildings of more than two stories, buildings of more than 4,500 square feet total floor area or buildings or other structures that are determined by the building official to embody hazards or complex structural concepts shall include applicable information including, but not limited to, the following:

 1. Design loads: Snow load, live loads and live load reductions and lateral loads.

 When required by the building official, the structural notes for plans engineered to Part III, Earthquake Design, of Chapter 16 shall include the factors of the base shear formula used in the design;

 2. Foundations: Foundation investigations, allowable bearing pressure for spread footings, allowable load capacity of piles, pile driving formulas, lateral earth pressure;

 3. Soil fill and back fill: Type, compaction and drainage;

 4. Masonry: Type and strength of units, strength or proportions of mortar and grout, type and strength of reinforcement, method of testing, design strength;

 5. Wood: Species or species groups, and grades of sawn lumber, glued-laminated lumber, plywood and assemblies, type of fasteners;

 6. Concrete: Design strengths, mix designs, type and strength of reinforcing steel, welding of reinforcing steel, restrictions, if any;

 7. Steel and aluminum: Specification types, grades and strengths, welding electrode types and strengths;

 8. Assignment of responsibilities for inspection and testing during construction, and the degree of inspection and testing;

 9. Computations, stress diagrams, shop and fabrication drawings and other data sufficient to show the adequacy of the plans shall be submitted when required by the building official.

 In lieu of detailed structural notes the building official may approve minor references on the plans to a specific section or part of this building code or other ordinances or laws.

 106.5.2.7 Fire-Resistive Notes. The building official may require that plans for buildings more than two stories in height of other than Groups R, Division 3 and U Occupancies indicate how required structural and fire-resistive integrity will be maintained where a penetration will be made for electrical, mechanical, plumbing and communication conduits, pipes and similar systems.

 The building official may require that, when required for fire- resistive construction, the method of installation of wall and ceiling coverings and the protection of structural parts be specified on the plans unless the listing which documents the rating specifies a method no more restrictive than the minimum standards of Chapter 25.

 Section Section 106.9 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 106.9 Expiration and Renewal.

 106.9.1 ~~General~~Expiration. Permits and renewed permits shall expire eighteen months from the date of issuance.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Initial permits for major construction projects that require more than eighteen months to complete, according to a construction schedule submitted by the applicant, may be issued for a period that provides reasonable time to complete the work but in no case longer than three years.

 2. Permits which expire in less than eighteen months may be issued where the building official determines a shorter period is appropriate.

 106.9.2 Renewal. Permits may be renewed and renewed permits may be further renewed by the building official provided the following conditions are met:

 1. Application for renewal shall be made within the thirty-day period immediately preceding the date of expiration of the permit; and

 2. If the permit has had an associated discretionary Land Use review,  (a) the Land Use application was approved for issuance five years or less before the date of the application for renewal; or

(b)~~T~~the work authorized by the permit has been started and is substantially underway. "Substantially underway" means that work such as excavation, inspections, and installation of framing, electrical, mechanical, finish work is being completed on a continuing basis.

~~progressing at a rate approved by the building official. Progress justifying renewal of a permit, except as specified by Item 3, may include, but is not limited to, requesting of a required inspection, the arranging of financing, selection of contractors and subcontractors, securing other necessary permits and licenses, site preparation such as demolition, clearing and excavation, soils investigation and work done to overcome unusual construction difficulties; and~~

 3. If an application for renewal is made either more than eighteen months after the date of mandatory compliance with a new or revised edition of the building code or after the effective date of an amendment to applicable provisions of the Land Use ~~or Zoning~~ Code~~s~~, SEPA (the State Environmental Policy Act as adopted by the City of Seattle and codified in SMC Chapter 25.05) or the Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas, the permit shall not be renewed unless:

 3.1 The building official determines ~~by plans examination~~ that the permit complies, or is modified to comply, with the code or codes in effect on the date of application renewal; or

 3.2 The work authorized by the permit is substantially underway and progressing at a rate approved by the building official. ~~Progress justifying renewal of the permit shall be evidenced by notification by the permit holder that a construction step is ready for an inspection required by Section 108.5 of this code.~~"Substantially underway" means that work such as excavation, inspections, and installation of framing, electrical, mechanical and finish work is being completed on a continuing basis.

 Permits may also be renewed where commencement or completion of the work authorized by the permit is delayed by litigation, appeals, strikes or other causes related to the work authorized by the permit, beyond the permit holder's control.

Note: In addition to satisfying the provisions of this section, an applicant seeking to renew a building permit for new or additional development in a landslide-prone area, as described in the Environmentally Critical Areas (ECA) Ordinance, (SMC 25.09), must satisfy Section 25.09.345 of the ECA Ordinance, Permit Renewals in Landslide-prone Areas.

 Section Section 106.10 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117865, is amended as follows:

 106.10 Temporary Permits

 106.10.1 Tents and Similar Facilities. The building official may issue a nonrenewable permit to erect and maintain for a period not to exceed six months, a tent or other temporary structure to be used for religious services, conventions, circuses, carnivals, fairs, special sales or similar uses.

 Such structures shall be removed before the expiration of the six month period specified on the permit and such removal shall be guaranteed by a cash deposit with the building official or by a surety bond, the amount of which, in either case, shall be fixed by the building official.

 Note: The Land Use Code may impose additional restrictions on tents and temporary structures.

 The conditions relative to the cash deposit or the bond shall be such that in case of failure of the occupant or owner to conform to any of the lawful requirements of the City relative to erection, maintenance or removal of said tent or other structure, the properly authorized officers of the City may enter the premises and take such steps as are necessary to conform to such lawful requirements, and shall recover the cost thereof from the cash deposit or bond.

 The construction of the structure shall be subject to reasonable safeguards for the persons and property as the building official shall prescribe. The nature and extent of fire-extinguishing equipment and decorations shall be subject to the requirements of the fire chief, and the sanitary facilities shall meet the requirements of the Director of Public Health.

 106.10.2 Temporary Structures. Temporary structures such as reviewing stands and other miscellaneous structures conforming to the requirements of this building code, and sheds, canopies, or fences used for the protection of the public around and in conjunction with construction work may be erected by special permit from the building official for a limited period of time and such building or structure shall be subject to the bonding, removal and safety provisions noted in Section 106.10.1. Temporary buildings or structures in the right- of-way shall be regulated by the Director of ~~Engineering~~ Transportation.

 106.10.3 Temporary Office Trailers. The building official may issue a non-renewable building/use permit for eighteen months for the installation of a Commercial Coach or Modular Home as a temporary office or other uses as may be determined by the building official, subject to the following:

 1. The Commercial Coach shall be identified by a State of Washington black sticker located by the door. The structure may be placed on a temporary foundation and shall be anchored to resist wind and seismic lateral forces.

 2. The Modular Home shall be identified by a State of Washington gold sticker located by the door. It will be accepted as long as no heavy storage is anticipated for the temporary office use. The structure may be placed on a temporary foundation and shall be anchored to resist wind and seismic lateral forces.

 3. A plot plan shall be submitted to verify compliance with the Land Use Code and to check exposure to other buildings.

 4. The proposed use must be one permitted outright under the Land Use Code and comply with all other pertinent laws and ordinances.

 5. Construction offices shall be regulated by Section 106.10.4.

 The permit may be renewed after inspection by the building official if the trailer complies with this section.

 106.10.4 Construction Buildings. The building official may issue a permit to erect and maintain construction offices, dry shacks and similar temporary buildings, including material and equipment storage, all for the purpose of constructing an improvement.

 EXCEPTION: Construction offices and similar temporary buildings located on the same premises for which a construction permit has been issued, do not require an additional temporary permit.

 Such structures shall be removed within 14 days after the termination of the permit, and such removal shall be guaranteed by a cash deposit with the building official or by a surety bond, the amount of which, in either case, shall be fixed by the building official.

 The conditions relative to the cash deposit or the bond shall be such that in case of failure of the occupant or owner to conform to any of the lawful requirements of the City relative to erection, maintenance or removal of said construction offices, dry shacks or similar temporary buildings, the properly authorized officers of the City may enter the premises and take such steps as are necessary to conform to such lawful requirements, and shall recover the cost thereof from the cash deposit or bond.

 The construction of the structure shall be subject to reasonable safeguards for persons and property as the building official shall prescribe; the nature and extent of fire-extinguishing equipment shall be subject to the requirements of the fire chief, and the sanitary facilities shall meet the requirements of the Director of Public Health.

 Section Section 202 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 SECTION 202 -- A

 ACCESS FLOOR SYSTEM is an assembly consisting of panels mounted on pedestals to provide an underanagementfloor space for the installations of mechanical, electrical, communication or similar systems or to serve as an airanagementsupply or returnanagementair plenum.

 ACI is the American Concrete Institute, Box 19150, Redford Station, Detroit, Michigan 48219

 ADDITION is an extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or structure.

 AEROSOL is a product which is dispensed by a propellant from a metal can up to a maximum size of 33.8 fluid ounces (1000 mL) or a glass or plastic bottle up to a size of 4 fluid ounces (118.2 mL), other than a rimanagementvented container.

 VIAQ: AGGREGATE, for the purpose of emission control design is crushed stone, stone, or other inert material or combinations thereof having hard, strong, durable pieces.

 AGRICULTURAL BUILDING is a structure designed and constructed to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products. This structure shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of employment where agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged; nor shall it be a place used by the public.

 VIAQ: AIR BARRIER is a continuous material or system of materials utilized for the purpose of minimizing the movement of air across a defined boundary, and capable of withstanding the maximum pressure developed across it, without failing by becoming significantly more leaky.

 VIAQ: AIR, SUPPLY is that air delivered to the conditioned space and used for ventilation, heating, cooling, humidification or dehumidification.

 AISC is the American Institute of Steel Construction, Inc., One East Wacker Drive, Suite 3100, Chicago, Illinois 60601anagement2001.

 ALLEY is any public way or thoroughfare16 feet (4877 mm) or less but not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) in width which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use.

 ALTER or ALTERATION is any change, addition or modification in construction or occupancy.

 AMUSEMENT BUILDING. See Section 408.2.

 ANSI is the American National Standards Institute, 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018.

 APARTMENT HOUSE is any building or portion thereof which contains three or more dwelling units and, for the purpose of this code, includes residential condominiums.

 APPROVED, as to materials and types of construction, refers to approval by the building official as the result of investigation and tests conducted by the building official, or by reason of accepted principles or tests by recognized authorities, technical or scientific organizations.

 APPROVED AGENCY is an established and recognized agency regularly engaged in conducting tests or furnishing inspection services, when such agency has been approved.

 APPROVED FABRICATOR is an established and qualified person, firm or corporation approved by the building official pursuant to Section 1701.7 of this code.

 ARCHITECT. See "Project Architect or Engineer."

 AREA. See "floor area."

 ASSEMBLY BUILDING is a building or portion of a building used for the gathering together of 50 or more persons for such purposes as deliberation, education, instruction, worship, entertainment, amusement, drinking or dining or awaiting transportation.

 ASTM is the American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

 ATRIUM is an opening through two or more floor levels other than enclosed stairways, elevators, hoistways, escalators, plumbing, electrical, airanagementconditioning or other equipment, which is closed at the top and not defined as a mall. Floor levels, as used in this definition, do not include balconies within assembly occupancies or mezzanines which comply with Section ~~506, Exception 3~~507.

 AUTOMATIC, as applied to fireanagementprotection devices, is a device or system providing an emergency function without the necessity of human intervention and activated as a result of a predetermined temperature rise, rate of rise of temperature or increase in the level of combustion products.

 AWNING. See Section 3204.

 AWNING SIGN. See Section 3204.

 Section Section 209 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 SECTION 209 --H

 HABITABLE SPACE (ROOM) is space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility space, and similar areas, are not considered habitable space.

 HANDLING is the deliberate transport of materials by any means to a point of storage or use.

 HANDRAIL is a railing provided for grasping with the hand for support. See also Section 208, definition of "guardrail."

 HAZARDOUS PRODUCTION MATERIAL (HPM) is a solid, liquid or gas that has a degree of hazard rating in health, flammability or reactivity of 3 or 4 and which is used directly in research, laboratory or production processes which have, as their end product, materials which are not hazardous.

 HEALTH HAZARD is a classification of a chemical for which there is statistically significant evidence based on at least one ~~reproducible~~ study conducted in accordance with established scientific principles that acute or chronic health effects may occur in exposed persons. The term "health hazard" includes chemicals which are carcinogens, toxic or highly toxic agents, reproductive toxins, irritants, corrosives, sensitizers, hepatotoxins, nephrotoxins, neurotoxins, agents which ~~can have an acute effect~~act on the hematopoietic system, and agents which damage~~that have acute effects on~~ the lungs, skin, eyes or mucous membranes.

 HEIGHT OF BUILDING is the vertical distance above a reference datum measured to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof. The reference datum shall be selected by either of the following, whichever yields a greater height of building:

 1. The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface within a 5anagementfoot (1524 mm) horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the building when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than 10 feet (3048 mm) above lowest grade.

 2. An elevation 10 feet (3048 mm) higher than the lowest grade when the sidewalk or ground surface described in Item 1 above is more than 10 feet (3048 mm) above lowest grade.

 The height of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum height of any segment of the building.

 HELIPORT is an area of land or water or a structural surface which is used, or intended for use, for the landing and takeanagementoff of helicopters, and any appurtenant areas which are used, or intended for use, for heliport buildings and other heliport facilities.

 HELISTOP is the same as a heliport, except that no refueling, maintenance, repairs or storage of helicopters is permitted.

 HIGHLY TOXIC MATERIAL is a material which produces a lethal dose or a lethal concentration which falls within any of the following categories:

 1. A chemical that has a median lethal dose (LD50) of 50 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight when administered orally to albino rats weighing between 200 and 300 grams each.

 2. A chemical that has a median lethal dose (LD50) of 200 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight when administered by continuous contact for 24 hours (or less if death occurs within 24 hours) with the bare skin of albino rabbits weighing between 2 and 3 kilograms each.

 3. A chemical that has a median lethal concentration (LC50) in air of 200 parts per million by volume or less of gas or vapor, or 2 milligrams per liter or less of mist, fume or dust, when administered by continuous inhalation for one hour (or less if death occurs within one hour) to albino rats weighing between 200 and 300 grams each.

 Mixtures of these materials with ordinary materials, such as water, may not warrant a classification of highly toxic. While this system is basically simple in application, any hazard evaluation which is required for the precise categorization of this type of material shall be performed by experienced, technically competent persons.

 HORIZONTAL EXIT. See Section 1001.2.

 HOTEL is any building containing six or more guest rooms intended or designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.

 HOTanagementWATERanagementHEATING BOILER is a boiler having a volume exceeding 120 gallons (454.2 L), or a heat input exceeding 200,000 Btu/h (149 540 kW), or an operating temperature exceeding 210 F. (99 C.) that provides hot water to be used externally to itself.

 HPM STORAGE ROOM is a room used for the storage or dispensing of hazardous production materials (HPM) and which is classified as a Group H, Division 2, 3 or 7 Occupancy.

 VIAQ: HVAC means heating, ventilating and air conditioning.

 Section Section 305.2 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 305.2 Construction, Height and Allowable Area.

 305.2.1 General. Buildings or parts of buildings classed in Group E because of the use or character of the occupancy shall be limited to the types of construction set forth in Table 5anagementB and shall not exceed, in area or height, the limits specified in Sections 504, 505 and 506, except that the area may be increased by 50 percent when the maximum travel distance specified in Section 1003.4 is reduced by 50 percent.

 305.2.2 Atmospheric separation requirements.

 305.2.2.1 Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter and Section 1017, the following definitions are applicable:

 COMMON ATMOSPHERE. A common atmosphere exists between rooms, spaces or areas within a building which are not separated by an approved smokeanagement and draftanagementstop barrier.

 SEPARATE ATMOSPHERE. A separate atmosphere exists between rooms, spaces or areas that are separated by an approved smoke barrier.

 SMOKE BARRIER. A smoke barrier consists of walls, partitions, floors and openings therein as will prevent the transmission of smoke or gases through the construction. See Section 905.

 305.2.2.2 General provisions. The provisions of this section apply when a separate exit system is required in accordance with Section 1017.

 Walls, partitions and floors forming all or part of an atmospheric separation shall be as required by Section 905.2.3. Glass lights of approved wired glass set in steel frames may be installed in such walls or partitions.

 All automaticanagementclosing fire assemblies installed in the atmospheric separation shall be activated by approved smoke detectors.

 The specific requirements of this section are not intended to prevent the design or use of other systems, equipment or techniques which will effectively prevent the products of combustion from breaching the atmospheric separation.

 305.2.3 Special provisions. Rooms in Divisions 1 and 2 Occupancies used for kindergarten, firstanagement or secondanagementgrade pupils, and Division 3 Occupancies shall not be located above or below the first story.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Basements or stories having floor levels located within 4 feet (1219 mm), measured vertically, from adjacent ground level at the point of exit, provided the basement or story has exits directly to the exterior at that level.

 2. In buildings equipped with an automatic sprinkler system throughout, rooms used for kindergarten, and firstanagement ~~and second-~~ grade children or for dayanagementcare purposes may be located on the second story, provided there are at least two exits directly to the exterior for the exclusive use of such occupants or into separate exit systems as defined in Section 1017.

 3. Division 3 Occupancies may be located above the first story in buildings of Type I construction and in Types IIanagementF.R., II Oneanagementhour and III Oneanagementhour construction, subject to the limitation of Section 506 when:

 3.1 Division 3 Occupancies containing more than 12 children per story shall not be located above the fourth floor; and

 3.2 The entire story in which the dayanagementcare facility is located is equipped with an approved manual fire alarm and smokeanagementdetection system. (See the Fire Code.) Actuation of an initiating device shall sound an audible alarm throughout the entire story. When a building fire alarm system is required by other provisions of this code or the Fire Code, the alarm system shall be connected to the building alarm system.

 An approved alarm signal shall sound at an approved location in the dayanagementcare occupancy to indicate a fire alarm or sprinkler flow condition in other portions of the building; and

 3.3 The dayanagementcare facility, if more than 1,000 square feet (92.9 m2) in area, is divided into at least two compartments of approximately the same size by a smoke barrier with door openings protected by smokeanagement and draftanagementcontrol assemblies having a fireanagementprotection rating of not less than 20 minutes. Smoke barriers shall have a fireanagementresistive rating of not less than one hour. In addition to the requirements of Section 302, occupancy separations between Division 3 Occupancies and other occupancies shall be constructed as smoke barriers. Door openings in the smoke barrier shall be tight fitting with gaskets installed as required by Section 1005, and shall be automatic closing by actuation of the automatic sprinklers, fire alarm or smokeanagement detection system. Openings for ducts and other heating, ventilating and airanagementconditioning openings shall be equipped with a minimum Class I, 250 F. (121 C.) smoke damper as defined and tested in accordance with approved recognized standards. See Chapter 35, Part III. The damper shall close upon detection of smoke by an approved smoke detector located within the duct, or upon the activation of the fire alarm system; and

 3.4 Each compartment formed by the smoke barrier has not less than two exits, one of which is permitted to pass through the adjoining compartment; and

 3.5 At least one exit from the Division 3 Occupancy shall be into a separate exiting system as defined in Section 1017; and

 3.6 The building is equipped with an automatic sprinkler system throughout.

4. In buildings equipped with an automatic sprinkler system throughout using fast-response heads, rooms used for second-grade children may be located on the second story. In existing buildings, fast-response heads are not required in attic spaces.

Stages and platforms shall be constructed in accordance with Chapter 4. For attic space partitions and draft stops, see Section 708.

 305.2.4 Special hazards. Laboratories, vocational shops and similar areas containing hazardous materials shall be separated from each other and from other portions of the building by not less than a oneanagement hour fireanagementresistive occupancy separation. When the quantities of hazardous materials in such uses do not exceed those listed in Table 3anagementD or 3anagementE, the requirements of Sections 307.5.2 and 307.8 shall apply. When the quantities of hazardous materials in such uses exceed those listed in Table 3anagementD or 3anagementE, the use shall be classified as the appropriate Group H Occupancy.

 See Section 1017.7 for exiting from laboratories in Group E Occupancies.

 Equipment in rooms or groups of rooms sharing a common atmosphere where flammable liquids, combustible dust or hazardous materials are used, stored, developed or handled shall conform to the requirements of the Fire Code.

 Section Section 311.1 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 311.2 Construction, Height and Allowable Area.

 311.2.1 General. Buildings or parts of buildings classed in Group S Occupancy because of the use or character of the occupancy shall be limited to the types of construction set forth in Table 5anagementB and shall not exceed, in area or height, the limits specified in Sections 504, 505 and 506.

 311.2.2 Special provisions.

 311.2.2.1 Group R, Division 1 or Group S, Division 3 with Group A, Division 3; Group B; Group M ~~or~~ R, Division 1 or Group S, Division 3 or 4 Occupancy above. Other provisions of this code notwithstanding, a basement,~~or~~ first or second story of a building may be considered as a separate and distinct building for the purpose of area limitations, limitation of number of stories and type of construction, when all of the following conditions are met:

 1. The basement,~~or~~ first and second~~story is~~stories are of Type I construction and ~~is~~are separated from the building above with a threeanagementhour occupancy separation. See Section 302.3.

 2. The building above the threeanagementhour occupancy separation contains only Group A, Division 3; Group B; or Group M or R, Division 1 Occupancies, or a Group S, Division 3 or 4 Occupancy used exclusively for the parking and storage of private or pleasureanagementtype motor vehicles.

 3. The building below the threeanagementhour occupancy separation is a Group R, Division 1 Occupancy or a Group S, Division 3 Occupancy used exclusively for the parking and storage of private or pleasureanagementtype motor vehicles.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Entry lobbies, mechanical rooms and similar uses incidental to the operation of the building.

 2. Group A, Division 3 and Group B office, drinking and dining establishments and Group M retail occupancies in addition to those uses incidental to the operation of the building (including storage areas), provided that the entire structure below the threeanagementhour occupancy separation is protected throughout by an automatic sprinkler system.

 4. The maximum building height in feet shall not exceed the limits set forth in Table 5anagementB for the least type of construction involved.

5. Where a second story is located below the threeanagementhour occupancy separation, the building shall comply with the following:  5.1 The threeanagementhour occupancy separation shall be no more than 15 feet above the highest grade and no more than 25 feet above the lowest grade; and

 5.2 When the building above the threeanagementhour occupancy separation contains more than three stories of Type III or Type V construction, all portions of the buildings above and below the occupancy separation shall be protected throughout with an automatic sprinkler system that complies with U.B.C. Standard 9-1; and

 5.3 Occupied areas, including roof decks, shall be not more than 75 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access.

Code Alternate CA311.2a: When the upper building is of Type V-One hour construction, the height may be measured from the ~~finish floor of the floor-ceiling assembly directly above the first story of the Type I-F.R. building~~ three-hour occupancy separation, provided the building~~,~~ above and below the separation~~,~~ is protected throughout by an automatic sprinkler system designed to U.B.C. Standard ~~No.~~ 9-1 (NFPA 13).

 Code Alternate CA311.2b: Exterior walls on floors in the Type I building may have opening protection as required for the building above the three-hour occupancy separation, provided the following criteria are met:

 1. The floor contains a Group S, Division 3 parking garage; and

 2. The floor is protected by an automatic sprinkler system conforming to U.B.C. Standard ~~No.~~ 9-1.

 311.2.2.2 Group S, Division 3 Occupancy with Group S, Division 4 Occupancy above. Other provisions of this code notwithstanding, a Group S, Division 3 Occupancy, located in the basement or first story below a Group S, Division 4 Occupancy, as defined in Section 311.9, may be classified as a separate and distinct building for the purpose of determining the type of construction when all of the following conditions are met:

 1. The allowable area of the structure shall be such that the sum of the ratios of the actual area divided by the allowable area for each separate occupancy shall not exceed one.

 2. The Group S, Division 3 Occupancy is of Type I or II construction and is at least equal to the fire resistance of the Group S, Division 4 Occupancy.

 3. The height and the number of the tiers above the basement shall be limited as specified in Table 3anagementH or Section 311.9.5.

 4. The flooranagementceiling assembly separating the Group S, Division 3 and Group S, Division 4 Occupancy shall be protected as required for the flooranagementceiling assembly of the Group S, Division 3 Occupancy. Openings between the Group S, Division 3 and Group S, Division 4 Occupancy, except exit openings, need not be protected.

 5. The Group S, Division 3 Occupancy is used exclusively for the parking or storage of private or pleasureanagementtype motor vehicles, but may contain (i) mechanical equipment rooms incidental to the operation of the building and (ii) an office, and waiting and toilet rooms having a total area of not more than 1,000 square feet (93 m2).

 311.2.3 Specific use provisions.

 311.2.3.1 Group S, Divisions 3 and 5 Occupancies. In areas where motor vehicles, boats or aircraft are stored, and in motor vehicle fuelanagement dispensing stations and repair garages, floor surfaces shall be of noncombustible, nonabsorbent materials. Floors shall drain to an approved oil separator or trap discharging to sewers in accordance with the Plumbing Code.

 EXCEPTION: Floors may be surfaced or waterproofed with asphaltic paving materials in areas where motor vehicles or aircraft are stored or operated.

 311.2.3.2 Marine or motor vehicle fuelanagementdispensing stations. Marine or motor vehicle fuelanagementdispensing stations, including canopies and supports over pumps, shall be of noncombustible, fireanagementretardantanagement treated wood or of oneanagementhour fireanagementresistive construction.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Roofs of oneanagementstory fuelanagementdispensing stations may be of heavyanagementtimber construction.

 2. Canopies conforming to Section 2603.13 may be erected over pumps.

 Canopies under which fuels are dispensed shall have a clear, unobstructed height of not less than 13 feet 6 inches (4114 mm) to the lowest projecting element in the vehicle driveanagementthrough area.

 A oneanagementhour occupancy separation need not be provided between fuelanagement dispensing pumps covered with a canopy that is open on three or more sides, and a Group M Occupancy retail store having an area of less than 2,500 square feet (225 m2) when the following conditions exist:

 1. The Group M Occupancy is provided with two exits separated as required by Section 1003 and not located in the same exterior wall.

 2. Pump islands are not located within 20 feet (6096 mm) of the Group M Occupancy retail store.

 311.2.3.3 Parking garage headroom. Parking garages shall have an unobstructed headroom clearance of not less than 6 feet 6 inches (1981 mm) above the finish floor to any ceiling, beam, pipe or similar obstruction, except for wallanagementmounted shelves, storage surfaces, racks or cabinets. See Section 1107 for requirements for accessible parking.

 311.2.3.4 Group S, Division 2 Occupancy roof framing. In Division 2 Occupancies, the roofanagementframing system may be of unprotected construction.

 311.2.3.5 Vehicle barriers. In parking garages where any parking area is located more than 5 feet (1524 mm) above the adjacent grade, vehicle barriers shall be provided.

 EXCEPTION: Parking garages of Group U, Division 1 Occupancies.

 Vehicle barriers shall have a minimum vertical dimension of 12 inches (305 mm) and shall be centered at 18 inches (457 mm) above the parking surface. See Table 16anagementB for load criterion.

 311.2.3.6 Mini-storage warehouses. In mini-storage warehouse buildings, individual storage lockers shall be separated from each other with one-hour fire-resistive construction, and openings in the separation shall have one-hour protection.

 EXCEPTION: The separation between individual storage lockers may be non-rated in rooms 500 square feet (46 m2) or less in area and in sprinklered rooms of any size.

 For storage accessory to Group R, Division 1 Occupancies, see Section 310.2.2. For automatic sprinkler system requirements for storage rooms in basements and basement-like stories, see Section 904.2.2.

 Section Section 313.8 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117865, is amended as follows:

 313.8 Smoke Detectors and Sprinkler Systems.

 313.8.1 Smoke detectors.

 313.8.1.1 General. Rooms within licensed care facilities that are used for sleeping purposes shall be provided with smoke detectors. Detectors shall be installed in accordance with the approved manufacturer's instructions.

 313.8.1.2 Additions, alterations or repairs. When the valuation of an addition, alteration or repair to a Group LC Occupancy exceeds ~~$1,000~~$2,500 and a permit is required, or when one or more sleeping rooms is added or created in an existing Group LC Occupancy, smoke detectors shall be installed in accordance with Sections 313.8.1.3 and 313.8.1.4 of this section.

 EXCEPTION: Repairs to the exterior surfaces are exempt from the requirements of this section.

 313.8.1.3 Power source. In new construction, required smoke detectors shall receive their primary power from the building wiring when such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. The detector shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch other than those required for overcurrent protection. Smoke detectors may be solely battery operated when installed in existing buildings; or in buildings without commercial power; or in buildings which undergo alterations, repairs or additions regulated by Section 313.8.1.2.

 313.8.1.4 Location. A detector shall be installed in each sleeping room and at a point centrally located in the corridor or area giving access to each separate sleeping area. When the licensed care facility has more than one story or in facilities with basements, a detector shall be installed on each story and in the basement. Where a story or basement is split into two or more levels, the smoke detector shall be installed on the upper level, except that when the lower level contains a sleeping area, a detector shall be installed on each level. When sleeping rooms are on an upper level, the detector shall be placed at the ceiling of the upper level in close proximity to the stairway. Where the ceiling height of a room open to a hallway serving the bedrooms exceeds that of the hallway by 24 inches (610 mm) or more, smoke detectors shall be installed in the hallway and in the adjacent room. Detectors shall sound an alarm audible in all sleeping areas of the licensed care facility in which they are located.

 313.8.2 Sprinkler and standpipe systems.

 313.8.2.1 Sprinkler systems. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout every licensed care facility three or more stories in height or licensed for more than 16 clients. Licensed care facilities with 16 or fewer clients, licensed to provide care for more than two clients who have an evacuation capability of II or III, shall be provided with an automatic sprinkler system throughout the facility.

 EXCEPTION: An automatic sprinkler system need not be installed in any licensed care facility licensed for six or fewer clients regardless of the level of evacuation capability.

 Where a sprinkler system is required, a system complying with U.B.C. Standard 9-1 shall be installed.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. An automatic sprinkler system complying with U.B.C. Standard 9-3 may be installed in buildings of four stories or less.

 2. Where a Group LC Occupancy is being established by change of occupancy in an existing building not protected by a sprinkler system as is required above for buildings of new construction, an automatic sprinkler system complying with N.F.P.A. Standard 13-D may be installed provided the care facility is licensed for not more than 16 clients.

 Residential or quick-response heads shall be used in all sprinkler systems.

 313.8.2.2 Standpipe systems. Standpipe systems shall be provided where required by Section 904.5.

 Section Table 3-B of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 TABLE 3anagementBrovidingREQUIRED SEPARATION IN BUILDINGS OF MIXED OCCUPANCY1 (HOURS)

 ************************

 Note: Tables 3-B cannot be displayed here. Check back later for

 a more complete document.

 ************************

 Section Section 404.5 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117712, is amended as follows:

 404.5 Occupancy.

 404.5.1 General. Covered mall buildings shall be classified as Group B or M Occupancies and may contain accessory uses consisting of Group A, B, E or R, Division 1 Occupancies. The area of individual accessory uses within a covered mall building shall not exceed three times the basic area permitted by Table 5anagementB of this code for the type of construction and the occupancy involved. The aggregate area of all accessory uses within a covered mall building shall not exceed 25 percent of the gross leasable area.

 An attached garage for the parking or storage of private or pleasureanagement type motor vehicles having a capacity of not more than nine persons and open parking garages may be considered as separate buildings when they are separated from the covered mall building by an occupancy separation having a fireanagementendurance time period of at least two hours.

 404.5.2 Mixed occupancy. Individual tenant spaces within a covered mall building which comprise a distinct "occupancy," as described in Chapter 3 of this code, shall be separated from any other occupancy as specified in Section 302.4 of this code.

 EXCEPTION: A main entrance which opens onto a mall need not be separated.

 Section Section 408.2 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 408.2 Definition. For the purposes of this code the following definition applies:

 AMUSEMENT BUILDING is a building or portion thereof, ~~temporary or permanent,~~ used for entertainment or educational purposes and which contains a system which transports passengers or provides a walkway through a course so arranged that the required exits are not apparent due to theatrical distractions, are disguised or not readily available due to the method of transportation through the building or structure.

 Permanent amusement building is any amusement building not otherwise classified as portable or temporary.

 Portable amusement structure is an amusement building designed and constructed to be portable, to be erected and used on a short term basis at each location.

 Temporary amusement building is an amusement building used for that purpose for a period of 6 weeks or less in any given twelve months.

 Section Section 412.10 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 412.10 Connection to Local Side Sewer System. Every floating home in a floating home moorage which is required under Section 412.8 to be connected to a public sewer shall be connected to the local side sewer system and no owner or operator of such a floating home moorage shall permit to be moored at such moorage under his/her control any floating home which is not connected to the local side sewer system. It is unlawful for any person to use, occupy or let any floating home for human habitation within the limits specified in Section 412.8 unless the same is connected to the sewer system.

 A reconnection permit shall be required for any floating home which is relocated from its original site of connection to a local side sewer system and such reconnection shall be subject to the approval of the Director of ~~Engineering~~Seattle Public Utilities as to compliance with this chapter.

 Section Section 412.18 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 412.18 Approval Of Moorage Site Plan Required. Every floating home moorage shall continuously conform to a moorage site plan which has been approved by the building official. Such approval shall be obtained as follows: Three copies of the site plan, drawn to scale and completely dimensioned, and setting forth the address and legal description of the property on which the moorage is located and the name and address of the owner or operator of the moorage, shall be filed with the building official.

 The moorage site plan shall show:

 1. The dimensions of the floating home moorage site;

 2. The location of abutting public waterways;

 3. The location and dimensions of private waterways and land access to the moorage;

 4. The location and identification of individual floating home sites;

 5. The location and dimensions of off-street parking spaces;

 6. The location and dimensions of walkways and any accessory structures or facilities;

 7. The water service system;

 8. The local side sewer system; and

 9. The electrical service and lighting system.

 Such site plan shall be examined by the building official, the fire chief, the director of public health, the ~~superintendent of water~~director of Seattle public utilities, and by the director of ~~engineering~~transportation, to each of whom the building official shall refer such plan. Upon approval of a floating home moorage site plan by the fire chief, the director of public health, the superintendent of water and the director of engineering as to compliance with laws and ordinances under their respective jurisdictions, and upon being satisfied that the plan conforms to the requirements of this code and other applicable ordinances and is otherwise lawful, the building official shall approve such plan. One copy of the approved site plan shall be retained in the office of the building official, one copy in the office of the director of public health, and one copy, which shall be maintained on the premises of the floating home moorage, shall be returned to the owner or operator.

 Section Section 503.4 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 503.4 Special Provisions and Exceptions to Table 5anagementA.

 503.4.1 General. The provisions of this section are exceptions to, or special provisions of, the construction requirements of Table 5anagementA, Chapters 3 and 6.

 503.4.2 Oneanagementstory Groups B, F, M, S and U Occupancies. In Groups B, F, M, S and U Occupancies, a fireanagementresistive time period will not be required for an exterior wall of a oneanagementstory, Type IIanagementN building, provided the floor area of the building does not exceed 1,000 square feet (93 m2) and such wall is located not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) from a property line.

 503.4.3 Fireanagementretardantanagementtreated wood framing. In Types III and IV construction, approved fireanagementretardantanagementtreated wood framing may be used within the assembly of exterior walls when Table 5anagementA allows a fireanagement resistive rating of two hours or less provided the required fire resistance is maintained and the exposed outer and inner faces of such walls are noncombustible.

 503.4.4 Wood columns and arches. In Types III and IV construction, wood columns and arches conforming to heavyanagementtimber sizes may be used externally when exterior walls are permitted to be unprotected, noncombustible construction or when oneanagementhour fireanagementresistive noncombustible exterior walls are permitted.

 503.4.5 Group H Occupanciesrovidingminimum distance to property lines. Regardless of any other provisions, Group H Occupancies shall be set back a minimum distance from property lines as set forth in Items 1 through 4 below. Distances shall be measured from the walls enclosing the occupancy to all property lines, including those on a public way.

 1. Group H, Division 1 Occupancies. Not less than 75 feet (22 860 mm) and not less than required by Table 3anagementF.

 2. Group H, Division 2 Occupancies. Not less than 30 feet (9144 mm) when the area of the occupancy exceeds 1,000 square feet (93 m2) and it is not required to be located in a detached building.

 3. Group H, Divisions 2 and 3 Occupancies. Not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) when a detached building is required. See Table 3anagement~~F~~G .

 4. Group H, Divisions 2 and 3 Occupancies containing materials with explosive characteristics. Not less than the distances required by Table 3anagementF.

 503.4.6 Group H, Division 1, 2 or 3 Occupanciesrovidingdetached buildings. When a detached building is required by Table 3anagementG, there are no requirements for wall and opening protection based on location on property.

 503.4.7 Group H, Division 4 Occupancies. Group H, Division 4 Occupancies having a floor area not exceeding 2,500 square feet (232 m2) may have exterior bearing walls of not less than twoanagementhour fireanagement resistive construction when less than 5 feet (1524 mm) from a property line, and not less than one hour when ~~not~~ less than 20 feet (6096 mm) to a property line.

 503.4.8 Group U, Division 1 Occupancies. In Group U, Division 1 Occupancies, exterior walls that are required to be of oneanagementhour fireanagement resistive construction due to location on property may be protected only on ~~the exterior~~one side with materials approved for oneanagementhour fireanagementresistive construction. See Section 503.

 503.4.9 Exterior wall assemblies. Exterior wall assemblies complying with Section 2602.5.2 may be used in all types of construction.

 Section Table 5-A of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 TABLE 5-ArovidingEXTERIOR WALL AND OPENING PROTECTION BASED ON LOCATION ON

 PROPERTY FOR ALL CONSTRUCTION TYPES1,2,3,7

 For exceptions, see Section 503.4.

 OCCUPANCY GROUP4CONSTRUCTIONEXTERIOR WALLSTYPEBearingNonbearingOPENINGS5Distances are measured to property lines (see Section 503). ( 304.8 for mmIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.Fouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetAanagement1II Oneanagementhour

 IIanagementN

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.

 V Oneanagementhour

 VanagementNGroup A, Division 1 Occupancies are not allowed in these construction types.Aanagement2

 Aanagement2.18

 Aanagement3

 Aanagement4IanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetII OneanagementhourTwoanagementhour N/C less than 10 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C elsewhereSame as bearing except NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetAanagement2

 Aanagement2.12, 8IIanagementN

 IIIanagementN

 VanagementNGroup A, Divisions 2 and 2.1 Occupancies are not allowed in these construction types.V OneanagementhourTwoanagementhour less than 10 feet

 Oneanagementhour elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetII OneanagementhourTwoanagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C elsewhereSame as bearing except NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetIIanagementNTwoanagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetAanagement3IIIanagementNFouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetV OneanagementhourTwoanagementhour less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetVanagementNTwoanagementhour less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour less than 16 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetII OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing except NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterProtected less than 10 feetIIanagementNOneanagement hour N/C less than 10 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearingProtected less than 10 feetAanagement4IIIanagement NFouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetV OneanagementhourOneanagementhourSame as bearingProtected less than 10 feetVanagementNOneanagementhour less than 10 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingProtected less than 10 feetB, Fanagement1, M, Sanagement1,

 Sanagement317IanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C elsewhereFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetII OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing except NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetB

 Fanagement1IIanagementN3Oneanagementhour N/C less than 10 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearing ~~except NR, N/C 40 feet or greater~~Not permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetM

 Sanagement1, Sanagement3V OneanagementhourOneanagementhourSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetVanagementNOneanagementhour less than 10 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetII OneanagementhourTwoanagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C elsewhereSame as bearing except

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetEanagement1

 Eanagement29

 Eanagement39IIanagementNTwoanagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 10 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearing ~~except~~NR, N/C 40 feet or greater

Not permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feet

 V OneanagementhourTwoanagementhour less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetVanagementNTwoanagementhour less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour less than 10 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/C less than 3 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C elsewhereFouranagementhour N/C less than 3 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 3 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetII OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feetFanagement2

 Sanagement2IIanagementN3Oneanagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feetV Oneanagement hourOneanagementhourSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feetVanagementNOneanagementhour less than 5 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feetIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.Fouranagementhour N/CNR N/CNot restricted3II OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CNR N/CNot restricted3Hanagement12,3,10, 11IIanagementNNR N/CSame as bearingNot restricted3III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.

 V Oneanagementhour

 VanagementNGroup H, Division 1 Occupancies are not allowed in buildings of these construction types.IanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 10 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetII OneanagementhourFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 10 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C elsewhereFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 10 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetHanagement22,3,10,12

 Hanagement32,3,10,13

 Hanagement43,10,14IIanagementNFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 10 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetHanagement6

 Hanagement7V OneanagementhourFouranagementhour less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour less than 10 feet

 Oneanagementhour elsewhereOneanagementhour less than 10 feet

 NR elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetVanagementNFouranagementhour less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour less than 10 feet

 Oneanagementhour less than 16 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 60 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereProtected less than 60 feetHanagement52,11II OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing, except NR,

 N/C 60 feet or greaterProtected less than 60 feet

IIanagementNOneanagementhour N/C less than 60 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearingProtected less than 60 feetV Oneanagement hourOneanagementhourSame as bearingProtected less than 60 feetHanagement52,11VanagementNOneanagement hour less than 60 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingProtected less than 60 feetIanagement1.1

 Ianagement1.2

 Ianagement2

 Ianagement3IanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.Fouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetIanagement1.1

 Ianagement1.2II OneanagementhourTwoanagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C elsewhereSame as bearing except

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetIanagement32,15V OneanagementhourTwoanagementhour less than 5 feet

 Oneanagementhour elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetIanagement1.1

 Ianagement1.2

 Ianagement2

 Ianagement3IIanagementN

 IIIanagementN

 VanagementNThese occupancies are not allowed in buildings of these construction types.6,15Ianagement3IVanagementH.T.Group I, Division 3 Occupancies are not allowed in buildings of this construction type.Ianagement1.1

 Ianagement1.2

 Ianagement2

 Ianagement315III OneanagementhourFouranagementhour N/CSame as bearing except

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetIanagement1.1

 Ianagement1.2

 Ianagement2IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/CSame as bearing except

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetIanagement2II OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing except

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetV OneanagementhourOneanagementhourSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/C less than 3 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C elsewhereFouranagementhour N/C less than 3 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 3 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetRanagement1II OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing except

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feetIIanagementNOneanagementhour N/C less than 5 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearing ~~except~~NR, N/C 40 feet or greater

Not permitted less than 5 feetV Oneanagement hourOneanagementhourSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feetVanagementNOneanagementhour less than 5 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feetIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 3 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 3 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetRanagement3II OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing except

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 3 feetIIanagementNOneanagementhour N/C less than 3 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 3 feetV Oneanagement hourOneanagementhourSame as bearingNot permitted less than 3 feetVanagementNOneanagementhour less than 3 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 3 feetIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 II Oneanagementhour

 IIanagementN3Oneanagementhour N/C less than 10 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 10 feetSanagement4III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementN

 IVanagementH.T.

 V Oneanagementhour

 VanagementNGroup S, Division 4 open parking garages are not permitted in these types of construction.II OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing except NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetSanagement5IIIanagementN3Oneanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearing except NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetV OneanagementhourOneanagementhourSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetVanagementN3Oneanagementhour less than 16 feet

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 5 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetIanagementF.R.

 IIanagementF.R.

 III Oneanagementhour

 IIIanagementNIVanagementH.T.Fouranagementhour N/CFouranagementhour N/C less than 3 feet

 Twoanagementhour N/C less than 16 feet

 Oneanagementhour N/C less than 40 feet

 NR, N/C elsewhereNot permitted less than 3 feet

 Protected less than 16 feetII OneanagementhourOneanagementhour N/CSame as bearing except

 NR, N/C 40 feet or greaterNot permitted less than 3 feetUanagement13V Oneanagement hourOneanagementhourSame as bearingNot permitted less than 3 feetIIanagementN2Oneanagementhour N/C less than 3 feet3,16

 NR, N/C elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 3 feetVanagementNOneanagement hour less than 3 feet3,16

 NR elsewhereSame as bearingNot permitted less than 3 feetUanagement2AllNot regulatedN/C roviding Noncombustible. N R roviding Nonrated. H.T. roviding Heavy timber. F.R. roviding Fire resistive.1See Section 503 for types of walls affected and requirements covering percentage of openings permitted in exterior walls. For walls facing streets, yards and public ways, see also Section 601.5.2For additional restrictions see Chapters 3 and 6.3For special provisions and exceptions, see also Section 503.4.4See Table 3anagementA for a description of each occupancy type.

 5Openings requiring protection in exterior walls shall be protected by a fire assembly having at least a threeanagementfourthsanagementhour fireanagementprotection rating.

 6See Section 308.2.1, Exception 3.

 7 See Sections 602 and 603 for allowances of fire-retardant-treated wood in walls which otherwise are required to be noncombustible.

 8See Section 303.2.2.1 for limitations on Group A-2.1 Occupancies with an occupant load in excess of 1000.

 9See Section 305.3 for exceptions for Types II-One hour, II-N and V construction.

 10For special provisions for Group H Occupancies, see Sections 307.2.11 and 307.3. When a detached building is required for group H, Division 1, 2 or 3 Occupancies, there are no requirements for wall and opening protection based on location.

 11 Group H, Divisions 1 and 5 Occupancies are prohibited in the Downtown Fire District. See Section 511.

 12Group H, Division 2 Occupancies with floor area greater than 500 square feet (46 m2) are prohibited in the Downtown Fire District. See Section 511.

 13Group H, Division 3 Occupancies with floor area greater than 1,500 square feet (139 m2) are prohibited in the Downtown Fire District. See Section 511.

 14Group H, Division 4 Occupancies having a floor area not exceeding 2,500 square feet (232 m2) may have exterior walls of not less than two-hour fire-resistive construction when less than 5 feet (1524 mm) from a property line and of not less than one-hour fire-resistive construction when 5 feet (1524 mm) or more but less than 16 feet (4877 mm) from a property line. See Section 307.2.11.

 15See Section 308.2.2.2 for special provisions for Group I-3 Occupancies.

 16The requirement for one-hour fire-resistive construction may be limited to the installation of materials approved for such on the outside only. (See Sections 302 and 503).

 17For code alternate for Group S-3 Occupancies in mixed-use buildings, see Section 311.2.2.1.

 Section Table 5-B of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 TABLE 5-BrovidingBASIC ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHTS AND BASIC ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA FOR BUILDINGS ONE STORY IN HEIGHT1

 TYPES OF CONSTRUCTIONIIIIIIIVVF.R.F.R.OneanagementhourNOneanagementhourNH.T.Oneanagement hourNMaximum Height (feet)UL160

 (48 768 mm)65

 (19 812 mm)55

 (16 764 mm)65

 (19 812 mm)55

 (16 764 mm)65

 (19 812 mm)50

 (15 240 mm)40

 (12 192 mm)Use Group 0.0929 for m2Aanagement1H

 AUL

 UL4

 29,900Not PermittedAanagement2, 2.12H

 AUL

 UL4

 29,9002

 13,500NP

 NP2

 13,500NP

 NP2

 13,5002

 10,500NP

 NPAanagement3, 42H

 AUL

 UL12

 29,9002

 13,5001

 9,1002

 13,5001

 9,1002

 13,5002

 10,5001

~~6,100~~6,000B, Fanagement1, M, Sanagement1, Sanagement3, Sanagement5H

 AUL

 UL12

 39,9004

 18,0002

 12,0004

 18,0002

 12,0004

 18,0004

 14,0002

 8,000Eanagement1, 2, 34H

 AUL

 UL4

 45,2002

 20,2001

 13,5002

 20,2001

 13,5002

 20,2002

 15,7001

 9,100Fanagement2, Sanagement23H

 AUL

 UL12

 59,9004

 27,0002

 18,0004

 27,0002

 18,0004

 27,0004

 21,0002

 12,000Hanagement15H

 A1

 15,0001

 12,4001

 5,6001

 3,700Not Permitted

 Hanagement25H

 AUL

 15,0002

 12,4001

 5,6001

 3,7001

 5,6001

 3,7001

 5,6001

 4,4001

 2,500Hanagement3, 4, 55H

 AUL

 UL5

 24,8002

 11,2001

 7,5002

 11,2001

 7,5002

 11,2002

 8,8001

 5,100Hanagement6, 710H

 A3

 UL3

 39,9003

 18,0002

 12,0003

 18,0002

 12,0003

 18,0003

 14,0001

 8,000Ianagement1.1, 1.26H

 AUL

 UL3

 15,1001

 6,800NP

 NP1

 6,800NP

 NP1

 6,8001

 5,200NP

 NPIanagement2H

 AUL

 UL3

 15,1002

 6,800NP

 NP2

 6,800NP

 NP2

 6,8002

 5,200NP

 NPIanagement3H

 AUL

 UL2

 15,100Not Permitted7Ranagement1H

 AUL

 UL12

 29,900

 4

 13,50029

 9,10094

 13,50029

 9,1009~~5~~4

 13,5004

 10,50029

 6,0009Ranagement3HUL44443443AUnlimitedSanagement4H

 ASee Table 3anagementHU8H

 ASee Chapter 3ArovidingBuilding area in square feet. NrovidingNo requirements for fire resistance.

 HrovidingBuilding height in number of stories. F.R.rovidingFire resistive.

 H.T.rovidingHeavy timber. ULrovidingUnlimited.

 NProvidingNot permitted.1For multistory buildings, see Section 504.2.2For limitations and exceptions, see Section 303.2.3For open parking garages, see Section 311.9.

 4See Section 305.2.3.

 5See Sections 307 ~~and 412~~.

 6See Section 308.2.1 for exception to the allowable area and number of stories in hospitals, nursing homes and healthanagementcare centers.

 7See Section ~~312.2.2~~308.2.2.

 8For agricultural buildings, see also Appendix Chapter 3.

 9For limitations and exceptions, see Section 310.2.

 10Subject to the approval of the building official, buildings containing Group H, Division 7 Occupancies may have increased height when fire and life safety systems are enhanced, A pre-design conference per Section 307.1.7 shall be required.

 Section Table 6-A of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 TABLE 6-ArovidingTYPES OF CONSTRUCTIONrovidingFIREanagementRESISTIVE REQUIREMENTS (In Hours)

 For details, see occupancy section in Chapter 3, type of construction sections in this chapter and

 sections referenced in this table.

 TYPE ITYPE IITYPE IIITYPE IVTYPE VNoncombustibleCombustibleBUILDING ELEMENTFireanagementresistiveFireanagementresistive1anagementHr.N1anagementHr.NH.T.1anagementHr.N 1. Bearing wallsrovidingexterior~~4~~Sec. 602.3.1

See Table 5-A~~4~~Sec. 603.3.1

See Table 5-A~~1~~

See Table 5-A~~N~~

See Table 5-A~~4~~

~~Sec. 604.3.1~~

See Table 5-A~~4~~Sec. 604.3.1

See Table 5-A~~4~~Sec. 605.3.1

See Table 5-A~~1~~

See Table 5-A~~N~~

See Table 5-A 2. Bearing wallsrovidinginterior 321N1N11N 3. Nonbearing wallsroviding exterior ~~4~~Sec. 602.3.1

See Table 5-A~~4~~Sec. 603.3.1

See Table 5-A~~1~~Sec. 603.3.1

See Table 5-A~~N~~

See Table 5-A~~4~~Sec. 604.3.1

See Table 5-A~~4~~Sec. 604.3.1

 See Table 5-A~~4~~Sec. 605.3.1

See Table 5-A~~1~~

See Table 5-A~~N~~

See Table 5-A 4. Structural frame1321N1 or H.T.N1 or H.T.1 or H.T.N 5. Partitionsrovidingpermanent121212N1N1 or H.T.1N 6. Shaft enclosures3221111111 7. Floors and flooranagementceilings4221N1NH.T. or 11

 Sec. 606.1N 8. Roofs and roofanagementceilings2

 Sec. 602.51

 Sec. 603.51

 Sec. 603.5N1

 Sec. 604.1NH.T. or 11

 Sec. 606.1N 9. Exterior doors and

 windowsSec. 602.3.2Sec. 603.3.2Sec. 603.3.2Sec. 603.3.2Sec. 604.3.2Sec. 604.3.2Sec. 605.3.2Sec. 606.3Sec. 606.310. Stairway constructionSec. 602.4Sec. 603.4Sec. 603.4Sec. 603.4Sec. 604.4Sec. 604.4Sec. 605.4Sec. 606.4Sec. 606.4NrovidingNo general requirements for fire resistance. H.T.rovidingHeavy timber.1Structural frame elements in an exterior wall that is located where openings are not permitted or where protection of openings is required, shall be protected against external fire exposure as required for exterior bearing walls or the structural frame, whichever is greater.

 2Fireanagementretardantanagementtreated wood (see Section 207) may be used in the assembly, provided fireanagementresistance requirements are maintained. See Sections 602 and 603.

 3For special provisions, see Sections 304.6, 306.6 and 711.

 4Ventilation openings may be provided in unenclosed balconies according to Section 710.2.

 Section Section 709.4 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 709.4 Parapets.

 709.4.1 General. Parapets shall be provided on all exterior walls of buildings.

 EXCEPTION: A parapet need not be provided on an exterior wall when any of the following conditions exist:

 1. The wall is not required to be of fireanagementresistive construction.

 2. The wall, due to location on property line, may have unprotected openings.

 3. The building has an area of not more than 1,000 square feet (93 m2) on any floor.

 4. Walls which terminate at roofs of not less than twoanagementhour fireanagement resistive construction or roofs constructed entirely of noncombustible materials.

 5. Oneanagementhour fireanagementresistive exterior walls may terminate at the underside of the roof sheathing, deck or slab, provided:

 5.1 Where the roofanagementceiling framing elements are parallel to the walls, such framing and elements supporting such framing shall not be of less than oneanagementhour fireanagementresistive construction for a width of 5 feet (1524 mm) measured from the interior side of the wall for Groups ~~M~~U and R Occupancies and 10 feet (3048 mm) for all other occupancies.

 5.2 Where roofanagementceiling framing elements are perpendicular to the wall, the entire span of such framing and elements supporting such framing shall not be of less than oneanagementhour fireanagementresistive construction.

 5.3 Openings in the roof shall not be located within 5 feet (1524 mm) of the oneanagementhour fireanagementresistive exterior wall for Groups ~~M~~U  and R Occupancies and 10 feet (3048 mm) for all other occupancies.

 5.4 The entire building shall be provided with not less than a Class B roof covering.

 709.4.2 Construction. Parapets shall have the same degree of fire resistance required for the wall upon which they are erected, and on any side adjacent to a roof surface, shall have noncombustible faces for the uppermost 18 inches (457 mm), including counterflashing and coping materials. The height of the parapet shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) above the point where the roof surface and the wall intersect. Where the roof slopes toward a parapet at slopes greater than 2 units vertical in 12 units horizontal (16.7% slope), the parapet shall extend to the same height as any portion of the roof that is within the distance where protection of wall openings would be required, but in no case shall the height be less than 30 inches (762 mm).

 Section Section 710.2 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117865, is amended as follows:

 710.2 Ceiling Membrane Protection. When a ceiling forms the protective membrane for a fireanagementresistive flooranagementceiling or roofanagementceiling assembly, the ceiling shall be without openings in order to protect structural elements.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Openings for noncombustible sprinkler pipe and openings for steel or other approved electrical outlet boxes not greater than 16 square inches (10 320 mm2) in area may be installed, provided the aggregate area of such openings through the ceiling is not more than 100 square inches (64 500 mm2) for any 100 square feet (9.3 m2) of ceiling area.

 2. Duct openings protected with approved ceiling fire dampers.

 3. In other than corridors that are required to have fireanagementresistive ceilings, duct openings may be unprotected when tests, conducted in accordance with U.B.C. Standard 7anagement1, have shown that opening protection is not required to maintain the fire resistance of the assembly.

 4. Other ceiling openings and penetrations may be installed where such openings and penetrations and the assemblies in which they are utilized are tested in accordance with the provisions of U.B.C. Standard 7anagement1 or are otherwise approved by the building official.

 5. Openings enclosed in fireanagementresistanceanagementrated shaft enclosures.

 6. Access doors may be installed in such ceilings when they are approved horizontal access door assemblies listed for such purpose.

 7. Vents may be installed in soffits of exterior balconies required to have fire-resistive value equivalent to the floor. If provided, vent openings shall be covered with corrosionanagementresistant metal mesh.

 8. When Section 705 requires that eaves be finished on the underside with fire-resistive materials, vents may be installed, provided the vent openings are covered with corrosionanagementresistant metal mesh.

 Where the weight of layanagementin ceiling panels used as part of fireanagement resistive flooranagementceiling or roofanagementceiling assemblies is not adequate to resist an upward force of 1 pound per square foot (47.9 Pa), wire holddowns or other approved devices shall be installed above the panels to prevent vertical displacement under such upward force.

 Code Alternate CA 710.2: When approved by the building official, the following assemblies satisfy the requirements of Exception 4 of Section 710.2:

~~Framing Type~~

~~Solid Sawn~~

~~MPCT1 & PWJ1~~

~~Protection Required2~~

~~P~~

~~I3~~

~~P~~

~~I3~~

~~Opening Type~~

~~Can light~~

~~(~~

~~(~~

~~Fan box/Metal duct~~

~~(~~

~~(~~

~~(~~

~~~~1 MPCT = Metal plate connected trusses

 PWJ = Plywood web joists

 2 P = Protected

 I = Insulated for sound

 3 If sound insulation is not required, protect combustibles for 10( from opening with insulation or gypsum wallboard.

 FORMS OF PROTECTION:

 Can Lights

 Solid sawn: Ends--Solid block with nominal 2( framing or gypsum wallboard.

 Soffit--Cover with gypsum wallboard when opening protection between floors is required or protect like MPCT/PWJ below.

 MPCT & PWJ: Ends & Soffit--Box with gypsum wallboard or tent with 1- 1/2( high density mineral fiber insulation securely fastened.

 Ducts

 Solid Sawn: Not required. Draftstop where blocking is required. Enclose with gypsum wallboard at corridors and shafts.

 MPCT & PWJ: Same as for can lights above.

 PROTECTION NOTES:

 1. Area of opening limited to 100 square inches or 100 square feet aggregate with no opening greater than 8( in diameter.

 2. HVAC systems installed under permit shall be installed according to plan.

 3. Fixtures and equipment shall be installed according to their listing.

 4. Ventilation ducts in attics shall be wrapped with mineral fiber insulation or combustibles within 18( shall be protected with gypsum wallboard.

 5. For fixtures to be protected with insulation, they must be steel and IC rated.

 Code Alternate CA 710.2: When approved by the building official, the following assemblies satisfy the requirements of Exception 4 of Section 710.2:

 PROTECTION REQUIRED:

Opening Type

Framing Type

Solid Sawn

MPCT & PWJ1

Can Light

In floor joists, solid block each side of light with 2 inch framing or 5/8 inch gypsum wallboard.

In dropped soffits, prerock bottom of floor joists above with 5/8 inch gypsum wallboard.

Box the light (four sides and top) with 5/8 inch gypsum wallboard, 1-1/2 inch high-density mineral fiber, or 3-1/2 inch fiberglass, securely fastened. See Illustration B.

HVAC2

Solid block beside opening with 2 inch framing or 5/8 inch gypsum wallboard and,

Drape 1-1/2 inch high-density mineral fiber insulation or 3-1/2 inch fiberglass over top of duct and down sides to contact the ceiling. Secure in place. See Illustration A.

Protect duct for 10 feet from opening in ceiling.

Box the fan or diffuser (four sides and top) with 5/8 inch gypsum wallboard, 1-1/2 inch high-density mineral fiber, or 3-1/2 inch fiberglas, securely fastened, and

Wrap duct completely with 1-1/2 inch high-density mineral fiber or 3-1/2 inch fiberglass, secured in place, or line joist cavity with 5/8 inch fire-taped gypsum wallboard. See Illustration C.

In sprinklered buildings, protection is required for 10 feet from opening only.

 1 MPCT = Metal plate connected trusses

 PWJ = Plywood web joists

 2 Fan box or diffuser grille and associated metal duct.

 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.

 1. The area of openings shall be limited to 100 square inches in 100 square feet aggregate with no opening greater than 8( in diameter.

 2. HVAC systems installed under permit shall be installed according to plan.

 3. Fixtures and equipment shall be installed according to their listing.

 4. Ventilation ducts in attics shall be wrapped with mineral fiber insulation and secured in place with metal hangers.

 5. Fixtures protected with insulation shall be steel and IC rated.

 Section Section 904.2.1 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117865, is amended as follows:

 904.2 Automatic Fireanagementextinguishing Systems.

 904.2.1 Where required. An automatic fireanagementextinguishing system shall be installed in the occupancies and locations as set forth in this section.

 For provisions on special hazards and hazardous materials, see the Fire Code.

 For requirements for sprinkler systems in woodworking shops and other occupancies which use or generate finely divided combustible material, see Section 306.8.

~~For requirements for sprinkler systems in the Fire District, see Section 511.~~

 Section Section 1003.1 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117865, is amended as follows:

 1003.1 Number of Exits. Every building or usable portion thereof shall have at least one exit, not less than two exits where required by Table 10anagementA and additional exits as required by this section.

 For purposes of this section, basements and occupied roofs shall be provided with exits as required for stories.

 Floors complying with the provisions for mezzanines as specified in Section 507, Item 4, Exception 3, shall be provided with exits as specified therein.

 Occupants on floors without grade-level exits shall have access to not less than two separate exits from the floor. See Section 1001.2 for definition of grade-level exit.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Second stories having an occupant load less than 10 may be provided with only one exit.

 2. Two or more dwelling units on the second story or in a basement may have access to only one common exit when the total occupant load served by that exit does not exceed 10.

 3. Except as provided in Table 10anagementA, only one exit need be provided within and from an individual dwelling unit or a Group R, Division 3 congregate residence.

 4. Floors and basements used exclusively for service of the building may have one exit. For the purposes of this exception, storage rooms, laundry rooms, maintenance offices and similar uses shall not be considered as providing service to the building.

 5. Storage rooms, laundry rooms and maintenance offices in basements not exceeding 900 square feet (27.87 m2) in floor area and a travel distance of less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) may be provided with only one exit.

 6. Elevator lobbies may have one exit provided the use of such exit does not require keys, tools, special knowledge or effort.

 7. Group B Occupancy office buildings not exceeding two stories in height and not exceeding 3,500 square feet (325 m2) per floor.

 8. Occupied roofs with an occupant load of 10 or less may have one exit.

 Code Alternate CA1003.1a: Any dwelling unit which has an exit directly to the street or yard at ground level or by way of an exterior stairway or an enclosed stairway with fire-resistance rating of one hour or more serving that dwelling unit only and not communicating with any floor below the floor of exit discharge or other area not a part of the dwelling unit served may have a single exit.

 Code Alternate CA1003.1b: Not more than five stories of Group R, Division 1 apartment occupancy in buildings not over six stories may be served by a single exit under the following conditions:

 1. There are no more than four dwelling units on any floor.

 2. The building shall be of not less than one-hour fire-resistive construction and shall also be protected throughout by an automatic sprinkler system. The sprinkler system shall conform to U.B.C. Standard 9-1. Residential type sprinkler heads shall be used in all habitable spaces in each dwelling unit.

 3. There shall be no more than two single exit stairway conditions on the same property.~~~~

 4. A ~~smokeproof stairway enclosure, a~~ stairway pressurized in accordance with Section 711.7.3, or an exterior stairway shall be provided. Doors in pressurized stairways shall swing into the stairway regardless of the occupant load served, provided that doors from the stairway to the building exterior may swing in the direction of exit travel.

 5. A corridor shall separate each dwelling unit entry/exit door from the door to an enclosed stairway on each floor. Dwelling unit doors shall not open directly into an enclosed stairway. Dwelling unit doors may open directly into an exterior stairway.

 6. There shall be no more than 20 feet (6096 mm) of travel distance to the exit stairway from the entry/exit door of any dwelling unit.

 7. The exit shall not terminate in an exit court where the court depth exceeds the court width unless it is possible to exit in either direction to the public way.

 8. Elevators shall be pressurized in accordance with Section 711.7.3 or shall open into elevator lobbies. Elevator lobbies shall be separated from the remainder of the building and from the exit stairway with construction as required for corridors in Section 1005.7. Doors shall be automatic closing actuated by smoke detector. Where approved by the building official, natural ventilation may be substituted for pressurization where the ventilation would prevent the accumulation of smoke or toxic gases.

 9. Other occupancies may be permitted in the same building provided they comply with all the requirements of this code. Except for parking garages accessory to the Group R Occupancy, other occupancies shall not communicate with the Group R occupancy portion of the building or with the single-exit stairway.

 For special requirements see the following sections: Group A, Section 1016; Group E, Section 1017; Group H, Section 1018; Group I, Section 1019; Rooms Containing Fuelanagementfired Equipment and Cellulose Nitrate Handling Rooms, Section 1020; Reviewing Stands, Grandstands and Bleachers, Section 1021; Laboratories, Sections 304.2.2 and 305.2.4; and Open Parking Garages, Section 311.9.

 Every floor or portion thereof having an occupant load of 501 to 1,000 shall not have less than three exits.

 Every floor or portion thereof having an occupant load of 1,001 or more shall not have less than four exits.

 The number of exits required from any floor of a building shall be determined by using the occupant load of thatfloor.

 The maximum number of exits required for any floor shall be maintained until egress is provided from the structure. (See Section 1010.)

 Section Section 1004.9 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 1004.9 Floor Level at Doors. Regardless of the occupant load, there shall be a floor or landing on each side of a door. When access for persons with disabilities is required by Chapter 11 of the Washington State Building Code, the floor or landing shall not be more than 1/2 inch (13 mm) lower than the threshold of the doorway. When such access is not required, such dimension shall not exceed 1 inch (25 mm). Landings shall be level except for exterior landings, which may have a slope not to exceed 1/4 unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (2% slope).

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. In Group R, Division 3, and Group U Occupancies and within individual units of Group R, Division 1 Occupancies:

 1.1 A door may open at the top step of a ~~n interior~~ flight of stairs, provided the door does not swing over the top step.

 1.2 A door may open at a landing that is not more than 8 inches (203 mm) lower than the floor level, provided the door does not swing over the landing.

 1.3 Screen doors and storm doors may swing over stairs, steps or landings.

 2. Doors serving building equipment rooms which are not normally occupied.

 WSBC: 3. At exterior sliding doors within accessible dwelling units, the floor or landing may be no more than 3/4 inch (19 mm) lower than the threshold of the doorway, including the sliding door tracks, provided that an additional accessible entrance door is provided into the dwelling unit.

 Section Section 1005.10 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 1005.10 Elevators. Elevators opening into a corridor serving a Group R, Division 1 or Group I Occupancy having an occupant load of 10 or more, or a corridor serving other occupancies having an occupant load of 30 or more shall be provided with an elevator lobby at each floor containing such a corridor. The lobby shall completely separate the elevators from the corridor by construction conforming to Section 1005.7 and all openings into the lobby wall contiguous with the corridor shall be protected as required by Section 1005.8.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. In office buildings classed as Group B Occupancies, separations need not be provided from a street floor lobby, provided the entire street floor is protected with an automatic sprinkler system.

 2. Elevators not required to meet the shaft enclosure requirements of Section 711.

 3. When additional doors are provided in accordance with Section 3016.9.

 4. Where elevator shafts are pressurized in accordance with Section 711.7.3, elevator lobbies need not be provided.

Elevator lobbies shall comply with Section 3002.

 In fully sprinklered office buildings, corridors may lead through enclosed elevator lobbies if all areas of the building have access to at least one required exit without passing through the elevator lobby.

 Section Section 1009.4 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 1009.4 Extent of Enclosure. Stairway and ramp enclosures shall include landings and parts of floors connecting stairway flights and shall also include a corridor or exit passageway on the ground floor leading from the stairway to the exterior of the building. Openings into the corridor or exit passageway shall comply with the requirements of Section 1009.3.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Enclosed corridors or exit passageways are not required from unenclosed stairways or ramps.

 2. In office buildings, a maximum of 50 percent of the exits may discharge through a streetanagementfloor lobby, provided the required exit width is free, unobstructed and provides direct and obvious access to the exterior, and the entire street floor and any floor which is open to it are protected with an automatic sprinkler system, and Code Alternate ~~CA1009.1~~CA1009.4 is not used concurrently. The street floor lobby shall be limited to the following criteria:

2.1. Group B occupancies, Group M retail occupancies, and restaurants of either Group A, Division 2.1 or 3 occupancy may open into the street floor lobby. Cooking areas of restaurants requiring Type I commercial kitchen hoods as provided by Section ~~2003(a)~~508.1 of the Seattle Mechanical Code shall be separated from the lobby with construction for enclosures as specified in Section 1009.2 and Exception 4 of Section 302.4 is not used concurrently.

 2.2. The street floor lobby may be open above to one adjacent floor.

 2.3. The street floor lobby shall not be open to a floor below.

 2.4. Atria and escalators open to more than one adjacent floor shall be separated from the street floor lobby as required by Section 1009.2.

 Code Alternate CA1009.4: A maximum of 50 percent of the required exit enclosures may terminate in a parking garage level provided the following criteria are met:

 1. The parking garage level contains exterior exit doors within 4 feet (1219 mm) of grade.

 2. The exit pathway from the enclosures to the exterior is free, unobstructed and provides a direct and obvious access to the exterior door. The required exit width shall be maintained. The exit pathway shall be equipped with illumination as required by Section 1012.

 3. The level used for an exit pathway from an exit enclosure and all levels of the parking garage open to such level are protected by an automatic sprinkler system. Section Section 1009.7 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 1009.7 Pressurized Enclosure. In a building having a floor used for human occupancy which is located more than 75 feet (22 860 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access, the entire required enclosure shall be pressurized in accordance with Section 905 of this code and this section. Pressurization shall occur automatically upon activation of an approved fire alarm system.

 EXCEPTION: When the building is not equipped with a fire alarm system, pressurization shall be upon activation of a spotanagementtype smoke detector listed for releasing service installed within 5 feet (1524 mm) of each vestibule entry.

 The upper portion of such enclosures shall be provided with controlled relief vent capable of discharging a minimum of 2,500 cubic feet per minute (1180 L/s) of air at the design pressure difference.

 Such enclosures shall be provided with a pressurized entrance vestibule.

Exception: Pressurized vestibules are not required for enclosures which comply with CA905.

 Section Section 1206.2 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 1206.2 Airborne Sound Insulation. All such separating walls and floor-ceiling assemblies shall provide an airborne sound insulation equal to that required to meet a sound transmission class (STC) of ~~40~~50 (45 if field tested).

 EXCEPTION: Dwelling unit or guest room entrance doors from interior corridors and interconnecting doors between separate units shall have perimeter seals and such door assemblies shall have a sound transmission class (STC) rating of not less than 28.

 Electrical outlet boxes shall not be placed back-to-back and shall be offset by not less than 12 inches (305 mm) ~~inches~~ from outlets in the opposite wall surface and back and sides of boxes shall be sealed with one-eighth-inch resilient sealant and backed by a minimum of 2-inch thick material fiber insulation or approved equivalent.

 Metal ventilating and conditioned air ducts which pass between dwelling units shall be lined ~~where necessary~~ to ~~reduce~~maintain required sound transmission ~~between dwelling units~~ratings.

 Section Table 16-A of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 TABLE 16anagementArovidingUNIFORM AND CONCENTRATED LOADS

 USE OR OCCUPANCYUNIFORM LOAD1

 (pounds per square foot)CONCENTRATED LOAD

 (pounds)CategoryDescription who 0.0479 for kN/m2 who 0.004 48 for kN 1. Access floor systemsOffice use 502,0002Computer use1002,0002 2. Armories 150 0 3. Assembly areas3 andFixed seating areas 50 0 auditoriums andMovable seating and other areas100 0 balconies therewithStage areas and enclosed platforms125 0 4. Marquees10 604 0 5. Exit facilities5100 06 6. Garages11General storage and/or repair100 __7Private or pleasureanagementtype motor vehicle storage 50 __7 7. HospitalsWards and rooms 401,0002 8. LibrariesReading rooms 601,0002Stack rooms1251,5002 9. ManufacturingLight 752,0002Heavy1253,000210. Offices 502,000211. Printing plantsPress rooms1502,5002Composing and linotype rooms1002,000212. Residential8Basic floor area400613. Restrooms914. Reviewing stands, grandstands, bleachers, and folding and telescoping seating 100 015. Decks

 15.1. Private decks accessory to a dwelling unit.

 15.2 Common use decks generally not accessible to the public.

 15.3 All other decks.Same as area served or for the type of occupancy accommodated

 404

 604

 100416. SchoolsClassrooms 401,000217. Sidewalks and drivewaysPublic access250 __718. StorageLight125Heavy25019. StoresRetail752,0002Wholesale1003,000220. Pedestrian bridges and walkways100FOOTNOTES TO TABLE 16-A1See Section 1606 for live load reductions.2See Section 1604.3, first paragraph, for area of load application.3Assembly areas include such occupancies as dance halls, drill rooms, gymnasiums, playgrounds, plazas, terraces and similar occupancies which are generally accessible to the public.

 4When snow loads occur that are in excess of the design conditions, the structure shall be designed to support the loads due to the increased loads caused by drift buildup or a greater snow design as determined by the building official. See Section 1605.4. For specialanagement purpose roofs, see Section 1605.5.

 5Exit facilities shall include such uses as corridors serving an occupant load of 10 or more persons, exterior exit balconies, stairways, fire escapes and similar uses.

 6Individual stair treads shall be designed to support a 300anagementpound (1.33 kN) concentrated load placed in a position which would cause maximum stress. Stair stringers may be designed for the uniform load set forth in the table.

 7See Section 1604.3, second paragraph, for concentrated loads. See Table 16anagementB for vehicle barriers.

 8Residential occupancies include private dwellings, apartments, congregate residences and hotel and lodging house guest rooms.

 9Restroom loads shall not be less than the load for the occupancy with which they are associated, but need not exceed 50 pounds per square foot (2.4 kN/m2).

 10This loading condition need only be considered for marquees that are less than 10 feet above the ground at all points, ~~more~~less than 10 feet below an adjacent roof, or are located less than 10 feet from operable openings above or adjacent to the level of the marquee and which have a slope of less than 30 degrees from horizontal on their upper surface. For other marquees, roof loads as specified in Section 1605 shall be applied.

11See Section 311.2.3.5 for vehicle barriers.

 Section Section 1701 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1701 roviding SPECIAL INSPECTIONS

 1701.1 General. In addition to the inspections required by Section 108, the owner or the engineer or architect of record acting as the owner's agent shall employ one or more special inspectors who shall provide inspections during construction on the types of work listed under Section 1701.5.

 EXCEPTION: The building official may waive the requirement for the employment of a special inspector if the construction is of a minor nature.

 1701.2 Special Inspector. The special inspector shall be a qualified person who shall demonstrate competence, to the satisfaction of the building official, for inspection of the particular type of construction or operation requiring special inspection.

Unless otherwise approved by the building official, all special inspectors shall be registered by the building official or by the Washington Association of Building Officials.

~~1701.3 Duties and Responsibilities of the Special Inspector. The special inspector shall observe the work assigned for conformance with the approved design drawings and specifications.~~The special inspector shall furnish inspection reports to the building official, the engineer or architect of record, and other designated persons. All discrepancies shall be brought to the immediate attention of the contractor for correction, then, if uncorrected, to the proper design authority and to the building official.

 The special inspector shall submit a final signed report stating whether the work requiring special inspection was, to the best of the inspector's knowledge, in conformance with the approved plans and specifications and the applicable workmanship provisions of this code.

1701.3 Responsibility for Performance.  1701.3.1. Responsibility of Architect/Engineer/Owner.

 1701.3.1.1 Nomination of Special Inspectors and Agencies. The licensed architect, structural engineer of record or owner is responsible for nominating to the building official registered special inspectors and approved inspection or testing agencies to conduct special inspections and tests required by Section 1701.5.

 1701.3.1.2 Preconstruction Conference. When required by the building official, the owner's architect/engineer shall arrange a conference with the project contractor, the design team, the special inspection agency and the building official prior to commencing work on any portion of construction requiring special inspection. The intent of the conference is to identify and clarify the special inspection requirements of the project.

 1701.3.1.3 Notification. The owner, or an authorized agent, is responsible for notifying the special inspector when construction activity is scheduled which requires special inspection. Where the owner designates another person to notify the special inspector, the owner retains the responsibility to assure that the special inspections are conducted and required reports submitted to the building official.

 1701.3.1.4 Access to Work. It is the duty of the person requesting any special inspections required by this code to provide access to and means for proper inspection of the work

.

1701.3.1.5 Posting Special Inspection Record. The building official may require that work requiring special inspection not be commenced until the permit holder or his/her agent posts an inspection log in a conspicuous place on the premises. The record shall be posted in a position which allows the special inspector to conveniently enter his/her identification, the date and type of inspection performed. This record shall be maintained there by the permit holder until final approval has been granted by the building official.  1701.3.2. Responsibility of the Building Official. The employment of a registered special inspector on any work shall not be deemed to relieve the building official of responsibility for the inspection or of the periodic and called inspections listed in Section 108.

 1701.3.3. Responsibility of the Special Inspector.

 1701.3.3.1 General. The special inspector is responsible for conducting all special inspections for which he/she was employed and notified and for carrying out the duties of a special inspector as specified in Section 1701.3.3.

 1701.3.3.2 Specific Duties. Registered special inspectors are regularly authorized deputies of the building official and are subject to all duties imposed by the building official, in addition to the following:

1. The registered special inspector shall be present during the execution of all assigned work. The registered special inspector shall report to the job sufficiently in advance of construction to become familiar with the plans and to inspect all materials to be used or concealed within the work; and shall inspect the construction, erection, placing, or other use of materials; and shall observe whether there is compliance with the approved design as to all of the foregoing. During the execution of all assigned work, the registered special inspector shall not undertake or engage in any other task or occupation which interferes with the proper performance of his/her inspection duties.  2. The registered special inspector shall not approve the placing of foundation concrete or pile caps prior to the approval of the soil condition or pile driving reports by the engineer who performed the special inspection for the pile installation.

 3. The registered special inspector shall be employed only by an approved inspection or testing agency as defined in Section 1701.8.

 4. The registered special inspector shall not inspect work performed, or material supplied, by any contractor, subcontractor, or material vendor with whom the inspector is employed.

 5. If any registered special inspector is negligent in the performance of his/her duties, the work may be stopped.

1701.3.3.3. Notification. The approved testing agency shall notify the building official and the architect, engineer or owner of his/her commencement of inspection of a job and shall specify the type of inspection for which he/she has been engaged. This notification shall be made prior to commencement of inspection.  The approved testing agency shall notify the building official prior to commencement of each day's inspection thereafter.

 1701.3.3.4. Reports.

 1701.3.3.4.1. Daily Reports. The registered special inspector shall immediately report all irregularities, substitution of materials and violations to the contractor for correction, then if uncorrected, to the architect or engineer of record and to the building official.

 At the conclusion of each inspection, the registered special inspector shall submit a report to the architect, engineer and owner relative to the portion of the work inspected, stating whether the work requiring special inspection was, to the best of his/her knowledge, in conformance with the approved plans and specifications and the applicable workmanship provisions of this code and related standards. The report shall be signed by the special inspector. One copy of the report shall be submitted to the building official by the approved inspection or testing agency no later than one week from the date of the inspection and shall be filed in the records of the agency's office. One copy of the report shall be left at the job site by the special inspector. The special inspector shall also provide, as directed by the building official or by the architect, engineer or owner, such other information as may be required during his/her assigned employment.

 1701.3.3.4.2. Final Report. The inspection/testing agency shall submit a final signed report listing the scope of required inspection and stating whether all work requiring special inspection was, to the best of the agency's knowledge, inspected and reported as specified on permit documents.

 1701.4 Standards of Quality. The standards listed below labeled a "U.B.C. standard" are also listed in Chapter 35, Part II, and are part of this code.

 1. Concrete.

 U.B.C. Standard 19anagement3, Readyanagementmixed Concrete

 2. Connections.

 Chapter 22, Division IV, Highanagementstrength Bolting

 3. Fireproofing.

 U.B.C. Standard 7anagement6, Thickness and Density Determination for Sprayanagement applied Fireproofing

 1701.5 Types of Work. Except as provided in Section 1701.1, the types of work listed below shall be inspected by a special inspector.

 1. Concrete. During the taking of test specimens and placing of reinforced concrete. See Item 12 for shotcrete.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Concrete for foundations conforming to minimum requirements of Table 18anagementIanagementD or for Group R, Division 3 or Group ~~M~~U, Division 1 Occupancies, provided the building official finds that a special hazard does not exist.

 2. For foundation concrete, other than castanagementinanagementplace drilled piles or caissons, where the structural design is based on an f 'c no greater than 2,500 pounds per square inch (psi) (17.2 MPa) and where the building official finds the work is of a minor nature and no special hazard exists.

 3. Nonstructural slabs on grade, including prestressed slabs on grade when effective prestress in concrete is less than 150 psi. (1.03 MPa).

 4. Site work concrete fully supported on earth and concrete where no special hazard exists.

5. Inspection during the mixing of concrete shall not be required when the proportions of ingredients are established in accordance with Table 19-A-7 or when a mix has been granted continuous approval by the building official.

 2. Bolts installed in concrete. Prior to and during the placement of concrete around bolts when stress increases permitted by Footnote 5 of Table 19anagementE or Section 1925 are utilized.

 3. Special momentanagementresisting concrete frame. As required by Section 1921.9 of this code.

 4. Reinforcing steel and prestressing steel tendons.

 4.1 During all stressing and grouting of tendons in prestressed concrete.

 4.2 During placing of reinforcing steel and prestressing tendons for all concrete required to have special inspection by Item 1.

 EXCEPTION: The special inspector need not be present continuously during placing of reinforcing steel and prestressing tendons, provided the special inspector has inspected for conformance with the approved plans prior to the closing of forms or the delivery of concrete to the jobsite.

 5. Structural steel.

 5.1 General. Fabrication and erection of structural steel members and assemblies.

 EXCEPTION: The inspector need not be present during the entire fabrication and erection process provided:

 1. Inspection of welding and bolting is in accordance with Items 5.3 and 6 below.

 2. That upon completion of fabrication and erection of all members, sizes and grades of steel can be easily identified.

 5.2. Erection: Verify grade of steel, size and location of members and assemblies during erection.

 5.3 Structural welding.

 5.3.1 General. During the welding of any member or connection which is designed to resist loads and forces required by this code.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. Welding done in an approved AISC-certified fabricator's shop or equivalent.

 2. The special inspector need not be continuously present during welding of the following items, provided the materials, qualifications of welding procedures and welders are verified prior to the start of work; periodic inspections are made of work in progress; and a visual inspection of all welds is made prior to completion or prior to shipment of shop welding:

 2.1 Singleanagementpass fillet welds not exceeding 5/16 inch (7.9 mm) in size.

 2.2 Floor and roof deck welding.

 2.3 Welded studs when used for structural diaphragm or composite systems.

 2.4 Welded sheet steel for coldanagementformed steel framing members such as studs and joists.

 2.5 Welding of stairs and railing systems.

 5.3.2 Special momentanagementresisting steel frames. During the welding of special momentanagementresisting steel frames. In addition to Item 5.1 requirements above, nondestructive testing as required by Section 1703 of this code.

 5.3.3 Welding of reinforcing steel. During the welding of reinforcing steel.

 EXCEPTION: The special inspector need not be continuously present during the welding of ASTM A 706 reinforcing steel not larger than No. 5 bars used for embedments, provided the materials, qualifications of welding procedures and welders are verified prior to the start of work; periodic inspections are made of work in progress; and a visual inspection of all welds is made prior to completion or prior to shipment of shop welding.

 6. Highanagementstrength bolting. As required by Chapter 22, Division IV. Such inspections may be performed on a periodic basis in accordance with the requirements of Section 1701.6.

 7. Structural masonry.

 7.1 For masonry, other than fully grouted openanagementend hollowanagementunit masonry, during preparation and taking of any required prisms or test specimens, placing of all masonry units, placement of reinforcement, inspection of grout space, immediately prior to closing of cleanouts, and during all grouting operations.

 EXCEPTION: For hollowanagementunit masonry where the f 'm is no more than 1,500 psi (10.34 MPa) for concrete units or 2,600 psi (17.93 MPa) for clay units or when one half the allowable masonry stresses are used in design, special inspection may be performed as required for fully grouted openanagementend hollowanagementunit masonry specified in Item 7.2 below.

 7.2 For fully grouted openanagementend hollowanagementunit masonry during preparation and taking of any required prisms or test specimens, at the start of laying units, after the placement of reinforcing steel, grout space prior to each grouting operation, and during all grouting operations.

 8. Reinforced gypsum concrete. When castanagementinanagementplace Class B gypsum concrete is being mixed and placed.

 9. Insulating concrete fill. During the application of insulating concrete fill when used as part of a structural system.

 EXCEPTION: The special inspections may be limited to an initial inspection to check the deck surface and placement of reinforcing. The special inspector shall supervise the preparation of compression test specimens during this initial inspection.

 10. Sprayanagementapplied fireproofing. As required by U.B.C. Standard 7anagement6.

 11. Piling, drilled piers and caissons. During driving and testing of piles and construction of castanagementinanagementplace drilled piles or caissons. See Items l and 4 for concrete and reinforcing steel inspection.

 12. Shotcrete. During the taking of test specimens and placing of all shotcrete and as required by Section 1922.10 and 1922.11.

 EXCEPTION: Shotcrete work fully supported on earth, minor repairs and when, in the opinion of the building official, no special hazard exists.

 13. Special grading, excavation and filling. During earthanagementwork excavations, grading and filling operations inspection to satisfy requirements of Chapter 18 and Appendix Chapter 33 of this code.

 14. Smokeanagementcontrol systems other than those designed according to Code Alternate CA905.

 14.1 During erection of ductwork and prior to concealment for the purposes of leakage testing and recording of device location.

 14.2 Prior to occupancy and after sufficient completion for the purposes of pressure difference testing, flow measurements, and detection and control verification.

 15. Special cases. Work which, in the opinion of the building official, involves unusual hazards or conditions.

 1701.6 Continuous and Periodic Special Inspection.

 1701.6.1 Continuous special inspection. Continuous special inspection means that the special inspector is on the site at all times observing the work requiring special inspection.

 1701.6.2 Periodic special inspection. Some inspections may be made on a periodic basis and satisfy the requirements of continuous inspection, provided this periodic scheduled inspection is performed as outlined in the project plans and specifications and approved by the building official.

 1701.7 Approved Fabricators.

1701.7.1 General. Special inspections required by this section and elsewhere in this code are not required where the work is done on the premises of a fabricator registered and approved by the building official to perform such work without special inspection. ~~The certificate of registration shall be subject to revocation by the building official if it is found that any work done pursuant to the approval is in violation of this code. The approved fabricator shall submit a certificate of compliance that the work was performed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications to the building official and to the engineer or architect of record. The approved fabricator's qualifications shall be contingent on compliance with the following:~~1. The fabricator has developed and submitted a detailed fabrication procedural manual reflecting key quality control procedures which will provide a basis for inspection control of workmanship and the fabricator plant.

 2. Verification of the fabricator's quality control capabilities, plant and personnel as outlined in the fabrication procedural manual shall be by an approved inspection or quality control agency.

 3. Periodic plant inspections shall be conducted by an approved inspection or quality control agency to monitor the effectiveness of the quality control program.

 4. It shall be the responsibility of the inspection or quality control agency to notify the approving authority in writing of any change to the procedural manual. Any fabricator approval may be revoked for just cause. Reapproval of the fabricator shall be contingent on compliance with quality control procedures during the past year.

1701.7.2 Application for Registration. Application for registration as an approved fabricator may be made to the building official by plants engaged in the manufacture of:

1. Prestressed or precast concrete structural products, and premixed concrete.  2. Unit masonry products.

 3. Engineered wood products.

 4. Prefabricated or assembly-line produced metal products.

 5. Other prefabricated products as the building official may, from time to time, designate.

 1701.7.3 Requirements for Registration. The building official may examine manufacturing plants which submit applications for registration and shall issue certificates of registration when the plants have complied with the following requirements:

 1. Develop and submit a detailed fabrication procedural manual reflecting key quality control procedures which will provide a basis for inspection control of the fabricating process.

 2. Have the fabricator's quality control capabilities, operation of equipment and personnel as outlined in the fabrication procedural manual verified by an approved inspection or quality control agency.

 3. Agree to have periodic plant inspections conducted by an approved inspection or quality control agency to monitor the effectiveness of the quality control program and to allow unannounced audits of the plant by the building official.

 4. Agree to require the inspection or quality control agency to notify the building official in writing of any changes to the procedural manual.

 5. Agree to submit a Certificate of Compliance when required by the building official that work was performed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications to the building official and to the engineer or architect of record.

 6. Pay a registration fee as determined by the building official in accordance with provisions of the Fee Subtitle.

 1701.7.4 Renewal of Registration. Registration of approved fabricators shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance and shall be subject to renewal annually. Registration may be renewed upon application, contingent on compliance with quality control procedures during the past year and payment of a fee in accordance with provisions of the Fee Subtitle. The building official may revoke registration for cause.

1701.8 Approved Inspection and Testing Agencies.  1701.8.1 Approval by the Building Official. Whenever tests or certification of any material or fabricated assembly are required by this code, the tests or certification shall be made by an agency approved by the building official to conduct the tests or provide the certification.

 Registered special inspectors and approved inspection and testing agencies recommended by the architect/engineer/owner shall not conduct any inspections or tests until the building official has approved in writing. The special inspectors or inspection/testing agency approved by the building official may not be changed without obtaining prior approval of the responsible architect/engineer/owner and the building official.

 A registered civil or structural engineer or registered architect may employ special inspectors when approved by the building official.

 The building official shall establish rules and regulations setting forth conditions and provisions for approval of agencies and for the conduct of any agency so approved.

 The building official may suspend or revoke approval of an agency upon evidence of failure of the agency to properly conduct any test, certify any material, or to perform any inspection in a manner required by this code.

1701.8.2. Employment of Special Inspectors. It is the responsibility of an approved agency to employ only registered special inspectors on work required to be so inspected by this code and the agency shall report, as directed by the building official, all special inspections performed by the agency.  1701.9 Registration of Special Inspectors.

 1701.9.1. Application for Registration. Criteria for registration of special inspectors shall be established by the building official.

 1701.9.2 Issuance of Certificate of Registration. When the building official is satisfied that the applicant is qualified, a Certificate of Registration or a Limited Certificate of Registration shall be issued which specifies the types of inspection the applicant has been authorized to perform. Valid registration from the Washington Association of Building Officials may substitute for registration by the building official.

 1701.9.3 Renewal of Special Inspector's Registration. A Certificate of Registration or Limited Certificate of Registration shall be valid for a period of time to be determined by the building official. Upon application for renewal of a Certificate of Registration, the applicant may be re-examined to ascertain his/her fitness to perform the inspection of the type or types for which the application was made.

 1701.10 Revocation of Registration or Approval to Inspect. The building official may revoke, suspend or refuse to renew registration or approval of inspection agencies, special inspectors and non- registered special inspectors, including inspectors registered by the Washington Association of Building Officials. This may be done upon evidence submitted to DCLU of incompetence, of willful or negligent failure to observe or report violations of the Seattle Building Code or of any other failure to perform properly and effectively the duties of this document or other duties assumed by an inspection agency or non-registered special inspector.

 The inspection agency or special inspector shall be notified in writing of the building official's decision to revoke, suspend or refuse to renew the Certificate or approval to perform inspections. The agency or inspector may request in writing a hearing before the building official for reconsideration of the decision. The request shall be filed with the building official by five o'clock of the fifteenth working day following service of the notice. The hearing shall be held no later than 15 working days from receipt of a written request. After the hearing, the building official shall issue a final decision, in writing, sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the initial decision.

 1701.11 Special Inspection Requests. It is the duty of the person doing the work requiring special inspection to notify the special inspector that the work is ready for inspection. The building official may require that every request for special inspection be filed at least one working day before the special inspection is desired. The request may be in writing or by telephone at the option of the building official.

 1701.12 Additional Special Inspectors. The building official may require additional special inspectors when the building official determines they are needed due to the magnitude or complexity of the job.

 1701.13 Fees. Fees for examination and registration of special inspectors shall be as determined by the building official in accordance with the Fee Subtitle.

 Section Section 3201 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117865, is amended as follows:

 Section 3201 roviding GENERAL

 Any encroachment of a building or structure on, over or under sidewalks, streets and other public property is subject to approval by the Director of ~~Engineering~~Transportation and/or the building official. Such encroachments shall comply with this code or other codes as determined by the Director of ~~Engineering~~ Transportation or the building official.

 No door in any position shall project over public property.

 Structures or appendages regulated by this code shall be constructed of materials as specified in Section 705 except marquees which shall be constructed of materials as specified in Section 3203 and awnings which shall be constructed of materials as specified in Section 3204.

 The projection of any structure or appendage shall be the distance measured horizontally from the property line to the outermost point of the projection.

 No provisions of this chapter shall be construed to permit the violation of other laws or ordinances regulating the use and occupancy of public property.

 Section Section 3203.4 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 3203.4 Drainage. Marquees shall be provided with conductors for water which shall drain back to the building line and be connected to a sewer or, if approved by the Director of ~~Engineering~~ Seattle Public Utilities, to a dry well or under a sidewalk to a gutter.

 Section Section 3205.2 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 3205.2 Enforcement

 3205.2.1 Authority. The building official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter, Chapter 23.55 of the Land Use Code ~~and the Zoning Code~~ relating to signs erected and maintained on private property. The Director of ~~Engineering~~Transportation and the building official shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 23.55 of the Land Use Code ~~and the Zoning Code, Title 24,~~ as they relate to signs over public places as defined in Section 15.02.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Signs erected without permit as required by Section 3205.4 which do not conform to the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 23.55 of the Land Use Code, shall be removed upon notification in writing by the building official.

 3205.2.2 Other Requirements. All signs shall comply with any additional regulations as to type, height, clearance, size, copy, design and location imposed by the Land Use Code, and Title 15, Seattle Municipal Code, Street and Sidewalk Use, as amended, and other ordinances of the City. Signs which are unregulated by the Land Use Code may be subject to requirements of this chapter.

 Section Section 3302 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 117721, is amended as follows:

 Section 3302 roviding DEMOLITIONS

 The demolition of any building or structure shall conform to the following provisions:

 1. All asbestos material shall be removed prior to demolition, in accordance with regulations of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Puget Sound Air Pollution Control Agency.

 2. All utilities shall be disconnected prior to demolition or during the demolition process in accordance with requirements of the governing utility including, but not limited to, the Seattle ~~Engineering~~Transportation Department, ~~Water Department~~Seattle Public Utilities, Fire Department, City Light, ~~Washington Natural Gas Company~~Puget Sound Energy, and U.S. West Communications.

 3. Removal of combustible waste and welding and cutting shall be performed in accordance with the Fire Code.

 4. During demolition, streets and sidewalks shall be left clean at the end of each day's operation.

 5. Provision shall be made to stabilize ground conditions to eliminate dust and erosion.

 6. All concrete or masonry floors, foundations, footings, basement walls and retaining walls not to be reused shall be removed to 18 inches below final grade. All concrete floors left in place shall be broken so as to allow water to drain through unless the floors are to be used.

 7. If the demolition results in a change of drainage patterns, provision shall be made to assure that the flow of all water courses, including streams, ditches, drains, combined sewers, and runoff, intercepted during the progress of the work, are returned to the condition present before the demolition or as specified on the permit.

 8. The site shall be left level and free of debris upon completion of the demolition, and all holes shall be filled or protected with secure fences. Holes may be filled with concrete, rocks or other non- decaying material no larger than 12 inches in diameter. Wood and other organic material may not be buried on the site.

 Leaving the site level means:

 8.1 The grade conforms to that existing on all sides;

 8.2 Surface water will drain off;

 8.3 Surface is smooth; and

 8.4 Broken sections of the foundation or other material are not exposed.

 9. The site shall be seeded upon completion of the demolition if it is to be left vacant for more than six months.

 10. The building official may require a structural engineer's analysis of proposed demolitions or any portions of a structure remaining after demolition.

 11. When demolition occurs, all underground tanks on the site shall either be removed or filled, as required in Section 7902 of the Fire Code.

 Section Section 3403.9 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117865, is amended as follows:

 3403.9 Radon-Resistive Construction Requirements. The radon- resistive construction requirements found in Chapter ~~3~~12 shall apply to all Group R buildings to which either an addition or substantial alteration is made where the basement, foundation or crawl space is altered or expanded.

 Section Section 3403.10 of the Seattle Building Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117865, is amended as follows:

 3403.10. Unreinforced Masonry Chimneys. Existing exterior unreinforced masonry chimneys shall not be extended except with approved metal chimneys in accordance with Section ~~914~~814 of the Mechanical Code.

 Whenever an unreinforced masonry chimney is altered or when the building in which such a chimney is located undergoes substantial alteration, the chimney shall be tied at each floor or ceiling and the portion of the chimney above the roof shall be braced.

 Section This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by the Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _______ day of _________, 1997, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of ____________, 1997.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________, 1997.

 ___________________________________

 Norman B. Rice, Mayor

 Filed by me this ______ day of _______________, 1997.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 MT:mt 6/4/97 V1

```
