

********

**Council Bill Number: 111829**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118691**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; reducing and increasing appropriations and modifying certain Seattle Center Redevelopment projects funded in part by the proceeds of a special property tax levy approved by the voters in May 1991; all upon a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 18, 1997
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 21, 1997
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 21, 1997
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 11, 1997
   
**Committee:** Parks, Public Grounds and Recreation
   
**Sponsor:** DONALDSON
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, CAPITAL-IMPROVEMENT-PROGRAM

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ____________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; reducing and increasing appropriations and modifying certain Seattle Center Redevelopment projects funded in part by the proceeds of a special property tax levy approved by the voters in May 1991; all upon a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle City Council on July 25, 1990, by Resolution 28210, adopted the Seattle Center 2000 Master Plan and by Ordinance 115593 on March 25, 1991, approved the Seattle Center 2000 Plan - Phase I; and

 WHEREAS, the citizens of Seattle on May 28, 1991, by approving a special property tax levy, provided for certain improvements at Seattle Center pursuant to the Seattle Center 2000 Plan - Phase I; and

 WHEREAS, to reflect changed conditions, the Seattle City Council has amended the Seattle Center 2000 Plan - Phase I by Ordinances 115844, 116179, 116457, 116848, 117275, 117545, 117889, 118078, and 118305; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Center Department has recommended and the Seattle Center Advisory Commission has approved additional changes to the Seattle Center 2000 Plan - Phase I to reflect changed conditions; Now, Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Findings. The City Council makes the following findings:

 a. There is sufficient available fund balance in the Seattle Center Subaccount of the Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community Center Fund to add $350,000 in budget authority to existing Seattle Center Levy projects.

 b. There is an additional $150,000 in projected fund balance in the Seattle Center Subaccount of the Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community Center Fund, including delinquent tax revenue anticipated to be received and recorded as revenue in the City's accounting system. This $150,000 should be reserved to pay for needed interim repairs to the Flag Pavilion in order to keep the building operational pending replacement.

 c. Ordinance 115844 established the Seattle Center Advisory Commission as the official Citizens Oversight Committee for the Seattle Center Levy and the implementation of the Seattle Center 2000 Plan - Phase I. In its June 5, 1997 meeting, the Seattle Center Advisory Commission voted its approval of the following actions: (1) to add $350,000 from available Levy fund balance to the following Levy projects in the following amounts: Center House Improvements ($238,000), Pacific Science Center Court ($39,000), Washington State Building Improvements ($33,000), Master Plan Update ($25,000), and Mural Fountain/East Improvements ($15,000); (2) to transfer budget authority within the four projects which comprise the "International Fountain Group" of projects to bring appropriation levels and actual expenses into alignment; (3) to abandon $70,367 in excess appropriation authority in the Seattle Children's Theatre project; (4) to transfer the remaining balances in the following Levy projects (Central Plant Utilities, Pottery Northwest, Opera House Improvements - A, Warehouse Improvements, Northwest Crafts) to the Parking Improvements project; (5) to make minor changes in scope to the Mural Fountain/East Improvements and Center House Improvements projects.

 d. The Seattle Center and the City Council's Parks, Public Grounds, and Recreation Committee have reviewed the requested changes in Seattle Center Levy-funded project budgets according to the Project Modification Criteria set forth in the Seattle Center Redevelopment Cooperation Agreement authorized by Ordinance 115593 and have found the proposed changes to be consistent with the Seattle Center 2000 Master Plan and to warrant the 1997 budget changes specified below:

 1. Center House Improvements (S9113) - Increase $238,000;

 Revised Budget - $2,462,000.

 2. Pacific Science Court (S9141) - Increase $39,000;

 Revised Budget - $819,200.

 3. Washington State Building Improvements (S9108) - Increase $33,000;

 Revised Budget - $205,500.

 4. Master Plan Update (S9610) - Increase $25,000;

 Revised Budget - $265,238.

 5. Mural Fountain/East Improvements (S9135) - Increase $15,000;

 Revised Budget - $236,500.

 6. South Mall Plaza (S9139) - Increase $150,000;

 Revised Budget - $234,966.

 7. International Fountain Rehabilitation (S9111) - Increase $62,360;

 Revised Budget - $2,545,860.

 8. International Fountain Mall (S9112) - Increase $81,661;

 Revised Budget - $2,030,961.

 9. Festival Utilities (S9117) - Reduce $138,581;

 Revised Budget - $1,430,619.

 10. Promenade (S9140) - Reduce $5,440;

 Revised Budget - $460,160.

 11. Seattle Children's Theatre (S86706) - Reduce $70,367;

 Revised Budget - $6,865,413.

 12. Central Plant Utilities (S9101) - Reduce $145,000;

 Revised Budget - $1,802,700.

 13. Pottery Northwest (S9121) - Reduce $6,776;

 Revised Budget - $180,924.

 14. Opera House Improvements - A (S9123) - Reduce $16,210;

 Revised Budget - $1,598,590.

 15. Warehouse Improvements (S9137) - Reduce $34,868;

 Revised Budget - $43,632.

 16. Northwest Crafts (S9134) - Reduce $23,184;

 Revised Budget - $170,088.

 17. Parking Improvements (S9142) - Increase $226,038;

 Revised Budget - $2,275,438.

 An evaluation of the requested budget changes according to the Project Modification Criteria is included as Attachment A to this Ordinance.

 Section 2. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the scope of work for three Levy-funded projects are revised as follows:

 a. Center House Improvements (S9113) -- Add improvements to the north entry and circulation improvements on the second floor.

 b. Mural Fountain/East Improvements (S9135) -- Add build-out of backstage support space behind the Mural Amphitheatre.

 c. South Mall Plaza (S9139) -- Add interim repairs to the Flag Pavilion in order to keep the building operational pending replacement.

 Section 3. As requested by the Director of the Seattle Center and recommended by the Mayor, Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) is hereby appropriated from the Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community Center Fund, Seattle Center Subaccount, to the following Levy projects in the amounts listed below:

ProjectSFMSAppropriation

 Center House Improvements S9113 $238,000

 Pacific Science Center Court S9141 $ 39,000

 Washington State Building Improvements S9108 $ 33,000

 Master Plan Update S9610 $ 25,000

 Mural Fountain/East Improvements S9135 $ 15,000

 South Mall Plaza S9139 $150,000

 TOTAL $500,000

 Section 4. As requested by the Director of the Seattle Center and recommended by the Mayor, Seventy Thousand Three Hundred Sixty Seven Dollars ($70,367) in excess appropriation authority in the Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community Center Fund, Seattle Center Subaccount, Seattle Children's Theatre project (S86706), is hereby abandoned.

 Section 5. As requested by the Director of the Seattle Center and recommended by the Mayor, the unexpended and unencumbered amounts listed herein are hereby reduced from the budgeted appropriations for the following projects in the Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community Center Fund, Seattle Center Subaccount:

ProjectSFMSReduction

 Festival Utilities S9117 $138,581

 Promenade S9140 $ 5,440

 Central Plant Utilities S9101 $145,000

 Pottery Northwest S9121 $ 6,776

 Opera House Improvements - A S9123 $ 16,210

 Warehouse Improvements S9137 $ 34,868

 Northwest Crafts S9134 $ 23,184

 TOTAL $370,059

 Section 6. As requested by the Seattle Center Director, and recommended by the Mayor, the unexpended and unencumbered amounts listed in Section 5 herein are hereby reappropriated to the following projects in the Seattle Center Redevelopment and Parks Community Center Fund, Seattle Center Subaccount:

ProjectSFMSReappropriation

International Fountain Rehabilitation S9111 $ 62,360

 International Fountain Mall S9112 $ 81,661

 Parking Improvements S9142 $226,038

 TOTAL $370,059

 Section 7. The Director of Seattle Center is authorized, upon compliance with State laws and City ordinances, to proceed with the preconstruction and construction activities.

 Section 8. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 9. The foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which no appropriation has been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the adoption of the 1997 Budget.

 Section 10. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths vote of all the members of the City Council the _______ day of ____________________,1997, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of _________________, 1997.

 _____________________________________

 President ________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _______ day of _______________________, 1997.

 _____________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this ________ day of __________________________, 1997.

 _____________________________________

 City Clerk

 nd

 levyord4.doc

 (Ver. 4)

 8/14/97

 Attachment A

 PROJECT MODIFICATION CRITERIA

 August 14, 1997

 A. How will the proposed modification affect public expectations of the project?

 Center House Improvements -- Positively. The public has responded very positively to the improvements in Center House. Improvements to the third floor children's play area, to the north entry, and to the floor and stairway on the second level add to the improved public face of Center House.

 Pacific Science Court -- Positively. The outdoor courtyard space at the south end of Center House ("Pacific Science Center Court") has become a popular resting and eating area for the public. Extension of this courtyard area will provide more useable space for the public and make a better tie between Center House and the new Fun Forest pavilion.

 Washington State Building Improvements -- Positively. The public which visits the Seattle Arts Commission offices will experience a more comfortable environment as a result of the window replacement work.

 Master Plan Update -- Positively. The increase in the Master Plan budget is funding planning work on the Theatre District. The Theatre District plan includes a number of pedestrian and open space enhancements for the benefit of the public.

 Mural Fountain/East Improvements -- Positively. The new support space behind the Mural Amphitheater stage is a significant improvement for performers, and allows for enhanced presentations to the public.

 South Mall Plaza -- Positively. Interim repairs to the Flag Pavilion include removing the storage area on the south side, making the space between the Flag Pavilion and the Seattle Children's Theatre safer and more pleasant for theater visitors and the general public.

 International Fountain Rehabilitation -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 International Fountain Mall -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Festival Utilities -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Promenade -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Seattle Children's Theatre -- No impact. The project is complete and excess appropriation authority is being abandoned.

 Central Plant Utilities -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Pottery Northwest -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Opera House Improvements - A -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Warehouse Improvements -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Northwest Crafts -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Parking Improvements -- Positively. The transfer of remaining balances to the Parking Improvements project will make Seattle Center parking facilities more inviting to the public, including pedestrian, signage, and landscaping improvements.

 B. How will the proposed change impact entertainment, recreational, and educational opportunities for the public at Seattle Center?

 Center House Improvements -- Positively. The Center House is the largest free indoor entertainment and recreation area in the region. The proposed change provides for further improvements to Center House, including a new children's play area.

 Pacific Science Court -- Positively. The improvements to the courtyard provide more space for public enjoyment and for special events.

 Washington State Building Improvements -- No impact.

 Master Plan Update -- Positively. The increase in the Master Plan budget is funding planning work for a "Theatre District" along the Mercer Corridor. The Theatre District plan includes a number of pedestrian and open space enhancements for the benefit of the public within the primary cultural and entertainment area of the region. Additional open space would provide performance space for entertainment, recreation and educational activities.

 Mural Fountain/East Improvements -- Positively. The new support space behind the Mural Amphitheater stage is a significant improvement for performers, and allows for enhanced presentations to the public.

 South Mall Plaza -- Positively. The interim repairs to the Flag Pavilion will enable it to remain in operation, allowing the many events held in the building to take place.

 International Fountain Rehabilitation -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 International Fountain Mall -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Festival Utilities -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Promenade -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Seattle Children's Theatre -- No impact. The project is complete and excess appropriation authority is being abandoned.

 Central Plant Utilities -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Pottery Northwest -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Opera House Improvements - A -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Warehouse Improvements -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Northwest Crafts -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Parking Improvements -- Positively. The improvements to the parking area east of Fifth Avenue will make the many events and attractions at Seattle Center more accessible to the public, as well as making the parking lot more comfortable and safe for the public to use.

 C. How will the proposed change enhance the safety, comfort and accessibility of the visitors and staff at the Seattle Center?

 Center House Improvements -- Positively. The removal of the escalator on the food court level eliminates a safety hazard and provides for better circulation on the busiest level of Center House.

 Pacific Science Court -- Positively. The improvements provide more space for visitors to relax and rest, as well as more open accessible open space.

 Washington State Building Improvements -- Positively. The public which visits the Seattle Arts Commission offices will experience a more comfortable environment as a result of the window replacement work.

 Master Plan Update -- Positively. The increase in the Master Plan budget is funding planning work on the Theatre District. The Theatre District plan includes a number of pedestrian and open space enhancements for the benefit of the public.

 Mural Fountain/East Improvements -- The backstage support area significantly increases the comfort of performers using the Mural Stage and provides greater accessibility to the area behind the stage.

 South Mall Plaza -- Improvements to the fire alarm system in the Flag Pavilion will improve visitor safety. Removal of the storage area on the south end of the building will make it safer for children visiting the Seattle Children's Theatre.

 International Fountain Rehabilitation -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 International Fountain Mall -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Festival Utilities -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Promenade -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Seattle Children's Theatre -- No impact. The project is complete and excess appropriation authority is being abandoned.

 Central Plant Utilities -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Pottery Northwest -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Opera House Improvements - A -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Warehouse Improvements -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Northwest Crafts -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Parking Improvements -- Positively. The improvements to the parking area east of Fifth Avenue will make the many events and attractions at Seattle Center more accessible to the public, as well as making the parking lot more comfortable and safe for the public to use.

 D. How will the proposed change affect operating and maintenance costs for the project element? How will the proposed modification improve the ability to maintain the facility?

 Center House Improvements -- The refinished floor will be easier to maintain. Removal of the escalator eliminates a maintenance problem.

 Pacific Science Court -- No impact.

 Washington State Building Improvements -- New windows and repair of the door will reduce maintenance needs.

 Master Plan Update -- No impact.

 Mural Fountain/East Improvements -- The creation of backstage support space eliminates the need to bring in portable dressing facilities.

 South Mall Plaza -- No impact.

 International Fountain Rehabilitation -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 International Fountain Mall -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Festival Utilities -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Promenade -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Seattle Children's Theatre -- No impact. The project is complete and excess appropriation authority is being abandoned.

 Central Plant Utilities -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Pottery Northwest -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Opera House Improvements - A -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Warehouse Improvements -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Northwest Crafts -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Parking Improvements -- No impact.

 E. Will the proposed change create additional disruption to existing programs?

 Center House Improvements -- No impact.

 Pacific Science Court -- No impact.

 Washington State Building Improvements -- No impact.

 Master Plan Update -- No impact.

 Mural Fountain/East Improvements -- No impact.

 South Mall Plaza -- No impact.

 International Fountain Rehabilitation -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 International Fountain Mall -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Festival Utilities -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Promenade -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Seattle Children's Theatre -- No impact. The project is complete and excess appropriation authority is being abandoned.

 Central Plant Utilities -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Pottery Northwest -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Opera House Improvements - A -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Warehouse Improvements -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Northwest Crafts -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Parking Improvements -- No impact.

 F. How is the proposed change expected to affect revenues and attendance at the affected facility?

 Center House Improvements -- The improvements to Center House make it more inviting to the public, which brings more people to Center House, adding to Seattle Center revenues for food concessions, parking, etc.

 Pacific Science Court -- More space to sit and eat outside of Center House may encourage more people to purchase food in Center House. Additional resting space on the grounds is inviting to the public.

 Washington State Building Improvements -- No impact.

 Master Plan Update -- No impact.

 Mural Fountain/East Improvements -- Production capability at the Mural Amphitheatre stage is enhanced, allowing for more and better productions to be presented on the stage for the entertainment of the public.

 South Mall Plaza -- Interim repairs to the Flag Pavilion will allow the building to remain in operation and generate rental revenue. Attendance levels will be maintained.

 International Fountain Rehabilitation -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 International Fountain Mall -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Festival Utilities -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Promenade -- No impact. The proposed modification simply makes adjustments to the project budgets within the "International Fountain Group" of projects to match appropriation levels and actual expenses. There is no net expense change or new work involved.

 Seattle Children's Theatre -- No impact. The project is complete and excess appropriation authority is being abandoned.

 Central Plant Utilities -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Pottery Northwest -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Opera House Improvements - A -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Warehouse Improvements -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Northwest Crafts -- No impact. The scope of work for this project is complete, and the remaining balance is being transferred for other Levy purposes.

 Parking Improvements -- The improvements will make the new parking lot more inviting and pedestrian friendly, which has a direct impact on parking revenues.

 d/data/levy/modcrit4.doc/nd

 Project Modification Criteria

 August 14, 1997

```
