

********

**Council Bill Number: 111967**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118824**
********

 Relating to contracting indebtedness; authorizing the issuance and sale of limited tax general obligation refunding bonds and unlimited tax general obligation refunding bonds, in one or more series, for the purposes of paying all or part of the costs of refunding, or refunding and defeasing, all or a portion of the City's outstanding limited tax general obligation bonds and unlimited tax general obligation bonds and of paying all or part of the costs of issuance and sale of the bonds; providing for terms, covenants and manner of sale of the bonds; and providing for agreements and activities in connection with the disposition of the proceeds of the bonds.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 17, 1997
   
**Vote:** 5-0 (Excused: Chow, Donaldson, Drago, Noland)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 24, 1997
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 24, 1997
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 10, 1997
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to contracting indebtedness; authorizing the issuance and sale of limited tax general obligation refunding bonds and unlimited tax general obligation refunding bonds, in one or more series, for the purposes of paying all or part of the costs of refunding, or refunding and defeasing, all or a portion of the City's outstanding limited tax general obligation bonds and unlimited tax general obligation bonds and of paying all or part of the costs of issuance and sale of the bonds; providing for terms, covenants and manner of sale of the bonds; and providing for agreements and activities in connection with the disposition of the proceeds of the bonds.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City") has determined it to be in the best interest of the City that it authorize the issuance and sale of limited tax general obligation refunding bonds and unlimited tax general obligation refunding bonds (collectively, "Bonds"), in one or more series, for the purposes of paying all or part of the costs of refunding, or refunding and defeasing, all or a portion of the City's outstanding limited tax general obligation bonds and unlimited tax general obligation bonds and of paying all or part of the costs of issuance and sale of the Bonds; and

 WHEREAS, the City issued limited tax general obligation bonds and unlimited tax general obligation bonds, pursuant to the ordinances and resolutions and subject to the optional redemption provisions set forth in Attachment A to this ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, there are at present outstanding certain limited tax general obligation bonds ("LTGO Refundable Bonds") and unlimited tax general obligation bonds ("UTGO Refundable Bonds," and together with the LTGO Refundable Bonds, "Refundable Bonds"), set forth in Attachment A to this ordinance, that may be refunded, or refunded and defeased; and

 WHEREAS, after due consideration, it appears to the City that all or a portion of the Refundable Bonds may be refunded, or refunded and defeased, by the issuance and sale of Bonds so that a substantial saving will be effected by the difference between (i) the principal and interest costs over the life of the Bonds plus the costs of issuance and sale of the Bonds and (ii) the principal and interest costs over the life of such Refundable Bonds but for such refunding, or refunding and defeasance, which refunding, or refunding and defeasance, may be effected by:

 (a) The issuance of the Bonds and the payment of the costs of the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the costs of the refunding, or refunding and defeasance; and

 (b) The payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest when due, and the call, payment and redemption of Refundable Bonds that are refunded, or refunded and defeased; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth:

 "Acquired Obligations" means those United States Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness, Notes and Bonds-State and Local Government Series and other direct, noncallable obligations of the United States of America purchased to accomplish the refunding of the Refunded Bonds as authorized by this ordinance.

 "Bond Counsel" means a lawyer or a firm of lawyers, selected by the City, of nationally recognized standing in matters pertaining to bonds issued by states and their political subdivisions.

 "Bond Fund" means the City's Bond Interest and Redemption Fund, previously created and established and to be used for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds.

 "Bond Register" means the books or records maintained by the Bond Registrar for the purpose of registration of the Bonds.

 "Bond Registrar" means the fiscal agency of the State of Washington, or any successor bond registrar selected by the City, whose duties include the registration and authentication of the Bonds, maintenance of the Bond Register, effecting transfer of ownership of the Bonds, and paying the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds.

 "Bond Resolution" means the resolution or resolutions of the City Council adopted pursuant to this ordinance to specify certain additional provisions of each series of the Bonds and their sale.

 "Bonds" means the unlimited tax general obligation refunding bonds and limited tax general obligation refunding bonds issued pursuant to this ordinance.

 "City" means The City of Seattle, Washington, a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 "City Council" means the City Council of the City, as duly and regularly constituted from time to time.

 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereto, and all applicable regulations thereunder.

 "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, as initial Securities Depository for the Bonds.

 "Finance Director" means the director of the Finance Division of the Executive Services Department of the City, and any successor to substantially the same duties.

 "Government Obligations" means direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States Government.

 "Letter of Representations" means, for each series of Bonds, the Letter of Representations relating to the Bonds to be delivered by the City to DTC.

 "LTGO Refundable Bonds" means the bonds identified as such in Attachment A to this ordinance.

 "LTGO Refunded Bonds" means all or that portion of the LTGO Refundable Bonds included in a Refunding Plan and refunded pursuant to this ordinance.

 "Refundable Bonds" means the LTGO Refundable Bonds and the UTGO Refundable Bonds.

 "Refunded Bond Legislation" means the ordinances or resolutions pursuant to which Refunded Bonds were issued.

 "Refunded Bonds" means LTGO Refunded Bonds and UTGO Refunded Bonds.

 "Refunding Plan," for each series of Bonds, means:

 (a) the placement of sufficient proceeds of the Bonds which, with other money of the City, if necessary, will acquire the Acquired Obligations to be deposited, with cash, if necessary, with the Refunding Trustee;

 (b) the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest when due on all or a portion and the call, payment and redemption of all or a portion of the Refunded Bonds;

 (c) the payment of the costs of issuing the Bonds and the costs of carrying out the foregoing elements of the Refunding Plan.

 "Refunding Trust Agreement" means, for each series of Bonds, the Refunding Trust Agreement between the City and a Refunding Trustee.

 "Refunding Trustee" means, for each series of Bonds, the Finance Director, or the trustee or escrow agent, or any successor trustee or escrow agent, appointed by the Finance Director.

 "Securities Depository" means any one of the following registered securities depositories which has been designated by the City: (i) DTC; (ii) Midwest Securities Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois; (iii) Philadelphia Depository Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; or (iv) such other securities depositories as the City may designate in a certificate of the City delivered to the Bond Registrar.

 "Term Bonds" means any Bonds or Refunded Bonds identified as such in the Bond Resolution or Refunded Bond Legislation authorizing the issuance thereof, which Bond Resolution or Refunded Bond Legislation requires that such bonds be purchased, redeemed or paid prior to maturity in a schedule established thereby.

 "UTGO Refundable Bonds" means the bonds identified as such in Attachment A to this ordinance.

 "UTGO Refunded Bonds" means all or that portion of the UTGO Refundable Bonds included in a Refunding Plan and refunded pursuant to this ordinance.

Section 2. Authorization and Description of Bonds. For the purpose of providing all or part of the funds with which to pay the costs of refunding, or refunding and defeasing, the LTGO Refunded Bonds and to pay all or part of the costs of issuing and selling the Bonds, the City is authorized to borrow money on the credit of the City and issue Bonds evidencing that indebtedness in any principal amount consistent with the provisions of Chapter 39.53 RCW.

 For the purpose of providing all or part of the funds with which to pay the costs of refunding, or refunding and defeasing, the UTGO Refunded Bonds and to pay all or part of the costs of issuing and selling the Bonds, the City is authorized to borrow money on the credit of the City and issue Bonds evidencing that indebtedness in the maximum principal amount, unless otherwise permitted by RCW 39.53.090, of not to exceed the principal amount of the UTGO Refunded Bonds.

 The Bonds may be issued in one or more series, but shall be issued on or before December 31, 2000; may be combined with other general obligation bonds authorized separately; shall have such year and series or other designation as determined by the Finance Director or as specified by the Bond Resolution consistent with the provisions of this ordinance; shall be dated as specified by the Bond Resolution; shall be in the denomination of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) or any integral multiple thereof within a single maturity or such other denomination within a maturity as specified by the Bond Resolution; shall be numbered separately, in the manner and with any additional designation as the Bond Registrar deems necessary for the purpose of identification; shall bear interest at such rate or rates as specified and approved by the Bond Resolution, which rate or rates may be fixed or variable, except that the interest rate shall not exceed twelve percent (12%) per annum, payable on the dates as specified by the Bond Resolution. The Bonds shall mature on the dates and in years and amounts as specified by the Bond Resolution. All or some of the Bonds may be Term Bonds. Unless otherwise permitted by RCW 39.53.090, (i) the various annual maturities of Bonds issued to refund UTGO Refunded Bonds shall not extend over a longer period of time than those UTGO Refunded Bonds, and (ii) the final maturity of any series of Bonds shall not exceed thirty (30) years from date of issuance.

Section 3. Bond Resolution. The City Council may adopt the Bond Resolution and in that resolution may provide for the matters described in this ordinance and such other matters that the City Council deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this ordinance.

 The Bond Resolution may provide for bond insurance and interest rate swap arrangements, and may provide conditions or covenants relating thereto, including additional terms, conditions and covenants relating to the Bonds that are required by the bond insurer and are consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to restrictions on investments and requirements of notice to and consent of the bond insurer. The Bond Resolution may approve and authorize the execution and delivery on behalf of the City of any contracts consistent with the provisions of this ordinance for which the City's approval is necessary or to which the City is a party and that are related or incidental to the initial issuance and sale of the Bonds, the initial establishment of the interest rate or rates on the Bonds, and any tender, purchase, remarketing or redemption of the Bonds, including but not limited to agreements with bond insurers, remarketing agents, underwriters, fiscal agencies, interest rate swap counterparties, custodians and the Bond Registrar. The Mayor and the Finance Director are each authorized to execute and deliver, on behalf of the City, any contracts consistent with the provisions of this ordinance for which the City's approval is necessary or to which the City is a party and that are related or incidental to the initial issuance and sale of the Bonds.

 The Bond Resolution shall identify the Refunded Bonds to be refunded by each series of Bonds, shall establish the terms and conditions upon which the Refunded Bonds are to be refunded, and shall confirm the Finance Director as, or the Finance Director's appointment of, the Refunding Trustee. The City Council may determine and specify by the Bond Resolution the amount, if any, from the proceeds of or accrued interest on the Bonds to be deposited into specified funds, subfunds, accounts and subaccounts. In the absence of such a determination and specification in the Bond Resolution, the Finance Director may make such determination and specification.

Section 4. Registration and Transfer or Exchange of Bonds . The Bonds shall be issued only in registered form as to both principal and interest and shall be recorded on the Bond Register. The Bond Register shall contain the name and mailing address of the registered owner of each Bond and the principal amount and number of each of the Bonds held by each registered owner.

 Bonds surrendered to the Bond Registrar may be exchanged for Bonds in any authorized denomination of an equal aggregate principal amount and of the same series, interest rate and maturity. Bonds may be transferred only if endorsed in the manner provided thereon and surrendered to the Bond Registrar. Any exchange or transfer shall be without cost to the registered owner or transferee. The Bond Registrar shall not be obligated to exchange or transfer any Bond during the fifteen (15) days preceding any principal payment or redemption date.

 The City appoints DTC as initial Securities Depository for the Bonds. For so long as DTC is the Securities Depository for the Bonds, DTC or its nominee shall be deemed to be the registered owner for all purposes hereunder, and all references in this ordinance or the Bond Resolution to the registered owners of the Bonds shall mean DTC or its nominee and shall not mean the owners of any beneficial interests in the Bonds. Payments of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all outstanding Bonds registered in the name of the nominee of DTC, or its registered assign, shall be made as provided in the relevant Letter of Representations.

 Bonds executed and delivered in fully immobilized form shall be executed and delivered in the form of one fully-registered immobilized certificate for each series and maturity of the Bonds representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds of that series and maturity, which Bonds shall (except as provided below for the discontinuation or substitution of Securities Depository) be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC; however, if DTC shall request that the Bonds be registered in the name of a different nominee, the Bond Registrar shall exchange all or any portion of the Bonds for an equal aggregate principal amount of Bonds registered in the name of such other nominee or nominees of DTC. No person other than DTC or its nominee shall be entitled to receive from the City or the Bond Registrar any Bond or any other evidence of ownership of the Bonds, or any right to receive any payment in respect thereof, unless DTC or its nominee shall transfer record ownership of all or any portion of the Bonds on the Bond Register, in connection with discontinuing the book entry system as provided below or otherwise.

 For so long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or any nominee thereof, all payments of the principal or interest with respect to the Bonds shall be made to DTC or its nominee in immediately available funds on the dates provided for such payments under this ordinance and the Bond Resolution and at such times and in the manner provided in the relevant Letter of Representations. Each such payment to DTC or its nominee shall be valid and effective to fully discharge all liability of the City or the Bond Registrar with respect to the principal or interest with respect to the Bonds to the extent of the sum or sums so paid. In the event of the redemption of less than all of the Bonds of any series and maturity, the Bond Registrar shall not require surrender by DTC or its nominee of the Bonds so redeemed, and DTC or its nominee may retain such Bonds and make an appropriate notation thereon as to the amount of such partial redemption. DTC shall deliver to the Bond Registrar, upon request, a written confirmation of such partial redemption. The records maintained by the Bond Registrar shall be conclusive as to the amount of the Bonds of such series and maturity that have been redeemed.

 All transfers of beneficial ownership interests in Bonds issued in fully immobilized form shall be effected by the procedures of DTC's participants for recording and transferring the ownership of beneficial interests in bonds.

 The City and the Bond Registrar may treat DTC (or its nominee) as the sole and exclusive registered owner of the Bonds registered in its name for the purposes of payment of the principal or interest with respect to those Bonds, selecting Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, giving any notice permitted or required to be given to registered owners under this ordinance or the Bond Resolution, registering the transfer of Bonds, obtaining any consent or other action to be taken by registered owners of Bonds and for all other purposes whatsoever; and the City and the Bond Registrar shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary. The City and the Bond Registrar shall not have any responsibility or obligation to any participant in DTC, any person claiming a beneficial ownership interest in the Bonds under or through DTC or any such participant, or any other person which is not shown on the Bond Register as being a registered owner of Bonds, with respect to: (i) the Bonds; (ii) any records maintained by DTC or any such participant; (iii) the payment by DTC or any such participant of any amount in respect of the principal or interest with respect to the Bonds; (iv) any notice which is permitted or required to be given to registered owners of Bonds under this ordinance or the Bond Resolution; (v) the selection by DTC or any such participant of any person to receive payment in the event of a partial redemption of the Bonds; or (vi) any consent given or other action taken by DTC as registered owner of the Bonds.

 For so long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or any nominee thereof, all notices required or permitted to be given to the registered owners of such Bonds under this ordinance or the Bond Resolution shall be given to DTC as provided in the relevant Letter of Representations.

 In connection with any notice or other communication to be provided to registered owners pursuant to this ordinance or the Bond Resolution by the City or the Bond Registrar with respect to any consent or other action to be taken by registered owners of the Bonds, DTC shall consider the date of receipt of notice requesting such consent or other action as the record date for such consent or other action; however, the City or the Bond Registrar may establish a special record date for such consent or other action and shall give DTC notice of such special record date not less than fifteen (15) calendar days in advance of such special record date to the extent practical.

 Any successor Bond Registrar, in its written acceptance of its duties under this ordinance and the Bond Resolution, shall agree to take any actions necessary from time to time to comply with the requirements of any applicable Letter of Representations.

 The book-entry system for registration of the ownership of the Bonds delivered in fully immobilized form may be discontinued at any time if: (i) after notice to the City and the Bond Registrar, DTC determines to resign as Securities Depository for the Bonds; or (ii) after notice to DTC and the Bond Registrar, the City determines that a continuation of the system of book-entry transfers through DTC (or through a successor Securities Depository) is not in the best interests of the City. In each of such events (unless, in the case described in clause (i) above, the City appoints a successor Securities Depository), the Bonds shall be delivered in registered certificate form to such persons, and in such maturities and principal amounts, as may be designated by DTC, but without any liability on the part of the City or the Bond Registrar for the accuracy of such designation. Whenever DTC requests the City and the Bond Registrar to do so, and for so long as clause (ii) above does not apply, the City and the Bond Registrar shall cooperate with DTC in taking appropriate action after reasonable notice to arrange for another Securities Depository to maintain custody of certificates evidencing the Bonds.

Section 5. Mutilated, Lost, Stolen and Destroyed Bonds. In case any Bonds shall become mutilated or be destroyed, stolen or lost, the City may, if not then prohibited or otherwise required by law, cause to be executed and delivered a new Bond of like amount, series, interest rate, maturity date and tenor in exchange and substitution for and upon cancellation of such mutilated Bonds, or in lieu of and in substitution for such destroyed, stolen or lost Bonds, upon payment by the registered owner thereof of the reasonable expenses and charges of the City and the Bond Registrar in connection therewith, and in the case of a Bond destroyed, stolen or lost, the filing with the Bond Registrar of evidence satisfactory to the City that such Bond was destroyed, stolen or lost, and of the ownership thereof, and furnishing the City and the Bond Registrar with indemnity satisfactory to each of them. If the mutilated, destroyed, stolen or lost Bond already has matured or been called for redemption in accordance with its terms, it shall not be necessary to issue a new Bond prior to payment.

Section 6. Payment of Bonds. Principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America. Interest on the Bonds shall be paid by checks, drafts or warrants of the Bond Registrar mailed on the interest payment date or by wire transfer on the interest payment date to registered owners of the Bonds at the addresses or accounts appearing on the Bond Register on the fifteenth (15th) day of the month preceding the interest payment date (or other record date established in the Bond Resolution). Principal of and premium, if any, on the Bonds shall be payable at maturity or on such date as may be specified for prior redemption upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds by the registered owners at the principal offices of the Bond Registrar. Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment of any Bonds registered in the name of DTC or its nominee shall be made in accordance with the relevant Letter of Representations.

Section 7. Redemption and Open Market Purchase of Bonds .

 (a) Optional Redemption. All or some of the Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to their stated maturity dates at the option of the City at the times and on the terms set forth in the Bond Resolution.

 (b) Mandatory Redemption. The City shall redeem any Term Bonds, if not redeemed under the optional redemption provisions set forth in the Bond Resolution or purchased in the open market under the provisions set forth below, by lot (or in such other manner as the Bond Registrar shall determine) at par plus accrued interest on the dates and in the years and principal amounts as set forth in the Bond Resolution.

 If the City redeems Term Bonds under the optional redemption provisions set forth in the Bond Resolution or purchases Term Bonds in the open market as set forth below, the Term Bonds so redeemed or purchased (irrespective of their redemption or purchase prices) shall be credited at the par amount thereof against the remaining mandatory redemption requirements in a manner to be determined by the Finance Director or, if no such determination is made, on a pro-rata basis.

 (c) Partial Redemption. Whenever less than all of the Bonds of a single maturity are to be redeemed, the Bond Registrar shall select the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed from the Bonds of that maturity by lot, or in such other manner as the Bond Registrar shall determine, except that, for so long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, DTC shall select the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed in accordance with the relevant Letter of Representations. In no event shall any Bond be outstanding in a principal amount that is not an authorized denomination.

 Portions of the principal amount of any Bond, in integral amounts of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000), may be redeemed. If less than all of the principal amount of any Bond is redeemed, upon surrender of that Bond at the principal offices of the Bond Registrar, there shall be issued to the registered owner, without charge therefor, a new Bond (or Bonds, at the option of the registered owner) of the same series, maturity, and interest rate in any of the denominations authorized by the Bond Resolution in the aggregate total principal amount remaining unredeemed.

 (d) Open Market Purchase. The City reserves the right and option to purchase any or all of the Bonds in the open market at any time at any price acceptable to the City plus accrued interest to the date of purchase. The principal amount of Term Bonds purchased pursuant to this section shall be credited at the par amount thereof against the next mandatory redemption requirement that is at least sixty (60) days after the date of purchase, or as otherwise directed by the Finance Director.

 (e) Bonds to be Canceled. All Bonds purchased or redeemed under this section shall be canceled.

Section 8. Notice of Redemption. The City shall cause notice of any intended redemption of Bonds to be given not less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the date fixed for redemption by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the registered owner of any Bond to be redeemed at the address appearing on the Bond Register at the time the Bond Registrar prepares the notice, and the requirements of this sentence shall be deemed to have been fulfilled when notice has been mailed as so provided, whether or not it is actually received by the registered owner of any Bond. Interest on Bonds called for redemption shall cease to accrue on the date fixed for redemption unless the Bond or Bonds called are not redeemed when presented pursuant to the call. In addition, the redemption notice shall be mailed by the Bond Registrar within the same period, postage prepaid, to Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., at their offices in New York, New York, or their successors, to any bond insurer for the Bonds, and to such other persons and with such additional information as the Finance Director shall determine or as specified in the Bond Resolution, but these additional mailings shall not be a condition precedent to the redemption of Bonds.

Section 9. Failure to Redeem Bonds. If any Bond is not redeemed when properly presented at its maturity or call date, the City shall be obligated to pay interest on that Bond at the same rate provided in the Bond from and after its maturity or call date until that Bond, principal, premium, if any, and interest, is paid in full or until sufficient money for its payment in full is on deposit in the Bond Fund and the Bond has been called for payment by giving notice of that call to the registered owner of each of those unpaid Bonds.

Section 10. Form and Execution of Bonds. The Bonds shall be typed, printed, photocopied or lithographed on good bond paper in a form consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, the Bond Resolution, and State law, shall be signed by the Mayor and Finance Director, either or both of whose signatures may be manual or in facsimile, and the seal of the City or a facsimile reproduction thereof shall be impressed or printed thereon.

 Only Bonds bearing a Certificate of Authentication in substantially the following form (with the designation, date and series of the Bonds adjusted consistent with this ordinance), manually signed by the Bond Registrar, shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose or entitled to the benefits of this ordinance:

 CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

 This Bond is one of the fully registered The City of Seattle, Washington, [Designation] Refunding Bonds, [Date][, Series] described in the Bond Ordinance.

 BOND REGISTRAR

 By

 Authorized Signer

 The authorized signing of a Certificate of Authentication shall be conclusive evidence that the Bond so authenticated has been duly executed, authenticated and delivered and is entitled to the benefits of this ordinance.

 If any officer whose facsimile signature appears on the Bonds ceases to be an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds before the Bonds bearing his or her manual or facsimile signature are authenticated or delivered by the Bond Registrar or issued by the City, those Bonds nevertheless may be authenticated, delivered and issued and, when authenticated, issued and delivered, shall be as binding on the City as though that person had continued to be an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds. Any Bond also may be signed on behalf of the City by any person who, on the actual date of signing of the Bond, is an officer of the City authorized to sign bonds, although he or she did not hold the required office on the date of issuance of the Bonds.

Section 11. Bond Registrar. The Bond Registrar shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its principal corporate trust office, sufficient books for the registration and transfer of the Bonds, which shall be open to inspection by the City at all times. The Bond Registrar is authorized, on behalf of the City, to authenticate and deliver Bonds transferred or exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the Bonds and this ordinance, to serve as the City's paying agent for the Bonds and to carry out all of the Bond Registrar's powers and duties under this ordinance and Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 5.10 establishing a system of registration for the City's bonds and obligations, as that chapter now exists or may be amended. The City reserves the right in its discretion to appoint special paying agents, registrars, or trustees in connection with the payment of some or all of the principal of or interest on the Bonds. If a new Bond Registrar is appointed by the City, notice of the name and address of the new Bond Registrar shall be mailed to the registered owner of the Bonds. The notice may be mailed together with the next interest payment due on the Bonds, but, to the extent practicable, shall be mailed not less than fifteen (15) days prior to a maturity date of the principal of any Bond.

 The Bond Registrar shall be responsible for its representations contained in the Bond Registrar's Certificate of Authentication on the Bonds. The Bond Registrar may become the registered owner of Bonds with the same rights it would have if it were not the Bond Registrar and, to the extent permitted by law, may act as depository for and permit any of its officers or directors to act as members of, or in any other capacity with respect to, any committee formed to protect the rights of the registered owners of the Bonds.

Section 12. Execution of Refunding Plan.

 (a) Appointment of Refunding Trustee. The Finance Director may serve as, or appoint separately, the Refunding Trustee, which service or appointment shall be confirmed by the Bond Resolution.

 (b) Use of Bond Proceeds; Acquisition and Substitution of Acquired Obligations. For each series of Bonds, sufficient proceeds of the sale of the Bonds, together with other money of the City, if any, required by the Refunding Plan, shall be deposited immediately upon the receipt thereof with the Refunding Trustee and used to discharge the obligations of the City relating to the Refunded Bonds to be refunded therewith under the respective Refunded Bond Legislation by providing for the payment of the amounts required to be paid by the Refunding Plan. The Refunding Plan shall be carried out, and proceeds of the Bonds allocable to the refunding purposes shall be applied, in accordance with this ordinance, the respective Refunded Bond Legislation, the Bond Resolution and the laws of the State. To the extent practicable, such obligations shall be discharged fully by the Refunding Trustee's simultaneous purchase of the Acquired Obligations, bearing such interest and maturing as to principal and interest in such amounts and at such times so as to provide, together with a beginning cash balance, if necessary, for the payment of the amount required to be paid by the Refunding Plan. The Acquired Obligations shall be listed and more particularly described in a schedule attached to the Refunding Trust Agreement, but are subject to substitution as set forth below.

 Prior to the purchase of any such Acquired Obligations, the City reserves the right to substitute other Government Obligations for any of the Acquired Obligations and to use any savings created thereby for any lawful City purpose if, (i) in the opinion of Bond Counsel, the interest on the Bonds and the Refunded Bonds will remain excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes under Sections 103, 148 and 149(d) of the Code, and (ii) such substitution shall not impair the timely payment of the amounts required to be paid by the Refunding Plan, as verified by a nationally recognized firm of independent certified public accountants.

 After the purchase of the Acquired Obligations by the Refunding Trustee, the City reserves the right to substitute therefor cash or Government Obligations subject to the conditions that such money or securities held by the Refunding Trustee shall be sufficient to carry out the Refunding Plan, that such substitution will not cause the Bonds or the Refunded Bonds to be arbitrage bonds within the meaning of Section 148 of the Code and regulations thereunder in effect on the date of such substitution and applicable to obligations issued on the issue date of the Bonds, and that it obtain, at its expense: (i) verification by a nationally recognized independent certified public accounting firm acceptable to the Refunding Trustee confirming that the payments of principal of and interest on the Government Obligations, if paid when due, and any other money held by the Refunding Trustee will be sufficient to carry out the Refunding Plan; and (ii) an opinion from Bond Counsel to the effect that the disposition and substitution or purchase of such securities, under the statutes, rules and regulations then in force and applicable to the Bonds, will not cause the interest on the Bonds or the Refunded Bonds to be included in gross income for federal income tax purposes and that such disposition and substitution or purchase is in compliance with the statutes and regulations applicable to the Bonds. Any surplus money resulting from the sale, transfer, other disposition or redemption of the Acquired Obligations and the substitutions therefor shall be released from the trust estate and transferred to the City to be used for any lawful City purpose.

 (c) Administration of Refunding Plan. The Refunding Trustee is authorized and directed to purchase the Acquired Obligations (or substitute obligations) and to make the payments required to be made by the Refunding Plan from the Acquired Obligations (or substitute obligations) and money deposited with the Refunding Trustee pursuant to this ordinance. All Acquired Obligations (or substitute obligations) and the money deposited with the Refunding Trustee and any income therefrom shall be held irrevocably, invested and applied in accordance with the provisions of the respective Refunded Bond Legislation, this ordinance, the Bond Resolution, Chapter 39.53 RCW and other applicable statutes of the State of Washington and the Refunding Trust Agreement. All necessary and proper fees, compensation and expenses of the Refunding Trustee and all other costs incidental to the setting up of the escrow to accomplish the refunding of the Refunded Bonds and costs related to the issuance and delivery of the Bonds, including bond printing, verification fees, Bond Counsel's fees and other related expenses, shall be paid out of the proceeds of the Bonds.

 (d) Authorization for Refunding Trust Agreement. To carry out the Refunding Plan provided for by this ordinance, the Finance Director is authorized to execute and deliver to the Refunding Trustee a Refunding Trust Agreement substantially in the form approved by the Bond Resolution setting forth the duties, obligations and responsibilities of the Refunding Trustee in connection with the payment, redemption and retirement of the Refunded Bonds as provided herein and stating that the provisions for payment of the fees, compensation and expenses of such Refunding Trustee set forth therein are satisfactory to it. Prior to executing the Refunding Trust Agreement, the Finance Director is authorized to make such changes therein which do not change the substance and purpose thereof or which assure that the escrow provided therein and the Bonds are in compliance with the requirements of federal law governing the exclusion of interest on the Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes.

Section 13. Call for Redemption of the Refunded Bonds. As a part of the Refunding Plan, the City may in the Bond Resolution call Refunded Bonds for redemption. Such call for redemption of the Refunded Bonds shall specify the Refunded Bonds, call dates and redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of par, plus accrued interest) and shall be irrevocable after the delivery to the initial purchaser thereof of the applicable series of Bonds. The dates on which the Refunded Bonds are called for redemption shall be the earliest dates on which those bonds may be called for redemption.

 The proper officials of the City are authorized and directed to give or cause to be given such notices as required, at the times and in the manner required pursuant to the respective Refunded Bond Legislation, in order to effect the redemption prior to maturity of the Refunded Bonds.

Section 14. City Findings with Respect to Refunding. The Refunding Plan or any portion thereof may be carried out only if the City Council finds and determines by the Bond Resolution that the issuance and sale of Bonds will effect savings to the City or will be in the best interest of the City in order to modify debt service or reserve requirements, sources of payment, covenants or other terms of the Refunded Bonds. In making such findings and determinations, the City Council shall give consideration to the fixed maturities and scheduled redemptions of the Bonds, the costs of issuance and sale of the Bonds and the known earned income from the investment of the proceeds of the issuance and sale of the Bonds and other money, if any, of the City used in the Refunding Plan pending payment and redemption of the Refunded Bonds.

 The Refunding Plan or any portion thereof may be carried out only if the City Council further finds and determines that the money to be deposited with the Refunding Trustee for the Refunded Bonds in accordance with this ordinance and the Bond Resolution will discharge and satisfy the obligations of the City with respect to the Refunded Bonds under the respective Refunded Bond Legislation, and the pledges, charges, trusts, covenants and agreements of the City therein made or provided for as to the Refunded Bonds, and that the Refunded Bonds shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding under such ordinances immediately upon the deposit of such money with the Refunding Trustee.

Section 15. Pledge of Taxes. For so long as any of the Bonds issued to refund LTGO Refunded Bonds are outstanding, the City irrevocably pledges to include in its budget and levy taxes annually within the constitutional and statutory tax limitations provided by law without a vote of the electors of the City on all of the taxable property within the City in an amount sufficient, together with other money legally available and to be used therefor, to pay when due the principal of and interest on such Bonds, and the full faith, credit and resources of the City are pledged irrevocably for the annual levy and collection of those taxes and the prompt payment of that principal and interest.

 For so long as any of the Bonds issued to refund UTGO Refunded Bonds are outstanding, the City irrevocably pledges to include in its budget and levy taxes annually without limitation as to rate or amount on all of the taxable property within the City in an amount sufficient, together with other money legally available and to be used therefor, to pay when due the principal of and interest on such Bonds, and the full faith, credit and resources of the City are pledged irrevocably for the annual levy and collection of those taxes and the prompt payment of that principal and interest.

Section 16. Bond Fund. All taxes collected for and allocated to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds shall be deposited in the Bond Fund. Accrued interest on the Bonds, if any, received from the sale and delivery of the Bonds shall be paid or allocated into the Bond Fund prior to the first debt service payment date with respect to those Bonds. Until needed to pay the costs described herein, the City may invest principal proceeds of the Bonds temporarily in any legal investment, and the investment earnings shall be deposited in such funds and accounts as may be designated by the Finance Director. Earnings subject to a federal tax or rebate requirement may be withdrawn from any such fund or account and used for those tax or rebate purposes.

 Any Bond proceeds remaining after the accomplishment of the purposes set forth in Section 2, or after the City Council has determined that the expenditure of Bond proceeds for those purposes is no longer necessary or appropriate, may be used to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds consistent with applicable law.

Section 17. Preservation of Tax Exemption for Interest on Bonds. The City covenants that it will take all actions, consistent with the terms of the Bonds, this ordinance and the Bond Resolution, reasonably within its power and necessary to prevent interest on the Bonds from being included in gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the City will neither take any action nor make or permit any use of proceeds of the Bonds or other funds of the City treated as proceeds of the Bonds at any time during the term of the Bonds which will cause interest on the Bonds to be included in gross income for federal income tax purposes.

 The City has not been notified of any listing or proposed listing by the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that it is a bond issuer whose arbitrage certifications may not be relied upon.

Section 18. Bonds Negotiable. The Bonds shall be negotiable instruments to the extent provided by RCW 62A.8-102 and 62A.8-105.

Section 19. Refunding or Defeasance of the Bonds. The City may issue refunding obligations pursuant to the laws of the State of Washington or use money available from any other lawful source to pay when due the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds, or any portion thereof included in a refunding or defeasance plan, and to redeem and retire, refund or defease those Bonds (the "defeased Bonds") and to pay the costs of such refunding or defeasance. If money and/or Government Obligations sufficient in amount, together with earned income from the investments thereof, to redeem and retire, refund or defease the defeased Bonds in accordance with their terms, are set aside in a special trust fund or escrow account irrevocably pledged to that redemption, retirement or defeasance (the "trust account"), then all right and interest of the registered owners of the defeased Bonds in the covenants of this ordinance and in the funds and accounts pledged to the payment of the defeased Bonds, other than the right to receive the funds so set aside and pledged, thereafter shall cease and become void. Such registered owners thereafter shall have the right to receive payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest or redemption price on the defeased Bonds from the trust account. The City shall include in the refunding or defeasance plan such provisions as the City deems necessary for the random selection of any defeased Bonds that constitute less than all of a particular maturity of the Bonds, for notice of the defeasance to be given to the registered owners of the defeased Bonds, and to such other persons as the City shall determine, and for any required replacement of Bonds for defeased Bonds.

 After the establishing and full funding of such a trust account, the defeased Bonds shall be deemed no longer outstanding, and the City may apply any money in any other fund or account established for the payment or redemption of the defeased Bonds to any lawful purposes as it shall determine.

Section 20. Sale of Bonds. The Finance Director may provide for the sale of each series of the Bonds by public sale or by a negotiated sale with the successful underwriter chosen through a selection process acceptable to the Finance Director, including the evaluation of responses to the requests for proposals. The terms of that sale shall be consistent with this ordinance and the Bond Resolution and shall be confirmed by the Bond Resolution. The Bonds will be delivered to the purchasers as provided in the Bond Resolution immediately upon payment to the City of the purchase price plus accrued interest to the date of closing in immediately available federal funds in Seattle, Washington, at the City's expense or at another place upon which the Finance Director and the purchaser may mutually agree at the purchaser's expense.

 CUSIP numbers will be printed on the Bonds if requested by the purchasers, but neither failure to print CUSIP numbers on any Bond nor error with respect thereto shall constitute cause for a failure or refusal by the purchasers to accept delivery of and pay for the Bonds in accordance with the purchase offer. All expenses in relation to the printing of CUSIP numbers on the Bonds shall be paid by the City, but the fee of the CUSIP Service Bureau for the assignment of those numbers shall be the responsibility of and shall be paid by the purchasers.

 The City will cause the Bonds to be typed, printed, photocopied or lithographed, sealed and executed and will furnish the approving legal opinion of Bond Counsel regarding the Bonds, the opinion also being printed on each Bond unless the Bond is typed or photocopied.

Section 21. Temporary Bonds. Pending the printing, execution, and delivery to the purchasers of definitive Bonds, the City may cause to be executed and delivered to the purchasers a single temporary Bond for each series in the total principal amount of the Bonds of that series. Each temporary Bond shall bear the same date of issuance, interest rates, principal payment dates and terms and covenants as the definitive Bonds, shall be issued as a fully registered Bond in the name of the purchasers or their nominees, and shall be in such form as is acceptable to the purchasers. Each temporary Bond shall be exchanged for the relevant definitive Bonds as soon as they are printed, executed and available for delivery.

Section 22. Continuing Disclosure. The City shall undertake to provide for the benefit of registered owners of the Bonds certain annual financial information and operating data of the type included in the final official statement for those Bonds, as well as disclosure of certain material events respecting the Bonds, in the manner and to the extent required by United States Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12. The particular terms of the undertaking shall be set forth in the Bond Resolution.

Section 23. General Authorization. The Mayor and the Finance Director and each of the other appropriate officers of the City are each authorized and directed to do everything as in their judgment may be necessary, appropriate or desirable in order to carry out the terms and provisions of, and complete the transactions contemplated by, this ordinance. In particular, and without limitation, the Finance Director may, in his or her discretion and without further action by the City Council, (i) issue requests for proposals for underwriting and trustee services and execute engagement letters with underwriters and Refunding Trustees based on responses to such requests, (ii) comply with any continuing disclosure requirements applicable to the Bonds and (iii) change the Bond Registrar or Securities Depository for the Bonds.

Section 24. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, such offending provision shall, if feasible, be deemed to be modified to be within the limits of enforceability or validity. However, if the offending provision cannot be so modified, it shall be null and void with respect to the particular person or circumstance, and all other provisions of this ordinance in all other respects, and the offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, shall remain valid and enforceable.

Section 25. Ratification of Prior Acts. Any action taken consistent with the authority but prior to the effective date of this ordinance, including, if applicable, but not limited to issuing requests for proposals for underwriting and providing trustee services, executing engagement letters for underwriting and trustee services based on responses to such requests, giving notices of the sale of Bonds, adopting the Bond Resolution, executing contracts, making fund transfers and paying warrants, is ratified, approved and confirmed.

Section 26. Headings. The section headings in this ordinance are used for convenience only and shall not constitute a substantive portion of this ordinance.

Section 27. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council the  day of , 1997, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this  day of , 1997.

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this  day of , 1997.

 Norman B. Rice, Mayor

 Filed this  day of , 1997.

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 ATTACHMENT A

 Bond

 Legislation

 LTGO Refundable Bonds Original Principal Amount ($000s) Outstanding Principal Amount* ($000s) Optional Redemption Provisions

 Ord. 101034 Res. 23692 General Obligation Parking Garage Bonds, 1972 3,550 1,110 On or after 2/1/91. At par. On 2/1 or 8/1.

 Ord. 107407 Res. 25871 Res. 25912 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1978, Series No. 1 4,500 375 On or after 9/1/88. At par. On 3/1 or 9/1.

 Ord. 113848 Res. 27786 Res. 27795 Limited Tax Levy General Obligation Bonds, 1988, Series A 8,820 435 None

 Ord. 113875 Ord. 113947 Ord. 114065 Res. 27822 Res. 27830 Limited Tax Levy General Obligation Bonds, 1988, Series B 38,455 3,830 On or after 8/1/99. At par. In whole at any time. In part on 2/1 or 8/1

 Ord. 115453 Res. 28303 Public Safety Facilities and Equipment Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1991 7,985 2,625 On or after 8/1/01. At par. In whole at any time. In part on 2/1 or 8/1.

 Ord. 115392 Res. 28309 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Housing), 1991 (Taxable) 2,700 1,335 None

 Ord. 115639 Ord. 115716 Res. 28385 Res. 28388 West Seattle Bridge Limited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds, 1991 7,065 5,915 On or after 10/1/01. At 101, 10/1/01-9/30/02. At 100.5, 10/1/02-9/30/03. At par on or after 10/1/03. In whole at any time. In part on 4/1 or 10/1.

 Ord. 115836 Res. 28454 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1991 (Seattle Center Improvements) 11,835 8,600 None

 Ord. 116082 Res. 28526 Limited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds, 1992 33,435 33,435 On or after 3/1/02. At par. In whole at any time. In part on 3/1 or 9/1.

 Ord. 116081 Res. 28525 Various Purpose Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1992 5,890 1,065 On or after 3/1/02. At par. In whole at any time. In part on 3/1 or 9/1.

 Ord. 116105 Res. 28527 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds (Capital Facilities Projects), 1992 35,000 29,570 On or after 3/1/02. At par. In whole at any time. In part on 3/1 or 9/1.

 Ord. 11511 Res. 28688 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1993 (Fire Apparatus) 785 525

 On or after 7/1/02. At par. In whole at any time. In part on 1/1 or 7/1.

 Ord. 116498 Res. 28686 Limited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds, 1993 6,635 6,210 On or after 7/1/02. At par. In whole at any time. In part on 1/1 or 7/1.

 Ord. 117050 Res. 28895 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1994 73,400 71,220 On or after 10/1/04.

 At 102, 10/1/04-9/30/05.

 At 101, 10/1/05-9/30/06.

 At par on or after 10/1/06.

 In whole or in part at any time.

 Ord. 117138 Res. 28931 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1994 15,850 10,770 None

 Ord. 117901 Res. 29261 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1995 (Multipurpose Series) 28,670 25,675 On or after 7/1/06. At par. In whole or in part at any time.

 Ord. 117738 Ord. 118108 Ord. 118161 Ord. 118162 Ord. 118184 Res. 29394 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1996, Series A (Tax-Exempt) 97,740 97,740 On or after 1/15/06. At par. In whole or in part at any time.

 Ord. 117738 Ord. 118108 Ord. 118161 Ord. 118162 Ord. 118184 Res. 29394 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1996, Series B (Taxable) 16,790 16,585 None.

 Ord. 117738 Ord. 118108 Ord. 118161 Ord. 118162 Ord. 118184 Res. 29421 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1996, Series C (Taxable Adjustable) 57,520 57,520 In whole or in part on purchase dates, interest payment dates, and as determined.

 Ord. 117749 Ord. 118191 Ord. 118196 Ord, 118364

 Res. 29499 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1996, Series E 14,685 10,360 On or after 10/1/99. At par. In whole on 4/1 or 10/1.

 Ord. 118423 Res. 29522 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1997, Series A 26,670 26,470 On or after 8/1/07. At par. In whole or in part at any time.

 Ord. 118695 Res. 29641 Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1997, Series B 7,725 7,725 None.

 * As of 10/31/97.

 Bond Legislation

 UTGO Refundable Bonds Original Principal Amount ($000s) Outstanding Principal Amount*

 ($000s) Optional Redemption Provisions

 Ord. 96326 Ord. 96926 Res. 21640 Res. 21677 Seattle Fire Protection Facilities Bonds, 1968, (Stations and Shop) Series No. 1 1,700 795 On or after 10/1/79. At par. On 4/1 or 10/1.

 Ord. 96329 Ord. 97896 Res. 24070 Res. 24109 Neighborhood Improvement Bonds, 1968 Series No. 2 1,500 970 On or after 5/1/92. At par. On 5/1 and 11/1.

 Ord. 96329 Ord. 97896 Res. 25418 Res. 25449 Neighborhood Improvement Bonds, 1968 Series No. 3 7,500 5,825 On or after 3/1/92. At par. On 3/1 or 9/1.

 Ord. 102203 Res. 24162 General Obligation Refunding Bonds, 1973 41,535 27,720 On or after 3/1/86. At par on or after 3/1/96. In whole at any time. In part on 3/1 or 9/1.

 Ord. 96327 Ord. 96925 Res. 21640 Res. 21677 Seattle Sewer Improvement Bonds 1968, Series No. 1 7,000 3,275 On or after 10/1/88. At par. On 4/1 or 10/1.

 Ord. 96327 Ord. 96925 Res. 23579 Res. 23650 Seattle Sewer Improvement Bonds 1968, Series No. 4 10,500 6,610 On or after 7/1/91. At par. On 1/1 or 7/1.

 Ord. 96327 Ord. 96925 Res. 24070

 Res. 24109 Seattle Sewer Improvement Bonds, 1968, Series No. 5 10,500 6,790 On or after 5/1/92. At par. On 5/1 and 11/1.

 Ord. 106629 Ord. 106630 Ord. 107111 Res. 25757 Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1978 24,800 9,330 On or after 3/1/88. At par. On 3/1 or 9/1.

 Ord. 116499 Res. 28687 Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds, 1993 43,420 41,220 On or after 12/1/02. At par. In whole at any time. In part on 6/1 or 12/1.

 * As of 10/31/97

 26

 -32- 111967.DOC

 Michael Van Dyck:et

 ref: 250358v5.doc

 November 18, 1997 version 5

```
