

********

**Council Bill Number: 111909**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118793**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and shorelines, amending Sections 23.60.002, 23.60.012, 23.60.016, 23.60.020, 23.60.030, 23.60.034, 23.60.036, 23.60.060, 23.60.062, 23.60.066, 23.60.068, 23.60.070, 23.60.072, 23.60.074, 23.60.076, 23.60.122, 23.60.156, 23.60.196, 23,60.210, 23.60.244, 23.60.304, 23.60.365, 23.60.60.366, 23.60.426, 23.60.428, 23.60.486, 23.60.540, 23.60.574, 23.60.604, 23.60.608, 23.60.664, 23.60.724, 23.60.728, 23.60.730, 23.60.784, 23.60.844, 23.60.846, 23.60.902, 23.60.912, 23.60.932, 23.60.934, 23.60.936, 23.60.940, 23.60.944, 23.60.950, and 23,60.952, and adding Section 23.60.065 to the Seattle Shoreline Master Program, Chapter 23.60 of the Seattle Municipal (Land Use) Code.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 10, 1997
   
**Vote:** 7-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 21, 1997
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 21, 1997
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Omnibus Land Use Code amendment ordinance.

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 6, 1997
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, SHORELANDS, LAND-USE-PERMITS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, FLOATING-HOMES, WEEDS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 113764, 113466, 118408, 117789, 117571, 118409, 116325, 116907, 117230

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ___________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and shorelines, amending Sections 23.60.002, 23.60.012, 23.60.016, 23.60.020, 23.60.030, 23.60.034, 23.60.036, 23.60.060, 23.60.062, 23.60.066, 23.60.068, 23.60.070, 23.60.072, 23.60.074, 23.60.076, 23.60.122, 23.60.156, 23.60.196, 23.60.210, 23.60.244, 23.60.304, 23.60.365, 23.60.366, 23.60.426, 23.60.428, 23.60.486, 23.60.540, 23.60.574, 23.60.604, 23.60.608, 23.60.664, 23.60.724, 23.60.728, 23.60.730, 23.60.784, 23.60.844, 23.60.846, 23.60.902, 23.60.912, 23.60.932, 23.60.934, 23.60.936, 23.60.940, 23.60.944, 23.60.950, and 23.60.952, and adding Section 23.60.065 to the Seattle Shoreline Master Program, Chapter 23.60 of the Seattle Municipal (Land Use) Code.

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection B of Section 23.60.002 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 23.60.002 Title and purpose.

 * * *

 B. Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to implement the policy and provisions of the Shoreline Management Act ~~of 1971~~ and the Shoreline Goals and Policies of the Seattle Comprehensive Plan by regulating development of the shorelines of the City in order to:

 1. Protect the ecosystems of the shoreline areas;

 2. Encourage water-dependent uses;

 3. Provide for maximum public use and enjoyment of the shorelines of the City; and

 4. Preserve, enhance and increase views of the water and access to the water.

 Section 2. Section 23.60.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.012 Liberal construction.

 This chapter shall be exempted from the rule of strict construction, and it shall be liberally construed to give full effect to the objectives and purposes of Chapter 90.58 RCW, the State Shoreline Management Act ~~of 1971~~. This chapter shall not be used when construing other chapters of this title ~~or Title 24~~ except for shoreline development or as stated in Sections 23.60.014 and 23.60.022.

 Section 3. Section 23.60.016 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.016 Inconsistent development prohibited.

 No development shall be undertaken and no use shall be established in the Shoreline District unless the Director has determined that it is consistent with the policy of the Shoreline Management Act ~~of 1971~~ and the regulations of this chapter. This restriction shall apply even if no substantial development permit is required.

 Section 4. Section 23.60.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 23.60.020 Substantial development permit required.

 A. No ~~substantial~~ development, except for those listed in subsection C below, shall be undertaken in the Shoreline District without first obtaining a substantial development permit from the Director. ~~A substantial development permit shall not be required where the Director determines that a development proposed on the shorelines is not a "substantial development" as defined in this chapter.~~"Substantial development" means any development of which the total cost or fair market value exceeds Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) or any development which materially interferes with the normal public use of the water or shorelines of the City.~~~~B. Application and Interpretation of Exemptions.  1. Exemptions shall be construed narrowly. Only those developments that meet the precise terms of one or more of the listed exemptions may be granted exemption from the substantial development permit process.

 2. An exemption from the substantial development permit process is not an exemption from compliance with the Shoreline Management Act or provisions this Chapter, nor from any other regulatory requirements. To be authorized, all uses and developments must be consistent with the policies and provisions of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program and the Shoreline Management Act. A development or use that is listed as a conditional use pursuant to this Chapter or is an unlisted use, must obtain a conditional use permit even though the development or use does not require a substantial development permit. When a development or use is proposed that does not comply with the bulk, dimensional and performance standards of this Chapter, such development or use can only be authorized by approval of a variance.

 3. The burden of proof that a development or use is exempt from the permit process is on the applicant.

 4. If any part of a proposed development is not eligible for exemption, then a substantial development permit is required for the entire proposed development project.

 5. The Director may attach conditions to the approval of exempted developments and/or uses as necessary to assure consistency of the project with the Shoreline Management Act and this Chapter.

 C. Exemptions. The following developments or activities shall not be considered substantial development and are exempt from obtaining a substantial development permit from the Director:

 1. Normal maintenance or repair of existing structures or developments, including damage by accident, fire or elements. Normal maintenance means those usual acts to prevent a decline, lapse or cessation from a lawfully established state comparable to its original condition, including but not limited to its size, shape, configuration, location, and external appearance, within a reasonable period after decay or partial destruction, except where repair causes substantial adverse effects to shoreline resources or environment. Replacement of a structure or development may be authorized as repair where such replacement is the common method of repair for the type of structure or development and the replacement structure or development is comparable to the original structure or development including but not limited to its size, shape, configuration, location and external appearance and the replacement does not cause substantial adverse effects to shoreline resources or environment.

 2. Construction of the normal protective bulkhead common to single family residences. A normal protective bulkhead means those structural and nonstructural developments installed at or near, and parallel to, the ordinary high water mark for the sole purpose of protecting an existing single family residence and appurtenant structures from loss or damage by erosion. A normal protective bulkhead is not exempt if constructed for the purpose of creating dry land. When a vertical wall is being constructed or reconstructed, not more than one cubic yard of fill per one foot of wall may be used as backfill. When an existing bulkhead is being repaired by construction of a vertical wall fronting the existing wall, it shall be constructed no further waterward of the existing bulkhead than is necessary for construction of new footings. When a bulkhead has deteriorated such that an ordinary high water mark has been established by the presence and action of water landward of the bulkhead then the replacement bulkhead must be located at or near the actual ordinary high water mark. Beach nourishment and bioengineered erosion control projects may be considered a normal protective bulkhead when any structural elements are consistent with the above requirements and when the project has been approved by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife.

 3. Emergency construction necessary to protect property from damage by the elements. An emergency means an unanticipated and imminent threat to public health, safety or the environment which requires immediate action within a time too short to allow full compliance with this Chapter. Emergency construction does not include development of new permanent protective structures where none previously existed. Where new protective structures are deemed by the Director to be the appropriate means to address the emergency situation, upon abatement of the emergency situation the new structure shall be removed or any permit which would have been required, absent an emergency, pursuant to Chapter 90.58 RCW or these regulations shall be obtained.

 All emergency construction shall be consistent with the policies of Chapter 90.58 RCW and the Seattle Shoreline Master Program. As a general matter, flooding or other seasonal events that can be anticipated and may occur but that are not imminent are not an emergency;  4. Construction and practices normal or necessary for farming, irrigation, and ranching activities, including agricultural service roads and utilities on shorelands, and the construction and maintenance of irrigation structures including but not limited to head gates, pumping facilities, and irrigation channels; provided, that a feedlot of any size, all processing plants, other activities of a commercial nature, alteration of the contour of the shorelands by leveling or filling other than that which results from normal cultivation, shall not be considered normal or necessary farming or ranching activities;

 5. Construction or modification, by or under the authority of the Coast Guard or a designated port management authority, of navigational aids such as channel markers and anchor buoys;

 6. Construction on shorelands by an owner, lessee or contract purchaser of a single family residence, including those structures and developments within a contiguous ownership which are a normal appurtenance, for his or her own use or for the use of his or her family, which residence does not exceed a height of thirty-five feet (35') above average grade level and which meets all requirements of the City other than requirements imposed pursuant to this Chapter. A normal appurtenance is necessarily connected to the use and enjoyment of a single family residence and is located landward of the ordinary high water mark and the perimeter of a wetland.

Normal appurtenances include, but are not limited to, a garage, deck, driveway, utilities, fences, installation of a septic tank and drainfield, and grading which does not exceed two hundred fifty (250) cubic yards and which does not involve placement of fill in any wetland or waterward of the ordinary high water mark;  7. Construction of a pier accessory to residential structures, including a community pier, designed for pleasure craft only, for the private noncommercial use of the owners, lessee or contract purchaser of a single family or multifamily residence. This exception applies if either:

 a. In salt waters, which include Puget Sound and all associated bays and inlets, the fair market value of the pier accessory to residential structures does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00); or

 b. In fresh waters, the fair market value of the pier accessory to residential structures does not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), but if subsequent construction having a fair market value exceeding two thousand five hundred ($2,500.00) occurs within five years of completion of the prior construction, the subsequent construction shall be considered a substantial development for the purpose of this Chapter;

 8. Operation, maintenance, or construction of canals, waterways, drains, reservoirs, or other facilities that now exist or are hereafter created or developed as a part of an irrigation system for the primary purpose of making use of system waters, including return flow and artificially stored groundwater for the irrigation of lands;

 9. The marking of property lines or corners on state-owned lands, when such marking does not significantly interfere with normal public use of the surface of the water;

 10. Operation and maintenance of any system of dikes, ditches, drains, or other facilities existing on June 4, 1975, which were created, developed or utilized primarily as a part of an agricultural drainage or diking system;

 11. Demolition of structures, except where the Director determines that such demolition will have a major impact upon the character of the shoreline;

 12. Any project with a certification from the Governor pursuant to Chapter 80.50 RCW;

 13. Site exploration and investigation activities that are prerequisite to preparation of an application for development authorization under this Chapter, if:

 a. The activity does not interfere with the normal public use of the surface waters;

 b. The activity will have no significant adverse impact on the environment including but not limited to fish, wildlife, fish or wildlife habitat, water quality, and aesthetic values;

 c. The activity does not involve the installation of any structure, and upon completion of the activity the vegetation and land configuration of the site are restored to conditions existing before the activity;

 d. A private entity seeking development authorization under this section first posts a performance bond or provides other evidence of financial responsibility to the City of Seattle to ensure that the site will be restored to preexisting conditions; and

 e. The activity is not subject to the permit requirements of RCW 90.58.550;

 14. The process of removing or controlling aquatic noxious weeds, as defined in RCW 17.26.020, and regulated in Section 23.60.210C of this Chapter.

 15. Watershed restoration projects that implement a watershed restoration plan. The City of Seattle shall review the projects for consistency with its Shoreline Master Program in an expeditious manner and shall issue its decision along with any conditions within forty- five (45) days of receiving from the applicant all materials necessary to review the request for exemption. No fee may be charged for accepting and processing requests for exemption for watershed restoration projects as used in this section;

 16. A public or private project, the primary purpose of which is to improve fish or wildlife habitat or fish passage, when all of the following apply:

 a. The project has been approved in writing by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife as necessary for the improvement of the habitat or passage and appropriately designed and sited to accomplish the intended purpose;

 b. The project has received hydraulic project approval by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife pursuant to Chapter 75.20 RCW; and

 c. The project is consistent with the City's Shoreline Master Program. This determination shall be made in a timely manner and provided to the project proponent in writing; and

 17. Hazardous substance remedial actions. The procedural requirements of Chapter 90.58 RCW shall not apply to a project for which a consent decree, order or agreed order has been issued pursuant to Chapter 70.105D RCW or to the State Department of Ecology when it conducts a remedial action under Chapter 70.105D RCW. The State Department of Ecology shall, in conjunction with the City of Seattle, assure that such projects comply with the substantive requirements of Chapter 90.58 RCW and the Seattle Shoreline Master Program.

~~B~~D. Developments proposed in the Shoreline District may require permits from other governmental agencies.

 Section 5. Section 23.60.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.030 Criteria for substantial development permits.

A. A substantial development permit shall be ~~issued~~granted only when the development proposed is consistent with:

~~A~~1. The policies and procedures of Chapter 90.58 RCW;

~~B~~2. The regulations of this ~~c~~ Chapter; and

~~C~~3. The provisions of Chapter 173-~~14~~27  WAC.

B. Conditions may be attached to the approval of a permit as necessary to assure consistency of the proposed development with the Seattle Shoreline Master Program and the Shoreline Management Act.

 Section 6. Section 23.60.034 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.034 Criteria for shoreline conditional use approvals.

 Uses or developments which are identified in this chapter as requiring shoreline conditional use approval, and other uses which, although not expressly mentioned in lists of permitted uses, are permitted in the underlying zones and are not prohibited in the Shoreline District, may be approved, approved with conditions or denied by the Director in specific cases based on the criteria in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27- 160, as now constituted or hereafter amended, and any additional criteria given in this chapter. Upon transmittal of the Director's approval to the Department of Ecology ("DOE"), the permit may be approved, approved with conditions or denied by DOE.

 Section 7. Section 23.60.036 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.036 Criteria for shoreline variances.

 In specific cases the Director with approval of DOE may authorized variances from certain requirements of this chapter if the request complies with WAC 173-~~14-150~~27-170, as now constituted or hereafter amended.

 Section 8. Subsection B of Section 23.60.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was adopted by Ordinance 118408, is amended as follows:

 23.60.060 Procedures for shoreline environment redesignations.

 * * *

 B. A request for a shoreline environment redesignation is considered a rezone, a Council land use decision subject to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, and shall be evaluated against the following criteria:

 1. The Shoreline Management Act. The proposed redesignation shall be consistent with the intent and purpose of the Shoreline Management Act (RCW 90.58) and with Department of Ecology Guidelines (WAC 173-16).

 2. Shorelines of Statewide Significance. If the area is within a shoreline of statewide significance the redesignation shall be consistent with the preferences for shorelines of statewide significance as given in RCW 90.58.010.

 3. Comprehensive Plan Shoreline Area Objectives. In order to ensure that the intent of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program is met the proposed redesignation shall be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan Shoreline Area Objectives in which the proposed redesignation is located.

 4. Harbor Areas. If the area proposed for a shoreline designation change is within or adjacent to a harbor area, the impact of the redesignation on the purpose and intent of harbor areas as given in Article IV of the State Constitution shall be considered.

 5. Consistency with Underlying Zoning. The proposed redesignation shall be consistent with the appropriate land use policies for the area unless overriding shoreline considerations exist.

 6. Rezone Evaluation. The proposed redesignation shall comply with the Rezone evaluation provisions in Section 23.34.007.

 7. General Rezone Criteria. The proposed redesignation shall meet the general rezone standards in Section 23.34.008, Subsections B through J.

 * * *

 Section 9. Subsection B of Section 23.60.062 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.062 Procedures for obtaining exemptions from substantial development permit requirements.

 * * *

 B. If the development requires a Section 10 Permit under the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 or a Section 404 permit under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, the determination of consistency shall be made at the time of review of the Public Notice from the Corps of Engineers, and a Letter of Exemption as specified in WAC 173- ~~14-115~~27-050 shall be issued if the development is consistent.

 * * *

 Section 10. A new Section 23.60.065 of the Seattle Municipal Code is added as follows:

 23.60.065 Procedure for limited utility extensions and bulkheads.

 As required by WAC 173-27-120, an application for a substantial development permit for a limited utility extension or for the construction of a bulkhead or other measures to protect a single family residence and its appurtenant structures from shoreline erosion shall be subject to all of the requirements of this Chapter except that the following time periods and procedures shall be used:

 A. The public comment period shall be twenty (20) days. The notice provided shall state the manner in which the public may obtain a copy of the decision on the application no later than two (2) days following its issuance;

 B. The decision to grant or deny the permit shall be issued within twenty-one (21) days of the last day of the comment period specified in subsection A above; and

 C. If there is an appeal of the decision to grant or deny the permit to the Hearing Examiner, the appeal shall be finally determined within thirty (30) days.

 Section 11. Subsections B and E of Section 23.60.066 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.066 Procedure for determination of feasible or reasonable alternative locations.

 * * *

 B. Application Requirements for Plan Shoreline Permits.

 1. Application for a Plan Shoreline Permit shall include the scope and intent of proposed projects within the Shoreline District and the appropriate non-shoreline alternative(s) identified by the applicant or the Director.

 2. The application shall be accompanied by the necessary environmental documentation, as determined by the Director, including an assessment of the impacts of the proposed projects and of the non- shoreline alternative(s), according to the State and local SEPA guidelines.

 3. For projects within the Shoreline District, the application shall provide the information specified in WAC 173-~~14-110~~27-180  and this title. The application shall include information on the overall system which outlines the interrelationship of shoreline and non-shoreline facilities. Schematic plans outlining dimensions, elevations, locations on site and similar specifications shall be provided for projects within the Shoreline District and for the non- shoreline alternative(s) which may be changed at the time of the project-specific shoreline permit(s) within the limitations of subsection G of this section.

 * * *

 E. Criteria for Decision. The decision as to the feasibility or reasonableness of alternatives shall be based upon the ~~goals and policies of Resolution 25173 as amended,~~Shoreline Goals and Policies in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan and the Shoreline Management Act ~~of 1971~~, as amended, and a full consideration of the environmental, social and economic impacts on the community.

 * * *

 Section 12. Subsection D of Section 23.60.068 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.068 Procedure for Council conditional use authorization.

 Projects required by this chapter to obtain Council conditional use authorization shall be processed in the following manner:

 * * *

 D. Upon receipt of Council's findings, conclusions and decisions from the City Clerk, the Director shall file the decision to approve, deny, or condition the shoreline substantial development permit with the State Department of Ecology as required by Chapter 173-~~14~~ 27 WAC. The Director shall be bound by and incorporate the terms and conditions of the Council's decision in the shoreline substantial development permit. The Council's findings, conclusions and decisions shall constitute the City report on the application.

 * * *

 Section 13. Section 23.60.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117789, is amended as follows:

 23.60.070 Decisions to State of Washington -- Review.

A. Any decision on an application for a permit under authority of this

 chapter, whether it be an approval or denial shall, concurrently with the

 transmittal of the ruling to the applicant, be filed by the Director with

 DOE ~~and the Attorney General~~according to the requirements contained in WAC 173-27-130. For shoreline conditional use and variance decisions, the Director shall provide final notice of DOE's decision according to WAC 173-27-200(3).

B. Any person aggrieved by the granting or denying of a substantial development permit on shorelines of the City, or by the rescission of a permit pursuant to this chapter may seek review by the Shoreline Hearings Board by filing a petition for review within twenty-one (21) days of receipt of the permit decision by DOE. Within seven (7) days of the filing of any petition for review with the Shoreline Hearings Board pertaining to a final decision of a local government, the petitioner shall serve copies of the petition on the Director of DOE,~~and~~ the Attorney General and the Director of DCLU as provided in RCW 90.58.180.

 Section 14. Subsection A of Section 23.60.072 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117789, is amended as follows:

 23.60.072 Commencement of construction.

 A. No construction pursuant to a substantial development permit authorized by this chapter shall begin or be authorized and no building, grading or other construction permits shall be issued by the Director until twenty-one (21) days from the date of filing of the Director's final decision granting the shoreline substantial development permit with the Director of the Department of Ecology ~~and the Attorney General~~; or until all review proceedings are terminated if such proceedings were initiated within twenty-one (21) days of the date of filing of the Director's final decision.

 * * *

 Section 15. Section 23.60.074 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended adopted by Ordinance 118408, is amended as follows:

 23.60.074. Effective date of substantial development permits and time limits for permit validity.

~~A. The effective date of a substantial development permit shall be the date of the last action required on the substantial development permit and all other government permits and approvals for the development that authorize the development to proceed, including all administrative and legal actions on any permits or approvals.~~B. The following time requirements shall apply to all substantial development permits:

 1. Construction or substantial progress toward construction, as defined in WAC 173-14-060 as now constituted or hereafter amended, of a project for which a permit has been granted pursuant to this chapter must be undertaken within two (2) years of the effective date of the permit or the permit shall terminate; provided, that upon written request from the applicant filed before the expiration date, the Director may extend the two (2) year period for up to one (1) year if the failure to undertake the project was based on reasonable factors, or as provided in WAC 173-14-060.

 2. If a project for which a permit has been granted pursuant to the chapter has not been completed within five (5) years after the effective date of the permit, or within a shorter time period required by the permit, the Director shall review the permit, and upon a showing of good cause, do either of the following, as provided in WAC 173-14-060:

 a. Extend the permit for one (1) year; or

 b. Terminate the permit.

 3.

 Pursuant to WAC 173-27-090, the following time requirements shall apply to all substantial development permits and to any development authorized pursuant to a variance or conditional use permit authorized under this Chapter.

 A. Upon finding of good cause, based on the requirements and circumstances of the project proposed and consistent with the policy and provisions of WAC 173-27 and this Chapter, the Director may adopt different time limits from those set forth in subsection B below as part of the decision on a shoreline substantial development permit. The Director may also, with approval from DOE, adopt appropriate time limits as part of the decision on a shoreline conditional use or shoreline variance. "Good cause, based on the requirements and circumstances of the project," shall mean that the time limits established are reasonably related to the time actually necessary to perform the development on the ground and complete the project that is being permitted, and/or are necessary for the protection of shoreline resources.

B. Where the Director did not adopt different time limits on a permit decision, the following time limits shall apply:  1. Construction activities or substantial progress toward construction of a project or, where no construction activities are involved, the use or activity for which a permit has been granted pursuant to this Chapter shall be commenced within two (2) years of the effective date of a substantial development permit or the permit shall terminate. The Director may authorize a single extension of the two (2) year period not to exceed one (1) year based on reasonable factors, if a request for extension has been filed before the expiration date and notice of the proposed extension is given to parties of record on the substantial development permit and to DOE.

 2. If a project for which permit has been granted pursuant to this Chapter has not been completed within five (5) years after the effective date of the substantial development permit, authorization to conduct construction activities shall expire unless the Director authorizes a single extension based on reasonable factors, for a period not to exceed one (1) year, if a request for extension has been filed before the expiration date and notice of the proposed extension is given to parties of record and to DOE.

3. The effective date of a substantial development permit shall be the date of filing as provided in RCW 90.58.140(6). The time periods in subsections A and B of this Section do not include the time during which a project, use or activity was not actually pursued due to the pendency of administrative appeals or legal actions or due to the need to obtain other government permits and approvals for the project, use or activity that authorize it to proceed, including all reasonably related administrative or legal actions on any such permits or approval.

4. The Plan Shoreline Permit shall be valid for a period of five (5) years or as otherwise permitted by WAC 173-~~14-060~~ 27-090. Project-specific shoreline permits must be applied for within that period to be considered pursuant to the determination made under the Plan Shoreline Permit. Development under project-specific permits shall conform to the time limits outlined in subsections A and B.

 Section 16. Subsections A, C, D, and E of Section 23.60.076 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117789, is amended as follows:

 23.60.076 Revisions to permits.

 When an applicant seeks to revise a permit, the Director shall request from the applicant detailed plans and text describing the proposed changes in the permit.

 A. If the Director determines that the proposed changes are within the scope and intent of the original permit as defined in WAC 173-~~14-064(2)~~27-100(2), as now constituted or hereafter amended, the Director shall approve the revision. Within eight (8) days of the date of approval, the approved revision, along with copies of the revised site plan and text, shall be submitted by certified mail to DOE, ~~the Attorney General,~~ and copies provided to parties of record and to persons who have previously notified the Director of their desire to receive notice of decision on the original application.

 * * *

 C. If the revision to the original permit involves a conditional use or variance, either of which was conditioned by DOE, the Director shall submit the revision to DOE for DOE's approval, approval with conditions or denial, indicating that the revision is being submitted under the requirements of WAC 173-~~14-064(5)~~27-100(6). DOE shall transmit to the City and the applicant its final decision within fifteen (15) days of the date of DOE receipt of the submittal by the Director, who shall notify parties of record of DOE's final decision.

 D. The revised permit is effective immediately upon final action by the Director, or when appropriate under WAC 173-~~14-064(5)~~ 27-100(6), by DOE.

 E. Appeals shall be in accordance with RCW 90.58.180 and shall be filed with the Shoreline Hearings Board within twenty-one (21) days from date of DOE's receipt of the revision approved by the Director, or when appropriate under WAC 173-~~14-064(5)~~27-100(6), the date DOE's final decision is transmitted to the City and the applicant. Appeals shall be based only upon contentions of noncompliance with the provisions of WAC 173-~~14-064(2)~~27- 100(2). Construction undertaken pursuant to that portion of a revised permit not authorized under the original permit is a the applicant's own risk until the expiration of the appeals deadline. If an appeal is successful in proving that a revision is not within the scope and intent of the original permit, the decision shall have no bearing on the original permit. The party seeking review shall have the burden of proving the revision was not within the scope and intent of the original permit.

 Section 17. Subsection D of Section 23.60.122 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.122 Nonconforming uses.

 * * *

 D. The change of one (1) nonconforming use to another use not permitted in the shoreline environment may be authorized as a conditional use by the Director with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology if the Director determines that the new use is no more detrimental to the property in the shoreline environment and vicinity than the existing use and the existing development is unsuited for a use permitted in the environment, and if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied. The new use shall retain its nonconforming use status for the purposes of subsections A through C above.

 * * *

 Section 18. Subsection A of Section 23.60.156 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117571, is amended as follows:

 23.60.156 Parking requirements.

 A. Required parking spaces and loading berths shall be provided for uses in the Shoreline District as specified ~~by~~in Chapter 23.54 ~~or Title 24~~ except that the requirements may be waived or modified at the discretion of the Director: (1) if alternative means of transportation will meet the parking demand of the proposed development in lieu of such off-street parking and loading requirements, or (2) if parking to serve the proposed uses is available within eight hundred feet (800') of the proposed development and if pedestrian facilities are provided. Waivers shall not be granted if they encourage the use of scarce, on-street parking in the neighborhood surrounding the development.

 * * *

 Section 19. Subsection A of Section 23.60.196 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118409, is amended as follows:

 23.60.196 Floating homes.

 A. General Standards.

 1. Floating home moorages shall comply with ~~Chapter 58, Houseboats, of~~ the Seattle Building Code ~~Supplement~~ adopted by Chapter 22.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code, and the requirements of this chapter.

 2. Moorage Location.

 a. Except as provided below, every floating home moorage shall be located on privately owned or privately controlled premises. No floating home shall be located in any waterway or fairway or in the public waters of any street or street end.

 b. Floating homes and floating home moorages which were located in the public waters or any street or street end on January 1, 1974, or on property later dedicated to the City for street purposes, and which have continuously remained in such locations, comply with all other provisions of this chapter and are authorized by a use and occupancy permit approved by ~~T~~the ~~City~~Director of Seattle ~~Engineering Department~~Transportation shall be permitted; provided that when any such floating home so located and permitted to use such public waters is moved from its existing site the public waters shall not be reoccupied.

 c. Floating homes and floating home moorages located in Portage Bay in a submerged street segment lying generally parallel to the shoreline that terminates on the north and on the south in a submerged street area when the same person owns or leases the property abutting on both sides thereof shall be permitted.

 d. Floating homes are permitted when located at an existing floating home moorage and located partially on private property and partially in submerged portions of Fairview Avenue East lying generally parallel to the shoreline, when the occupant of the floating home owns or leases the private portion of the moorage site and has obtained a long-term permit from City Council to occupy the abutting street area.

 3. Views. Floating homes shall not be located or relocated in such a manner as to block the view corridor from the end of a dock or walkway. In the location and the design of remodeled floating homes, views of the water for moorage tenants and the public shall be preserved.

 4. Existing Floating Homes. An existing floating home, for the purposes of this section, shall be one assigned a King County Assessor's (KCA) number and established by that number as existing at an established moorage in Lake Union or Portage Bay as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.1

 5. Relocation. Two (2) floating homes may exchange moorage sites, either within a moorage or between moorages, if:

 a. Both floating homes are the same height or the relocation will not result in a floating home, which is over eighteen feet (18') in height and higher than the floating home being replaced, being located seaward of floating homes which are eighteen feet (18') or less in height, provided that no floating home greater than eighteen feet (18') in height shall be relocated to a nonconforming floating home moorage except to replace a floating home of equal or greater height;

 b. The minimum distance between adjacent floating home walls and between any floating home wall and any floating home site line will meet the requirements of the applicable moorage standards in subsections B or C of this section below unless reduced for existing floating homes by the Director; and

 c. The requirements of Chapter 7.20 of the Seattle Municipal Code, Floating Home Moorages, have been met.

 6. Moorage Plan. Any proposal to replace, remodel, rebuild, or relocate a floating home, or expand a floating home moorage, shall be accompanied by an accurate, fully dimensioned moorage site plan, at a scale of not less than one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20'), unless such plan is already on file with the Department. When the proposal is to expand a moorage, the plan shall designate individual moorage sites for the entire moorage.

 * * *

 Section 20. Section 23.60.210 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.210 Aquatic noxious weed control.

The process of removing or controlling aquatic noxious weeds, as defined in RCW 17.26.020, may be accomplished through the following practices:

 A. ~~The control of aquatic weeds b~~By hand-pulling, mechanical harvesting, or placement of aquascreens if proposed to maintain existing water depth for navigation, which shall be considered normal maintenance and repair and therefore exempt from the requirement to obtain a shoreline substantial development permit~~.~~; or

 B. ~~The control of aquatic weeds b~~By derooting, rotovating or other method which disturbs the bottom sediment or benthos, which shall be considered development for which a substantial development permit is required, unless proposed to maintain existing water depth for navigation in an area covered by a previous permit for such activity, in which case it shall be considered normal maintenance and repair and therefore exempt from the requirement to obtain a substantial development permit~~.~~; or

 C. ~~The use of herbicide or other chemicals to control aquatic weeds shall be prohibited.~~Through the use of herbicides or other treatment methods applicable to the control of aquatic noxious weeds that are recommended in a final environmental impact statement published by the State Department of Agriculture or the State Department of Ecology jointly with other state agencies under Chapter 43.21 RCW, and subject to approval from the State Department of Ecology. The approved permit from the Department of Ecology shall specify the type of chemical(s) to be used and document that chemical treatment for the control of aquatic noxious weeds shall be applied by a person or entity licensed by the Department of Agriculture.

 Section 21. The introduction to Section 23.60.244 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.244 Conditional uses in the CN Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized in the CN Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses of WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 * * *

 Section 22. The introduction of Section 23.60.304 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.304 Conditional uses in the CP Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized in the CP Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses of WAC173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied~~;~~:

 * * *

 Section 23. The introduction of Section 23.60.365 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 116325, is amended as follows:

 23.60.365 Administrative Conditional Uses in the CR Environment.

 The following use may be authorized by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as principal or accessory use, if the criteria for administrative conditional uses in WAC 173- ~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 * * *

 Section 24. Subsection B of Section 23.60.366 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.366 Council conditional uses in the CR Environment.

 * * *

 B. The uses identified in subsection A may be permitted only when the

 Council determines that the uses as conditioned would be consistent with

 the purposes of the CR Environment, the Shoreline Policies and the

 Shoreline Management Act ~~of 1971~~.

 Section 25. The introduction of Section 23.60.426 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 23.60.426 Conditional uses permitted in the CM Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized in the CM Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 * * *

 Section 26. Subsection A of Section 23.60.428 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.428 Council conditional uses in the CM Environment.

 Expansion of existing sewage treatment plants in the CM Environment to add capacity or a new treatment level may be authorized by the Council according to the procedures of Section 23.60.068 when:

 A. A determination has been made, according to the process established in Section 23.60.066, Procedure for determination of feasible or reasonable alternative locations, that no feasible alternative exists to expanding the plant in the CM Environment. The determination as to feasibility shall be based upon the Shoreline Goals and Policies, the Shoreline Management Act ~~of 1971~~, as amended, and a full consideration of the environmental, social and economic impacts on the community;

 * * *

 Section 27. The introduction of Section 23.60.486 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.486 Conditional uses in the CW Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized in the CW Environment by the Director with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology as principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 * * *

 Section 28. Section 23.60.540 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.540 Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the UR Environment.

 The following uses shall be permitted outright on waterfront lots in the Urban Residential Environment as either principal or accessory uses:

 A. The following residential uses:

 1. Floating home moorage in Lake Union or Portage Bay,

 2. Single~~-~~ family and multi~~-~~family residences, and

 3. ~~Special~~Congregate residences and nursing homes ;

 B. Streets;

 C. Bridges;

 D. Railroads;

 E. The following utilities:

 1. Utility lines, and

 2. Utility service uses whose operations require a shoreline location; and

 F. Shoreline recreation uses.

 Section 29. Subsection B of Section 23.60.574 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.574 Lot coverage in the UR Environment.

 * * *

 B. Lot Coverage Exceptions.

 1. Floating home moorages shall meet the lot coverage provisions in Section 23.60.196, Floating homes.

 2. On single~~-~~ family zoned lots the maximum lot coverage permitted for principal and accessory structures shall not exceed thirty-five percent (35%) of the lot area or one thousand seven hundred fifty (1,750) square feet, whichever is greater.

 3. On the dry-land portion of a lot where some portion of a proposed structure will be placed below the grade existing prior to construction, those portions of the structure which are less than eighteen inches (18") above original grade shall not be included in lot coverage.

 4. On multifamily zoned lots, the lot coverage percentage ~~shall not apply~~of the underlying zone shall apply.

 Section 30. The introduction to Section 23.60.604 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 23.60.604 Conditional uses on waterfront lots in the US Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized on waterfront lots in the US Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 * * *

 Section 31. Subsection A of Section 23.60.608 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.608 Permitted uses on upland lots in the US Environment.

 A. Uses Permitted Outright.

 1. Uses permitted outright on waterfront lots in the US Environment are permitted outright on upland lots and are not subject tot he requirements of Section 23.60.600C to provide special public benefits.

 2. Additional uses permitted outright on upland lots:

 a. The following residential uses:

 (1) Single~~-~~ family and multi~~-~~family residences, and

 (2) ~~Special~~Congregate residences and nursing homes;

 b. The following commercial uses:

 (1) Medical services,

 (2) Animal services,

 (3) Automotive retail sales and service,

 (4) Parking, principal use,

 (5) Lodging,

 (6) Mortuary services,

 (7) Nonhousehold sales and service,

 (8) Wholesale showroom, miniwarehouse, warehouse and outdoor storage uses, non-water-dependent,

 (9) Research and development laboratories, and

 (10) Ground-level offices in the Lake Union area;

 c. Recycling collection stations;

 d. Light and general manufacturing uses;

 e. Institutional uses; and

 f. Public facilities.

 * * *

 Section 32. Section 23.60.664 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116907, is amended as follows:

 23.60.664 Conditional uses permitted on waterfront lots in the UH Environment.

 A. The following uses may be authorized over water or on dry-land portions of waterfront lots in the UH Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 1. The following commercial uses:

 a. Outdoor storage, water-related or water-dependent,

 b. Warehouses, water-related or water-dependent,

 c. Wholesale showrooms, and

 d. Research and development laboratories, non-water-dependent;

 2. Non-water-dependent commercial uses on historic ships:

 a. The following uses may be permitted on an historic ship when meeting the criteria in subsection C2 below:

 i. Sale of boat parts or accessories,

 ii. Personal and household retail sales and services,

 iii. Eating and drinking establishments;

 b. i. The ship is designated as historic by the Landmarks Preservation Board or listed on the National Register of Historic Places,

 ii. The use is compatible with the existing design and/or construction of the ship without significant alteration,

 iii. Uses permitted outright are not practical because of ship design and/or cannot provide adequate financial support necessary to sustain the ship in a reasonably good physical condition,

 iv. The use shall obtain a certificate of approval from the Landmarks Preservation Board, and

 v. No other historic ship containing restaurant or retail uses is located within one-half (1/2) mile of the proposed site, unless the proposed site is within the Historic Character Area;

 3. Light manufacturing uses, non-water-dependent which:

 a. Are part of a mixed-use development when the light manufacturing uses occupy no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the developed portion of the lot,

 b. Contribute to the maritime or tourist character of the area, and

 c. Are located to accommodate water-dependent or water-related uses on site;

 4. The following non-water-dependent institutions:

 a. Institutes for advanced study,

 b. Museums,

 c. Colleges, and

 d. Vocational schools.

 B. The following use may be authorized over water or on dryland portions of waterfront lots in the UH Environment by the City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 1. Helistops, subject to the following criteria:

 a. The helistop is for takeoff and landing of helicopters which serve a public safety, news gathering or emergency medical care function, is part of an approved transportation plan and is a public facility, or is part of an approved transportation plan and located at least two thousand feet (2,000') from a residential zone,

 b. The helistop is located so as to minimize adverse physical environmental impacts on lots in the surrounding area, and on public parks and other areas where substantial public gatherings may be held,

 c. The lot is of sufficient size that operations of the helistop and flight paths of helicopters can be buffered from the surrounding area,

 d. Open areas and landing pads shall be hardsurfaced, and

 e. The helistop meets all federal requirements including those for safety, glide angles and approach lanes.

 Section 33. The introduction of Section 23.60.724 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117230, is amended as follows:

 23.60.724 Conditional uses on waterfront lots in the UM Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized on waterfront lots in the UM Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 * * *

 Section 34. Subsection B of Section 23.60.728 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117230, is amended as follows:

 23.60.728 Prohibited uses on waterfront lots in the UM Environment.

 * * *

 B. The following commercial uses:

 1. Medical services,

 2. Animal services,

 3. Automotive retail sales and service,

 4. Parking, principal use,

 5. Lodging,

 6. Mortuary services,

 7. ~~Offices,~~

~~8.~~ Entertainment uses, except where permitted as a conditional use pursuant to Section 23.60.724,

~~9~~8. Commercial laundries,

~~10~~9.Personal transportation services,

~~11~~10.Passenger terminals, non-water-dependent,

~~12~~11.Cargo terminals, non-water-dependent,

~~13~~12.Transit vehicle bases,

~~14~~13.Helistops,

~~15~~14.Heliports,

~~16~~15.Airports, land-based,

~~17~~16.Covered wet moorage on Lake Union and Portage Bay, and

~~18~~17.Research and development laboratories, except where permitted as a conditional use pursuant to subsection C of Section 23.60.724;

 * * *

 Section 35. Subsections C and D of Section 23.60.730 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116907, is amended as follows:

 23.60.730 Permitted uses on upland lots in the UM Environment.

 * * *

 C. Uses Permitted as Conditional Uses. The following uses may be authorized by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 1. Offices within the Lake Union area;

 2. In structures designated as Landmarks, pursuant to Chapter 25.12, Historic Preservation, when the structure is not located over water, the following uses:

 a. Non-water-dependent institutional uses,

 b. Residential uses;

 3. In structures designated as Landmarks, pursuant to Chapter 25.12, Historic Preservation, when the structure is located over water, the following uses:

 a. Uses otherwise permitted outright on upland lots in the UM environment as specified in subsection A of Section 23.60.730,

 b. Offices within the Lake Union area,

 c. Non-water-dependent institutional uses,

 d. Residential uses,

 e. Parking accessory to uses located within the landmark structure.

 D. Uses Permitted as Council Conditional Uses. The following uses may be authorized by the City Council, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses, if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 1. Helistops and heliports when the following additional criteria are met:

 a. The helistop or heliport is for takeoff and landing of helicopters which serve a public safety, news gathering, or emergency medical care function and, in the case of heliports, services provided for those helicopters; is part of an approved transportation plan and is a public facility; or is part of an approved transportation plan and is located at least two thousand feet (2,000') from a residential zone;

 b. The helistop or heliport is located so as to minimize adverse physical environmental impacts on lots in the surrounding area, and particularly on residentially zoned lots, public parks, and other areas where substantial public gatherings may be held;

 c. The lot is of sufficient size that the operations of the helistop or heliport and the flight paths of the helicopters can be buffered from the other uses in the surrounding area;

 d. Open areas and landing pads shall be hardsurfaced; and

 e. The helistop or heliport meets all federal requirements including those for safety, glide angles, and approach lanes.

 Section 36. The introduction of Section 23.60.784 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 23.60.784 Conditional uses permitted on waterfront lots in the UG Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized on waterfront lots in the UG Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of the Department of Ecology, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC 173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 * * *

 Section 37. The introduction of Section 23.60.844 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113764, is amended as follows:

 23.60.844 Conditional uses on waterfront lots in the UI Environment.

 The following uses may be authorized on waterfront lots in the UI Environment by the Director, with the concurrence of DOE, as either principal or accessory uses if the criteria for conditional uses in WAC173-~~14-140~~27-160 are satisfied:

 * * *

 Section 38. Section 23.60.846 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.846 Council conditional Uses on waterfront lots in the UI Environment.

 A. Sewage treatment plants may be authorized by the Council according to the procedures of Section 23.60.068 when:

 1. Located in the Duwamish area;

 2. A determination has been made, according to the process established in Section 23.60.066, Process for determination of feasible or reasonable alternative locations, that no feasible alternative exists to locating a plant in the Seattle Shoreline District. The determination as to feasibility shall be based upon the ~~Goals and Policies of Resolution 25183~~ Shoreline Goals and Policies of the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, the Shoreline Management Act ~~of 1971~~, as amended, and a full consideration of the environmental, social and economic impacts on the community;

 3. The plant is set back sixty feet (60') from the line of ordinary high water;

 4. A public access walkway is provided along the entire width of the shoreline except for any portion occupied by barge loading and unloading facilities to serve the plant, public access being most important along views of the water and any other significant shoreline element; and

 5. All reasonable mitigation measures to protect views and to control odors, noise, traffic and other impacts on the natural and built environment shall be provided.

 Section 39. Section 23.60.902 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 118409, is amended to add one definition and amend one definition as follows:

 23.60.902 "A."

 * * *

"Average grade level" means the calculation determined by averaging the elevations at the center of all exterior walls of the proposed building or structure. In the case of structures to be built over water, average grade level shall be the elevation of ordinary high water, except in the Urban Harborfront, as provided in Section 23.60.666.

 * * *

 "AWDT" means the twenty four (24) hour average weekday traffic on a street as determined by the Director of Seattle Transportation or the Director of the Department of Construction and Land Use in consultation with the Director of Seattle Transportation.

 Section 40. Section 23.60.912 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended to add one definition in alphabetical order as follows:

 23.60.912 "F."

"Fair market value" of a development means the open market bid price for conducting the work, using the equipment and facilities, and purchase of the goods, services and materials necessary to accomplish the development. This would normally equate to the cost of hiring a contractor to undertake the development from start to finish, including the cost of labor, materials, equipment and facility usage, transportation, and contractor overhead and profit. The fair market value of the development shall include the fair market value of any donated, contributed or found labor, equipment or materials.

 * * *

 Section 41. Section 23.60.932 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, amends the following definition:

 23.60.932 "P."

 * * *

 "Pier, accessory to residential structures" means a structure for  swimming or for landing and open wet moorage ofwatercraft ~~or swimming~~ accessory to single~~-~~ family or multi~~-~~family residential structures.

 * * *

 Section 42. Section 23.60.934 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended to amend one definition as follows:

 23.60.934 "R."

 * * *

 "Residential use" means the following uses as defined in Chapter 23.84, Definitions:

 -- Artist's studio/dwelling;

 -- Boarding house;

 -- Caretaker's quarters;

 -- Floating home;

 -- Mobile home park;

 -- Multi~~-~~family structure;

 -- Single~~-~~ family dwelling unit;

 -- ~~Special~~Congregate residence.

 * * *

 Section 43. Section 23.60.936 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117789, is amended to amend two definitions as follows:

 23.60.936 "S."

 * * *

 "Shoreline Master Program" means the comprehensive use plan for the shorelines of the ~~C~~city which consists of the ~~general statement of shoreline goals and policies in Resolution 25173, the Implementation Guidelines in Resolution 25618,~~Shoreline Goals and Policies of the Seattle Comprehensive Plan and the specific regulations of this ~~c~~Chapter.

 * * *

 "Substantial development" means any development of which the total cost or fair market value exceeds Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00), except as otherwise provided in subsection 23.60.020C7b, or any development which materially interferes with the normal public use of the water or shorelines of the City. ~~, except that the following shall not be considered substantial developments for the purposes of this subtitle:~~A. Normal maintenance or repair of existing structures or developments, including damage by accident, fire or elements;

 B. Construction of the normal protective bulkhead common to single- family residences;

 C. Emergency construction necessary to protect property from damage by the elements;

 D. Construction and practices normal or necessary for farming, irrigation, and ranching activities, including agricultural service roads and utilities on shorelands, and the construction and maintenance of irrigation structures including but not limited to head gates, pumping facilities, and irrigation channels; provided, that a feedlot of any size, all processing plants, other activities of a commercial nature, alteration of the contour of the shorelands by leveling or filling other than that which results from normal cultivation, shall not be considered normal or necessary farming or ranching activities. A "feedlot" shall be an enclosure, or facility used or capable of being used for feeding livestock hay, grain, silage or other livestock feed, but shall not include land for growing crops or vegetation for livestock feeding and/or grazing, nor shall it include normal livestock wintering operations;

 E. Construction or modification of navigational aids such as channel markers and anchor buoys;

 F. Construction on shorelands by an owner, lessee or contract purchaser of a single-family residence for his own use or for the use of his family, which residence does not exceed a height of thirty-five feet (35') above average grade level and which meets all requirements of the City other than requirements imposed pursuant to this title;

 G. Construction of a dock designed for pleasure craft only, for the private noncommercial use of the owner, lessee or contract purchaser of a single-family residence, the cost of which does not exceed Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00);

 H. Operation, maintenance, or construction of canals, waterways, drains, reservoirs, or other facilities that now exist or are hereafter created or developed as a part of an irrigation system for the primary purpose of making use of system waters, including return flow and artificially stored groundwater for the irrigation of lands;

 I. The marking of property lines or corners on state-owned lands, when such marking does not significantly interfere with normal public use of the surface of the water;

 J. Operation and maintenance of any system of dikes, ditches, drains, or other facilities existing on the effective date of Chapter 182, Laws of Washington 1975 (1st Ex. Session) which were created, developed or utilized primarily as a part of an agricultural drainage or diking system;

 K. Demolition of structures, except where the Director determines that such demolition will have a major impact upon the character of the shoreline.

 * * *

 Section 44. Section 23.60.940 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted Ordinance 113466, is amended to add the following definition in alphabetical order as follows:

 23.60.940 "U"

 * * *

 "Utility extension, limited" means the extension of a utility service that: (a) is categorically exempt under Chapter 43.21C RCW for one or more of the following: natural gas, electricity, telephone, water, or sewer; (b) will serve an existing use in compliance with this Chapter; and (c) will not extend more than two thousand five hundred (2,500) linear feet within the shoreline areas subject to this Chapter.

 * * *

 Section 45. Section 23.60.944 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117789, is amended to add two definitions and amend one definition as follows:

 23.60.944 "W."

 * * *

"Watershed restoration plan" means a plan developed or sponsored by the State Department of Fish and Wildlife, the State Department of Ecology, the State Department of Natural Resources, the State Department of Transportation, a federally recognized Indian tribe acting within and pursuant to its authority, a city, a county, or a conservation district that provides a general program and implementation measures or actions for the preservation, restoration, re-creation, or enhancement of the natural resources, character and ecology of a stream, stream segment, drainage area, or watershed for which agency and public review has been conducted pursuant to Chapter 43.21 RCW, the State Environmental Policy Act.  "Watershed restoration project" means a public or private project authorized by the sponsor of a watershed restoration plan that implements the plan or part of the plan and consists of one or more of the following activities:

 A. A project that involves less than ten (10) miles of streamreach, in which less that twenty-five (25) cubic yards of sand, gravel or soil is removed, imported, disturbed, or discharged, and in which no existing vegetation is removed except as minimally necessary to facilitate additional plantings;

 B. A project for the restoration of an eroded or unstable stream bank that employs the principles of bioengineering, including limited use of rock as stabilization only at the toe of the bank, and with primary emphasis on using native vegetation to control the erosive forces of flowing water; or

 C. A project primarily designed to improve fish and wildlife habitat, remove or reduce impediments to migration of fish, or enhance the fishery resource available for use by all of the citizens of the state, provided that any structure, other than a bridge or culvert or instream habitat enhancement structure associated with the project, is less than two hundred (200) square feet in floor area and is located above the ordinary high water mark of the stream.

 * * *

 "Wetlands" means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. Wetlands do not include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from non-wetland sites, including, but not limited to, irrigation and drainage ditches, grass-lined swales, canals, detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm ponds, and landscape amenities, or those wetlands created after July 1, 1990, that were unintentionally created as a result of the construction of a road, street, or highway. Wetlands may include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from non-wetland areas to mitigate the conversion of wetlands. (The method for delineating wetlands shall follow the ~~1989 Federal Manual for Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands until the Washington State Department of Ecology adopts a new manual for the delineation of wetlands in conformance with Section 11 of Chapter 382 of the Laws of 1995, in which case the methods for delineating wetlands shall follow such manual; however, if prior to that time the King County Countywide Planning Policies are amended to allow use of the 1987 U.S. Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual in conjunction with the U.S. Corps of Engineers Washington Regional Guidance on the 1987 Wetland Delineation Manual, the method for delineating wetlands shall follow such manuals of the Corps of Engineers until the Department of Ecology's manual is adopted~~ most current version of the "Washington State Wetlands Identification and Delineation Manual" as adopted by the State Department of Ecology.)

 * * *

 Section 46. Section 23.60.950 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 SMC 23.60.950 Measurements in the Shoreline District.

 Measurements of height, view corridors, lot coverage, and other shoreline requirements in the Shoreline District shall be as described in this subchapter. These measurement regulations supplement other regulations of this title ~~and Title 24~~ as described in Section 23.60.014. When a development is partly within and partly without the Shoreline District, measurement techniques for that portion of the development outside of the Shoreline District shall be as required in the underlying zoning.

 Section 47. Section 23.60.952 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113466, is amended as follows:

 23.60.952 Height.

 Height of structures shall be determined by measuring from the average grade of the lot immediately prior to the proposed development to the highest point of the structure not otherwise excepted from the height limits. Calculation of the average grade level shall be made by averaging the elevations at the center of all exterior walls of the proposed building or structure. In the case of structures to be built over water, average grade level shall be the elevation of ordinary high water, except in the Urban Harborfront, as provided in Section 23.60.~~3~~666.

 Section 48. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 49. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force on whichever is the later of: the effective date of approval and adoption by the Department of Ecology; or thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1997, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1997.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1997.

 ___________________________________

 Norman B. Rice, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1997.

 __________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 RAM:rm:kd 9/18/97 909v2.doc

```
