

********

**Council Bill Number: 8888**
   
**Ordinance Number: 21621**
********

 An Ordinance approving the assessment roll of Local Improvement District No. 1947, for the improvement of McClellan Street, from the east margin of Mt. Baker Boulevard to the east margin of Mt. Rainier Drive; Mt. Rainier Drive, from the south margin of McClellan Street to the south margin of Ridgeway Place, all in the City of Seattle, by constructing side sewer connections, under Ordinance No. 20122, and levying and assessing the amounts thereof against each parcel and lot of land and part thereof shown in said roll, and providing for the collection thereof.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 2, 1909
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 11, 1909
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 11, 1909
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 6, 1909
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, STREET-CONSTRUCTION, SIDE-SEWERS, MOUNT-BAKER, RAINIER-VALLEY

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 20122

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

