

********

**Council Bill Number: 95288**
   
**Ordinance Number: 103551**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting easements over portions of B.1, Smith's Replat of L. 11-20, Bl.1, Steel Plant Add.; B. 53, Homecroft Add. (Longfellow-Unit 1, Contr. 3, Sewer Sep. Proj.); northeast one-quarter Sec. 21, Township 24 N., Range 4 E., W.M.; B. 2, McCoy's Add. to Columbia City (Lk. Wash. - South, Contr. 5, Sewer Sep. Proj.); B.1, Rainier Gardens Add. (Lk. Wash.-S.E., Contr. 4, Sewer Sep. Proj.); vacated Tract 52, Spring Hill Villa Tracts (West Seattle Alki, Contr. 3, Sewer Sep. Proj.); B.71, College Grounds Add. (Neighborhood Improvement Proj., Cont. 1 (Diagonal Columbian Way S.), Sewer Sep. Proj.; East Waterway between Piers 24 & 25 (Port of Seattle-Terminal 25, Storm Drain Extension); B.1, Replat of Tract A, Hughbanks 2nd Add. (L. 12, B. 1, Replat of Tract A, Hughbanks 2nd Add., Storm Drain Proj.) all for storm drain purposes.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 8, 1974
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 10, 1974
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 10, 1974
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 1, 1974
   
**Committee:** Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** LARKIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** EASEMENTS, STORM-SEWERS, DRAINAGE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

