

********

**Council Bill Number: 3202**
   
**Ordinance Number: 16510**
********

 An Ordinance repealing Ordinance No. 6035, entitled "An Ordinance providing for deposit of money with the City Comptroller for the payment of freight and express charges due from the City and for the purchase of postage stamps", approved June 13, 1900 and Ordinance No. 12848, entitled "An Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 6035, approved June 13, 1900, entitled an Ordinance providing for the deposit of money with the City Comptroller for the payment of freight and express charges due from the City and for the purchase of postage stamps and repealing Ordinance No. 2573, entitled "An Ordinance providing for the purchase of postage stamps from time to time for use in the official business of the City", approved February 3, 1893, and Ordinance No. 3973 entitled "An Ordinance providing the method for the payment of freight and express charges due from the City", approved October 16, 1895" approved October 3, 1905, amendatory thereof.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 1, 1907
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 15, 1907
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 15, 1907
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 24, 1907
   
   
**Index Terms:** FINANCE

**References/Related Documents:** Repealing: Ord 6035, Ord 12848, Ord 3973

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

