

********

**Council Bill Number: 107476**
   
**Ordinance Number: 114668**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, accepting electrical distribution easements over portions of City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 79-93; Section 20, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M.; Country Home Plat Division 1; First Addition to Lake Forest Park; King County Short Plat No. 286018; John Buckley Donation Claim No. 42; Northend Country Estates; Moore's Five Acre Tracts; Section 21, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W.M.; Glenwood Home Tracts; Lake Union Shorelands; City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 79-93; Section 8, Township 26 North, Range 3 East, W.M.; Lottie Tract; Seattle Tide Lands; First Addition to Lake Forest Park; Mayfair Addition; King County Short Plat No. 579086; Navalair Addition.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 21, 1989
   
**Vote:** 8-0
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 31, 1989
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 14, 1989
   
**Committee:** Energy
   
**Sponsor:** RICE
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, EASEMENTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

