

********

**Council Bill Number: 70702**
   
**Ordinance Number: 79352**
********

 An ordinance relating to zoning and providing for the rezoning of certain portions of Block 13, C. D. Hillman's Meadow Gardens Addition Division No. 2 and of Blocks 40 A and 44 in C. D. Hillman's Meadow Gardens Addition Division No. 4; Lot 15, Block 12, Capitol Hill Division No. 3; Lot 5 and south 10 feet of Lot 6, Block 1, White's Addition; Lot 6 Block 1, Byron Additions; Lot 1 except the north 42 feet, Lots 2 and 3, Acre 1, Tract 14, Maple Leaf Addition to Green Lake Circle; and Lots 6 and 7, Block 63, A. A. Denny's 5th Addition; with respect to Use and Area Districts, and amending Ordinance No. 45382, as amended, by adding thereto two new sections numbered 2-275 and 17-222, respectively.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 9, 1950
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 13, 1950
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 13, 1950
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 2, 1950
   
**Committee:** Public Safety
   
   
**Index Terms:** ZONING, REZONES, RAINIER-VIEW, RAINIER-VALLEY, BROADWAY, CAPITOL-HILL, LESCHI, CENTRAL-AREA, MOUNT-BAKER, ROOSEVELT, FIRST-HILL, DOWNTOWN

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 208814, CF 208880, CF 208894, CF 208895, CF 208869, CF 208893. Amending: Ord 45382

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

