

********

**Council Bill Number: 117062**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123502**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities and Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities and the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into easement agreements granting and conveying easement rights under and across portions of Cal Anderson Park to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority and to accept payment therefor; finding that the grants of temporary and permanent subsurface easements meet the requirements of Ordinance 118477, adopting Initiative 42, to the extent applicable; exempting the grant of a temporary surface easement from the requirements of Ordinance 118477, to the extent applicable; and authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to accept a storm drain access easement from the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 13, 2010
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 20, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 20, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 6, 2010
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** BAGSHAW
   
   
_(No indexing available for this document)_

**Fiscal Note:**117062

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123502](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123502.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities and Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities and the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into easement agreements granting and conveying easement rights under and across portions of Cal Anderson Park to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority and to accept payment therefor; finding that the grants of temporary and permanent subsurface easements meet the requirements of Ordinance 118477, adopting Initiative 42, to the extent applicable; exempting the grant of a temporary surface easement from the requirements of Ordinance 118477, to the extent applicable; and authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to accept a storm drain access easement from the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority.

 WHEREAS, in 1998 the Seattle City Council approved Ordinance 118927, which authorized the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Light Rail Transit Line ("MOA") with the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit") relating to light rail system development and station area planning within the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the MOA identified common objectives of the City and Sound Transit including but not limited to the following: development of a light rail system that effectively serves the transportation needs of citizens in the city and surrounding service area in a manner consistent with regional service goals within the budget and schedule adopted by Sound Transit; expedite review of necessary City approvals, minimize conflicts regarding such approvals, and quickly resolve such conflicts that do arise; and build effective, ongoing intergovernmental cooperation between Sound Transit and the City; and

 WHEREAS, Sound Transit is constructing a light rail station in the Capitol Hill neighborhood near Seattle's Cal Anderson Park, which is under the joint jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities and the Department of Parks and Recreation, and Sound Transit requires temporary use of surface and underground portions of the park for construction purposes and permanent use of underground portions of the park for "tie-back" structures for engineering support of the light rail station; and

 WHEREAS, the City and Sound Transit have agreed on the terms and fair market values of the easements; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing in accordance with the requirements of Section 3 of Ordinance 118477, adopting Initiative 42; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The City Council hereby finds that the sale of temporary and permanent subsurface easements at Cal Anderson Park to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit") for the purpose of installing tiebacks for engineering support of Sound Transit's Capitol Hill light rail station is necessary because there is no reasonable and practical alternative and such subsurface easements are compatible with park use, thereby meeting the requirements of Ordinance 118477, to the extent applicable. To the extent that Ordinance 118477 is applicable to the sale of a temporary surface construction easement at Cal Anderson Park to Sound Transit in connection with the Capitol Hill light rail station, the requirements of Ordinance 118477 are hereby superseded.

 Section 2. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities and the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, or their respective designees, are hereby authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to enter into a Temporary Construction Easement Agreement with the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit"), substantially in the form of Attachment 1, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference, granting and conveying easements over, upon, and under the real property described in Attachment 1, to facilitate construction of the Sound Transit Capitol Hill light rail station.

 Section 3. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities and the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, or their respective designees, are hereby authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to enter into a Tieback Easement Agreement with Sound Transit, substantially in the form of Attachment 2, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference, under the real property described in Attachment 2, for engineering support of the Sound Transit Capitol Hill light rail station.

 Section 4. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his designee, is authorized to accept for and on behalf of The City of Seattle a storm drain access easement, in the form attached hereto as Attachment 3, over, across, along, in, upon, and under the real property described in Attachment 3.

 Section 5. Consideration for the easements described in Attachments 1 and 2, paid by Sound Transit, as provided in Attachments 1 and 2, shall be deposited as follows:

```
<table><tr><td>Fund Name and Number

</td><td>Department

</td><td>Revenue Source

</td><td>2010

Revenue

</td><td>2011

Revenue

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Parks and Recreation Fund 10200

</td><td>Parks and Recreation

</td><td>Sound Transit easement

</td><td>$84,400

</td><td>0

</td></tr>

<tr><td>SPU --Water Fund

43000

</td><td>Seattle Public Utilities

</td><td>Sound Transit easement

</td><td>$20,600

</td><td>0

</td></tr>

<tr><td>TOTAL

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>$105,000

</td><td>0

</td></tr>

</table> Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Temporary Construction Easement Agreement

 Exhibit A to Attachment 1: Legal Description of Grantor's Property

 Exhibit B to Attachment 1: Legal Description of Easement Area

 Exhibit C to Attachment 1: Restoration Specifications

 Exhibit D to Attachment 1: Map of Grantor's Replacement Access

 Exhibit E to Attachment 1: Letter of Concurrence

 Attachment 2: Tieback Easement Agreement

 Exhibit A to Attachment 2: Legal Description of Grantor's Property

 Exhibit B to Attachment 2: Legal Description of Easement Area

 Exhibit C to Attachment 2: Illustration of Tiebacks

 Attachment 3: Storm Drain Access Easement

 Terry Dunning DPR Cal Anderson Easements ORD October 27, 2010 Version # 5

 When Recorded Return to:

 Sound Transit Real Estate

 Union Station

 401 S. Jackson Street

 Seattle, WA 98104-2826

 Attn:  Real Estate

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Document Title: Temporary Construction Easement Agreement

 Reference Number of Related Document: N/A

 Grantor(s): City of Seattle

 Grantee: Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority

 Abbreviated Legal Description: Ptn. Blocks 19, 20, 29, 30, 35 and 36, Nagle's Second Addition, Vol. 5, pg. 67

 Additional Legal Description is on: Exhibits "A" and "B"

 Assessor's Tax Parcel Number(s): 600350 0490

 TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 1.  Grant of Temporary Easement.  The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), for and in consideration of Eighty-Four Thousand Four Hundred Dollars ($84,400.00), in hand paid, hereby grants to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority, a regional transit authority of the State of Washington ("Grantee"), for the purposes described below, a temporary construction easement (the "Temporary Easement") under, over, through, across and upon a portion of Grantor's property. Grantor's property is legally described in Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein ("Grantor's Property"). The portion of Grantor's Property that is subject to the Temporary Easement is legally described in Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein (the "Temporary Easement Area).

 2.  Purpose of Temporary Easement.  The Grantee, its contractors, agents, and permittees, shall have the right during the Temporary Easement Term (defined in Paragraph 5 below) to use the Temporary Easement Area for the purpose of construction activities and staging, site restoration, and for subsurface drilling and installation of temporary and permanent tiebacks, which shall be installed from Grantee's adjacent property, all in connection with construction of the Capitol Hill light rail station improvements per Grantee's plans dated November, 2009. Grantee shall have the right to fence the surface of the Temporary Easement Area during the Temporary Easement Term.

 3.  Grantee's Use of Temporary Easement Area and Site Restoration.  Grantee's right to use the Temporary Easement Area is limited by the purposes and the conditions of use described in this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement. Grantee's right to use the Temporary Easement Area shall be exclusive, subject to Grantor's rights described in Paragraph 4 below.

 Grantee is responsible for all injury and damage, including consequential damage, to persons and property (real and personal) and improvements caused directly or indirectly by Grantee's exercise of Grantee's rights or obligations under this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement. Grantee's responsibility for such injury and damage shall include repair and restoration to the condition existing on the effective date of revocable use permit number 09-27 issued by Grantor to Grantee (the "Permit"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit C, of any and all damage to the Grantor's real and personal property; and repair, replacement or restoration to condition existing on the effective date of the Permit of anything on Grantor's Property that is damaged or destroyed directly or indirectly by Grantee's exercise of Grantee's rights or obligations under this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement, including, without limitation, structures, facilities, improvements, soil, turf and plants, all at Grantee's sole cost and expense. Grantee shall complete all of the foregoing prior to the end of the Temporary Easement Term (as defined in Paragraph 5 below). Installation and reconnection of certain irrigation facilities is not the responsibility of Grantee and will be done by Grantor as stated in the Jan 13, 2009 Letter of Concurrence, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit E.

 Prior to the end of the Temporary Easement Term (as defined in Paragraph 5 below) Grantee shall also remove all its equipment, fencing, debris, materials and other personal property and shall restore the Temporary Easement Area as provided in the Permit attached hereto as Exhibit C. In addition, Grantee shall detension and remove the upper six (6) rows of tiebacks (the "Temporary Tiebacks") from the subsurface portion of the Temporary Easement Area; provided that if Grantee has paid to Grantor the sum of Thirteen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($13,500.00) in lieu of removal of the Temporary Tiebacks, Grantee's obligation for the Temporary Tiebacks shall be limited to detensioning only without removal.

 Grantee shall not use, generate, manufacture, produce, store, release, discharge or dispose of on, under, above or about the Temporary Easement Area (or off-site of the Temporary Easement Area that might affect any portion of the Grantor's Property), or transport to or from the Temporary Easement Area, any Hazardous Substance (as defined in Paragraph 6 below) or authorize any other person or entity to do so during the Temporary Easement Term. Grantee is responsible for completing, prior to the end of the Temporary Easement Term, necessary repairs, cleanup, remediation or detoxification of the Grantor Property and the preparation and implementation of any closure, remedial or other required plans attributable to the generation, manufacture, production, storage, release, discharge or disposal of any Hazardous Waste on or from the Temporary Easement Area during the Temporary Easement Term, except to the extent caused by Grantor.

 4.  Grantor's Rights.  Grantee's right to use the Easement Area shall be exclusive during the Temporary Easement Term (defined in Paragraph 5 below). Grantee acknowledges that its exclusive use denies Grantor its access to the reservoir on the Grantor's Property for operational, maintenance and repair activities. Grantee shall provide for Grantor's replacement access as depicted on Exhibit D. Grantee shall be responsible for preparing the replacement access and restoring the replacement access area to its preconstruction condition prior to the end of the Temporary Easement Term all at Grantee's sole cost and expense.

 5.  Temporary Easement Term.  The term of this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement ("Temporary Easement Term") shall commence on September 15, 2010, and shall terminate on the later of fifty-five (55) months from the commencement date or Grantee's completion of all Grantee's obligations described in this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement.. If Grantee has not completed all site remediation (if applicable), repair, replacement and restoration work, and tieback detensioning and removal or payment by April 15, 2015, then Grantee shall pay to Grantor the sum of One Thousand Eighty Dollars ($1,080.00) per month in advance commencing on April 16, 2015 and continuing on the same date of each month thereafter until Grantee has completed its obligations under this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement. Payments will not be pro-rated for partial months.

 6.  Compliance with Applicable Law and Indemnification . Grantee shall at all times exercise its rights under this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement and its use of the Temporary Easement Area in accordance with the requirements of all applicable statutes, orders, rules and regulations of any public authority having jurisdiction. Grantee hereby assumes all risk of loss, damage or injury that may result from Grantee's use of the Temporary Easement Area, except to the extent caused by Grantor's negligence. Grantee shall indemnify Grantor from and against any and all liability, loss, damage, expense, actions, and claims incurred by Grantor arising from the exercise by Grantee, its servants, agents, employees, contractors, or permittees of the rights granted in this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement or use of the Temporary Easement Area, except to the extent caused by Grantor's negligence. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Grantee shall protect, indemnify, hold harmless and defend Grantor and its elected officials, officers and, employees, from and against any and all loss, damage, cost, expense or liability (including attorneys' fees and costs) directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to the generation, manufacture, production, storage, release, discharge or disposal of any Hazardous Waste on or from the Temporary Easement Area or the breach of any Environmental Law in connection with the Temporary Easement Area, including, without limitation, (a) all consequential damages, and (b) the costs of any required or necessary repairs, cleanup, remediation, or detoxification of the Grantor Property and the preparation and implementation of any closure, remedial or other required plans. This indemnity does not apply to actions of Grantor, its agents or independent contractors.

 For purposes of this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement, the term " Hazardous Substance " includes without limitation (a) those substances included within the definitions of "hazardous substances", "hazardous materials", "toxic substances", "hazardous wastes" or "solid waste" in any Environmental Law; (b) petroleum products and petroleum byproducts; (c) polychlorinated biphenyls; and (d) chlorinated solvents. The term " Environmental Law " includes any federal, state, municipal or local law, statute, ordinance, regulation, order or rule pertaining to health, industrial hygiene, environmental conditions or Hazardous Substance.

 7.  No Assignment.  The Temporary Easement granted by this instrument is solely for the benefit of Grantee, and is personal to Grantee and may not be assigned without the prior written consent of Grantor. Grantee shall have the right to permit its agents, employees, contractors and permittees to enter the Temporary Easement Area to accomplish the purposes described in this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement, provided that Grantee shall remain at all times responsible and liable for, and shall indemnify Grantor against, all damage and injury to persons and property caused by Grantee's agents, employees, contractors and permittees in connection with the Temporary Easement or this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement as provided in Paragraph 6 above..

 8.  Notices.  Any notices required or permitted under this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement shall be given in writing and either personally delivered or sent by U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, to the addresses as indicated below:

 To Grantee: Sound Transit

 Real Estate Division

 Union Station

 401 S. Jackson St.

 Seattle, WA 98104-2826

 To Grantor: City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Ave. S., 3rd Floor

 Seattle, WA 98134

 Attn: Property Management

 and

 City of Seattle

 Seattle Public Utilities

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 4900

 P.O. Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124-4018

 Attn: Real Property Services

 9.  Exhibits Incorporated . All exhibits attached hereto, as listed below, are expressly incorporated into and form a part of this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement; provided, however, that this Temporary Construction Easement is not intended to, and does not, amend or supersede the rights and obligations of the parties contained in the January 13, 2009 Letter of Concurrence attached hereto as Exhibit E but not expressly referenced in this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement.

 Exhibit A. Legal Description of Grantor's Property

 Exhibit B. Legal Description of Temporary Easement Area

 Exhibit C. Restoration Specifications

 Exhibit D. Replacement Access

 Exhibit E Jan. 13, 2009 Letter of Concurrence

 10.  Recording.  This Temporary Construction Easement Agreement shall be recorded in the real property records of King County, Washington. At the end of the Temporary Easement Term, Grantee shall execute a formal termination document for recording at the request of Grantor.

 11.  Survivability.  The indemnities contained in this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement shall survive termination of the Temporary Easement.

 12.  Effective Date.  This Temporary Construction Easement Agreement shall be effective as of the date executed by both Grantor and Grantee.

 GRANTOR: THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Its \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 By:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Ray Hoffman, Director, Seattle Public Utilities

 GRANTEE: CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY

 By:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Print Name

 Its:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of the Department of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Ray Hoffman is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Director of Seattle Public Utilities of The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he or she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he or she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority, a regional transit authority of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires:

 Terry Dunning DPR Cal Anderson Easements ATT 1 October 27, 2010 Version # 1

 8 Attachment 1 to DPR Cal Anderson Easements ORD

[Exhibits A-E to Attachment 1](/~ordpics/117062a1_ex.pdf)

 When Recorded Return to:

 Sound Transit Real Estate

 Union Station

 401 S. Jackson Street

 Seattle, WA 98104-2826

 Attn: Real Estate

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 TIEBACK EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 Grantor(s): The City of Seattle

 Grantee: Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority

 Abbreviated Legal Description: Ptn. Blocks 19, 20, 29, 30, 35 and 36, Nagle's

 Second Addition, Vol. 5, pg. 67

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number: 600350 0490

 Reference Numbers of Documents Assigned or Released, if applicable: N/A

 \_\_\_\_

 THIS TIEBACK EASEMENT AGREEMENT ("Easement Agreement") is made this  \_\_\_  day of , 2010, by and between, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, hereinafter called the "Grantor", and the CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a Washington regional transit authority, hereinafter called the "Grantee". Grantor is the owner of real property located in the City of Seattle commonly known as 1000 East Pine Street (Cal Anderson Park), and more particularly described in the legal description attached as Exhibit A (the "Property").

 1.  Grant of Easement . The Grantor, for and in consideration of the public good and other valuable consideration, grants unto the Grantee a Tieback Easement (the "Easement") upon the portion of the Property that is legally described in Exhibit B and illustrated in Exhibit C ("the Tiebacks").

 2.  Purpose of Easement . The Grantee shall have the right to use the Easement Area for the purpose of abandoning-in-place three (3) existing rows of horizontal construction tiebacks located between fifty-five (55) and eighty-five (85) feet below ground surface (BGS) to support Grantee's Capitol Hill light rail station improvements, as depicted in Exhibit C ("the Tiebacks"). Grantee shall have the right to maintain the Tiebacks tensioned in place for an indefinite period until such time as Grantor may need or desire to remove the Tiebacks, subject to the termination provisions in paragraph 4 of this Easement Agreement.

 In the event improvements in, on, or under the Property or the Property itself are disturbed or damaged by Grantee's use of the Easement Area, Grantee shall restore the disturbed or damaged improvements or Property to the condition existing as of the date this Easement Agreement became effective.

 3.  Grantee's Use of Easement Area . Grantee's right to use the Easement Area is limited by the purposes and conditions of use described in this Easement Agreement. Grantee's right to use the Easement Area shall be non-exclusive for the duration of this Easement Agreement as described in Paragraph 4; however, Grantor may use the Easement Area, and the surface and subsurface above and over the Easement Area without restriction and without notifying the Grantee. Grantee is responsible for all injury and damage, including consequential damage, to persons and property (real and personal) and improvements caused directly or indirectly by Grantee's exercise of Grantee's rights or obligations under this Easement Agreement. Grantee's responsibility for such injury and damage shall include repair and restoration to the condition existing on the effective date of Revocable Use Permit #09-27 issued by Grantor's Department of Parks and Recreation to Grantee (the "Permit") of any and all damage to the Grantor's real and personal property except that installation of final irrigation shall be done by Grantor as stated in the January 13, 2009, Letter of Concurrence and as it may be amended.

 4.  Term of Easement Agreement . This Easement Agreement shall commence on the date all parties have signed this Easement and shall remain in effect until terminated by the Grantor or its successors or assigns. The Grantor may terminate this agreement at will and without prior notice to the Grantee. Grantor shall notify Grantee after the agreement has been terminated.

 5.  Payment for Easement . Grantee shall pay Grantor Seven Thousand One Hundred Dollars ($7,100.00) for this Easement upon execution of this Easement Agreement.

 6.  Binding Effect . The Easement granted hereby is solely for the benefit of Grantee, and is personal to Grantee, its successors in interest and assigns. Grantee shall have the right to permit third parties to enter upon the Easement Area to accomplish the purposes described herein, provided that all such parties abide by the terms of this Easement. The Easement granted by this Easement Agreement, and the duties, restrictions, limitations, and obligations created by this Easement Agreement, shall run with the land, shall burden the Property and shall be binding upon and the Grantor and its respective successors, assigns, mortgagees, and sublessees and each and every person who shall at any time have a fee, leasehold, mortgage, or other interest in any part of the Easement Area.

 7.  Compliance with Applicable Law and Indemnification . Grantee shall at all times exercise its rights under this Easement Agreement and its use of the Easement Area in accordance with the requirements of all applicable statutes, orders, rules, and regulations of any public authority having jurisdiction. Grantee agrees to assume all risk of loss, damage, or injury that may result from Grantee's exercise of its rights under this Easement Agreement or use of the Easement Area, except to the extent caused by Grantor's negligence. Grantee hereby agrees to indemnify Grantor from and against any and all liability, loss, damage, expense, actions, and claims incurred by Grantor arising from the exercise by Grantee, its servants, agents, employees, contractors, or the public of the rights granted in this Easement Agreement or use of the Easement Area, except to the extent caused by Grantor's negligence.

 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Grantee shall protect, indemnify, hold harmless, and defend Grantor and its elected officials, officers, and employees from and against any and all loss, damage, cost, expense, or liability (including attorneys' fees and costs) directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to the release, discharge, or disposal of any Hazardous Substance on, in or from the Easement Area or the breach of any Environmental Law in connection with the Easement Area, including without limitation: a) all consequential damages, and b) the costs of any required or necessary repairs, cleanup, remediation, or detoxification of the Property or adjacent properties and the preparation and implementation of any remedial, removal, or other required plans. This indemnity shall not apply to actions of Grantor, its agents or contractors.

 For purposes of the Easement Agreement, the term "Hazardous Substance" includes, without limitation: (a) those substances included within the definitions of "hazardous substances," "hazardous materials," "toxic substances," "hazardous wastes," or "solid waste" in any Environmental Law; (b) petroleum products and petroleum by-products; (c) polychlorinated biphenyls; and (d) chlorinated solvents. The terms "Environmental Law" includes any federal, state, municipal or local law, statute, ordinance, regulation, order, or rule pertaining to health, industrial hygiene, environmental conditions, or Hazardous Substance.

 8.  Notices . Any notices required or permitted under this Temporary Construction Easement Agreement shall be given in writing and either personally delivered or sent by U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, to the addresses as indicated below:

 To Grantee: Sound Transit

 Real Estate Division

 Union Station

 401 S. Jackson St.

 Seattle, WA 98104-2826

 To Grantor: City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Ave. S., 3rd Floor

 Seattle, WA 98134

 Attn: Property Management

 and

 City of Seattle

 Seattle Public Utilities

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 4900

 P.O. Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124-4018

 Attn: Real Property Services

 9.  Exhibits Incorporated . All exhibits attached hereto, as listed below, are expressly incorporated into and form a part of this Easement Agreement.

 Exhibit A. Legal Description of Grantor's Property

 Exhibit B. Legal Description of Easement Area

 Exhibit C. Tieback Location Illustration

 10.  Recording . This Easement Agreement shall be recorded in the real property records of King County, Washington. Upon notification from the Grantor that the Easement Agreement has been terminated the Grantee shall execute a formal termination document for recording.

 11.  Survivability . The indemnities contained herein shall survive termination of this Easement Agreement.

 Dated this  day of , 2010.

 GRANTOR: THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Superintendent, Department of Ray Hoffman

 Parks and Recreation Director

 Seattle Public Utilities

 GRANTEE: CENTRAL PUGET SOUND

 REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Name: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Title: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Acting Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Ray Hoffman is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated that he is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Director of Seattle Public Utilities of The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he or she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he or she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of the CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 DATED: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 (Signature)

 (Please print name legibly)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at

 My commission expires

 Terry Dunning DPR Cal Anderson Easements ATT 2 October 27, 2010 Version # 1

 Attachment 2 to DPR Cal Anderson Easements ORD

[Exhibits A-C to Attachment 1](/~ordpics/117062a1_ex.pdf)

[ Attachment 3: Storm Drain Access Easement](/~ordpics/117062a3.pdf)

