

********

**Council Bill Number: 117032**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123453**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities under Seattle's Building and Construction Codes; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.504, Permits and Inspections; Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certifications and Registrations; Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections; and Chapter 22.900.G, Fees Collected for Other Departments.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 22, 2010
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 2, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 2, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 1, 2010
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** FEES, PERMITS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, ZONING, BUDGET

**Fiscal Note:**117032

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123453](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123453.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities under Seattle's Building and Construction Codes; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.504, Permits and Inspections; Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certifications and Registrations; Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections; and Chapter 22.900.G, Fees Collected for Other Departments.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.504.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122382, is amended as follows:

 22.504.010 Permit fees.

 An applicant for a permit to do work under this Plumbing Code shall pay for each permit, at the time of issuance, a fee in accordance with the following schedule, and at the rate provided for each classification shown in the schedule:

 A. Schedule of Fees

 (( ~~Base p~~))  P lumbing permit  fees  for (( ~~one (1)~~)) fixture s  or trap  s are calculated according to Table A-1. Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices and double check valve assemblies require separate permits and are calculated according to Table A-1. (( ~~(other than reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices or double check valve assemblies, for which a separate permit shall be obtained at the rates in this schedule) . . . . $110.00~~

~~For each additional plumbing fixture or trap (including water drainage vent piping and backflow protection therefor) . . . . $12.00~~))

 For each atmospheric vacuum breaker in irrigation systems, tanks, vats, etc., or for installation on unprotected plumbing fixtures including necessary water piping

 Vacuum breaker - - one (( ~~(1)~~)) to five (( ~~(5)~~)) -- each device . . . . $10(( ~~.00~~))

 Vacuum breaker -- over five (( ~~(5)~~)) -- each device . . . . $5(( ~~.00~~))

 Pressure vacuum breaker -- each . . . . $10(( ~~.00~~))

 (( ~~Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device or double check valve assembly~~

~~Base plumbing permit for one (1) device or assembly . . . . $110.00~~

~~Each additional device or assembly . . . . $12.00~~))

```
<table><tr><td></td><td>**Table A-1 - PLUMBING AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION PERMITS**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**# of Fixtures**

</td><td>Plumbing Permit Fee

</td><td>Backflow Prevention Permit Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>1

</td><td>$140

</td><td>$140

</td></tr>

<tr><td>2-3

</td><td>$210

</td><td>$210

</td></tr>

<tr><td>4-6

</td><td>$298

</td><td>$298

</td></tr>

<tr><td>7-10

</td><td>$333

</td><td>$333

</td></tr>

<tr><td>11 on

</td><td>$333 + $8/fixture

</td><td>$333 + $8/fixture

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table> B. Fees for Miscellaneous Inspection Services  Fees for inspection service outside regular working hours or for inspection service requested but not covered by a permit will be charged for at a rate equal to the cost of performing the service.

 Fees for permanent location inspection of factory housing or modular unit containing plumbing -- For each single-family dwelling or each modular unit containing plumbing . . . . $20(( ~~.00~~))

 Plumbing permit includes on-site connections of building drain extensions, water service and necessary gas piping connections.

 Additional plumbing fixtures installed after factory installation of plumbing for each plumbing fixture or trap . . . . $10(( ~~.00~~))

 Fees for reconnection and retest of plumbing systems in relocated buildings -- For each building containing plumbing . . . . $20(( ~~.00~~))

 Plumbing permit includes on-site connections of building drain extensions, water service and necessary gas piping connections.

 Additional plumbing fixtures installed after relocation for each plumbing fixture or trap . . . . $10(( ~~.00~~))

 C. For the purpose of this section, "fixture" means and includes an appliance that is connected with a water, drain or vent pipe, but a sillcock faucet or hose bibb is not considered a fixture. A sanitary plumbing outlet on or to which a plumbing fixture or appliance may be set or attached shall be construed to be a fixture.

 D. Any person who commenced any work for which a permit is required by this Plumbing Code without first having obtained such permit shall upon subsequent application for the permit pay double the fee fixed by the schedule of fees for the work in subsections A and B of this section unless it is proved to the satisfaction of the Administrative Authority that the work was urgently necessary and that it was not practical to obtain a permit prior to the commencement of the work. In all such emergency cases, a permit shall be obtained as soon as it is practical to do so, and if there is an unreasonable delay in obtaining the permit, a double fee shall be charged as provided in this Code.

 E. A reinspection fee of (( ~~One Hundred Fifteen Dollars ($115.00)~~)) $130  may be assessed for each inspection or reinspection if the portion of work for which inspection is called is not complete or if corrections called for are not made. This subsection does not require inspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with this Code, but is intended to control the practice of calling for inspection or reinspection.

 Reinspection fees may be assessed if the permit is not properly posted on the work site, the work to be inspected is not under test, for failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is requested or for failure to make required corrections. Requests for reinspection shall be made in writing upon forms furnished for that purpose, and shall be accompanied by the reinspection fee in accordance with this section. If reinspection fees have been assessed, additional inspection of the work shall not be performed until the required fees have been paid.

 Section 2. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900A.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 121338, is amended as follows:

 22.900A.020 Purpose.

 A. It is the purpose of this subtitle to prescribe equitable fees and fee collection policies for all services provided by the Department of Planning and Development hereafter, "Department" or "DPD," and other City (( ~~departments, that~~)) departments that  are sufficient to cover their costs of processing applications, inspecting and reviewing plans, and preparing detailed statements required by Chapter 43.21C RCW.

 ***

 Section 3. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900A.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122297, is amended as follows:

 22.900A.040 Administration and enforcement .

 A. For the purpose of this subtitle, the term "Director" means the Director of the Department or an authorized representative.

 B. The Director is authorized to administer, interpret, and enforce the provisions of this subtitle provided that:

 1. The Director of Public Health shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to fuel gas piping permits; and

 2. The Director of Transportation shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Seattle Transportation review of projects; and

 3. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Seattle Public Utilities review of projects; and

 4. The Chief of the Fire Department shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to the Seattle Fire Department review of projects; and

 (( ~~4.~~)) 5.  The Director of the Department of Neighborhoods shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Certificates of Approval, Special Tax Valuation for Historic Properties, Public School Citizen Advisory Committees interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 and for environmental (SEPA) review of projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located in special review districts or landmark districts; and

 (( ~~5.~~)) 6.  The Director of the Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to the Office's review of projects.

 ***

 Section 4. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900A.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 121338, is amended as follows:

 22.900A.060 Delinquent fees.

 A. Delinquent Fees.

 Whenever any fees have not been paid within (( ~~thirty (~~))30(( ~~)~~)) days after the billing date, the person or persons responsible for payment of the fee may be billed, payable immediately, for the remainder of the fees due. Interest shall accrue on the unpaid balance at (( ~~twelve (~~))12(( ~~)~~)) percent per annum, with a minimum (( ~~One Dollar (~~))$1(( ~~)~~)) charge. The Director is authorized to collect any fees that remain unpaid at (( ~~ninety (~~))90(( ~~)~~)) days after the billing date.

 B. Not Sufficient Funds Fees.

 Whenever checks accepted prove not to be covered by sufficient funds, the person or persons responsible for payment of the fee shall be billed, payable immediately, for the remainder of the fees due and a (( ~~Twenty Dollar ($20)~~))  $21  charge. This shall be in addition to the delinquent fees assessed in Section 22.900A.060 A.

 ***

 Section 5. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900A.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 22.900A.080 Civil penalty for violations.

 A. Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this subtitle shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of (( ~~$25.00~~)) $27 per day for each failure to comply, from the date of failure to comply until compliance is achieved.

 ***

 Section 6. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900B.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900B.010 Base fee and hourly rate.

 A. The DPD base fee shall be charged as specified in this subtitle and shall be (( ~~$166.00~~)) $177 .

 B. Any services provided by the Department for which an hourly charge is assessed shall be charged at a rate specified in this subtitle.

 The hourly rate for land use review is $250(( ~~.00~~)). The rate for all other hourly fees is (( ~~$166.00~~)) $177  per hour except where a different hourly rate is specified in this subtitle. Where "DPD hourly rate" is specified in this subtitle, the rate is (( ~~$166.00~~)) $177  per hour.

 C. Where an hourly rate is specified, overtime shall be charged at that same rate. Where no hourly rate is specified, overtime shall be charged at (( ~~$166.00~~)) $177  per hour. All overtime shall require approval by the Director. The minimum fee for each overtime request shall be one hour, with minimum increments of one-quarter hour, in addition to other permit fees established by this subtitle.

 Section 7. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900B.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900B.020 Miscellaneous and special fees.

 A. General.

 Miscellaneous and special fees shall be assessed to recover City costs for services and materials which are not otherwise specified in this subtitle or where the valuation or other methodology normally used does not reflect actual conditions which may include but are not limited to the following:

 1. Notification, examination, consultation, testing, or inspection of proposals, sites (or locations), particular plans, construction, equipment, personnel or material which may be related to, but not directly covered by, a specific permit or approval process;

 2. Furnishing or certification of affidavits, reports, data, or similar documentation;

 3. Recording or filing documents with other agencies;

 4. Delivery and mailing costs(( ~~.~~)) ;

 5. Rental of venues for public meetings.

 B. Failure to cancel missed appointments.

 A fee of (( ~~$50.00~~)) 1/2 the DPD base fee  per appointment shall be charged for failure by applicant to notify the Department at least 24 hours prior to a scheduled application intake appointment or a pre- application conference appointment that the appointment will not be kept.

 C. Expert witness testimony.

 The fee for expert witness testimony shall be the DPD hourly rate.

 D. Address change .

 The fee to correct the address on an application or, if applicable, on an issued permit is (( ~~$45.00~~)) $48 . When an address change is requested which is unrelated to an application for a permit or for an issued permit, a fee of one (( ~~(1)~~)) times the base fee shall be assessed.

 E. Microfilm copies of microfilm records.

 Charges for plans reproduced from the microfilm library are shown in Table B-1.

<table><tr><td>**Table B-1 - FEES FOR REPRODUCTIONS FROM MICROFILM**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Size or Type of Page**

</td><td>Price

</td></tr>

<tr><td>8 1/2" X 11"

</td><td>$0.75per copied page

</td></tr>

<tr><td>11" X 17"

</td><td>$1.50 per copied page

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Diazo

</td><td>$5.00 per diazo

</td></tr>

</table> F. Special investigation.

 1. Where a special investigation is made for an action requiring Department approval, a fee in addition to the permit fee shall be assessed as provided in Table B-2.

<table><tr><td>**Table B-2 - SPECIAL INVESTIGATION FEES**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Value of Work (For Permit)**

</td><td>Investigation Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$ 0 -

</td><td>5,000

</td><td>1 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$ 5,001 -

</td><td>50,000

</td><td>3 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$ 50,001 -

</td><td>100,000

</td><td>5 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$100,001 -

</td><td>500,000

</td><td>10 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$500,001 -

</td><td>5,000,000

</td><td>50 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Over $5,000,000

</td><td>100% of permit fee

</td></tr>

</table> 2. When a permit fee is not determined by valuation, the special investigation fee will be two times the amount of the permit fee.  3. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Director, the special investigation fee may be assessed at (( ~~an~~)) the DPD  hourly rate. Special investigation fees may be waived, at the discretion of the Director, for necessary work done in emergency situations.

 4. The payment of a special investigation fee shall not relieve any person from complying with the requirements of the applicable codes in the execution of the work nor from any violation penalties prescribed by law.

 5. The special investigation fee for a use not established by a permit under the current or previous Land Use Code shall be assessed at the DPD hourly rate.

 6. Special investigation fees are not refundable.

 ***

 Section 8. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900B.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 121664, is amended as follows:

 22.900B.030 Time of collection of fees .

 A. Fees shall be collected at the times specified elsewhere in this code. If not specified, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application. The Director may bill an applicant and require payment for accrued (( ~~hourly or overtime charges~~)) fees  at any time in the permit review process.

 B. The fee collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, except as provided in Section 22.900A.030A. Any fee in excess of the final calculated fee shall be refunded pursuant to Section 22.900B.050 and /or  other sections of this code.

 C. At the time an application or permit is denied or canceled, the final fee shall be determined and collected . If a balance is due to the Department, the Director shall have the authority to waive fees when strict application of the fees is inconsistent with the purpose of collecting the fee.

 Section 9. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900B.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119766, is amended as follows:

 22.900B.050 Refunds .

 Applicants may apply for refunds of fees collected pursuant to the Fee Schedule when an application or permit is withdrawn or canceled prior to the completion of the review and inspection process. To request a refund, the applicant shall submit a request to the Director on a refund request form. The Director shall establish by Director's Rule reasonable procedures and standards for refund requests, including but not limited to limitations on the time for submitting refund requests and the amount of the refund, considering among other factors, on the stage of permit review and type of permit.

 Section 10. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900B.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122297, is amended as follows:

 22.900B.060 Revisions and additions to applications .

 A. According to standards promulgated by the Director, the Department may assess an additional fee for the plan examination of previous designs when a subsequent redesign of a project is submitted prior to permit issuance. The revision fee shall be assessed at the DPD hourly rate not to exceed the fee that would have been charged for the original design, provided that if the application is a Land Use application that requires additional Land Use review, the Land Use hourly rate pursuant to 22.900C.010 shall be charged for that portion of the work. The total fee is the fee for the final design plus the revision fee.

 ***

 Section 11. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900C.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 123246, is amended as follows:

 22.900C.010 Land use fees .

 A. Land Use Review Fees. The land use review fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, environmentally critical area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.  Land use review that is subject to the Land Use hourly rate may include, but is not limited to; review time for more than one technical reviewer, pre-application services, project review, permit issuance, and continued review during the building permit and construction approval phases of the project  . Land Use hourly rate also includes time spent preparing for and defending a Director's decision or recommendation if appealed to the Hearing Examiner.

 B. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees. Land use review fees include a minimum land use review fee and may include an hourly fee as specified in Table C-1. The minimum land use review fee covers the number of review hours specified in Table C-1. Only one (( ~~(1)~~)) minimum review fee shall be charged, except an additional minimum review fee shall be charged at the time of MUP applications for projects that have completed the early design process. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate specified in the Table.

 C. Time of payment.

 1. Pre-application Conference Fee. The fee for land use pre- application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

 2. Minimum Land Use Review Fee. The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director (( ~~may~~)) will  require (( ~~an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and~~))periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

 3. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below:

 a. Monthly billing for hourly fees accrued above the minimum fee will be payable upon receipt of invoice.

 (( ~~a.~~)) b.  All outstanding (( ~~land use~~)) DPD  fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 (( ~~b.~~)) c.  For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due (( ~~to date plus an estimated charge for future~~))for work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. In addition to periodic monthly billings for actual charges during the Council or Hearing Examiner proceedings, after final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges (( ~~and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled~~))and all outstanding fee  balances are due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

 (( ~~c.~~)) d.  For early design guidance projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, all outstanding fees shall be paid upon application for the master use permit. Any hours paid by the early design guidance minimum land use review fee but not spent at the time of application for the master use permit shall be credited toward land use review of the master use permit application.

 D. Additional Review.

 In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be charged hourly as determined by the Director.

 E. Correction (( ~~Penalty~~))Fee .

 After written notice to the applicant, a (( ~~penalty fee~~)) Correction Fee  of (( ~~$300.00~~)) $320  may be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of response from the applicant.

<table><tr><td>
   

**Table C-1 - LAND USE FEES**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>A. MASTER USE PERMIT, ENVIRONMENTAL CRITICAL AREAS, CITY COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td>(( Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( Type of Land Use Review ))

</td><td>(( Minimum Fee ))

</td><td>(( Hourly Fee1))

</td><td>(( General ))

</td><td>(( Low-income Housing1))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( For Items 1-14 unless otherwise noted ))

</td><td>(( $2,500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 10 ))

</td><td>(( 24 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Hours worked beyond those covered by minimum will be charged the Land Use hourly rate, unless otherwise noted, and payable at time of invoice.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Type of Land Use Review

</td><td>Minimum Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>General - first 10 hours of review

</td><td>Land use Hourly x 10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Low-Income Housing - first 24 hours of review1

</td><td>Land use Hourly x 10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>1.

</td><td>Administrative conditional uses (ACUs)

ACUs for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for an ACU only, or an ACU combined with a variance application.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>2.

</td><td>Design review, except as provided in item15

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3.

</td><td>Environmental reviews (SEPA), including projects with more than one (( (1) )) addressed site

(( a. A 40 hour deposit is required for DSs and EISs; a 10 hour deposit is required for EIS addenda and SEIS ))

(( b. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DPD for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-significance (MDNSs) for projects that included City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district; no hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DPD is the lead agency. ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>4.

</td><td>Environmentally critical areas (ECA)

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>a. Environmentally Critical Areas variance2

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>b. ECA Exception

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>c. Environmentally Critical Areas Administrative Conditional Use

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 5.

</td><td>Plan shoreline permit -- See Council concept approvals ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 6. ))5.

</td><td>Shoreline permits

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>a. Substantial development permits

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>b. Variances 2 and conditional uses

(( c. Revisions (not due to required conditions) -- See Item #39 of this table ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 7. ))6.

</td><td>Short subdivisions 3

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 8. ))7.

</td><td>Special exceptions

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 9. ))8.

</td><td>Variances2

Variances for community centers, child care centers, adult care centers, private schools, religious facilities and public and private libraries in single family and multi-family zones shall be charged a minimum fee of $1,620 for the first 20 hours. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate of $250 per hour. This exception applies when the application is for a variance only, or a variance combined only with an ACU application.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 10. ))9.

</td><td>Concept approvals including, but not limited to planned community/ residential development, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 11. ))10.

</td><td>Council conditional uses

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 12. ))11.

</td><td>Full subdivisions4

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 13. ))12.

</td><td>Major Institution -- 40 hour deposit is required for Master Plans

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 14. ))13.

</td><td>Zoning map changes and rezones

</td></tr>

<tr><td>/ / / / /

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>
   
B. MISCELLANEOUS HOURLY LAND USE REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER SERVICES

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( Type of Land Use Review ))

</td><td>(( Minimum Land Use Review Fee ))

</td><td>(( Hourly Land Use Review Fee ))

</td><td>(( Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Hours worked beyond those covered by minimum will be charged the Land Use hourly rate, unless otherwise noted, and payable at time of invoice.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Type of Land Use Review

</td><td>Minimum Land Use Review Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 15. ))14.

</td><td>Concurrency

</td><td>Reserved

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 16.

</td><td>Curb cuts as a separate component

</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>a. Single-family residential

</td><td>(( $67.50 ))

</td><td>(( None ))

</td><td>(( None ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>b. Other than single-family residential ))

</td><td>(( $134.00 ))

</td><td>(( None ))

</td><td>(( None ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 17.

</td><td>Design Review for Tree Protection 5

</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required

</td><td>(( $1,000 ))

</td><td>(( $250 per hour ))

</td><td>(( 10 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>b. Design review elected by applicant for tree protection ))

</td><td>(( $0 ))

</td><td>(( $250 per hour ))

</td><td>(( 10 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>15.

</td><td>Design Review for Tree Protection5

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>a. Design review required by SMC 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect exceptional treewhen no other land use reviews are required

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 10

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>b. Design review elected by applicant for tree protection

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 18.

</td><td>Early design guidance ))

</td><td>(( $1,500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 6 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>16.

</td><td>Early design guidance

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 19.

</td><td>Environmental review sign6))

</td><td>(( $370 ))

</td><td>(( None ))

</td><td>(( None ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>(( 20.

</td><td>Establishing use for the record ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>17.

</td><td>Establishing use for the record: Refer to Table D-2 #9 for additional fees that may apply to this permit type

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 21.

</td><td>Intake appointments for land use reviews; fee is charged for each occurrence ))

</td><td>(( Base Fee x 1 )) </td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 22.

</td><td>Interpretations7

a. Interpretations

b. Interpretations requested after publication of Director's report

c. Major Institution master plan ))

</td><td>(( $1,500 )) (( $2,000 )) (( $500 )) </td><td>(( $250 )) (( $250 )) (( $250 )) </td><td>6

8

2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>18.

</td><td>Land Use Code Interpretations6

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 23.

</td><td>Letters for detailed zoning analysis or permit research ))

</td><td>(( $1,000 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 4 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>19.

</td><td>Letters for detailed zoning analysis or permit research

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 4

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 24.

</td><td>Lot Boundary Adjustment, Sidewalk Cafe, Temporary Use > 4 weeks ))

</td><td>(( $1,250 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 5 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>20.

</td><td>Lot Boundary Adjustment, Temporary Use > 4 weeks

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 5

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 25.

</td><td>Major Institution - review of annual plan ))

</td><td>(( $1,500 per year ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 6 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>21.

</td><td>Major Institution- review of annual plan

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 6

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 26.

</td><td>Major phased development permit - minor amendment ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>
   
22.

</td><td>Major phased development permit - minor amendment

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>
   
(( 27. ))23.

</td><td>Neighborhood planning

</td><td>Reserved

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 28. ))24.

</td><td>Noise survey review and variance

</td><td>See Table D-2 and Section 22.900F.020

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 29.

</td><td>Notice. All notice is charged based upon type for each occurrence8

a. Land use information bulletin (GMR notice

b. Posting large sign or placard

c. Mailed notice

d. Landslide prone notice

e. DJC decision publication

f. Neighborhood newspaper decision publication

g. Public meeting room rental))

</td><td>(( $177.00 ))

(( $102.00 ))

(( Base Fee x1 ))

(( Base Fee x1 ))

(( $160 ))

(( $160 ))

(( $50 ))

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 30.

</td><td>Open space remainder lots and surplus state property ))

</td><td>(( $1,000 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 4 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>25.

</td><td>Open space remainder lots and surplus state property

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 4

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 31.

</td><td>Pre-application conference9

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 1 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>26.

</td><td>Pre-application conference7

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 1

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 32.

</td><td>Public benefit feature review ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>27.

</td><td>Public benefit feature review

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 33.

</td><td>Records research by the Public Resource Center ))

</td><td>(( $110 ))

</td><td>(( $110 ))

</td><td>(( 1 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 34.

</td><td>Rebuild Letters

a. With Research

b. Without Research ))

</td><td>(( $110 ))

(( $35 ))

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 35.

</td><td>Renewals including shoreline renewals ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>28.

</td><td>Renewals including shoreline renewals

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 36.

</td><td>Revisions other than shoreline revisions ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 1 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>29.

</td><td>Revisions other than shoreline revisions

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 1

</td></tr>

<tr><td>
   
(( 37.

</td><td>School use and school development advisory committee reviews ))

</td><td>(( $2,500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 10 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>30.

</td><td>School use and school development advisory committeereviews

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 10

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 38.

</td><td>Shoreline exemptions ))

</td><td>(( Base Fee x 1 ))

</td><td>(( Base Fee x 1 ))

</td><td>(( 1 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>31.

</td><td>Shoreline exemptions

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 1

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 39.

</td><td>Shoreline permit revisions not due to required conditions ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>32.

</td><td>Shoreline permit revisions not due to required conditions

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 40.

</td><td>Special accommodation ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>33.

</td><td>Special accommodation

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 41.

</td><td>Structural building overhangs and areaways as a separate component ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>34.

</td><td>Structural building overhangsand areaways as a separate component

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 42.

</td><td>Tree and Vegetation Restoration Review in ECA above minimum threshold where SEPA is not required other than for the restoration ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>35.

</td><td>Tree and Vegetation Restoration Review in ECA above minimum threshold where SEPA is not required other than for the restoration (25.09.320A3c2b )

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 43.

</td><td>Recording Fees, for LBA, Short Subdivision ))

</td><td>(( Rate charged by King County10))

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 44.

</td><td>Street Improvement Exceptions on a Land Use permit ))

</td><td>(( $500 ))

</td><td>(( $250 ))

</td><td>(( 2 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>36.

</td><td>Street Improvement Exceptions on a Land Use permit

</td><td>Land Use Hourly x 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>
   

C. NON-HOURLY LAND USE FEES

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Type of Land Use Review

</td><td>Fee</td></tr>

<tr><td>37.

</td><td>Curb cuts as a separate component

a. Single- family residential

b. Other than single-family residential

</td><td>$72 each

$143 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>38.

</td><td>Intake appointments for land use reviews; fee is charged for each occurrence

</td><td>DPD Base Fee x 1</td></tr>

<tr><td>39.

</td><td>Notice.All notice is charged based upon type for each occurrence.8

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>a. Land use information bulletin(GMRnotice)

</td><td>DPD Base Fee x 1

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>b. Posting large sign or placards

</td><td>$109

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>c. Mailed notice

</td><td>DPD Base Fee x 1

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>d. DJC decision publication

</td><td>$171

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>e. Neighborhood newspaper decision publication

</td><td>$171

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>f. Public meeting room rental

</td><td>$110

</td></tr>

<tr><td>40.

</td><td>Rebuild Letters

a. With Research

b. Without Research

</td><td>DPD Base Fee x 1

$37

</td></tr>

<tr><td>41.

</td><td>Records research by the Public Resource Center

</td><td>DPD Base Fee x 1

</td></tr>

<tr><td>42.

</td><td>Recording Fees, for LBA, Short Subdivision

</td><td>Rate charged by King County9

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table> Notes to Table C-1:  1. For purposes of these land use fees, low-income housing is housing that both (1) satisfies the definition of "low-income housing" in SMC 23.84.024; and (2) where at least (( ~~fifty~~)) 50 percent of the total gross floor area of each structure on the site is committed to low-income housing use for at least 20 years.

 2. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one (( ~~(1)~~)) or multiple variances.

 3. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 4. Includes unit-lot subdivisions and full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 5. This fee applies when design review is initiated only for tree protection and the application has no other review under Items 1 - 14.

 (( ~~6. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign.~~))

 (( ~~7.~~)) 6.  The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

 (( ~~8.~~)) 7.  Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.

 (( ~~9.~~)) 8.  The pre- application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the  Land Use  hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E .

 (( ~~10.~~)) 9.  Recording fees will be charged the current rate as established and charged by King County at the time of document recording.

 (( ~~1. Nonrefundable Fees. Fees for preapplication conferences and environmental signs are not refundable.~~

~~2. Calculating Refunds for Land Use Fees. The amount of land use review fee that may be refunded is calculated as follows.~~

~~a. For refunds requested before a required notice is complete, the amount eligible for refund is 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee plus 100 percent of the hourly deposit, if any, paid by the applicant.~~

~~b. For refunds requested after notice is complete and for applications for which notice is not required, the amount eligible for refund is the number of hours of review time multiplied by $250.00, subtracted from the amount paid by the applicant. The amount refunded shall not exceed 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee.~~))

 Section 12. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900D.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 123246, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.010 Development permit fees .

 A. General.

 The development fee shall cover the application, review and inspection process associated with new construction, additions, alterations, and repairs to existing buildings and establishment of use. The development fee shall consist of a permit fee and, where plans are reviewed, a separate plan review fee. The permit fee and plan review fee shall be determined based on valuation, except as provided below.

 B. Time of Payment of Fees.

 Fees collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final Department fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, provided that hourly fees may be collected earlier, as described in Section 22.900B.010 D.

 If, during the initial review, the previously-collected fee is determined to be less than 90 percent of the estimated fee, the review work subsequent to the initial review will not proceed until the discrepancy is paid to the Department.

 1. Amount Due Prior to Application. Fees for building pre- application conference  and any additional fees accrued after the conference shall be due prior to permit application. (( ~~shall be paid prior to the conference.~~)) See 22.900D.010 I for building pre- application conference fees.

 2. Amounts Due at Time of Application. The following amounts are due at the time of application:

 a. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits without plan review shall pay a fee for subject-to-field inspection (STFI) permits equal to the permit fee specified in Table D-2.

 b. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits with plan review shall pay the plan review fee plus (( ~~one-half (~~))1/2(( ~~)~~)) the permit fee as specified in Table D-2.

 i. For development permits approved to be issued in phases, the plan review fee plus 1/2 the permit fee due at the time of application of the first phased submittal shall be calculated based upon the value calculated in accordance with Section 22.900D.010. C for the entire scope of the development permit. The remaining portion of the permit fee will not be collected until issuance of the final phase of the development permit that completes the scope of the proposed building project.

 c. For other applications, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application.

 C. Determination of value.

 1. The Director shall determine the value of construction for which the permit is issued (the estimated current value of all labor and materials, whether actually paid or not, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems, automatic sprinkler systems, other mechanical systems, retaining walls, rockeries and any other permanent work or permanent equipment, but not including furnishings). The building valuation data from the International Code Council and other valuation criteria approved by the Director will be used to determine the value of construction.

 2. Dish or panel antennae. The fee for processing applications for installation of a dish or panel antenna shall be charged on the value of the foundation and supports constructed for the installation. The value of the dish or panel antenna shall not be included in the determination of value.

 3. The development fee for parks and playgrounds shall be based on the project value, including the value of improvements for structures incidental to the park or playground such as retaining walls, rockeries and restrooms, but shall not include the value of playground equipment.

 4. The valuation shall be based on the highest type of construction to which a proposed structure most nearly conforms, as determined by the Director.

 D. Phased permits.

 1. When a new building project is proposed to be built in phases and the Director determines that separate development permits may be issued for  approved  portions of the project, the development fee for (( ~~initial permits~~)) the entire permit  shall be based on the (( ~~estimated value of the work under that permit~~)) value of work  according to Table D-2  . If the shoring and/or(( ~~,except~~)) excavating (( ~~permits~~)) work is included with the complete foundation (below grade) phase of the building project, the fees for such work  shall be (( ~~based on Section 22.900D.145~~)) included in the fees described above . (( ~~The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the new building project minus the sum of the fees for the initial permits, with no credit for an excavation permit fee.~~))

 When the proposed building project includes a separate shoring and/or excavation phase that is not combined with the complete foundation (below grade) phase, the shoring and/or excavation work will be reviewed and issued as a separate permit. The fees for the excavation portion of that permit shall be based on Section 22.900D.145 and the fees for the shoring portion of that permit shall be based on the value of that structural portion of the work according to Table D-2. No credit will be given for any of these fees toward the phased building permit.

 2. In addition to the fee specified in 22.900.010 D 1 above, where an applicant requests division of an already-submitted permit application a fee shall be charged for each separate application (( ~~(including the original application which results from the division) as specified in Table D-2.~~)) as specified in Table D-2 and the fee to process this request will be charged at the DPD hourly rate.

 E. Calculation of Development Fees.

 The development fee for a permit shall be calculated as described in this section. Table D-1 establishes the Development Fee Index for value-based development fees. Except as specified in Section 22.900D.010 F below, Table D-2 establishes the permit fee and plan review fee, calculated as a percentage of the development fee index where determined by value. If two or more buildings are allowed under one (( ~~(1)~~)) permit, they shall be assessed fees as separate buildings under Table D-2. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total development fee for the permit.

<table><tr><td>**Table D-1 - CALCULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT FEE INDEX**

</td></tr><tr><td>**Total Valuation**

</td><td>Development Fee Index

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$0(( .00 )) to $1,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$150(( .00 )) for the first $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$1,001(( .00 )) to $50,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$150(( .00 )) for the first $1,000(( .00 )) plus $1.25 for each additional $100(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$50,001(( .00 )) to $100,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$762.50 for the first $50,000(( .00 )) plus $1(( .00 )) for each additional $100(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$100,001(( .00 )) to $250,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$1,262.50 for the first $100,000(( .00 )) plus $4.75 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$250,001(( .00 )) to $500,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$1,975(( .00 )) for the first $250,000(( .00 )) plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$500,001(( .00 )) to $750,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$3,100(( .00 )) for the first $500,000(( .00 )) plus $4.25 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$750,001(( .00 )) to $1,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$4,162.50 for the first $750,000(( .00 )) plus $4(( .00 )) for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$1,000,001(( .00 )) to $2,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$5,162.50 for first $1,000,000((.00)) plus $3.75 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$2,000,001(( .00 )) to $3,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$8,912.50 for first $2,000,000(( .00 )) plus $3.50 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$3,000,001(( .00 )) to $4,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$12,412.50 for first $3,000,000(( .00 )) plus $3.25 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$4,000,001(( .00 )) to $5,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$15,662.50 for first $4,000,000(( .00 )) plus $3(( .00 )) for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$5,000,001(( .00 )) to
   
 $50,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$18,662.50 for the first $5,000,000(( .00 )) plus $2.25 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$50,000,001(( .00 )) to
   
 $100,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$119,912.50 for the first $50,000,000(( .00 )) plus $1.75 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$100,000,001(( .00 )) to
   
 $200,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$207,412.50 for the first $100,000,000(( .00 )) plus $1.25 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$200,000,001(( .00 )) and up

</td><td>$332,412.50 for the first $200,000,000(( .00 )) plus $0.75 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Table ****D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE**

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D- 11

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>Type of Development

</td><td>Permit Fee

</td><td>Plan Review Fee

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>1. Building, with or without mechanical, with or without use (( 2 ))

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>2. STFI (Subject to field inspection - building and/or mechanical2

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td><td>40% of DFI (( 3 ))

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 3. Reserved ))

</td><td>(( Reserved ))

</td><td>(( Reserved ))

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>3. Energy code compliance review using Target UA and/or System Analysis (RS29).

</td><td>(included in item #1)

</td><td>DPD hourly rate, 1 hour minimum

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>4. Mechanical permit:

(( separate from building permit ))

a. Submitted as part of a building permit application (if associated with other work)

b. Submitted separately from a building permit application (if associated with other work) or if applied for as a mechanical only permit (Also see Section 22.900D.090 for mechanical equipment fees)

(See also Section 22.900D.090)

</td><td>(( 100% of DFI ))

(included in item #1)

100% of DFI

</td><td>(( 100% of DFI ))

DPD hourly rate, 1 hour minimum

DPD hourly rate, 1 hour minimum

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>5. Blanket permit review fees:

</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>a. Initial tenant alterations within (( 3 years ))18 months of the date of issuance of first tenant permit within a building where the area of work is more than 50,000 sq. ft.

</td><td>$2.20 per 100 square feet1

</td><td>$2.55 per 100 square feet1

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>b. Initial tenant alterations (( after 3 years of ))applied for after 18 months of the date of issuance of the first tenant permit, and other tenant alterations

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td><td>(( 40% ))60% of DFI

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>6. Initial tenant alterations applied for within18 months of the date of issuance of the first tenant permit (nonblanket permit initial tenant improvements to shell and core) (( 4 ))3

</td><td>(( 25 ))50% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core

</td><td>(( 25 ))50% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>7. Standard plans:

</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>a. Establishment of standard plan, including temporary structures. (For swimming pools, see Item 15 below.)

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td><td>200% of DFI, plus DPD hourly rate for review/approval of "options"

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>b. Establishment of already permitted plan as standard plan

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td><td>100% of DFI, plus DPD hourly rate for review/approval of "options"

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>c. Subsequent reviews of standard plan, other than temporary structures

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td><td>(( 40 ))60% of DFI, plus DPD hourly rate for review/approval of "revisions"

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>d. Subsequent reviews of standard plans for temporary structures

</td><td>See Item 16 below

</td><td>See Item 16 below

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>8. Factory-built housing and commercial structures

</td><td>Base fee x 1(( ; base fee x1 for each module up to ten modules for multistory multifamily structures ))

</td><td>Base fee x 1 for each module

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>Special Development Fees

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Type of Development

</td><td>Permit Fee

</td><td>Plan Review Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>9. Establishing use for the record

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>a. Applications with no construction

</td><td>Base fee x 1.5

</td><td>None

</td></tr>

<tr><td>b. Applications with construction: Refer to Table C-1, item #17, for additional Land Use Fees that apply to this permit type

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td><td>100% of DFI

</td></tr>

<tr><td>10. Noise survey reviews

</td><td>None

</td><td>DPD hourly rate; 30-minute minimum

</td></tr>

<tr><td>11. Parking facilities

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>a. Outside a building

</td><td>See Sec. 22.900D.060

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>b. Within or on a building

</td><td>See Sec. 22.900D.010.C

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>12. Renewal fees

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>a. Development permits and separate mechanical permits where original plans will be changed

</td><td>DPD hourly rate

</td><td>DPD hourly rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>b. Development permits other than separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

</td><td>base fee x 1.5

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>c. Separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

</td><td>base fee x 1

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>13. Single-family earthquake retrofit

a. Permit for work in full compliance with Project Impact Standards/Plans

b. Permit for work in partial compliance with Project Impact Standards/Plans with additional engineering design of those portions not in compliance

c. Voluntary seismic upgrades requiring full engineering/design and not per Project Impact Standards/Plans

</td><td>(( Base fee x 1 ))

Base fee x 1

Base fee x 1

100% of DFI

</td><td>(( None ))

None

DPD hourly rate with 1 hour minimum

100% of DFI

</td></tr>

<tr><td>14. Special inspection

</td><td>Base fee x 1

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>15. Swimming pools(( 5))4:

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>a. Unenclosed pools accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy

</td><td>Base fee x 4

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>b. Unenclosed pools accessory to occupancies other than Group R-3

</td><td>Base fee x 6

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>c. Principal use unenclosed pools

</td><td>Base fee x 6

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>d. Future construction of an unenclosed swimming pool

</td><td>Base fee x 1

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>e. Initial approval of standard plan for swimming pool accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy

</td><td>Base fee x 5

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>f. Subsequent review of application based on approved swimming pool standard plan

</td><td>Base fee x 1.5

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>16. Temporary structures, such as commercial coaches(( ; renewal of permits for temporary structures )) (( 6 ))5

</td><td>Base fee x 2 per structure

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 17. Temporary tents, off-site construction offices and similar facilities ))

</td><td>(( Base fee x 2 plus $500 refundable deposit per site7))

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(( 18. ))17. Temporary use permits

</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>a. For 4 weeks or less (( 8 ))6

</td><td>Base fee x 1.5

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>b. For more than 4 weeks (( 8 ))6

</td><td>Base fee x 2

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>(( 19. ))18. Phased Permits

</td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>a. Value

</td><td>Base fee x 1

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>b. Value >$5,000,000 in value.

</td><td>Base fee x 2

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>(( 20. ))19. ECA Small Project Waiver on a building permit

</td><td>None

</td><td>DPD hourly rate;((  1/4 ))0.25 hour minimum

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>(( 21. ))20. Street Improvement Exceptions on a building permit

</td><td>(( Base fee x 2 ))DPD Land Use Hourly x 2

</td><td>(( DPD hourly rate; 2 hour minimum ))Land Use Hourly rate for each review hour spent beyond 2 hour minimum fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>21. Building Permit Shop Drawings

</td><td>None

</td><td>DPD hourly rate: 1.75 hour minimum

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>22. Sprinkler Shop Drawings

</td><td>None

</td><td>DPD hourly rate: 0.75 hour minimum

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>23. Sprinkler Only Permit Submittals (New and/or Add/Alt)

</td><td>Base fee x 0.75

</td><td>See Section 22.900.G - Fire Department Fees.

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>24. Code Alternate Request

</td><td>None

</td><td>DPD hourly rate, 2 hour minimum

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table> Notes to Table D-2:  1. The minimum permit fee or plan review fee for value-based fees is $150.

 (( ~~2. The minimum fee for accessory dwelling units is $150.00 for Permit fee and $150.00 for Plan Review fee.~~))

 (( ~~3.~~)) 2.  The minimum plan review fee for Subject To Field (( ~~Investigation~~)) Inspection  (STFI) value-based plan review is $60(( ~~.00~~)).

 (( ~~4.~~)) 3.  This fee is applicable only to those initial tenants that reflect the use and occupancy established in the shell and core permit. The value used shall be the new construction value used in calculating value for the core and shell permit.

 (( ~~5.~~))4. When a swimming pool is located within an enclosed building and is included in the building plans for that building, a separate fee shall not be charged for the swimming pool. The swimming pool area will be considered as floor area of the principal occupancy of the building.

 (( ~~6.~~)) 5.  This fee shall not apply to any on-site, temporary construction office where a valid building permit is in force.

 (( ~~7. All costs to the City for site cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before the deposit is refunded.~~))

 (( ~~8.~~)) 6.  Master use permit fees for such temporary uses shall be charged according to Table C-1.

 ***

 I. Building Pre-application Conferences.

 1. Required Building Pre-application Conferences. When there is a requirement for a pre-application or pre-design conference, such as buildings subject to the Seattle Building Code special provisions for atriums (Section 404), or highrise buildings (Section 403), 35 percent of the estimated plan review fee for the structure shall be charged and paid as specified in Section 22.900D.010.B, and applied toward the development permit fee  provided the permit application is made within six months of the date of the pre-application conference . (See Table C-1 for land use pre-application conference fees.)

 2. Other Building Pre-application Conferences. When a pre- application conference is requested by the applicant but is not required by Code, a fee equal to (( ~~one and one-half (~~))1.5(( ~~)~~)) times the base fee shall be paid no later than the time of the conference. Such fee is required for each meeting held on a project . (( ~~, and will be applied toward the future permit application fee provided~~))  In addition to the minimum building pre- application conference fee, where additional staff, research, preliminary plan examination or inspection is required, charges shall be assessed at the DPD hourly rate and shall be charged and paid as specified in Section 22.900D.010B.

 (( ~~a. The project is identified by the proper address at the time of the preapplication conference; and~~

~~b. The permit application is made within Six (6) months of the date of the preapplication conference.~~))

 J. Correction (( ~~penalty fee~~)) Fee .

 After written notice to the applicant, a (( ~~penalty fee~~)) Correction Fee  of (( ~~$300.00~~)) $320  will be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of adequate response from the applicant.

 (( ~~K. Refunds .~~))

 (( ~~1. Refunds of development permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-3.~~))

 (( ~~2. Refunds shall not be given for the following fees~~))

 (( ~~a. Demolition permits;~~))

 (( ~~b. Renewal or reestablishment of permits; and~~))

<table><tr><td>(( Table D-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS of DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES

</td></tr>

<tr><td>I. Application Filed, Permit Not Issued.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Stage in Review Process

</td><td>Amount of Permit Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 50% of Total Permit Fee Calculation1

</td><td>Amount of Plan Review Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 100% of Total Plan Review Fee Calculation

</td></tr>

<tr><td>A. Application filed, plans not routed

</td><td>20%

</td><td>90%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>B. Plans routed for initial review, review not completed

</td><td>10%

</td><td>75%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>C. Initial review completed, plans not approved

</td><td>0%

</td><td>60%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>D. Initial review completed, routed for first correction review, review of first corrections not completed

</td><td>0%

</td><td>50%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>E. Review of first corrections completed, plans not approved

</td><td>0%

</td><td>40%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>F. Plans routed for review of second corrections, but review not completed

</td><td>0%

</td><td>30%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>G. Review of second corrections completed, plans not approved

</td><td>0%

</td><td>20%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>H. Review of third corrections not completed

</td><td>0%

</td><td>15%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>I. Review of third corrections completed, plans not approved

</td><td>0%

</td><td>10%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>J. Application approved, permit not issued.

</td><td>0%

</td><td>0%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>II. Permit Issued 2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Stage in Review Process

</td><td>Amount of Permit Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 100% of Total Permit Fee Calculation

</td><td>Amount of Plan Review Fee Eligible for Refund

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit issued, work not started

</td><td>25%

</td><td>0%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit issued, work started

</td><td>0%

</td><td>0% ))

</td></tr>

</table> (( ~~c. Preapplication conferences.~~))  (( ~~Notes to Table D-3:~~

~~1. Fifty percent of the estimated permit fee is paid at the time the application is submitted. The amount refunded before the permit is issued is a percentage of the fifty percent.~~

~~2. After the permit is issued, the entire permit fee has been paid. Therefore, the amount to be refunded after issuance is based on 100 percent of the permit fee.~~))

 L. Renewals.

 Fees for renewal of permits shall be charged according to Table D-2. When the fee for a new permit would be less than (( ~~one and one-half (~~))1.5(( ~~)~~)) times the base fee, then the fee to renew the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 M. Reestablishment.

 The following fee shall be charged for reestablishment of development permits.

 1. Three (( ~~(3)~~))times the base fee; plus

 2. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at the DPD hourly rate.

 When the fee for a new permit would be less than three (( ~~(3)~~)) times the base fee, then the fee to reestablish the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 Section 13. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900D.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.090 Permit fees for mechanical equipment and systems, other than boilers and pressure vessels and refrigeration systems .

 A. Mechanical permit fees for the installation, replacement or major alteration of heating equipment, incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances shall be charged as set in Table D-8. Fees shall be charged for each furnace when it is applied for without plans. No separate fee shall be charged for a furnace when it is included in plans for a mechanical air-moving system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 B. Mechanical permits are considered part of a building permit, with no additional fee, when mechanical plans are reviewed at the same time as structural and architectural plans for the same building project. The fees for a separate mechanical permit for installation, alteration or repair of mechanical air-moving systems, including ducts attached thereto, associated nonresidential heating and cooling equipment, and mechanical exhaust hoods, including ducts attached thereto, are charged per Table D-2. See Table D-12 for rates for burners installed in boilers.

 C. The fee to renew or reestablish a furnace permit is (( ~~one-half (1/2)~~))  0.5  the base fee.

<table><tr><td>**Table ****D-8 - PERMIT FEES FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Type of Installation**

</td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Forced air, gravity-type, or floor furnace, gas or oil suspended heater, heat pump, recessed wall heater or floor-mounted space heater, wall furnace, circulating heater or woodstove/fireplace insert, including ducts and burners attached thereto

</td><td>(( $110.50 ))$118 per unit

</td></tr>

<tr><td>New gas or oil burners and newly installed used gas or oil burners1

</td><td>(( $110.50 ))$118 per unit

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Appliance vents Class A, B, BW or L when installed separately

</td><td>(( $88.50 ))$94 per unit

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Mechanical air-moving systems

</td><td>See Table D-2.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Appliances or equipment or other work not classed in other categories, or for which no other fee is listed.

</td><td>Hourly at the DPD hourly rate. Minimum of (( one-half )) 1/2 hour.

</td></tr>

</table> (( ~~D. Refunds . Refunds of mechanical equipment permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-9~~)). <table><tr><td>
   

(( Table D-9 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT FEES

</td></tr>

<tr><td>MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Stage in Review Process

</td><td>Amount Eligible for Refund

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit application filed, permit not issued

</td><td>50%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit is issued; no work started.

</td><td>25%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit is issued; work started.

</td><td>0% (No refund allowed) ))

</td></tr>

</table> Section 14. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900D.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:  22.900D.100 Refrigeration equipment and systems.

 A. Fees for the installation, addition, repair, replacement and alteration of refrigeration equipment and systems shall be charged as set in Table D-10.

 B. Temporary installations of (( ~~10~~)) ten  days' duration or less, made for the purposes of exhibition, display or demonstration shall be charged a fee of (( ~~$49.00~~)) $52  for each installation.

<table><tr><td>**Table ****D-10 - REFRIGERATION PERMIT FEES1**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Type or Size of System/Equipment**

</td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Basic fee2

</td><td>(( $52.50 ))$56

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Additional installation fee per compressor

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>0-5 HP

</td><td>(( $52.50 ))$56

</td></tr>

<tr><td>6-25 HP

</td><td>(( $105.00 ))$112

</td></tr>

<tr><td>26-100 HP

</td><td>$211(( .00 ))

</td></tr>

<tr><td>101-500 HP

</td><td>(( $280.00 ))$298

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Over 500 HP

</td><td>(( $340.00 ))$362

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Repair and alteration (value of work)

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>$0 - $1,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $52.50 ))$56

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$1,001(( .00 )) - $5,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $76.00 ))$81

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$5,001(( .00 )) - $10,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $131.00 ))$140

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Over $10,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $130.00 ))$139 plus (( $52.50 ))$56/each $5,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof of valuation above $10,000(( .00 ))

</td></tr>

</table> Notes to Table D-10:  1. Where the application for permit shows cooling tonnage rather than horsepower, the fees of this table shall apply at a rate of one (( ~~(1)~~)) horsepower equals one (( ~~(1)~~)) ton of cooling capacity.

 2. The basic fee applies to new installations, repairs and alterations.

 (( ~~C. Refunds. Refunds of refrigeration permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-11.~~))

<table><tr><td>
   

(( Table D-11 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF REFRIGERATION FEES

</td></tr>

<tr><td>REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Stage in Review Process

</td><td>Amount Eligible for Refund

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit application filed, permit not issued

</td><td>50%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit is issued; no work started.

</td><td>25%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit is issued; work started

</td><td>0% (No refund allowed) ))

</td></tr>

</table> ***  Section 15. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900D.145 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 123106, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.145 Site  and Geotechnical review fee.

 A. The fees for plan review and inspection of the following are as provided in this section and Table D-SR:

 1. Land-disturbing activity as defined in the Stormwater(( ~~, Grading and Drainage Control~~)) Code SMC 22.801.130; and

 2. Drainage, including temporary drainage and erosion and sedimentation control.

 B. The minimum fees for site  and geotechnical review are specified in Table D-SR, and shall be paid at the time specified in the Table. Hourly fees due in addition to the minimum fee will be calculated during review  and prior to of final inspection, issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or permit expiration . Payment of hourly fees is due at the times specified in Table D-SR or may be charged in accordance with Section 22.900B.010.

 C. The charge for review time, including site and geotechnical  inspections in excess of the time included in the minimum fee, is the DPD hourly rate. Accrued hours shall be billed and payable upon receipt of invoice.

 D. The fee for third party review as specified in the environmentally critical areas regulations, Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.09.080C, and for shoring review is the contract cost to the Department for the review plus an amount equal to (( ~~fifteen (~~))15(( ~~)~~)) percent of the contract amount for administration and review of the third party geotechnical report and professional opinion. Seventy-five (( ~~(75)~~)) percent of the estimated contract amount shall be paid prior to the contract award.

 E. Site review fees are nonrefundable.

<table><tr><td>**Table D-SR - SITE AND GEOTECHNICAL REVIEW FEE**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Type of Site Review**

</td><td>Minimum Fee

</td><td>Time at Which Minimum Fee is Due

</td><td>Review Time Included in Minimum Fee

</td><td>Time at Which Hourly Fees are Due

</td></tr>

<tr><td>1. Pre-application site inspection

</td><td> 3/4 hour at the DPD hourly rate

</td><td>At the time of application intake

</td><td>3/4 hour

</td><td>At the time of application intake

</td></tr>

<tr><td>2. Drainage and grading separate from a development permit

</td><td>(( One ( ))1(( ) )) hour at the DPD hourly rate

</td><td>At the time of application intake

</td><td>1 hour

</td><td>At the time of permit issuance

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3. Review to determine Environmentally Critical Area exemption1

</td><td> 1/2 hour at the DPD hourly rate

</td><td>At the time of application intake

</td><td>1/2 hour

</td><td>At the time of decision

</td></tr>

<tr><td>4. Site located in Environmentally Critical Area unless fully exempt from ECA standards

</td><td>2- 1/2 hours at the DPD hourly rate

</td><td>At the time of application intake

</td><td>21/2 hours

</td><td>At the time of permit issuance

</td></tr>

<tr><td>5. Sites requiring either Geotechnical or Drainage review or both

</td><td>DPD hourly 1/4 hour minimum

</td><td>At the time of Permit issuance

</td><td>Not Applicable

</td><td>At the time of permit issuance

</td></tr>

<tr><td>6. Post-Issuance Geotechnical Review for all permits with geotechnical special inspections

</td><td>1 hour at the DPD hourly rate

</td><td>At the time of permit issuance

</td><td>1 hour

</td><td>At the time of final inspection, issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or permit expiration.

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>POST-ISSUANCE SITE INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REVIEWS

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Type / DEPTCM / Action Class

</td><td>Worktype

</td><td>ECA Filter/Action Type

</td><td>Rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 (building) / Single Family New

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>ECA types (1, 2, 8)

</td><td>2.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 (building) / Single Family New

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)

</td><td>1.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 (building) / Single Family New

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>Non ECA

</td><td>1.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family New

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>ECA types (1, 2, 8)

</td><td>2 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family New

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)

</td><td>1 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family New

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>Non ECA

</td><td>1 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family Add Alt

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>ECA types (1, 2, 8)

</td><td>1.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family Add Alt

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)

</td><td>1.25 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family Add Alt

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>Non ECA

</td><td>1.25 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family Add Alt

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>ECA types (1, 2, 8)

</td><td>1.25 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family Add Alt

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)

</td><td>1 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Single Family Add Alt

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>Non ECA

</td><td>1 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial New

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>ECA types (1, 2, 8)

</td><td>4.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial New

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)

</td><td>3 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial New

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>Non ECA

</td><td>3 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial New

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>ECA types (1, 2, 8)

</td><td>3 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial New

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)

</td><td>1.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial New

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>Non ECA

</td><td>1.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial Add Alt

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>ECA types (1, 2, 8)

</td><td>2.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial Add Alt

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)

</td><td>2 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial Add Alt

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>Non ECA

</td><td>2 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial Add Alt

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>ECA types (1, 2, 8)

</td><td>2 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial Add Alt

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>ECA types (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10)

</td><td>2 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Commercial Add Alt

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>Non ECA

</td><td>2 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3002 / Demo

</td><td>All Worktypes

</td><td>Demo Only

</td><td> 1/2 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3001 / Other

</td><td>All Worktypes

</td><td>Temp and None

</td><td> 1/2 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3005 / Grading Only

</td><td>Full + Full C

</td><td>Grading Only

</td><td>2.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3005 / Grading Only

</td><td>Field Full

</td><td>Grading Only

</td><td>1 x base rate

</td></tr>

</table> Note to Table D-SR  1. The fee for review of possible exemptions applies regardless of the review's outcome.

 Section 16. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900D.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.150 Electrical permit fees .

 A. Permit fees when plans and specifications are reviewed:

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations for which plans and specifications are reviewed by the Director shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-14.

 2. When approved by the Director to submit plans for advance plan examination, 50(( ~~%~~)) percent  of the estimated permit fee shall be collected at the time of the permit application and plan submittal.

 3. The Director shall determine the value of the construction, which is the value to the vendee of all labor, material, fittings, apparatus and the like, whether actually paid for or not, supplied by the permit holder and/or installed by the permit holder as a part of, or in connection with, a complete electrical system, but which does not include the cost of utilizing equipment connected to the electrical system. The Director may require verification of the stated cost of any work subject to these fees.

 When the cost of any proposed installation is unknown, an estimate of the cost shall be made and used to compute the permit fee.

 The permit fee specified in Table D-14 is due at the time of application. Upon completion of the installation, a fee adjustment may be made in favor of the City or the permit holder, if requested by either party.

 4. When a duplicate set of approved plans is submitted for examination and approval at any time after a permit has been issued on the original approved plans, hourly charges for Departmental work shall be assessed.

 B. Permit fees when plans and specifications are not required:

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations, additions and alterations for which plans and specifications are not required shall be as set forth in Table D-15. The permit fee specified in Table D-15 is due at the time of application.

 2. Permit fees for temporary electrical installations shall be charged for services only at the rate set forth in Table D-15.

 3. When the base fee and DPD hourly rate are used to calculate the fee in Table D-15, use Section 22.900B.010 to determine the permit fee.

 C. Phased permits:

 1. When an electrical project is proposed to be installed in phases and the Director determines that separate electrical permits may be issued for portions of the project, the permit fee for the initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-14. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the electrical installations minus the sum of the values of the initial permits.

 2. Where an applicant requests that an application for a permit be divided into separate applications subsequent to the initial submittal of a unified application, an additional fee shall be charged at the rate of one (( ~~(1)~~))times the base fee for each separate application which results from the division.

<table><tr><td>
   

**Table D-14 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES **
   
**(when plans are reviewed) **

</td></tr><tr><td>**Total Valuation**

</td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$0(( .00 )) to $1,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$150(( .00 )) for the first $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$1,001(( .00 )) to $5,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>$150(( .00 )) for the first $1,000(( .00 )) plus (( $4.00 ))$6 for each additional $100(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$5,001(( .00 )) to $50,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $310.00 ))$390for the first $5,000(( .00 )) plus (( $1.75 ))$2.50 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$50,001(( .00 )) to 100,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $1,097.50 ))$1,515for the first $50,000((.00)) plus (( $1.50 ))$2 for each additional $100(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$100,001(( .00 )) to $500,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $1,847.50 ))$2,515for the first $100,000(( .00 )) plus (( $5.00 ))$7.50 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$500,001(( .00 )) to $1,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $3,847.50 ))$5,515for the first $500,000(( .00 )) plus (( $3.00 ))$6 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$1,000,001(( .00 )) to $3,000,000(( .00 ))

</td><td>(( $5,347.50 ))$8,515 for the first $1,000,000(( .00 )) plus (( $2.00 ))$4 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>$3,000,001(( .00 )) and up

</td><td>(( $9,347.50 ))$16,515 for the first $3,000,000(( .00 )) plus (( $1.00 ))$2 for each additional $1,000(( .00 )) or fraction thereof.

</td></tr><tr><td>**Table D-15 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES* **
   
**(when plans are not required) **

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**1. Administrative Fee**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>a. An administrative fee of $60(( .00 )) will be charged for items 2 through 8 and 10 in addition to the other fees specified in this table for all items except item 9.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>b. An administrative fee of $48(( .00 )) will be charged when work is added to an existing permit and when other information is changed.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>2. Services

</td><td>Size

</td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>a. Services (installation, relocation and temporary installations; size based on conductor ampacity)

</td><td>1 - 125A

126 - 200A

201 - 300A

301 - 400A

401 - 599A

</td><td> 1/2 x base fee

 3/4 x base fee

1 x base fee

1.5 x base fee

2 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>b. Temporary construction power for single-family residence

</td><td>Any

</td><td> 1/2 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>/ / / / /

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>3. Feeders1

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>Size

</td><td>120v-480v

</td><td>>480v

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>15-25A

</td><td>(( $13.00 ))$14

</td><td>Na (see below)

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>30-50A

</td><td>(( $27.00 ))$29

</td><td>Na (see below)

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>15-50A

</td><td>Na

</td><td> 1/4 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>60-125A

</td><td> 1/2 x base fee

</td><td> 1/2 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>150A & above

</td><td> 3/4 x base fee

</td><td>Na (see below)

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>150-400A

</td><td>Na

</td><td>1 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>450 & above

</td><td>Na

</td><td>plan review required

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>4. Connections, Devices and Branch Circuits2

</td></tr>

<tr><td>a. Connections

</td><td></td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Light outlet, switches, receptacles, fixtures3, residential-type fan

</td><td></td><td>(( $1.65 ))$1.75 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Track lighting or multi-outlet assembly

</td><td></td><td>(( $1.65 ))$1.75 for every 2 feet of track

</td></tr>

<tr><td>b. Devices and Branch Circuits

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Dimmer (commercial 2,000 watt or over)

</td><td></td><td>(( $18.00 ))$19 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Non-electric furnace4

</td><td></td><td>(( $13.00 ))$14 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Dedicated appliances & utilization circuits (cord and plug or direct wired)

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>(15-25A)

</td><td></td><td>(( $13.00 ))$14 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>(30-50A)

</td><td></td><td>(( $27.00 ))$29 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Range

</td><td></td><td>(( $27.00 ))$29 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Water heater (220 volt)

</td><td></td><td>(( $27.00 ))$29 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Floodlight5

</td><td></td><td>(( $6.00 ))$6.40 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Sign

</td><td></td><td>(( $34.00 ))$36 each

</td></tr>

<tr><td>5. Transformer Installations6

</td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Up to 300 VA

</td><td>(( $6.00 ))$6.40

</td></tr>

<tr><td>300 VA to 6 KVA

</td><td>(( $13.00 ))$14

</td></tr>

<tr><td>7 KVA to 15 KVA

</td><td>(( $40.00 ))$43

</td></tr>

<tr><td>16 KVA to 45 KVA

</td><td> 1/2 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>46 KVA to 112.5 KVA

</td><td> 3/4 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td> > 113 KVA

</td><td>1 x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td>

</td></tr></table>

<table>

<tr><td>**6. Motor Installations**

</td><td>****

</td><td>**Fee**

</td></tr><tr><td> Up to 1/3 HP

</td><td></td><td> ((  $6.00  ))$6.40

</td></tr><tr><td> 1/3 HP to 3/4 HP

</td><td></td><td> ((  $13.00  ))$14

</td></tr><tr><td> 1 HP to 3 HP

</td><td></td><td> ((  $20.00  ))$21

</td></tr><tr><td> 4 HP to 5 HP

</td><td></td><td> ((  $25.00  ))$27

</td></tr><tr><td> 6 HP to 20 HP

</td><td></td><td>  x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td> 21 HP to 50 HP

</td><td></td><td>  x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td> > 51 HP

</td><td></td><td>  x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td>**
   
****7. Electric Furnaces and Heaters**

</td><td>**Fee**

</td></tr><tr><td> Up to 2 KW

</td><td></td><td> ((  $6.00  ))$6.40

</td></tr><tr><td> 2 KW to 5 KW

</td><td></td><td> ((  $13.00  ))$14

</td></tr><tr><td> 6 KW to 15 KW

</td><td></td><td> ((  $17.00  ))$18

</td></tr><tr><td> 16 KW to 30 KW

</td><td></td><td>  x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td> 31 KW to 100 KW

</td><td></td><td>  x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td> > 101 KW

</td><td></td><td>  x base fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**8. Low-voltage and Communication Systems**

</td><td>**Fee**

</td></tr><tr><td> a. Low-voltage systems7-sound systems, security systems, fire alarms, nurse call, industrial controls and similar

</td><td></td><td> Requires separate permit for each system

</td></tr><tr><td> Control unit

</td><td></td><td> ((  $10.00  ))$11 each

</td></tr><tr><td> Device (actuating, horn, alarm, etc.)

</td><td></td><td> ((  $1.65  ))$1.75 each

</td></tr><tr><td> Control systems (>100 volts) shall be based on the feeder schedule.

</td></tr><tr><td> b. Communications systems8-voice cable, data cable, coaxial cable, fiber optics and similar. The maximum fee is $420((  .00  )).

</td></tr><tr><td> Control unit

</td><td></td><td> ((  $10.00  ))$11 each

</td></tr><tr><td> Outlet

</td><td></td><td> ((  $1.65  ))$1.75 each

</td></tr><tr><td>**9. Special Events**

</td></tr><tr><td> a. Inspections occurring during normal business hours-Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum ((  one-half (  ))1/2((  )  )) hour

</td></tr><tr><td> b. Inspections occurring outside normal business hours-Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum ((  one and one-half (1.5)  )) 1 hour

</td></tr>

<tr><td>** 10. Inspections for which no other fee is listed, including but not limited to Conditional Work and "Get Started" permits **

</td></tr><tr><td> Each

</td><td></td><td> Hourly at the DPD hourly rate; minimum ((  one-half (  ))1/2((  )  )) hour

</td></tr><tr><td>**11. Renewable Energy Systems (photovoltaic, wind power generation, etc.)**

</td></tr><tr><td> 0 KW to 6 KW

</td><td></td><td>  x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td> 7 KW to 26 KW

</td><td></td><td> 1 x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td> Over 26 KW

</td><td></td><td> Plan review required

</td></tr><tr><td> *See Electrical Code for permit exemptions

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**12. Size overcurrent protection for Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations **

</td></tr><tr><td>Select fee for each charger to be installed.

</td><td>Charging Station

**Level 2A** (120-240 V 1 PHASE)

**Level 2B** (120-208 V 3 PHASE)

</td><td>Charging Station

**Level 3 **(277-480 V 3 PHASE)

</td></tr><tr><td>15 TO 25 AMP CHG STATION

</td><td>$14

</td><td> x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td>30 TO 50 AMP CHG STATION

</td><td>$29

</td><td> x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td>60 TO 125 AMP CHG STATION

</td><td> x base fee

</td><td> x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td>150 TO 225 AMP CHG STATION

</td><td> x base fee

</td><td>1 x base fee

</td></tr><tr><td>250 TO 400 AMP CHG STATION

</td><td>Requires plan review.

</td><td>Requires plan review.

</td></tr><tr><td>OVER 450 AMP CHG STATION

</td><td>Requires plan review.

</td><td>Requires plan review.

</td></tr></table>

 Notes to Table D-15:

 1. Feeders will be charged only for (a) subpanels, (b) distribution panels, and (c) branch circuits of 60 amperes or over.

 2. Fees will be charged according to either section 4a or 4b. Section 4a will be used only when fees according to section 4b cannot be determined.

 3. Fixtures will be charged only for replacement, reinstallation or installation separate from light outlet wiring.

 4. For furnaces where service exceeds 25 amperes, provided an additional feeder fee shall not be charged. For furnaces where service is 25 amperes or less, the furnace fee shall not apply provided a feeder fee is charged.

 5. Outdoor area lighting (parking lots, streets, etc.) The floodlight fee is charged per luminaire.

 6. The transformer fee includes the primary feeder and one (( ~~(1)~~))secondary feeder up to and including the first panelboard or disconnect. Additional secondary panelboards or disconnecting means are charged at the appropriate feeder rate.

 7. Low-voltage systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Chapter 7 of the National Electrical Code.

 8. Communication systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Article 770 and Chapter 8 of the National Electrical Code.

 D. Renewals and Reestablishment.

 The fee to renew or reestablish an electrical permit is (( ~~one-half (~~))1/2(( ~~)~~)) times the base fee.

 (( ~~E. Refunds .~~

~~Refunds of electrical fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-16. See also Section 22.900B.050.~~))

<table><tr><td>(( ELECTRICAL: FOR PLAN REVIEW OR OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) PERMITS

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Stage in Review/Inspection Process

</td><td>Amount Eligible for Refund

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit filed, plan review required but not started

</td><td>100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Plan review started or completed, no inspections

</td><td>100% minus the sum of the following: any accrued hourly charges for plan review

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Plan review completed/permit issued and inspection(s) made, permit not finaled

</td><td>100% minus the sum of the following: any accrued hourly charges for plan review + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Advance plan review process completed but permit not issued

</td><td>100% of fee paid minus the sum of the following: any hourly charges for plan review

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review required) no inspection(s) requested

</td><td>100% minus the sum of the following: $56.65 + 1/2-hour charge for one (1) inspection

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review required) Inspection(s) made, permit not finaled

</td><td>100% minus the sum of the following: $56.65 + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Sign permit filed, plan review required, no inspections made

</td><td>100% minus processing fee of 0.5 x base rate

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Sign permit filed, plan review required, inspections made, permit not finaled

</td><td>100% minus the sum of the following: 1/2-hour processing fee + one charge of 0.5 x base rate for each inspection made

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Any permit finaled

</td><td>No refund ))

</td></tr>

</table> Section 17. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900D.160 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:  A. Permanent signs.

 For permanent signs, a permit fee of (( ~~$110.00~~)) $117 shall be charged for the first 100 square feet or less of the total display area of the sign plus an additional charge of (( ~~$18.00~~)) $19  for each 10 square feet or fraction thereof of total display area in excess of 100 square feet. The addition of a sign for one (( ~~(1)~~))business entity to the structure requires a separate permit.

 B. Directional Ground Signs

 Directional ground signs between (( ~~five (~~))5(( ~~)~~)) and (( ~~seven (~~))7(( ~~)~~)) square feet may be measured together and assessed a fee as if a single sign.

 C. Sign area.

 For the purpose of this section, sign area shall be measured in accordance with Section 23.86.004 of the Land Use Code.

 D. Wall signs.

 The maximum fee for signs painted on or otherwise applied directly to the building wall without a frame or mechanical fasteners is (( ~~$502.00~~)) $535 .

 E. Awnings and canopies.

 A separate permit fee is required for the installation of awnings and canopies. The fee assessed for the installation is based on the valuation of the awning or canopy and is 100 percent of the Development Fee Index as calculated according to Table D-1. This fee is separate from the fee for any sign on the awning or canopy.

 F. Signs on awnings and canopies.

 A permit fee separate from the awning permit fee is required for a sign installed or painted on an awning or canopy. Signs for separate business entities are assessed a separate fee whether or not on a separate awning or canopy. The subsequent addition of a sign for one (( ~~(1)~~)) business entity requires a separate permit.

 G. Engineering review.

 Where an application requires a structural and soils engineering review by the Department, a fee will be charged at the DPD hourly rate in addition to the fees specified above in Section 22.900D.160. The fee to be charged shall be calculated using the DPD hourly rate as specified in Section 22.900B.010 base fee and DPD hourly rate.

 (( ~~G.~~)) H.  Time of payment.

 Permit fees for signs, awnings and canopies shall be paid at the time of application.

 (( ~~H.~~)) I.  Renewal and Reestablishment.

 The fee to renew or reestablish a sign, awning or canopy permit is (( ~~one-half (~~))1/2(( ~~)~~)) the base rate.

 Section 18. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900E.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900E.040 Refrigeration systems annual operating permit fee.

 The annual operating permit fee for any refrigeration system is calculated according to Table E-3. The fee for multiple systems on a single premises is based upon the total motor horsepower at the premises.

<table><tr><td>**Table E-3 - REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS ANNUAL OPERATING FEES**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Size of equipment**

</td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>0 - 50 HP

</td><td>(( $104.00 ))$111

</td></tr>

<tr><td>51 - 100 HP

</td><td>(( $159.00 ))$169

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Over 100 HP

</td><td>(( $223.00 )$238

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Over 100 HP (Type 2 refrigerant)

</td><td>(( $327.00 ))$349

</td></tr>

</table> Section 19. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900E.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:  22.900E.050 Boiler, refrigeration and gas piping licenses and examinations.

 Fees for boiler, refrigeration and gas piping examination and annual license fees, payable in advance, shall be charged as set in Table E-4.

<table><tr><td>**Table E-4 - FEES FOR BOILER, REFRIGERATION, AND GAS PIPING LICENSES AND EXAMINATIONS**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**License fees:1**

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>Refrigeration Contractor

</td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>Class A

</td><td>(( $177.00 ))$189

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Class B

</td><td>(( $177.00 ))$189

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Class C

</td><td>(( $283.00 ))$302

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Air-conditioning contractor

</td><td>(( $177.00 ))$189

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Refrigeration service shop

</td><td>(( $80.00 ))$85

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Journeyman refrigeration mechanic

</td><td>(( $80.00 ))$85

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Refrigeration service shop mechanic

</td><td>(( $80.00 ))$85

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Industrial refrigeration engineer

</td><td>(( $80.00 ))$85

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Refrigeration operating engineer

</td><td>(( $80.00 ))$85

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Steam engineers and boiler firemen (all grades)

</td><td>(( $80.00 ))$85

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Boiler supervisor, all grades

</td><td>(( $88.00 ))$94

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Gas piping mechanic

</td><td>(( $80.00 ))$85

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Examination fees - all licenses

</td><td>(( 36.00 ))$38

</td></tr>

</table> Note to Table E-4:  1. When a license is issued that will expire in less than six (( ~~(6)~~))months from the date of issuance, the fee is (( ~~one-half (~~))1/2(( ~~)~~)) the annual fee.

 Section 20. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900E.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900E.060 Registration of special inspectors .

 A. The fee for the initial examination of an applicant for registration as a registered special inspector, including the Special Inspector Certificate of Registration, shall be charged at the rate of (( ~~one and one-half (~~))1.5(( ~~)~~)) times the base fee.

 B. Special inspectors who wish to be registered for additional categories shall take an examination for each new category. The fee for each additional examination shall be charged at the rate of one (( ~~(1)~~)) times the base fee.

 C. The fee for renewal of a Special Inspector Certificate of Registration covering one (( ~~(1)~~)) or more types of inspection for which the registrant has been qualified is (( ~~$44.00~~)) $47 .

 D. The fee for a special inspector to repeat an examination shall be charged at the rate of one (( ~~(1)~~)) times the base fee.

 Section 21. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900F.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900F.010 Monitoring vacant buildings .

 A. A quarterly reinspection fee shall be charged as set forth in Table F-1 for reinspections of buildings closed pursuant to or in response to the requirements of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code. Building and premises shall be maintained per the standards of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code, Land Use Code, Solid Waste Code and Weeds and Vegetation Ordinance.

<table><tr><td>**Table F-1 - MONITORING VACANT BUILDINGS**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Condition of Premises**

</td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Building is closed to entry and premises are in compliance with applicable codes.

</td><td>(( $195.00 ))$208

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Building is closed to entry and premises are not in compliance with applicable codes.

</td><td>(( $325.00 ))$346

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Building is not closed to entry regardless of compliance with applicable codes.

</td><td>(( $389.00 ))$415

</td></tr>

</table> B. The Department shall send a bill to the taxpayer and/or owner of record of each property inspected.  Section 22. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900F.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900F.020 Noise fees .

 A. Certain construction and land use proposals require noise survey reviews. Project review shall be charged according to Table F-2. Any hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. (( ~~The~~)) Accrued hours,  actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision is required, hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 B. Applications for noise variances shall be charged according to Table F-2, except for applications for temporary noise variances as components of a master filming permit issued pursuant to SMC Section 15.35.010 which shall be charged as part of the single fee for the master filming permit. In addition to the amounts specified in Table F-2, applicants shall reimburse the Department for actual costs associated with review of the application.

 The fee for renewal of noise variances is the same as for new applications.

 Fees for noise variances are not refundable.

<table><tr><td>**(( Table F-2 - NOISE FEES **

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**Type**

</td><td>Permit Fee

</td><td>Project Review Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Temporary noise variance
   
 (No separate fee when issued as part of a master filming permit)

</td><td>$177.00

</td><td>None

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Economic/technical variance in residential zones

</td><td>$118.00

</td><td>DPD hourly rate (2-hour deposit)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Economic/technical variance in commercial/industrial zones

</td><td>$295.00

</td><td>DPD hourly rate (2-hour deposit)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Noise survey reviews

</td><td>See Table D-2

</td><td>See Table D-2 ))

</td></tr>

</table>

<table><tr><td>Table F-2 ---- Noise Fees

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Type

</td><td>Permit Fee

</td><td>Land Use Review

</td><td>Other Project Hourly Fees

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Temporary noise variance (No separate fee when issued as part of a master filming permit)

</td><td>DPD base fee X 1

</td><td>None

</td><td>None

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Economic, Technical, or Major Public Project variance

</td><td>DPD base fee X 1

</td><td>Land Use hourly rate

</td><td>DPD hourly rate - 2 hour minimum

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>Noise survey reviews, inspections and monitoring on Land Use and Construction permits

</td><td>None

</td><td>None

</td><td>DPD hourly rate - 1 hour minimum

</td></tr>

</table> Section 23. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900F.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:  22.900F.040 Advisory Housing and Building Maintenance Code and condominium conversion inspection .

 A. The fee for advisory inspections requested pursuant to the Housing and Building Maintenance Code or inspections required by the Condominium Conversion Ordinance and the Cooperative Conversion Ordinance shall be charged at the rate of (( ~~two and one-half (~~))2.5(( ~~)~~)) times the base fee for inspecting a building and one (( ~~(1)~~)) housing unit plus a charge at the rate of (( ~~three-quarters (3/4)~~)) 0.75  times the base fee for inspecting each additional housing unit in the same building. No additional fee shall be charged for one (( ~~(1)~~)) follow-up inspection, if requested.

 B. Additional reinspections requested or required after the first reinspection shall be charged a fee at the rate of one (( ~~(1)~~)) times the base fee for each building and one (( ~~(1)~~)) housing unit plus (( ~~one-fourth (1/4)~~)) 0.25  times the base fee for each additional housing unit in the same building.

 (( ~~C. Refunds . Refunds of housing fees shall be calculated as specified in Table F-3.~~))

<table><tr><td>
   

**(( Table F-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF HOUSING FEES **

**(Advisory housing and required condominium conversion inspections)**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Stage in Review Process

</td><td>Inspection Fee Amount Eligible for Refund

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Written request received by the Director; but initial file setup not started

</td><td>100%

</td></tr>

<tr><td>File set up, but inspection not undertaken

</td><td>100% minus (2 x base fee and .5 x base fee for each unit in excess of 1 unit)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Inspection has been made and the building is found to be in compliance at initial inspection

</td><td>0% (No refund allowed) ))

</td></tr>

</table> Section 24. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900F.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122297, is amended as follows:  22.900F.050 House barge licenses .

 The fee for a house barge license is (( ~~$362.00~~)) $386 . The fee to renew a house barge license is (( ~~$181.00~~)) $188 .

 Section 25. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900G.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122855, is amended as follows:

 22.900G.010 Fees for Department of Neighborhoods review.

 The following fees shall be collected by the Director of the Department of

 Neighborhoods and deposited in the General Fund.

 A. Certificate of Approval Fees. There is a charge for a certificate of approval as required by all applicable ordinances for the construction or alteration of property in a designated special review district, Landmark, Landmark District, or historic district of (( ~~Ten Dollars (~~))$10(( ~~.00~~))) for construction costs of (( ~~One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars (~~))$1,500(( ~~.00)~~)) or less,

 plus (( ~~Ten Dollars (~~))$10.00(( ~~)~~)) for each additional (( ~~Five Thousand Dollars(~~))$5,000(( ~~.00)~~)) of construction costs up to a maximum fee of (( ~~One Thousand Dollars (~~))$1,000(( ~~.00)~~)) except that when an applicant applies for a certificate of approval for the preliminary design of a project and later applies for a certificate of approval for a subsequent phase or phases of the same project, a fee shall only be charged for the first application. There is an additional charge of (( ~~Ten Dollars (~~))$10(( ~~.00)~~)) for a certificate of use approval in the Pioneer Square Preservation District, the Pike Place Market Historical District and the International Special Review District.

 B. Special Valuation Program for Historic Properties. There is a charge of (( ~~Two Hundred Fifty Dollars (~~))$250(( ~~.00)~~)) for review by the Seattle Landmarks Preservation Board of applications for special tax valuation for historic properties pursuant to the Historic Property Act (RCW Chapter 84.26). A fee for Board review of proposed alterations to historic properties shall be charged according to the schedule of fees set forth in Section 22.900G.010 A

 (Certificate of Approval Fees).

 C. Public School Citizen Advisory Committee Fees. There is a charge of (( ~~One Hundred Dollars (~~))$100(( ~~.00)~~)) per hour for convening and staffing School Use Citizen Advisory Committees and School Departure Citizen Advisory Committees.

 D. Major Institution Citizen Advisory Committee Fees. The fee for convening and staffing of Citizen Advisory Committees for the routine annual review of approved master plans and/or the review of master plan amendments is $100(( ~~.00~~)) per hour. The fee for convening and staffing of Citizen Advisory Committees for new master plans and for amendments to master plans is $100(( ~~.00~~)) per hour.

 E. Environmental (SEPA) Review of Projects. There is a charge of $250 per hour for review of referrals pursuant to SMC 25.05.675 H.2.c and 25.05.675 H.2.d. by the City Historic Preservation Officer .

 Section 26. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, Section 22.900G.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122297, is amended as follows:

 22.900G.030 Fees for review by the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health.

 A. Fees for fuel gas piping shall be collected by the Director of Public Health. The (( ~~basic fee for~~))gas piping installation(( ~~s~~))  fee is  calculated according to Table G-2. (( ~~$110.00 for one (1) outlet, and $12.00 for each additional outlet.~~)) A minimum of (( ~~$110.00~~)) $140  is nonrefundable.

 B. The fee shall not apply to the installation of any domestic hot-water heaters or any other domestic gas-fired appliance connected to a plumbing system whenever such appliance or heater is included in a plumbing installation for which a basic plumbing permit has been issued.

 C. A reinspection fee for fuel gas piping of (( ~~$115.00~~)) $130  may be assessed for each inspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called is not complete or when corrections called for are not made. This is not to be interpreted as requiring inspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of this Code, but as controlling the practice of calling for inspection or reinspection.

 Reinspection fees may be assessed when the permit is not properly posted on the work site, the work to be inspected is not under test, and for failure to make required corrections. To obtain a reinspection the applicant shall file an application therefore in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose, and pay the reinspection fee in accordance with this code. In instances in which reinspection fees have been assessed, no additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees have been paid.

<table><tr><td>
   

**Table G-2 - GAS PIPING INSTALLION FEE**

</td></tr>

<tr><td>**# of Outlets**

</td><td>Fee

</td></tr>

<tr><td>1-4

</td><td>$140

</td></tr>

<tr><td>5-6

</td><td>$175

</td></tr>

<tr><td>7-9

</td><td>$210

</td></tr>

<tr><td>10

</td><td>$245

</td></tr>

<tr><td>11 on

</td><td>$245 + $10/outlet

</td></tr>

</table> Section 27. Effective January 1, 2011, or on the effective date of this ordinance, if after January 1, 2011, a new Section 22.900G.060 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:  22.900G.060 Fees for review by the Seattle Fire Department.

 The fees for Fire Department Plan Review (Section 22.900A.040.C) shall be collected by the Department for transfer to the Seattle Fire Department.

 Section 28. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

