

********

**Council Bill Number: 117012**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123433**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the Director of the Seattle Public Utilities to purchase certain real property located at 10032-10038 Rainier Avenue South, Seattle, Washington, King County Parcel Identification Nos. 807300-0525, -0526, -0531, and -0535, in settlement of a judgment entered into between The City of Seattle and Litchfield Family, LLC, in King County Superior Court Case No. 08-2-08628-3SEA, and to accept and record deeds on behalf of the City; and increasing appropriations to Seattle Public Utilities in the 2010 Budget.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 25, 2010
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 1, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 29, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 18, 2010
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** O'BRIEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, LAND-ACQUISITION, RAINIER-BEACH

**Fiscal Note:**117012

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123433](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123433.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the Director of the Seattle Public Utilities to purchase certain real property located at 10032-10038 Rainier Avenue South, Seattle, Washington, King County Parcel Identification Nos. 807300-0525, -0526, -0531, and -0535, in settlement of a judgment entered into between The City of Seattle and Litchfield Family, LLC, in King County Superior Court Case No. 08-2-08628-3SEA, and to accept and record deeds on behalf of the City; and increasing appropriations to Seattle Public Utilities in the 2010 Budget.

 WHEREAS, the Litchfield Trust brought suit against the City claiming that work done by the

 City on Taylor Creek within Lakeridge Park resulted in the growth of the creek delta abutting the

 Litchfield property such that they could no longer float their dock and caused a diminution in

 the value of their property; and

 WHEREAS, in May 2009, the King County Superior Court entered judgment finding the City at

 fault but reserving the issue of damages and other relief for trial; and

 WHEREAS, on September 2, 2009, the court partially granted the City's motion for

 consideration of its earlier order and reserved the issue of legal liability on the Litchfield

 Trust's inverse condemnation claim for trial; and

 WHEREAS, the City and Litchfield Trust agree that the City will purchase the described

 property for $1,700,000 (which amount is supported by an appraisal) and the case will be

 dismissed; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle City Attorney and Seattle Public Utilities concur that settlement which

 resolves the suit in this manner, thus ending the litigation, is reasonable and in the best interests

 of the City; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his designee, is authorized to enter into agreements to purchase and to accept and record on behalf of the City deeds and other instruments necessary to the purchase, the following parcels of real property, as legally described in Attachment 1 hereto:

 a. 10032 Rainier Avenue South, King County parcel number 807300-0526.

 b. 10034 Rainier Avenue South, King County parcel number 807300-0525.

 c. 10036 Rainier Avenue South, King County parcel number 807300-0531.

 d. 10038 Rainier Avenue South, King County parcel number 807300-0535.

 Section 2. The property shall be placed in the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 3. To pay for the Property and for necessary related costs and expenses, the appropriation for the following in the 2010 Adopted Budget is increased from the fund shown, as follows:

```
<table><tr><td>Fund Name and Number

</td><td>Department

</td><td>Budget Control Level*

</td><td>2010

Appropriation

</td></tr>

<tr><td>DWF-44010

</td><td>SPU

</td><td>N000B - DW General Expense

</td><td>$1,700,000

</td></tr>

<tr><td>TOTAL

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>$1,700,000

</td></tr>

</table> Section 4. Any acts taken after the passage but prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Legal descriptions of properties to be acquired

 Audrey Hansen SPU 10032-38 Rainier Av South ORD September 30, 2010 Version 2a

 LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

 1. King County Tax Account No. 807300-0525; 10034 Rainier Avenue South

 Lots 17, 18, and 19, Block 9, Sturtevant's Rainier Beach Villa Tracts, according to plat thereof recorded in Volume 16 of Plats, Page 32, records of King County. Together with Second Class Shore Lands adjoining; described as follows:

 Lot 17, except the southernmost 148.00 feet thereof;

 Also, that portion of Lot 18, except the southernmost 140.00 feet thereof, lying west of the centerline of Taylor Creek;

 Also, that portion(s) of Lot 19 lying west of the centerline of Taylor Creek thereof.

 TOGETHER WITH an easement across the southern portion of Lots 17, 18 and 19, adjacent to Rainier Avenue South for ingress and egress of Sturtevant's Rainier Beach Villa Tracts owners, said easement to be not more than 15 feet in width.

 TOGETHER with and SUBJECT to ACCESS EASEMENT for ingress and egress, over and along an existing fifteen foot wide, more or less, paved driveway (including bridges over Taylor Creek), the centerline of which commences at the mid point of the south line of Lot 19,

 Thence running N 25 degrees E 25.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 8 degrees W 12.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 54 degrees W 23.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 27 degrees W 19.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 3 degrees E 73.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 9 degrees E 48.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 64 1/2 degrees E 17.00 ft.,

 Thence running S 76 1/2 degrees E 12.00 ft. to the centerline of Taylor Creek.

 TOGETHER with Water Service Easement running northeasterly 130 feet, more or less, along and within the easement 6 feet of Lot 19, thence meandering northwesterly to intersect the northernmost extension of the Access Easement;

 TOGETHER with Refuse Can Easement within a half circle area east of the westerly line of Lot 19 and west of the westerly edge of the Access Easement's southern end

 SUBJECT to BEACH ACCESS EASEMENT including that portion of Lot 17 lying north of the southernmost 395 feet thereof, including that portion of Lot 18 lying north of the southernmost 390 feet thereof, including that portion of Lot 19 lying north of the southernmost 370 feet thereof and west of Taylor Creek centerline, and including a walkway to the west of, and within 15 feet of, Taylor Creek centerline, extending southwesterly from the beach to the northernmost extension of the Access Easement;

 SUBJECT TO PARKING EASEMENT, either side of the described Access Easement consisting of two 30-foot x 20-foot paved areas, the centerpoints of which are at a point

 Along the N/S centerline of Lot 17, 185 feet northeast, more or less, from the south line of said lot, and at a point along the N/S centerline of Lot 18, 165 feet northeast, more or less from the south line of said lot;

 SUBJECT to 12-foot Easement Ord. 99462 for Sanitary Main running perpendicular to lot lines and Taylor Creek;

 SUBJECT to Overhead Power and Telephone Wire Easement from utility pole at southerly/westernmost corner of described property, thence northeasterly to easterly line of described property.

 SUBJECT to Road Maintenance Agreement.

 2. King County Tax Account No. 807300-0526; 10032 Rainier Avenue South

 Lots 17 and 18, Block 9, Sturtevant's Rainier Beach Villa Tracts, according to plat thereof recorded in Volume 16 of Plats, Page 32, records of King County; described as follows:

 The southernmost 146.00 feet of Lot 17;

 Also, that portion of the southernmost 140.00 feet of Lot 18, lying west and south of the centerline of Access Easement described herein,

 Together with and Subject to an easement across the southern portion of Lots 17, 18 & 19 adjacent to Rainier Avenue South for ingress and egress of Sturtevant's Rainier Beach Villa Tracts owners, said easement to be not more than 15 feet in width.

 TOGETHER with and SUBJECT to ACCESS EASEMENT, for ingress and egress, over and along an existing fifteen foot wide, more or less, paved driveway (including bridges over Taylor Creek), the centerline of which commences at the mid point of the south line of Lot 19,

 Thence running N 25 degrees E 25.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 8 degrees W 12.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 54 degrees W 23.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 27 degrees W 19.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 3 degrees E 73.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 9 degrees E 48.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 64 1/2 degrees E 17.00 ft.,

 Thence running S 76 1/2 degrees E 12.00 ft. to the centerline of Taylor Creek;

 TOGETHER WITH PARKING EASEMENT, either side of the described Access Easement consisting of two 30 foot x 20 foot paved areas, the centerpoints of which are at a point along the N/S centerline of Lot 17, 185 feet northeast, more or less, from the south line of said lot, and at a point along the N/S centerline of Lot 18, 165 feet northeast, more or less from the south line of said lot;

 TOGETHER WITH BEACH ACCESS EASEMENT including that portion of Lot 17 lying north of the southernmost 395 feet thereof, including that portion of Lot 18 lying north of the southernmost 390 feet thereof; including that portion of Lot 19 lying north of the southernmost 370 thereof and west of Taylor Creek centerline; and including a walkway to the west of, and within 15 feet of Taylor Creek centerline, extending southwesterly from the beach to the northernmost extension of the Access Easement.

 TOGETHER with Easement across Parcels C and D, 2 1/2 feet either side of existing Side Sewer as it now lays, running northeasterly to follow east side of Taylor Creek, and with

 12 foot Easement Ord. 99462 for Sanitary Main running perpendicular to Taylor Creek and across Parcel D;

 TOGETHER with Refuse Can Easement within a half circle east of the westerly line of Lot 19 and west of the westerly edge of the Access Easement's southern end.

 SUBJECT to Road Maintenance Agreement.

 3. King County Tax Account No. 807300-0531; 10036 Rainier Avenue South

 Lots 18 and 19, Block 9, Sturtevant's Rainier Beach Villa Tracts, according to plat thereof recorded in Volume 16 of Plats, Page 32, records of King County.

 Together with Second Class Shore Lands adjoining, described as follows:

 That portion of Lot 18 lying north of the southernmost 140.00 feet thereof and east of the centerline of Taylor Creek thereof,

 ALSO, that portion of Lot 19 lying north of the southernmost 155.00 feet thereof and east of the centerline of Taylor Creek, thereof.

 TOGETHER with an easement across the southern portion of Lot 17, 18 and 19, adjacent to Rainier Avenue South for ingress and egress for Sturtevant's Rainier Beach Villa Tracts owners, said easement to be not more than 15 feet in width.

 TOGETHER WITH AN EASEMENT, for ingress and egress, over and along an existing

 fifteen foot wide, more or less, paved driveway (including bridges over Taylor Creek), the centerline of which commences at the mid point of the south line of Lot 19,

 Thence running N 25 degrees E 25.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 8 degrees W 12.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 54 degrees W 23.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 27 degrees W 19.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 3 degrees E 73.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 9 degrees E 48.00 ft.,

 Thence running N 64 1/2 degrees E 17.00 ft.,

 Thence running S 76 1/2 degrees E 12.00 ft. to the centerline of Taylor Creek;

 TOGETHER WITH PARKING EASEMENT, either side of the described Access Easement consisting of two 30 foot x 20 foot paved areas, the centerpoints of which are at a point along the N/S centerline of Lot 17, 185 feet northeast, more or less, from the south line of said lot, and at a point along the N/S centerline of Lot 18, 165 feet northeast, more or less from the south line of said lot;

 TOGETHER WITH BEACH ACCESS EASEMENT including that portion of Lot 17 lying north of the southernmost 395 feet thereof; including that portion of Lot 18 lying north of the southernmost 390 feet thereof; including that portion of Lot 19 lying north of the southernmost 370 feet thereof and west of Taylor Creek centerline; and including a walkway to the west of, and within 15 feet of Taylor Creek centerline, extending southwesterly from beach to the northernmost extension of the Access Easement;

 TOGETHER with Water Service Easement running along and within the easternmost 6 feet of Lot 19;

 TOGETHER with Overhead Power & Telephone Wire Easement commencing at utility pole which is on westerly line of Lot 17, 146 feet northeast of said Lot's southwest corner, thence running northeasterly to westerly line of described property.

 TOGETHER with Refuse Can Easement, within a half circle area east of the westerly line of Lot 19 and west of the westerly edge of the Access Easement's southern end.

 SUBJECT to Easement on behalf of Parcels A and C, 2 1/2 ft either side of existing Side

 Sewer as it now lays, running along east side of Taylor Creek; and to 12 foot Easement Ord. 99462 for Sanitary Main running perpendicular to Taylor Creek;

 SUBJECT to Water Service Easement running northwesterly and meandering from the mid section of property's southern boundary line to the northernmost extension of the Access Easement.

 SUBJECT to Road Maintenance Agreement.

 4. King County Tax Account No. 807300-0535; 10038 Rainier Avenue South

 Lots 18 and 19, Block 9, Sturtevant's Rainier Beach Villa Tracts, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 16 of Plats, page 32 of King County, Washington,

 Together with Second Class Shore Lands adjoining, described as follows:

 That portion of Lot 18, lying north of the southernmost 140.00 feet thereof and east of the centerline of Taylor Creek, thereof;

 ALSO, that portion of Lot 19 lying north of the southernmost 155.00 feet thereof and east of the centerline of Taylor Creek, thereof;

 TOGETHER WITH ACCESS EASEMENT, for ingress and egress over and along an existing 15-foot wide, more or less, paved driveway (including bridges over Taylor Creek), the centerline of which commences at the mid point of the south line of Lot 19;

 Thence north 25 degrees east 25.00 feet;

 Thence north 8 degrees west 12.00 feet;

 Thence north 54 degrees west 23.00 feet;

 Thence north 27 degrees west 19.00 feet;

 Thence north 3 degrees east 73.00 feet;

 Thence north 9 degrees east 48.00 feet;

 Thence north 64.5 degrees east 17.00 feet;

 Thence south 76.5 degrees east 12.00 feet, to the center line of Taylor Creek.

 TOGETHER WITH PARKING EASEMENT, either side of the described Access Easement consisting of two 30 foot x 20 foot paved areas, the centerpoints o which are at a point along the N/S centerline of Lot 17, 185 feet northeast, more or less, from the south line of said lot, and at a point along the N/S centerline of Lot 18, 165 feet northeast, more or less from the south line of said lot;

 TOGETHER WITH BEACH ACCESS EASEMENT including that portion of Lot 17 lying north of the southernmost 395 feet thereof; including that portion of Lot 18 lying north of the southernmost 390 feel thereof, including that portion of Lot 19 lying north of the southernmost 370 feet thereof and west of Taylor Creek centerline; and including a walkway to the west of, and within 15 feet of, Taylor Creek centerline, extending southwesterly from beach to the northernmost extension of the Access Easement.

 TOGETHER WITH Water Service Easement running along and within the easternmost 6 feet of Lot 19.

 TOGETHER WITH Overhead Power & Telephone Wire Easement commencing at utility pole which is on westerly line of Lot 17, 146 feet northeast of said Lot's southwest corner, thence running northeasterly to westerly line of described property.

 TOGETHER with Refuse Can Easement within a half circle area east of the westerly line of Lot 19 and west of the westerly edge of the Access Easement's southern end.

 SUBJECT to Easement on behalf of Parcels A and C, 2 1/2 ft either side of existing Side Sewer as it now lays, running along east side of Taylor Creek; and to 12 foot Easement Ord. 99462 for Sanitary Main running perpendicular to Taylor Creek;

 SUBJECT to Water Service Easement, running northwesterly and meandering from the mid section of property's southern boundary line to the northernmost extension of the Access Easement.

 Subject to Road Maintenance Agreement.

 END OF DESCRIPTION

 Audrey Hansen SPU 10032-38 Rainier Av South ORD ATT 1 September 20, 2010 Version 2 ATTACHMENT 1

