

********

**Council Bill Number: 117059**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123501**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing execution of a transaction-specific confirmation of a 15-year agreement with Idaho Winds LLC for the purchase of environmental attributes in the form of renewable energy certificates that are necessary or convenient for meeting the requirements of the Washington State Energy Independence Act.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 13, 2010
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 20, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 20, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 29, 2010
   
**Committee:** Energy, Technology, and Civil Rights
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
   
_(No indexing available for this document)_

**Fiscal Note:**117059

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123501](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123501.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing execution of a transaction-specific confirmation of a 15-year agreement with Idaho Winds LLC for the purchase of environmental attributes in the form of renewable energy certificates that are necessary or convenient for meeting the requirements of the Washington State Energy Independence Act.

 WHEREAS, the Revised Code of Washington ("RCW") Chapter 19.285 (the "Washington State Energy Independence Act") requires City Light to acquire renewable resources and/or environmental attributes; and

 WHEREAS, Idaho Winds LLC has the marketing rights to the environmental attributes of the Sawtooth Wind Facility; and

 WHEREAS, the Sawtooth Wind Facility's environmental attributes meet the requirements of RCW Chapter 19.285;

 WHEREAS, Idaho Winds LLC wishes to sell and City Light wishes to purchase such environmental attributes created by the Sawtooth Wind Facility; and

 WHEREAS, by separate ordinance the City Council has authorized City Light's use of a Master Renewable Energy Certificate Purchase and Sale Agreement; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his designee, is hereby authorized to execute for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a transaction- specific 15-year Confirmation Agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1. The agreement with Idaho Winds LLC set forth the terms under which Idaho Winds LLC will deliver environmental attributes in the form of renewable energy certificates ("RECs") to City Light.

 Section 2. The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his designee is hereby further authorized to execute for and on behalf of The City of Seattle additional agreements necessary for use of the Western Renewable Energy Generation Information System or any successor system for tracking and transferring the RECs to City Light and other necessary and convenient agreements to enable City Light to use the RECs purchased hereunder to meet its regulatory requirements.

 Section 3. Upon determining the availability of surplus environmental attributes within City Light's portfolio, and in order to minimize the cost to City Light's customers of compliance with the Washington State Energy Independence Act when the Superintendent believes it is cost-effective to acquire RECs in advance of need, the Superintendent, or his designee, is further authorized to execute for and on behalf of The City of Seattle agreements for the sale of all or a portion of the environmental attributes purchased under the Renewable Energy Certificate Purchase and Sale Agreement with Idaho Winds LLC, on terms and conditions that the Superintendent deems in the best interests of City Light provided, however, that no such sale shall jeopardize City Light's compliance with the Washington State Energy Independence Act.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2010.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit A: Confirmation Agreement -- Renewable Energy Certificates -- Sawtooth Wind Project

 Robert W. Cromwell, Jr./MLS SCL IW REC Purchase Authorization ORD October 1, 2010 Version #4

```
<table><tr><td>Seller: Idaho Winds LLC

</td><td>Buyer: Seattle City Light

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Contract ID: none

</td><td>Contract ID:

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Deal Maker:

</td><td>Deal Maker:

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Phone:

</td><td>Phone:

</td></tr>

<tr><td>E-mail:

</td><td>E-mail:

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Fax: none

</td><td>Fax:

</td></tr>

</table> CONFIRMATION AGREEMENT

 RENEWABLE ENERGY CERTIFICATES

 SAWTOOTH WIND PROJECT

 This Confirmation Agreement ("Confirmation") dated as of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ ("Trade Date") is entered into by and between Idaho Winds LLC ("Seller") and The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, by and through its City Light Department ("Buyer"), each referred to herein individually as a "Party" and collectively as the "Parties".

 The following describes a Transaction between Buyer and Seller for the sale, purchase and delivery of Product pursuant to the terms of the Master Renewable Energy Certificate Purchase and Sale Agreement between them dated \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ ("Master Agreement"). The Master Agreement and this Confirmation, including the Special Terms & Exceptions described in Section 8 below, shall be collectively referred to herein as the "Agreement".

 1. Product: Renewable Energy Certificates ("RECs") that include all Environmental Attributes arising as a result of the generation of electricity associated with the REC. The REC is generated from the Unit Specific Renewable Energy Facility that, as of the Trade Date, meets the requirements of the Renewable Portfolio Standard ("RPS") of Washington State, the definition of a Renewable Resource under Revised Code of Washington ("RCW") 19.285.030 (18) and is eligible for certification under Section II of the Green-e Energy National Standard for Renewable Electricity Products, National Standard Version 1.6. Such Product is created by a facility that meets the requirements of a Certified Renewable Energy Facility. Buyer shall have the right to disaggregate, retain or separately sell the RECs or Environmental Attributes purchased under this Agreement.

 2. Term: The Term of this Transaction shall commence on January 1, 2015 and shall continue through June 30, 2030, in order to complete any Transaction with respect to 2029 RECs; provided that, for avoidance of doubt, Seller shall have no obligation to deliver RECs of any Vintage occurring in or after year 2030. Furthermore, this Transaction shall continue in effect until all obligations of the Parties under this Agreement have been satisfied. This Confirmation Agreement is conditional upon and shall not take effect or be enforceable against either Party until all of the following have occurred:

 a. The Sawtooth Wind Project (as defined in Section 3 below) achieves commercial operation by December 31, 2012;

 b. The Confirmation Agreement has been executed by a properly authorized representative of Idaho Winds, LLC; and

 c. The Confirmation Agreement has been executed by a properly authorized representative of the City of Seattle not later than January 31, 2011 unless another date is mutually agreed to by the Parties.

 3. Unit Specific Certified Renewable Energy Facility Information: Item 3.f. represents a good faith estimate by Seller. Actual data will replace the estimated amounts in 3.f when the information becomes known, in accordance with Attachment 1 to this Confirmation Agreement, and Seller agrees that the good faith estimate shall be within 10% of the actual nameplate capacity.

 a. Name of Facility: Sawtooth Wind Project

 b. Location of Facility: Elmore County, Idaho

 c. Facility ID Number: QF05-53-001 0 EIA or 1 QF? (check one)

 d. Fuel Type: wind energy

 e. Initial Operating Date: by 12/31/2012

 f. Nameplate Capacity (MW): 22 MW estimated.

 4. Contract Quantity: 100% of the Environmental Attributes generated by the Renewable Resource during the Term. The Nameplate Capacity referenced in Item 3.f represents a good faith estimate by Seller. As soon as the actual Nameplate Capacity is determined, Seller shall provide actual data for 3.f. to replace the current good faith estimate. The actual Nameplate Capacity shall be used in the determination of 4.b. and in the calculation shown in Attachment 2.

 a. Estimated Capacity Factor: 31%

 b. Guaranteed 3-Contiguous Years Minimum RECs calculated as follows: 20% multiplied by the actual Nameplate Capacity multiplied by the total number of hours in the 3 year period. Details of this calculation are shown in Attachment 2. Based on the above calculation with assumed Nameplate Capacity shown in Section 3.f above, the estimated number of guaranteed RECs over a 3-year contiguous period is 115,632.

 In the event that the Renewable Energy Facility substation transformer fails such that a replacement is necessary, the number of hours in the calculation above will be reduced by the number of hours the transformer is not working.

 5. Purchase Price: $16 per REC

 6.

 WREGIS Generator Information:

 a. Generating Unit Identification Number: \_\_\_\_\_\_

 b. Generating Unit Name: Sawtooth Wind Project

 c. Primary Facility Name: Sawtooth Wind Project

 d. Facility Owner Name: Idaho Winds LLC

 A completed Generator Attestation in the form of Attachment 1 to this Confirmation will be provided as soon as reasonably practicable.

 7. Delivery Date: By WREGIS REC electronic tracking and transfer system. Seller shall comply with all laws, including, without limitation, the WREGIS Operating Rules, regarding the certification and transfer of such WREGIS Certificates to Buyer and Buyer shall be given sole title to all such WREGIS Certificates. Within 10 Business Days after receipt by Seller of RECs from WREGIS, Seller shall deliver such RECs to Buyer's WREGIS account ID 217. After such delivery of RECs to Buyer's WREGIS account, Seller shall invoice Buyer for such RECs in accordance with Section 2.3 of the Master Agreement.

 8. Special Terms & Exceptions:

 8.1 Miscellaneous

 Where the terms of this Confirmation conflict with the Master Agreement, the Confirmation shall control.

 The Parties are subject to all WREGIS Operating Rules dated June 4, 2007, as may be amended, supplemented or replaced (in whole or in part) from time to time.

 Verification may be requested by Buyer. If Buyer makes such a request for, or the Certification Authority requires documentation from Buyer that is in the possession of Seller or that Seller may readily attain, Seller shall use reasonable efforts to help Buyer comply with the documentation requirements of the Certification Authority.

 8.2 "Confirmation Agreement"

 a. Information Updates

 The Parties understand and agree that certain information shown in Section 3(e) and 3(f), Section 4(a) and 6(a) of this Confirmation represent good faith estimates only, and the true numbers and information were unknown at the time this Confirmation was executed.

 Within 30 Days after the Seller has made a final selection of the make and model of the wind turbines, the Seller shall provide to the Buyer's Contract Administration contact listed in Exhibit C of the Master Agreement the actual information for Sections 3(f) and 4 of this Confirmation. The information shown in Section 4(a) of this Confirmation will remain an estimate and Section 4(b) will be calculated pursuant to Attachment 2.

 Within 30 Days after receipt of Generating Unit Identification Number from WREGIS, the Seller will provide the Generating United Identification Number identified in Section 6(a) to the Buyer's Contract Administration contact.

 b. Guaranteed 3-Year Minimum Volume

 i. Beginning in the fourth Contract Year and continuing every year thereafter through the Term, within 30 days following the Delivery of the WREGIS Certificates from the prior December, Buyer shall calculate the number of RECs Delivered to the Buyer by Seller through WREGIS for each of the three prior Contract Years.

 ii. If the amount of RECs Delivered in the three prior Contract Years is less than the Guaranteed 3-Year Minimum Volume, Buyer shall immediately provide written Notice of Deficiency to Seller showing Buyer's computation of the number of Replacement RECs due to Buyer from Seller. Seller shall have 7 days to verify Buyer's calculation. No later than 30 days following receipt by Seller of Notice of Deficiency, Seller shall provide Replacement RECs to Buyer. The vintage of the Replacement RECs must be no older than the Contract Year immediately preceding the current Contract Year. If the Seller is unable to provide Replacement RECs to the Buyer, then Seller will pay Buyer an amount equal to the administrative penalty pursuant to RCW 19.285.060 (or any successor statute) or, if Buyer is able to obtain the Replacement RECs at a cost that is less than the applicable administrative penalty, Seller will reimburse Buyer for the cost of such Replacement RECs.

 iii. Buyer will use the Excel spreadsheet shown as Attachment 2 to determine the Guaranteed 3-Year Minimum Volume.

 8.3 Changes to Article 1 of the Master Agreement -- "Definitions"

 a. Section 1.19 "Credit Support" is replaced as follows:

 1.19 "Credit Support" means,

 (a) when the Seller is experiencing a Downgrade Event, that the Seller must provide one of the following forms of credit assurances, which form of assurance shall be chosen solely by the Seller:

 (i) a lien on the assets of the Renewable Energy Facility specified in the Confirmation, which shall be expressly subordinated and junior to all other such existing and future liens, and granted to Buyer with the written consent from the holder(s) of any and all lien(s) on the Renewable Energy Facility existing as of the time of the written notice from Buyer to Seller; or

 (ii) a bond, letter of credit, guarantee or other reasonable and commercially priced security in a form and from a source approved by the Party seeking performance assurance under Section 4.2 of this Master Agreement (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), and

 (b) when the Buyer is experiencing a Downgrade Event, that the Buyer must provide credit assurances as described in section 1.20 (a)(ii) above.

 b. Section 1.23 "Downgrade Event" is replaced as follows:

 1.23 "Downgrade Event" means (a) for the Seller, the Renewable Energy Facility has not produced at the end of a rolling calendar 2-year period, RECs equal to two (2) multiplied by 15% multiplied by the actual Nameplate Capacity multiplied by 8760 (the number of hours in the year), and (b) for the Seller's Affiliate or the Buyer, means that the Buyer's Credit Rating falls below BBB- from S&P or Baa3 from Moody's or becomes no longer rated by either S&P or Moody's.

 8.4 Changes to Article 4 of the Master Agreement -- "Credit"

 a. Section 4.1 "Financial Information" is applicable to both Parties.

 b. Section 4.2 "Credit Assurances".

 (i) Subparagraphs (a), (b), and (e) through (g) are applicable to both Parties.

 (ii) Subparagraph (c) is not applicable to Seller.

 (iii) Subparagraph (d) is applicable to Buyer.

 8.5 Changes to Article 5 of the Master Agreement -- "Events of Default, Remedies"

 Section 5.1 is amended by adding the following subsection (h) to the end of the Section:

 (h) Failure by Seller to provide Replacement RECs in accordance with Attachment 2 to the Confirmation will constitute an Event of Default under this Article 5.

 8.6 Marketing and Media Rights

 Seller shall provide to Buyer marketing and media rights including the ability to obtain, document and publish project information and photos.

<table><tr><td>Buyer's Marketing Contact:

Name:

Phone:

Fax:

Email:

Mailing Address

Seattle City Light

Attn: Leslie Brazeau

PO Box 34023, Room #3200

Seattle, WA 98124- 4023

Overnight mail

Seattle City Light

901 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1800

Seattle, WA 98124

</td><td>Seller's Marketing Contact:

Name:

Phone:

Fax:

E- mail:

Mailing Address:

Idaho Winds LLC

Attn: Kristen McGovert

15850P Jess Ranch Road

Tracy, CA 95377

Overnight mail

Idaho Winds LLC

15850P Jess Ranch Road

Tracy, CA 95377

</td></tr>

</table> The parties agree to the Transaction set forth herein.

<table><tr><td>Seller: Idaho Winds LLC

</td><td>Buyer: The of Seattle, City Light Department (dba "Seattle City Light")

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>By:

</td><td>By:

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Name: William Damon

</td><td>Name:

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Title: Vice President

</td><td>Title:

</td></tr>

</table> ATTACHMENT 1 TO CONFIRMATION AGREEMENT

 ATTESTATION FROM GENERATOR PARTICIPATING IN WREGIS

 This Attachment 1 to the Confirmation governs generation at the Facility during the Term. Any changes shall be provided to the Buyer as soon as reasonably practicable by providing a revised Attachment 1.

 1. Renewable Energy Facility Owner Information

 a. Name of Owner: Idaho Winds LLC

 b. Address of Owner: 15850P Jess Ranch Road, Tracy, CA 95377

 c. Contact person: Title: Vice President

 d. Telephone: Fax: none Email:

 2. Renewable Energy Facility and WREGIS Registration Information

 a. Name of Facility: Sawtooth Wind Project

 b. Location/Address of Facility: Elmore County, Idaho

 c. Facility ID Number: QF05-53-001 0 EIA or 1 QF? (check one)

 d. Fuel Type: wind

 e. Initial Operating Date: by 12/31/2012

 f. Nameplate Capacity (MW): 22 MW

 3. WREGIS Information

 a. Generating Unit Identification Number:

 b. Generating Unit Name: Sawtooth Wind Project

 c. Primary Facility Name: Sawtooth Wind Project

 4. Other

 a. Is the Facility owner reporting its direct greenhouse gas emissions in a legally binding cap and trade program for the time period of generation listed on this form?

 0 Yes; list the cap and trade program: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 1 No

 b. If Seller is providing only RECs to Purchaser and selling the associated electricity to a utility or load- serving entity, please write the name of the utility or load-serving entity here: Idaho Power Company

 c. If Facility has been registered in a Tracking System by an entity other than Owner, complete items 1 -- 3 immediately below and have an agent of the company or individual designated in WREGIS to manage Facility's account in WREGIS complete and sign this form. For the purposes of this form, such a company or individual is referred to as an "Account Manager".

 (i) Name of Account Manager as appears in WREGIS:

 (ii) Date that account management rights assigned to Account Manager expire:

 (iii) 0 Account Manager has attached documentation accepted by WREGIS authorizing Account Manager to register Facility in Tracking System.

 5. Declaration

 I, (print name and title) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ ("Signatory"), authorized agent of 1 Owner / 0 Account Manager (check one) declare that I have sufficient knowledge and authority to make the following attestation for the Effective Period of this document. I also declare the following regarding Facility's participation in WREGIS and regarding Renewable Attributes (also called "Certificates", "Renewable Energy Certificates" or "RECs") generating by Facility and tracked in Tracking System:

 a. all renewable and environmental attributes associated with the production of electricity from Facility, including any and all CO2 benefits, emissions offsets, reductions or claims, are transferred to purchasers within the WREGIS Tracking System;

 b. for Transactions made within WREGIS only fully aggregated Environmental Attributes are traded:

 c. the Environmental Attributes of a particular MWh are sold, retired or reserved only once;

 d. to the best of my knowledge, the Environmental Attributes or the electricity that is generated with the Environmental Attributes are not used to meet any federal, state or local renewable energy requirement, renewable energy procurement, renewable portfolio standard, or other renewable energy mandate by any entity other than the party on whose behalf the Environmental Attributes are retired;

 e. the electricity that was generated with the attributes is not separately sold, separately marketed or otherwise separately represented as renewable energy attributable to Facility by Seller, or, to the best of my knowledge, any other entity other than Buyer.

 6. Signature

 As an authorized agent of Owner or Account Manager, Signatory declares that they have the knowledge and authority to attest that the statements on this form are true and correct. By signing this form, Signatory is attesting that the statements and declarations herein will remain true for the Effective Period.

 If any conditions change related to the information on this form prior to Expiration Date, Signatory agrees to inform the Buyer in writing as far in advance of the change as commercially practicable.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Signature Date

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Title

 Idaho Winds LLC\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Organization

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Place of Execution

 ATTACHMENT 2 TO CONFIRMATION AGREEMENT

<table><tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>GUARANTEED MINIMUM CALCULATOR

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>Capacity (MW)

</td><td>22

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>Minimum Capacity Factor

</td><td>20%

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>Three Year Guaranteed (MWh)

</td><td>115,632

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>Year

</td><td>Actual CF

</td><td>Actual

</td><td>Actual three Years

</td><td>Additional

</td><td>Total 3 years

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>1

</td><td>20%

</td><td>38,544

</td><td>NA

</td><td>NA

</td><td>NA

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>2

</td><td>20%

</td><td>38,544

</td><td>NA

</td><td>NA

</td><td>NA

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>3

</td><td>21%

</td><td>40,471

</td><td>117,559

</td><td>0

</td><td>117,559

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>4

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>138,758

</td><td>0

</td><td>138,758

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>5

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>159,958

</td><td>0

</td><td>159,958

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>6

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>7

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>8

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>9

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>10

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>11

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>12

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>13

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>14

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>15

</td><td>31%

</td><td>59,743

</td><td>179,230

</td><td>0

</td><td>179,230

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>Change numbers with blue fonts to simulate the numbers

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>Actual CF=Actual capacity factor each year

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>Additional= the amount of shortage settled after the fact

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>Actual three years= actual three years generation plus additional RECS if it was provided

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>Total 3 years = has to be greater than or equal to the Three Year Guaranteed amount

</td></tr>

</table> Only fill in this section if Owner and Account manager have signed the appropriate bi- lateral form required by WREGIS to designate Account Manager as the sole manager of Facility's Tracking System account and sole recipient of Facility's Environmental Attributes. If there is no Account Manager, and Owner manages Facility's account, this section should be left blank, and Owner must complete this attestation.

 Robert W. Cromwell, Jr./MLS SCL IW REC Purchase Authorization Ord EXH A October 1, 2010 Version #3

