

********

**Council Bill Number: 117054**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123485**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to skybridge and other structure term permits; amending the current Seattle Department of Transportation Street Use Fee Schedule, Exhibit A to Ordinance 122295, by adopting a term permit schedule of fees, and establishing a term permit fee methodology.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 29, 2010
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: O'Brien)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 7, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 7, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 22, 2010
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** PERMITS, FEES, SKYBRIDGES, PEDESTRIAN-BRIDGES, TRANSPORTATION-DEPARTMENT

**Fiscal Note:**117054

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123485](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123485.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to skybridge and other structure term permits; amending the current Seattle Department of Transportation Street Use Fee Schedule, Exhibit A to Ordinance 122295, by adopting a term permit schedule of fees, and establishing a term permit fee methodology.

 WHEREAS, Section 15.04.074 of the Seattle Municipal Code authorizes and directs the Seattle Department of Transportation (SDOT) Director to prepare and recommend to the City Council, for adoption by ordinance, a schedule of permit fees applicable to all permits for the use of public places under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation. The fees for using the city's rights-of-way are to be commensurate with the cost of administration, review, inspection, and policing involved in issuing and continuing the permits and may take into consideration the undesirability of the use or occupation relative to the rights of the public such as the City policy of discouraging encroachments inconsistent with the public's right of access to right- of-way; and

 WHEREAS, Section 15.64.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code directs the Council to limit the proliferation and adverse effects of skybridges; and

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 121855, the City authorized the SDOT Director to adjust the annual term permit fee amount in accordance with a term permit fee schedule adopted by the Council; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 122295 amended the Street Use Permit Fee Schedule by adding term permit use codes for long-term uses of the right-of-way and the subsequent fees were to be determined by ordinance; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Street Use Permit Fee Schedule, Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 122295, is amended as follows:

 Exhibit A: Street Use Permit Fee Schedule

```
<table><tr><td>* * *

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Long term uses of the Right-of-Way (Council approved term permits)

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Use Code

</td><td>Use Description

</td><td>Base Permit Fee

</td><td>Franchise and Utility Map Surcharge

</td><td>Occupation Fee (Long Term)

</td><td>Use Fee

(Short Term)

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>((61))

</td><td>((term uses for long-term street level occupations (structures in right-of-way)))

</td><td>Fees determined by ordinance

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>((61A))

</td><td>((term uses for skybridges or bridges over right-of-way))

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>((61B))

</td><td>((Term uses for tunnels under right-of- way))

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61C

</td><td>((Term uses for p))Pipelines and steam mains ((in right-of-way))

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61D

</td><td>Other ((term uses in right-of-way (including utility franchises))) miscellaneous long-term uses

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61E

</td><td>Sub-surface:

</td><td>Utility tunnels/structures

</td><td>(Land value) x (Use area) x (Rate of return) x (Degree of alienation*) = Annual fee

* Refer to Table A: Degree of Alienation Factor

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61F

</td><td>Vehicle/pedestrian tunnels

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61G

</td><td>At-grade:

</td><td>Public plazas, artwork

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61H

</td><td>Structures, restricted access

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61I

</td><td>Utility structures

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61J

</td><td>Above grade:

</td><td>Overhead building structures (excluding skybridges and vehicle bridges/ramps)

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61K

</td><td>Skybridges (private use)

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61L

</td><td>Skybridges (public use)

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61M

</td><td>Skybridges (semi-public use)

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61N

</td><td>Vehicle bridge

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61O

</td><td>Vehicle ramp

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>***

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>

Other Fees and Charges

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Hourly Charge for Street Use service including but not limited to:

Review, investigation, inspection, drafting, design guidance, document preparation and other activities related to the administration of the permit

</td><td>$150

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Penalty Fee (No Job Start Call, No Permit)

</td><td>$300

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Pre-Submittal Consultation Fee

</td><td>$375

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>A Deposit may be required

</td><td>Amount determined based on services requested

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Fee Methodology Factors and Descriptions

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Factor

</td><td>Description

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Land value:

</td><td>For Term permits, the value of the use area in the right-of-way shall be based on the abutting parcel's current land value as determined by the King County Assessor. If the use area extends beyond the centerline or abuts multiple parcels, the permit fee shall be calculated by averaging the abutting parcels' current land values.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Use area:

</td><td>Square footage of the permitted encroachment in the right-of-way, as authorized by Seattle Department of Transportation.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Rate of return:

</td><td>Annualized rate of return on market value of the right-of-way, as established by the City Appraiser or a State of Washington Certified General Real Estate Appraiser retained by the Director of Transportation.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Degree of alienation:

</td><td>For Term permits, the degree of impact on the public, utilities, right-of-way, and other potential uses of the right-of- way based on City policy, as established by Seattle Department of Transportation. Refer to Table A: Degree of Alienation Factor.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Table A: Degree of Alienation Factor

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Use code:

</td><td>Use description:

</td><td>Examples:

</td><td>Factor rate:

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61E

</td><td>Sub-surface*:

</td><td>Utility tunnels/structures

</td><td>Privately-maintained utility tunnels connecting parcels

</td><td>0.3

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61F

</td><td>Vehicle/pedestrian tunnels

</td><td>Underground pedestrian concourses

</td><td>0.25

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61G

</td><td>At-grade:

</td><td>Public plazas, artwork

</td><td>Privately-maintained public plazas

</td><td>0.1

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61H

</td><td>Structures/restricted access

</td><td>Building encroachments, skybridge columns

</td><td>0.8

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61I

</td><td>Utility structures

</td><td>Wastewater pump stations

</td><td>0.5

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61J

</td><td>Above grade*:

</td><td>Overhead building structures

</td><td>Building roof projections

</td><td>0.75

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61K

</td><td>Skybridges (private use)

</td><td>Skybridges connecting office building or condominium garage access

</td><td>2.0

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61L

</td><td>Skybridges (public use)

</td><td>Skybridges connecting to the public transportation network

</td><td>0.1

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61M

</td><td>Skybridges (semi-public use)

</td><td>Skybridges connecting hospitals, department stores, hotels/convention centers

</td><td>0.75

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61N

</td><td>Vehicle bridges

</td><td>Overhead vehicle bridges connecting private structures

</td><td>0.5

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td>61O

</td><td>Vehicle ramps

</td><td>Privately-owned vehicle ramps connecting to a portion of the public transportation network (portion of ramp may be at-grade)

</td><td>0.2

</td><td>

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr>

</table> * Portions of sub-surface or above-grade structures, such as columns or stairwells, may be located at grade. Except for vehicle ramps, the total value of the term permit annual fee shall be calculated by adding the value of the at-grade use area to the value of the sub-surface or above-grade use area.

 Section 2. Term permit fee implementation schedule. Term permits existing on the effective date of this ordinance shall have new annual fees applied starting on January 1, 2011, as authorized in Section 3 of this ordinance. All new or renewed term permits that will be approved by Council after the effective date of this ordinance shall have the annual fees applied using the new methodology adopted in Section 1 of this ordinance.

 Section 3. Term permit fee phase-in schedule. Annual term permit fees for existing permitted term permits shall be phased in over a two year period. Starting in January 2011, the annual term permit fee will increase by 50 percent of the difference between the 2010 annual term permit fee and the new annual term permit fee based on the term permit fee methodology. Starting in January 2012, the annual term permit fee will increase to the full new annual term permit fee based on the term permit fee methodology. By the end of 2012, the phase-in period will be complete and all existing permitted term permits will be determined using the term permit fee methodology on an annual cycle. The new annual term permit fee will not be phased in if the new annual term permit fee is less than the 2010 annual term permit fee for existing permitted term permits, or an existing term permit is renewed by Council after the effective date of this ordinance and before December 31, 2011.

 Section 4. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of its application to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance, or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020; provided that if C.B. 117008 becomes an ordinance, then this ordinance shall take effect no earlier than one day after the effective date of the ordinance introduced as C.B. 117008.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 8

 Michael Jenkins SDOT Street Use Term Permit Fee Schedule Amended ORD November 18, 2010 Version #3

