

********

**Council Bill Number: 117063**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123503**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to grant and convey easement rights under portions of Volunteer Park and Interlaken Park to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority for the purposes of installing, repairing, maintaining, and operating tunnels for light rail service, and to accept payment therefor; and finding that the grants of permanent subsurface easements meet the requirements of Ordinance 118477, adopting Initiative 42.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 13, 2010
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 20, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 20, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 6, 2010
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** BAGSHAW
   
   
_(No indexing available for this document)_

**Fiscal Note:**117063

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123503](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123503.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to grant and convey easement rights under portions of Volunteer Park and Interlaken Park to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority for the purposes of installing, repairing, maintaining, and operating tunnels for light rail service, and to accept payment therefor; and finding that the grants of permanent subsurface easements meet the requirements of Ordinance 118477, adopting Initiative 42.

 WHEREAS, in 1998 the Seattle City Council passed Ordinance 118927, which authorized the Mayor to execute a Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Light Rail Transit Line ("MOA") with the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit") relating to light rail system development and station area planning within the city of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the MOA identified common objectives of the City and Sound Transit including but not limited to the following: develop a light rail system that effectively serves the transportation needs of citizens in the city and surrounding service area in a manner consistent with regional service goals within budget and schedule adopted by Sound Transit; expedite review of necessary City approvals, minimize conflicts regarding such approvals, and quickly resolve such conflicts that do arise; and build effective, ongoing intergovernmental cooperation between Sound Transit and the City; and

 WHEREAS, Sound Transit is constructing, and will operate light rail tunnels in the Capitol Hill neighborhood under Volunteer Park and Interlaken Park, both under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation, and Sound Transit requires permanent use of underground portions of the parks for construction and light rail train operations; and

 WHEREAS, the City and Sound Transit have agreed on the terms and fair market values of the easements; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing in accordance with the requirements of Section 3 of Ordinance 118477, adopting Initiative 42; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The City Council hereby finds that the sale of permanent subsurface easements at Volunteer Park and Interlaken Park to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit") for the purposes of installing, repairing, maintaining, and operating tunnels for light rail service is necessary because there is no reasonable and practical alternative and such subsurface easements are compatible with park use, thereby meeting the requirements of Ordinance 118477.

 Section 2. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, or his designee, is hereby authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to enter into easement agreements with Sound Transit, substantially in the form of Attachments 1 and 2, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference ("Tunnel Easement Agreements"), concerning the real property described in Attachments 1 and 2.

 Section 3. Consideration for the Tunnel Easement Agreements paid by Sound Transit, as provided in Attachments 1 and 2, shall be deposited as follows:

```
<table><tr><td>Fund Name and Number

</td><td>Department

</td><td>Revenue Source

</td><td>2010 Revenue

</td><td>2011 Revenue

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Parks and Recreation Fund (10200)

</td><td>Parks and Recreation

</td><td>Sale of easements

</td><td>$191,500

</td><td>N/A

</td></tr>

<tr><td>TOTAL

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td><td>$191,500

</td><td>

</td></tr>

</table> Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Tunnel Easement Agreement (Volunteer Park)

 Exhibit A to Attachment 1: Legal Description of Grantor's Property

 Exhibit B to Attachment 1: Legal Description of Tunnel Easement Area

 Exhibit C to Attachment 1: Map of Tunnel Easement Area

 Attachment 2: Tunnel Easement Agreement (Interlaken Park)

 Exhibit A to Attachment 2: Legal Description of Grantor's Property and Legal Description of Tunnel Easement Area

 Exhibit B to Attachment 2: Map of Tunnel Easement Area

 Terry Dunning DPR Volunteer-Interlaken Easements ORD October 28, 2010 Version #4

 ATTACHMENT 1

 WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

 Real Estate Division

 Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority

 401 South Jackson Street

 Seattle, WA 98104-2826

 Document Title: Tunnel Easement Agreement

 Reference Number of Related Document: N/A

 Grantor(s): City of Seattle

 Grantee: Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority

 Abbreviated Legal Description: Ptn. of E 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 29 Twn 25 N Rng 4 E; ptn. of Blks. E and F, Phinney's Add in Vol. 1, pg. 175; ptn. Blk. A, Furth's Add in Vol. 16, pg. 73

 Additional Legal Description is on: Exhibits "A" and "B"

 Assessor's Tax Parcel Number(s): 292504 9087

 R/W No. NL 266

 TUNNEL EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 1.  Grant of Tunnel Easement . THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), for and in consideration of One Hundred Fifty One Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($151,000.00) in hand paid, hereby conveys to the CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY ("Grantee"), a regional transit authority of the State of Washington, for the purposes described below, an exclusive permanent subsurface easement (the "Tunnel Easement") under the surface of and through a portion of Grantor's property. Grantor's property is legally described in Exhibit "A" attached hereto and incorporated herein ("Grantor's Property"). The subsurface portion of Grantor's Property that is subject to the Tunnel Easement is legally described in Exhibit "B" and illustrated in Exhibit "C" (the "Tunnel Easement Area"), all attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The Tunnel Easement Area shall be a subsurface easement lying vertically between two horizontal planes at elevation 170 feet and elevation 59 feet, based on the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88), the top plane being approximately 244 feet below ground surface (BGS).

 2.  Purpose of Tunnel Easement . Grantee shall have the right to use the Tunnel Easement Area for all purposes necessary or incidental to Grantee's construction, operation, maintenance, use, modification, repair, and replacement of underground tunnels and related public transportation facilities, including but not limited to the right to construct, operate, maintain, modify, repair, replace, improve, remove, and use said tunnels, tunnel supports, roof, floor, and all utility lines or wires within said tunnels, together with the right to operate light rail trains and other public transportation vehicles and equipment within said tunnel, and for any related uses as Grantee may now or hereafter deem appropriate. All structures, materials, facilities, mechanical and electrical systems, utilities, equipment, furnishings, or improvements of any kind that are acquired, constructed, or installed in or upon the Tunnel Easement Area shall be and shall at all times remain the property of Grantee.

 3.  Grantor's Use of Tunnel Easement Area . Grantor shall not use any portion of the Tunnel Easement Area without the prior written consent of Grantee, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 4. Grantee's Use of Tunnel Easement Area . Grantee may use the Tunnel Easement Area for the purposes and in the manner described herein. Grantee's normal operation of its Link light rail project (the "Project") is not anticipated to cause noise or vibration noticeable upon Grantor's Property or to cause subsidence or damage of any kind to Grantor's Property. Grantee shall at all times maintain its improvements and facilities in the Tunnel Easement Area in good condition and repair and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and shall at all times maintain the structural integrity of the Tunnel Easement Area and the support of the surface of Grantor's Property. Grantee acknowledges that Grantor has many important and historic improvements on Grantor's Property that require adequate vertical, lateral and subjacent support, including, without limitation, a water tower and a reservoir, and that the Seattle Art Museum operates the Asian Art Museum on Grantor's Property. Grantee is responsible for all injury and damage, including consequential damage, to persons and property (real and personal) and improvements caused directly or indirectly by Grantee's exercise of Grantee's rights under this Tunnel Easement Agreement. Grantee's responsibility for such injury and damage shall include repair and restoration to original condition of any and all damage to the Grantor's real and personal property; and repair, replacement, or restoration to original condition of all damaged or destroyed structures, facilities, and improvements on the Grantor's Property, all at Grantee's sole cost and expense. In addition, if any voids are discovered within the Tunnel Easement Area or elsewhere within the predicted zone of influence of Grantee's tunneling activities, Grantee shall be responsible for expeditiously filling such voids and mitigating any related damage to Grantor's real or personal property.

 Grantee shall implement, at its expense, a settlement- monitoring program before commencement of construction activities, and Grantee shall maintain such settlement-monitoring program at its expense during and up to four (4) months after construction of the two (2) light rail tunnels under Grantor's Property, or until August 31, 2012, whichever is later.

 In the event that Grantee ceases to use the Tunnel Easement Area after boring of a tunnel or tunnels and prior to commencement of operation of the Project, then Grantee shall decommission the tunnel(s) at its sole cost and expense by plugging the tunnel(s) at both ends of the Tunnel Easement Area and completely filling the tunnel(s) in the Tunnel Easement Area with controlled density fill (CDF).

 5.  Applicable Law and Indemnification . Grantee shall at all times exercise its rights under this Tunnel Easement Agreement in accordance with the requirements of all applicable laws, orders, rules, and regulations of any public authority having jurisdiction. In the event the impacts of Grantee's uses of the Tunnel Easement Area as described herein are demonstrated to be incorrect, or in the event of Grantee's failure to maintain structural integrity of the Tunnel Easement Area or support of the surface or subsurface of Grantor's Property, or in the event of injury or damage to persons or property resulting directly or indirectly from damage on or to Grantor's Property from Grantee's exercise of Grantee's rights under this Tunnel Easement Agreement, Grantee agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and defend Grantor from and against all damages, claims, and liabilities to the extent resulting therefrom, including attorney's fees and costs of suit, including any appeals thereof, except to the extent any of such damages, claims, or liabilities result from the negligence of Grantor.

 6.  Binding Effect . The Tunnel Easement is appurtenant to and shall run with all real property now owned or hereafter acquired by Grantee as part of the Project, which includes underground tunnels and related facilities operated by Grantee for high capacity transportation system purposes and shall inure to the benefit of Grantee, its successors and assigns and shall be binding upon the Grantor's Property and Grantor, and their respective heirs, successors, and assigns.

 7.  Notices.  Any notices required or permitted under this Tunnel Easement Agreement shall be given in writing and either personally delivered or sent by U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, to the addresses as indicated below:

 To Grantee: Sound Transit

 Real Estate Division

 Union Station

 401 S Jackson St.

 Seattle, WA 98104-2826

 To Grantor: City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Ave. S, 3rd Floor

 Seattle, WA 98134

 Attn: Property Management

 and

 City of Seattle

 Seattle Public Utilities

 700 Fifth Avenue

 P.O. Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124-4018

 Attn: Real Property Services

 Dated as of the date fully executed by Grantor and Grantee.

 GRANTOR:

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 BY:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 ITS: Superintendent of Parks and Recreation Date

 GRANTEE:

 CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY

 BY: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 ITS: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Date

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the Department of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority, a regional transit authority of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires:

 Terry Dunning DPR Volunteer Interlaken Easements ATT 1 October 28, 2010 Version #1

 Attachment 1 to DPR Volunteer-Interlaken Easements ORD

 DPR Volunteer-Interlaken Easements ORD Attach. 1

[Exhibits A-C to Attachment 1](/~ordpics/117063a1_ex.pdf)

 ATTACHMENT 2

 WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

 Real Estate Division

 Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority

 401 South Jackson Street

 Seattle, WA 98104-2826

 Document Title: Tunnel Easement Agreement

 Reference Number of Related Document: N/A

 Grantor(s): City of Seattle

 Grantee: Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority

 Abbreviated Legal Description: Ptn. of Interlaken Park in the W 1/2 of SW 1/4 Sec. 21 Twn 25 N Rng 4 E

 Additional Legal Description is on: Exhibits "A" and "B"

 Assessor's Tax Parcel Number(s): 212504 9019

 R/W No. NL 305

 TUNNEL EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 1.  Grant of Tunnel Easement . THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), for and in consideration of Forty Thousand Five Hundred and No/100 Dollars ($40,500.00) in hand paid, hereby conveys to the CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY ("Grantee"), a regional transit authority of the State of Washington, for the purposes described below, an exclusive permanent subsurface easement (the "Tunnel Easement") under the surface of and through a portion of Grantor's property. Grantor's property ("Grantor's Property") and the subsurface portion of Grantor's property that is subject to the Tunnel Easement ("Tunnel Easement Area") are legally described in Exhibit "A" and illustrated in Exhibit "B", both attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. The Tunnel Easement Area shall be a subsurface easement lying vertically between two horizontal planes at elevation 25 feet and elevation -40 feet, based on the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88), the top plane being approximately 75 feet below ground surface (BGS).

 2.  Purpose of Tunnel Easement . Grantee shall have the right to use the Tunnel Easement Area for all purposes necessary or incidental to Grantee's construction, operation, maintenance, use, modification, repair, and replacement of underground tunnels and related public transportation facilities, including but not limited to the right to construct, operate, maintain, modify, repair, replace, improve, remove, and use said tunnels, tunnel supports, roof, floor, and all utility lines or wires within said tunnels, together with the right to operate light rail trains and other public transportation vehicles and equipment within said tunnel, and for any related uses as Grantee may now or hereafter deem appropriate. All structures, materials, facilities, mechanical and electrical systems, utilities, equipment, furnishings, or improvements of any kind that are acquired, constructed, or installed in or upon the Tunnel Easement Area shall be and shall at all times remain the property of Grantee.

 3.  Grantor's Use of Tunnel Easement Area . Grantor shall not use any portion of the Tunnel Easement Area without the prior written consent of Grantee, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 4. Grantee's Use of Tunnel Easement Area . Grantee may use the Tunnel Easement Area for the purposes and in the manner described herein. Grantee's normal operation of its Link light rail project (the "Project") is not anticipated to cause noise or vibration noticeable upon Grantor's Property or to cause subsidence or damage of any kind to Grantor's Property. Grantee shall at all times maintain its improvements and facilities in the Tunnel Easement Area in good condition and repair and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and shall at all times maintain the structural integrity of the Tunnel Easement Area and the support of the surface of Grantor's Property. Grantee is responsible for all injury and damage, including consequential damage, to persons and property (real and personal) and improvements caused directly or indirectly by Grantee's exercise of Grantee's rights under this Tunnel Easement Agreement. Grantee's responsibility for such injury and damage shall include repair and restoration to original condition of any and all damage to the Grantor's real and personal property; and repair, replacement, or restoration to original condition of all damaged or destroyed structures, facilities, and improvements on the Grantor's Property, all at Grantee's sole cost and expense. In addition, if any voids are discovered within the Tunnel Easement Area or elsewhere within the predicted zone of influence of Grantee's tunneling activities, Grantee shall be responsible for expeditiously filling such voids and mitigating any related damage to Grantor's real or personal property.

 Grantee shall implement, at its expense, a settlement- monitoring program before commencement of construction activities, and Grantee shall maintain such settlement-monitoring program at its expense during and up to four (4) months after construction of the two (2) light rail tunnels under Grantor's Property, or until August 31, 2012, whichever is later.

 In the event that Grantee ceases to use the Tunnel Easement Area after boring of a tunnel or tunnels and prior to commencement of operation of the Project, then Grantee shall decommission the tunnel(s) at its sole cost and expense by plugging the tunnel(s) at both ends of the Tunnel Easement Area and completely filling the tunnel(s) in the Tunnel Easement Area with controlled density fill (CDF).

 5.  Applicable Law and Indemnification . Grantee shall at all times exercise its rights under this Tunnel Easement Agreement in accordance with the requirements of all applicable laws, orders, rules, and regulations of any public authority having jurisdiction. In the event the impacts of Grantee's uses of the Tunnel Easement Area as described herein are demonstrated to be incorrect, or in the event of Grantee's failure to maintain structural integrity of the Tunnel Easement Area or support of the surface or subsurface of Grantor's Property, or in the event of injury or damage to persons or property resulting directly or indirectly from damage on or to Grantor's Property from Grantee's exercise of Grantee's rights under this Tunnel Easement Agreement, Grantee agrees to indemnify, hold harmless, and defend Grantor from and against all damages, claims, and liabilities to the extent resulting therefrom, including attorney's fees and costs of suit, including any appeals thereof, except to the extent any of such  damages, claims, or liabilities result from the negligence of Grantor.

 6.  Binding Effect . The Tunnel Easement is appurtenant to and shall run with all real property now owned or hereafter acquired by Grantee as part of the Project, which includes underground tunnels and related facilities operated by Grantee for high capacity transportation system purposes and shall inure to the benefit of Grantee, its successors and assigns and shall be binding upon the Grantor's Property and Grantor, and their respective heirs, successors, and assigns.

 7.  Notices.  Any notices required or permitted under this Tunnel Easement Agreement shall be given in writing and either personally delivered or sent by U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, to the addresses as indicated below:

 To Grantee: Sound Transit

 Real Estate Division

 Union Station

 401 S Jackson St.

 Seattle, WA 98104-2826

 To Grantor: City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Ave. S, 3rd Floor

 Seattle, WA 98134

 Attn: Property Management

 and

 City of Seattle

 Seattle Public Utilities

 700 Fifth Avenue

 P.O. Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124-4018

 Attn: Real Property Services

 Dated as of the date fully executed by Grantor and Grantee.

 GRANTOR:

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 BY:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 ITS: Superintendent of Parks and Recreation Date

 GRANTEE:

 CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY

 BY: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 ITS: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Date

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the Department of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON } } SS. COUNTY OF KING }

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated that he/she is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority, a regional transit authority of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Signature:

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Notary (print name):

 Residing at:

 My appointment expires:  \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Terry Dunning DPR Volunteer Interlaken Easements ATT 2 October 28, 2010 Version #1

 1 Attachment 2 to DPR Volunteer-Interlaken Easements ORD

 DPR Volunteer-Interlaken Easements ORD Attach. 2

[Exhibits A-B to Attachment 2](/~ordpics/117063a1_ex.pdf)

