

********

**Council Bill Number: 117182**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123615**
********

 AN ORDINANCE granting Qwest Corporation permission to maintain and operate a utility tunnel under and across Seneca Street, east of 3rd Avenue, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for the acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 31, 2011
   
**Vote:** 8-0(Excused: O'Brien)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 3, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 3, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 23, 2011
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
**Committee Recommendation:** 20110524
   
**Committee Vote:** 3 (Rasmussen, Burgess, Godden) - 0
   
   
**Index Terms:** PERMITS, TUNNELS, STREET-USE-PERMITS, DOWNTOWN, CENTRAL-BUSINESS-DISTRICT, TELEPHONE-SYSTEMS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 84164](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=84164&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G), [Ordinance 109143](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=109143&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G), [Ordinance 120506](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=120506&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G), [Ordinance 121855](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=121855&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G), [Resolution 19561](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=19561&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=1&f=G), [Resolution 28275](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=28275&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=1&f=G), [Resolution 30378](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=30378&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=1&f=G)

**Fiscal Note:**117182

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123615](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123615.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE granting Qwest Corporation permission to maintain and operate a utility tunnel under and across Seneca Street, east of 3rd Avenue, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for the acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 84164, the City of Seattle granted permission to the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company to construct, operate, and maintain a tunnel under and across Seneca Street, between 3rd and 4th Avenues; and

 WHEREAS, by Resolution 19561, the permission to maintain and operate the tunnel as authorized by Ordinance 84164 was transferred to the Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Company; and

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 109143, the City of Seattle granted permission to the Pacific Northwest Bell Telephone Company to operate and maintain the tunnel for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; and

 WHEREAS, by Resolution 28275, the permission to maintain and operate the tunnel as authorized by Ordinance 109143 was transferred to U.S. West Communications, Inc. and by Resolution 30378, the permission to maintain and operate the tunnel as authorized by Ordinance 109143 was transferred to Qwest Corporation; and

 WHEREAS, the conditions of Ordinance 109143 were amended by Resolutions 28275 and 30378 and Ordinances 120506 and 121855; and

 WHEREAS, the permission authorized by Ordinance 109143 was renewed for two successive ten-year terms by Resolutions 28275 and 30378 and the permission ended on July 5, 2010; and

 WHEREAS, Qwest Corporation has submitted an application to the Seattle Department of Transportation Director (Director) to continue maintaining and operating the tunnel; and

 WHEREAS, Qwest Corporation has satisfied all terms and conditions of the original authorizing ordinance, the Director recommends that the term permit be approved subject to the terms and conditions identified in this ordinance; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Permission. Subject to the terms and conditions of this ordinance, permission (also referred to in this ordinance as a permit) is granted to Qwest Corporation (Permittee) and its successors and assigns, to maintain and operate a utility tunnel (tunnel) under and across Seneca Street, east of 3rd Avenue, between the properties known as King County parcel number 1975200015 and 2302700000 for the purpose of providing private utility connections.

 Section 2. Term. The permission granted to the Permittee and its successors and assigns, shall be for a term of ten years starting July 6, 2010 and ending at 11:59 p.m. on July 5, 2020. Upon written application of the Permittee at least 180 days before expiration of the term, the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation (Director) may renew the permit for two successive ten-year terms subject to the right of the City of Seattle (City) to require the removal of the tunnel as provided for in Section 4 or 5, or revise by ordinance any of the conditions of the permission granted by this ordinance. The total term of the permission as originally granted and renewed shall not exceed 30 years. The Permittee shall submit a complete application for a new term permit no later than 180 days prior to the expiration of the term of the permission established in the ordinance. Failure to obtain additional permission through a new ordinance, or to remove the tunnel prior to expiration of the term, is a violation of Chapter 15.90 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC).

 Section 3. Protection of utilities. The permission granted is subject to the Permittee bearing the expense of any protection, support or relocation of existing utilities deemed necessary by the owners of the utilities; and the Permittee being responsible for any subsequent damage to the utilities due to the construction, repair, reconstruction, maintenance, or operation of the tunnel.

 Section 4. Removal for public use or for cause. The permission granted is subject to use of the street right-of- way by the City and the public for travel, utility purposes, and other street uses. The City expressly reserves the right to require the Permittee to remove the tunnel, or any part thereof or installation thereon, at the Permittee's sole cost and expense in the event that:

 (a) the City Council determines by ordinance that the space occupied by the tunnel is necessary for any public use or benefit or that the tunnel interferes with any public use or benefit; or

 (b) the Director determines that any term or condition of this ordinance has been violated and the violation has not been corrected by the Permittee by the compliance date after a written request by the City to correct the violation.

 A City Council determination that the space is needed for or interferes with a public use or benefit shall be conclusive and final without any right of the Permittee to resort to the courts to adjudicate the matter.

 Section 5. Permittee's obligation to remove. If the permission granted is not renewed at the expiration of a term, or if the permission is extended to the 30 year maximum term and an application for a new permit is not granted, or if acceptance of the terms and conditions of this ordinance as provided for in Section 19 is not timely received as required by this ordinance; or if the City orders removal of the tunnel pursuant to the terms of this ordinance, then within 90 days after the termination or expiration of a term or permission, or prior to the date stated in an order to remove; the Permittee shall, at its own expense, remove the tunnel and replace all portions of the street right-of-way that may have been disturbed for any part of the tunnel in as good condition for public use as they were prior to construction of the tunnel and in at least as good condition in all respects as the abutting portions of the right-of-way as required by the applicable SDOT standards for right-of-way restoration. The Director shall then issue a certificate discharging the Permittee, or its successor or assign, from responsibility under this ordinance.

 Section 6. Repair, reconstruction, or relocation. The Permittee shall not reconstruct, relocate, or repair the tunnel except under the supervision of the Director and in strict accordance with plans and specifications and permit approved by the Director. The Director may, in the Director's judgment, order the tunnel reconstructed, or repaired at the Permittee's own cost and expense because of: the deterioration or unsafe condition of the tunnel; or the installation, construction, reconstruction, maintenance, operation or repair of any municipally-owned public utilities; or for any other cause.

 Section 7. Failure to correct unsafe condition. After written notice to the Permittee and failure of the Permittee to correct an unsafe condition within the time stated in the notice, the Director may order the tunnel be closed or removed at the Permittee's expense if the Director deems that it has become unsafe or creates a risk of injury to the public. If there is an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public, a notice to correct is not required.

 Section 8. Continuing obligation to remove and restore. Notwithstanding termination or expiration of the permission granted, or closure or removal of the tunnel, the Permittee shall remain bound by its obligation under this ordinance until:

 (a) the tunnel and all its equipment and property are removed from the street right-of-way;

 (b) the area is cleared and restored in a manner in as good as condition for public use as they were prior to construction of the tunnel and in at least as good condition in all respects as the abutting portions of the right-of-way as required by the applicable SDOT standards for right-of-way; and

 (c) the Director certifies that the Permittee has discharged its obligations under this ordinance.

 Upon prior notice to the Permittee and entry of written findings that it is in the public interest, the Director may, in the Director's sole discretion, conditionally or absolutely excuse the Permittee from compliance with all or any of the Permittee's obligations to remove the tunnel and its property and to restore any disturbed areas.

 Section 9. Release, hold harmless, indemnification, and duty to defend. The tunnel shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Permittee and the Permittee agrees to maintain the tunnel in good and safe condition. The Permittee, by accepting the terms of this ordinance, releases the City from any and all claims resulting from damage or loss to the Permitee's property; and agrees for itself, its successors and assigns; to at all times protect and save harmless the City from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expense or damages of every kind and description, excepting only damages that may result from the sole negligence of the City; that may accrue to or be suffered by any person or property including without limitation, damage or injury to the Permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, invitees, tenants and tenants' invitees, licensees or its successors and assigns; by reason of the construction, maintenance, operation or use of the tunnel, or any portion thereof; or by reason of anything that has been done or may at any time be done by the Permittee, its successors or assigns by reason of this ordinance; or by reason of the Permittee, its successors or assigns failing or refusing to strictly comply with every provision of this ordinance.

 If any suit, action, or claim of the nature described above is filed, instituted, or begun against the City; the Permittee, its successors or assigns, shall upon notice from the City; defend the City at its or their sole cost and expense; and if a judgment is rendered against the City in any suit or action, the Permittee, its successors or assigns, shall fully satisfy the judgment within 90 days after the action or suit has been finally determined, if determined adversely to the City. If it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that Revised Code of Washingtion (RCW) 4.24.115 applies to this ordinance, then in the event claims or damages are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of:

 (a) the City, its agents, contractors or employees; and,

 (b) the Permittee, its agents, contractors, employees, or successors or assigns;

 this indemnity provision shall be valid and enforceable only to the extent of the negligence of the Permittee or the Permittee's agents, contractors, employees, or successors or assigns.

 Section 10. Insurance. For as long as the Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall exercise any permission granted by this ordinance and until the tunnel is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1 or until discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 5, the Permittee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at its own expense, insurance that protects the City from claims and risks of loss from perils that can be insured against under commercial general liability (CGL) insurance policies in conjunction with:

 (a) construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance, use, or existence of the tunnel and any portions of the tunnel permitted by this ordinance;

 (b) the Permittee's activity upon, or the use or occupation of the area described in Section 1 of this ordinance; and

 (c) claims and risks in connection with any activity performed by the Permittee by virtue of the permission granted by this ordinance.

 Minimum insurance requirements are CGL insurance based on the Insurance Services Office (ISO) form CG 00 01 or equivalent. The City requires insurance coverage to be placed with an insurer admitted and licensed to conduct business in Washington State or with a surplus lines carrier pursuant to RCW Chapter 48.15, except that if it is infeasible to obtain coverage with the required insurer, the City may approve an alternative insurer.

 Minimum limits of liability shall be $2,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage, with $4,000,000 annual aggregate. Coverage shall name the "City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non-contributory limits of liability subject to a Separation of Insureds clause.

 Permittee shall provide to the City, or cause to be provided, certification of insurance coverage consisting of the CGL declarations page, schedule of forms, and blanket or additional insured policy provision per the ISO CG 20 12 or equivalent. The insurance coverage certification shall be delivered or sent to the Director or to the Department of Transportation at an address as the Director may specify in writing from time to time.

 Should the Permittee be self-insured, a letter of certification from the Corporate Risk Manager or appropriate Finance Officer may be submitted in lieu of the insurance coverage certification required by this ordinance, if approved in writing by the City Risk Manager. The letter of certification must provide all information required by the City Risk Manager and document, to the satisfaction of the City Risk Manager, that self-insurance equivalent to the insurance requirements of this ordinance is in force. After a self-insurance certification is approved, the City may from time to time subsequently require updated or additional information. The approved self-insured Permittee must provide 30-days notice of any cancellation or material adverse financial condition of its self-insurance program. The City may at any time revoke approval of self-insurance and require the Permittee to obtain and maintain insurance as specified in this ordinance.

 Section 11. Contractor insurance. The Permittee shall contractually require that any and all of its contractors performing work on any premises contemplated by this permit name the "City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non-contributory limits of liability on all CGL, Automobile, if required by Permittee, Pollution liability insurance and/or self-insurance. The Permittee shall also include in all contract documents with its contractors a third-party beneficiary provision extending construction indemnities and warranties granted to Permittee to the City.

 Section 12. Performance bond. Within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance the Permittee shall deliver to the Director for filing with the City Clerk a sufficient bond executed by a surety company authorized and qualified to do business in the State of Washington that is: in the amount of $45,000, and conditioned with a requirement that the Permittee shall comply with each and every provision of this ordinance and with every order the Director issues under this ordinance. The Permittee shall ensure that the bond remains in effect until the tunnel is entirely removed from the location as described in Section 1, or until the Permittee is discharged by a Director's order as provided in Section 5. An irrevocable letter of credit approved by the City Risk Manager may be substituted for the bond.

 Section 13. Adjustment of insurance and bond requirements. The Director, in consultation with the City Risk Manager, may adjust minimum liability insurance levels and surety bond requirements during the term of this permission. If the Director and City Risk Manager determine that an adjustment is necessary to fully protect the interests of the City, the Director shall notify the Permittee of the new requirements in writing. Upon receipt, the Permittee shall, within 60 days, provide proof of the adjusted insurance and surety bond levels to the Director.

 Section 14. Consent for and conditions of assignment or transfer. The rights, privilege, and authority granted by this ordinance shall not be assignable or transferable by operation of law; nor shall the Permittee, its successors or assigns; transfer, assign, mortgage, pledge or encumber the same without the Director's consent, which the Director shall not unreasonably refuse. The Director may approve assignment or transfer of the permit to a successor entity in the case of a change of name or ownership if the successor or assignee has accepted in writing all of the terms of the permission provided by this ordinance.

 Section 15. Inspection fees. The Permittee, its successors and assigns shall, as provided by SMC Chapter 15.76, pay the City the amounts charged by the City as costs to inspect the tunnel during construction, reconstruction, repair, annual structural inspections, and at other times deemed necessary to ensure the safety of the tunnel.

 Section 16. Inspection reports. The Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall submit to the Director, or to the Department of Transportation at an address as the Director may specify in writing from time to time, an inspection report that:

 (a) describes the physical dimensions and condition of all load bearing elements,

 (b) describes any damages or possible repairs to any element of the tunnel,

 (c) prioritizes all repairs and establishes a timeframe for making repairs, and

 (d) is stamped by a professional structural engineer licensed in the State of Washington.

 The report shall be submitted within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance; subsequent reports shall be submitted every two years, within 30 days prior to the anniversary date of the effective date of this ordinance; or in the event of a natural disaster or other event that may have damaged the tunnel, the report shall be submitted by the date established by the Director.

 Section 17. Annual fee. Beginning July 6, 2010, the Permittee shall promptly pay to the City upon statements or invoices issued by the Director, an annual fee of $9,878 or as adjusted annually thereafter, for the privileges granted by this ordinance.

 Adjustments to the annual fee shall be made in accordance with a term permit fee schedule adopted by the City Council and may be made every year. In the absence of a schedule, the Director may only increase or decrease the previous year's fee to reflect any inflationary changes so as to charge the fee in constant dollar terms. This adjustment will be calculated by adjusting the previous year's fee by the percentage change between the two most recent year-end values available from the Consumer Price Index for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Area, All Urban Consumers, All Products, Not Seasonally Adjusted. All payments shall be made to the City Finance Director for credit to the Transportation Operating Fund.

 Section 18. Non-discrimination. The Permittee shall comply with the City's laws prohibiting discrimination in employment and contracting including Seattle's Fair Employment Practices Ordinance, Chapter 14.04 and Fair Contracting Practices code, Chapter 14.10.

 Section 19. Acceptance of terms and conditions. The Permittee shall deliver to the Director its written signed acceptance of the terms of this ordinance within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance. The Director shall file the written acceptance with the City Clerk. If no such acceptance is received within that 60-day period, the privileges conferred by this ordinance shall be deemed declined or abandoned and the permission granted deemed lapsed and forfeited.

 Section 20. Successors and assigns. The rights conferred to the Permittee and the obligations and conditions imposed on the Permittee through this ordinance are also conferred and imposed on the Permittee's successors and assigns. All references in this ordinance to the "Permittee" shall also be deemed to refer to the successors and assigns of the Permittee. References in this ordinance to "Permittee and its successors and assigns" or "Permittee or its successors and assigns" are included as reminders and do not limit the scope of "Permittee" used alone.

 Section 21. Section titles. Section titles are for convenient reference only and do not modify or limit the text of a section.

 Section 22. Ratify and confirm. Any act taken by the City or the Permittee pursuant to the authority and in compliance with the conditions of this ordinance but prior to the effective date of the ordinance is ratified and confirmed.

 Section 23. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Angela Steel SDOT Qwest Seneca Street Tunnel ORD April 7, 2011 Version #7A

```
