

********

**Council Bill Number: 117128**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123571**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting for general street purposes 21 deeds conveyed to the City of Seattle by the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit") in connection with the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project as agreed to in a Property Acquisition and Transfer Procedures Agreement between the City of Seattle and Sound Transit, dated August 12, 2003 ("Property Transfer Agreement"); laying off, opening, widening, extending, and establishing portions of the rights-of-way located on Martin Luther King Jr. Way South between South Alaska Street and South Orcas Street; placing the real property conveyed by the 21 deeds under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 28, 2011
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Bagshaw)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 4, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 4, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 14, 2011
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEEDS, LAND-ACQUISITION, STREETS, CONSTRUCTION, REGIONAL-TRANSIT-AUTHORITY, LIGHT-RAIL-TRANSIT

**Fiscal Note:**117128

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123571](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123571.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE accepting for general street purposes 21 deeds conveyed to the City of Seattle by the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit") in connection with the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project as agreed to in a Property Acquisition and Transfer Procedures Agreement between the City of Seattle and Sound Transit, dated August 12, 2003 ("Property Transfer Agreement"); laying off, opening, widening, extending, and establishing portions of the rights-of-way located on Martin Luther King Jr. Way South between South Alaska Street and South Orcas Street; placing the real property conveyed by the 21 deeds under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, in November 1996 as authorized by state law, Sound Transit proposed, and the voters of the three-county Sound Transit district approved financing for a ten-year regional transit system plan known as Sound Move; and

 WHEREAS, Sound Move includes the Central Link light rail line connecting SeaTac, Tukwila, and Seattle ("Central Link"); and

 WHEREAS, to prepare for the Central Link, the City Council passed Ordinance 119975, as amended by Ordinances 120788 and 122504, that authorized the Mayor to enter into the "Agreement Between the City of Seattle and Sound Transit for Grant of Non-Exclusive Use of a Light Rail Transit Way as Related to the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project" ("Agreement"); and

 WHEREAS, the Agreement granted Sound Transit a non-exclusive right to construct, operate, maintain, and own a Light Rail Transit System in the City of Seattle within the Light Rail Transit Way as defined in the Agreement; and

 WHEREAS, constructing the Central Link required Sound Transit to reconfigure, relocate, and widen public rights-of-way in order to create the Light Rail Transit Way; Sound Transit acquired the property by purchase or condemnation as authorized by RCW 81.112.080; and

 WHEREAS, the Property Transfer Agreement provides terms for transferring real property from Sound Transit to the City, including establishing a process for determining the nature of the interest, the timing of the acquisitions, and environmental and title considerations; and

 WHEREAS, as provided for in the Property Transfer Agreement, Sound Transit has deeded property to the City; and

 WHEREAS, the City accepts the 21 deeds acquired in connection with the Central Link and as provided for in the Property Transfer Agreement, places the properties under the Seattle Department of Transportation's jurisdiction and designates the properties for general street purposes; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Statutory Warranty Deed dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-073.1

 That portion of Lot 1 in Block 3 of Meadow Park Addition to Columbia City, according to Plat recorded in Volume 10 of Plats at Page(s) 93, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Lot 1;

 Thence South 01 degrees 10' 44" West along the East line of said Lot 1 distance of 0.63 feet;

 Thence North 86 degrees 41' 01" West a distance of 69.04 feet;

 Thence South 39 degrees 42' 40" West a distance of 24.77 feet;

 Thence South 01 degrees 14' 15" West a distance of 13.88 feet;

 Thence North 86 degrees 38' 36" West a distance of 9.41 feet to a point on the West line of said Lot 1;

 Thence North 01 degrees 10' 53" East along said West line a distance of 34.52 feet to the Northwest corner of said Lot 1;

 Thence South 86 degrees 38' 36" East along said North line a distance of 93.90 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area containing 534 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-073.1; a portion of tax parcel number 541410-0327; King County Recording Number 20100730000173)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 541410-0327 identified in Attachment 1, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 2. The Statutory Warranty Deed dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-078

 That portion of Lot 23 in Block 2 of Meadow Park Addition to Columbia City, according to plat recorded in Volume 10 of Plats at Page 93, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing at the Northwest corner of said Lot 23, thence South 86 degrees 38' 36" East along the North line of said Lot 23, a distance of 100.44 feet, to the Northeast corner of said Lot 23 and the TRUE POINT of BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area;

 Thence South 01 degrees 10' 35" West along the East line of said Lot 23, a distance of 30.02 feet to the Southeast corner of said Lot 23;

 Thence North 86 degrees 38' 35" West along the South line of said Lot 23, a distance of 0.33 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 09' 51" West, a distance of 33.24 feet, to a point on the North line of said Lot 23;

 Thence South 86 degrees 38' 36" East along said North line, a distance of 13.51 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area, said area containing 208 square feet more-or- less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-078; a portion of tax parcel number 541410-0287; King County Recording Number 20100730000174)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 541410-0287 identified in Attachment 2, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 3. The Deed for Street Purposes dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-082

 PIN 541410-0220

 Grantor's Entire Parcel (Servient):

 According to Statutory Warranty Deed Auditor's File No. 20030425001518, dated April 25, 2003.

 Parcel A of King County Short Plat No. 80-168, according to Short Plat recorded April 28, 1981 under recording no. 8104280365, in King County, Washington;

 Except that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 89096 for Empire Way South, pursuant to ordinance no. 30673.

 Area to be transferred to the city:

 That portion of Parcel A of King County Short Plat No. 80-168, according to Short Plat recorded April 28, 1981 under recording no. 8104280365, in King County, Washington;

 Except that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 89096 for Empire Way South, pursuant to ordinance no. 30673.

 Said Area to be transferred to the city being further described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Parcel A;

 Thence North 86 degrees 38' 35" West along the South line of said Parcel A, a distance of 18.02 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 06' 10" West a distance of 34.35 feet to a point on the North line of said Parcel A;

 Thence South 86 degrees 38' 35" East along said North line a distance of 18.01 feet to a point on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence South 22 degrees 07' 14" East along said Westerly line a distance of 34.36 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Area to be transferred to the city containing 559 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-082; a portion of tax parcel number 541410-0220; King County Recording Number 20100730000175)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 541410-0220 identified in Attachment 3, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 4. The Deed for Street Purposes dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-083

 PIN 541410-0230

 That portion of Lots 14 and 15 in Block 2 of Meadow Park Addition to Columbia City, according to the Plat recorded in Volume 10 of Plats at Page 93, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot 15;

 Thence N 01 degrees 10' 28" E along the East line thereof a distance of 2.77 feet to the West line of Martin Luther King Junior Way South as condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for Empire Way, pursuant to Ordinance No. 30673;

 Thence N 22 degrees 07' 01" W along said line a distance of 73.32 feet to the North line of said Lot 14;

 Thence N 86 degrees 38' 37" W along said line a distance of 18.02 feet;

 Thence S 22 degrees 06' 07" E a distance of 54.19 feet;

 Thence S 20 degrees 08' 03" W a distance of 20.91 feet to the South line of said Lot 15;

 Thence S 86 degrees 38' 37" E along said line a distance of 32.40 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 1398 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-083; a portion of tax parcel number 541410-0230; King County Recording Number 20100730000176)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 541410-0230 identified in Attachment 4, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 5. The Deed for Street Purposes dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-087

 PIN 212404-9002

 That portion of Parcel A of King County Short Plat No. 79-221, according to Short Plat recorded February 14, 1980 under recording No. 8002140448, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the East line of said Parcel A distant 13.57 feet Southerly, measured at right angles, from the centerline of South Angeline Street;

 Thence N 86 degrees 38' 37" W, parallel with said centerline, a distance of 60.36 feet;

 Thence S 48 degrees 46' 51" W a distance of 29.74 feet to a line parallel with and distant 20.00 feet Northeasterly, measured at right angles, from the West line of said Parcel A;

 Thence S 22 degrees 03' 24" E along said line a distance of 41.66 feet to the South line of said Parcel A;

 Thence N 86 degrees 44' 06" W along said line a distance of 22.13 feet to the West line of said Parcel A, the same being the East line of Martin Luther King Junior Way South;

 Thence N 22 degrees 03' 24" W along said line a distance of 75.18 feet to the Northwest corner of said Parcel A;

 Thence S 86 degrees 44' 06" E along the North line thereof a distance of 117.68 feet to Northeast corner thereof;

 Thence S 01 degrees 10' 16" W along the East line thereof a distance of 9.56 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Situate in the city of Seattle, county of King, state of Washington.

 Containing 2714 square feet more or less.

 And also,

 R/W No. 730-RV-087.1

 PIN 212404-9284

 Those portions of Parcel B of King County Short Plat No. 79-221, according to Short Plat recorded February 14, 1980 under Recording No. 8002140448, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 That portion thereof lying Northerly of a line parallel with and distant 13.57 feet Southerly, measured at right angles, from the centerline of South Angeline Street;

 Also that portion thereof described as follows:

 Commencing at a point on the East line of said Parcel B distant 13.57 feet Southerly, measured at right angles, from the centerline of South Angeline Street;

 Thence S 01 degrees 10' 16" W along said East line a distance of 73.65 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence at right angles N 88 degrees 49' 44" W a distance of 3.60 feet;

 Thence S 01 degrees 10' 16" W a distance of 21.68 feet to the South line of said Parcel B;

 Thence S 86 degrees 44' 06" E along said line a distance of 3.60 feet to the Southeast corner of said Parcel B;

 Thence N 01 degrees 10' 16" E along the East line thereof a distance of 21.81 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 All situate in the City of Seattle, county of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 443 square feet more or less.

 And also,

 R/W No. 730-RV-088

 PIN 212404-9282

 Those portions of Parcel C of King County Short Plat No. 79-221, according to Short Plat recorded February 14, 1980 under recording No. 8002140448, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 The West 20 feet thereof measured at right angles from the West line thereof;

 And also the East 3.60 feet of the South 10 feet thereof.

 All situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 1077 square feet more or less.

 And also,

 R/W No. 730-RV-091

 PIN 345700-0010

 All that portion of the hereinafter described Tract 'A' lying Westerly of a line parallel with and distant 65 feet Northeasterly measured at right angles from the centerline of Martin Luther King Junior Way South as condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for Empire Way, pursuant to Ordinance No. 30673;

 Together with that portion of said Tract 'A' described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of Lot 2 per said Tract 'A';

 Thence N 89 degrees 03' 45" W along the South line of said lot a distance of 1.77 feet to the beginning of a non-tangent curve having a radius of 30 feet, to which point a radial line bears S 72 degrees 29' 45" W;

 Thence Northerly, to the right along said curve, through a central angle of 18 degrees 40' 31" an arc length of 9.78 feet to a point of tangency in a line parallel with and distant 3.35 feet westerly measured at right angles from the East line of said Lot 2;

 Thence N 01 degrees 10' 16" E along said parallel line a distance of 21.83 feet to the South line of Parcel C per said Tract "A";

 Thence S 86 degrees 44' 06" E along said South line a distance of 3.35 feet to the East line of said Lot 2 or extension thereof;

 Thence S 01 degrees 10' 16" W a distance of 31.80 feet to the Point of Beginning.

 Tract 'A':

 Lot 2 of Hopkins' First Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 18 of Plats at Page(s) 84, records of King County, Washington, together with any land, if any, lying between the sidelines of said Lot 2 extended Northerly, and between the North line of said Lot 2 and the South line of Parcel 'C' of King County Short Plat No. 79-221, according to the Short Plat recorded February 14, 1980 under recording No. 8002140448, in King County Washington;

 Except that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for Empire Way, pursuant to Ordinance No. 30673.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 832 square feet more or less.

 And also,

 R/W No. 730-RV-092

 PIN 345700-0005

 That portion of Lot 1 of Hopkins' First Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 18 of Plats at page(s) 84, records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot 1;

 Thence N 89 degrees 03' 45" W along the South line of said Lot 1 a distance of 8.42 feet to the beginning of a non-tangent curve having a radius of 20 feet, to which point a radial line bears S 18 degrees 33' 01" E;

 Thence Northeasterly, to the left along said curve, through a central angle of 29 degrees 35' 09" an arc length of 10.33 feet to the East line of said Lot 1;

 Thence S 01 degrees 10' 16" W along said line a distance of 5.75 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Also that portion of said Lot 1 described as follows:

 Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Lot 1;

 Thence N 89 degrees 03' 45" W along the North line of said lot a distance of 1.77 feet to the beginning of a non-tangent curve having a radius of 30 feet, to which point a radial line bears S 72 degrees 29' 45" W;

 Thence Southeasterly, to the left along said curve, through a central angle of 08 degrees 39' 37" an arc length of 4.53 feet to the East line of said Lot 1;

 Thence N 01 degrees 10' 16" E, non-tangent along said line, a distance of 4.18 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 And also that portion of said Lot 1 described as follows:

 Commencing at the Southeast corner of said Lot 1;

 Thence N 89 degrees 03' 45" W along the South line of said Lot 1 a distance of 29.87 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence continue N 89 degrees 03' 45" W along the South line of said Lot 1 a distance of 36.35 feet to the East line of Martin Luther King Junior Way South as condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for Empire Way, pursuant to Ordinance No. 30673, said East line being parallel with and 45 feet Northeasterly measured at right angles from the centerline thereof;

 Thence N 22 degrees 03' 24" W along said East line a distance of 60.30 feet to the North line of said Lot 1;

 Thence S 89 degrees 03' 45" E along said North line a distance of 21.73 feet to a line parallel with and 65 feet Northeasterly measured at right angles from the centerline of said Martin Luther King Junior Way South;

 Thence S 22 degrees 03' 24" E along said parallel line a distance of 56.50 feet to a line parallel with and distant 3.50 feet Northerly measured at right angles from the South line of said Lot 1;

 Thence S 89 degrees 03' 45" E along said parallel line a distance of 9.11 feet;

 Thence S 62 degrees 27' 37" E a distance of 7.82 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Situate in the city of Seattle, County of King, state of Washington.

 All containing 1271 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Numbers: 730-RV-087, 730-RV-087.1, 730-RV-088, 730-RV-091, and 730-RV-092; a portion of tax parcel numbers 212404-9002, 212404-9284, 212404-9282, 345700-0010 and 345700-0005; King County Recording Number 20100730000177)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel numbers 212404-9002, 212404-9284, 212404-9282, 345700-0010, and 345700-0005 identified in Attachments 5 through 9, are laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 6. The Deed for Street Purposes, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 That portion of Lot 14 in Block 1 of Brents Street Addition to the City of Columbia, according to the plat recorded in Volume 15 of Plats at page(s) 18, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing at the Northwest corner of said Lot 14;

 Thence S 87 degrees 01' 46" E along the North line thereof a distance of 3.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence continue S 87 degrees 01' 46" E along the North line thereof a distance of 17.00 feet to the West line of Martin Luther King Junior Way South as condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for street purposes, as provided by Ordinance Number 30673 of the City of Seattle (said West line being 45 feet Southwesterly measured at right angles from the centerline thereof);

 Thence S 22 degrees 07' 25" E along said West line a distance of 30.27 feet to the East line of said Lot 14;

 Thence S 01 degrees 11' 19" W along said East line a distance of 42.96 feet;

 Thence N 26 degrees 36' 19" W a distance of 58.47 feet;

 Thence N 50 degrees 45' 20" E a distance of 8.77 feet;

 Thence N 29 degrees 57' 04" W a distance of 16.21 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 1008 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-098; a portion of tax parcel number 105900-0065; King County Recording Number 20100730000178)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 105900-0065 identified in Attachment 10, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 7. The Quit Claim Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-101

 Tax ID # 266050-0215

 That portion of Parcel A of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-151, according to short plat recorded February 2, 1981 under Recording No. 8102020575, in King County, Washington, described as follows;

 Commencing from the Northeast corner of said Parcel A of said Short Plat No. 80-151;

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 04" West along the North line of said Parcel A, of said short plat No. 80-151 a distance of 11.99 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Permanent Easement Area:

 Thence South 22 degrees 07' 13" East a distance of 29.47 feet to a point on the Easterly line of said Parcel A;

 Thence South 23 degrees 27' 35" West along said Easterly line a distance of 28.00 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 07' 13" West a distance of 57.75 feet to a point on the North line of said Parcel A;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 04" East a distance of 21.80 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Permanent Easement Area, said easement area containing 872 square feet more-or- less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-101; a portion of tax parcel number 266050-0215; King County Recording Number 20100730000180)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 266050-0215 identified in Attachment 11, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 8. The Statutory Warranty Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W # RV-101

 Tax ID #266050-0242

 That portion of Parcel A of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-151, according to Short Plat recorded February 2, 1981 under Recording No. 8102020575, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Parcel A of said Short Plat No. 80-151;

 Thence South 22 degrees 07' 13" East, along the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way a distance of 13.92 feet to the most Easterly corner of said Parcel A;

 Thence South 23 degrees 27' 35" West along the Easterly line of said Parcel A, a distance of 15.40 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 07' 13" West a distance of 29.47 feet to a point on the North line of said Parcel A;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 04" East along the North line of said Grantor's Parcel a distance of 11.99 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING, said area containing 239 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-101; a portion of tax parcel number 266050-0242; King County Recording Number 20100730000179)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 266050-0242 identified in Attachment 11, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 9. The Quit Claim Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 735-RV-103 PIN 266050-0210

 That portion of Lot B of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-151, according to Short Plat recorded February 2, 1981 under recording No. 8102020575 and corrected by affidavit recorded under Recording No. 8104230449, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Parcel B (Lot B), of Short Plat No. 80-151;

 Thence South 22 degrees 07' 13" East along the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way a distance of 22.94 feet;

 Thence Southeast continuing along said Westerly line, along a curve to the right having a radius of 6662.70 feet, the radial center of which bears South 67 degrees 52' 47" West, through a central angle of 00 degrees 42' 45", for an arc length of 82.85 feet to the Southeast corner of said Parcel B (Lot B);

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 51" West along the South line of said Parcel B (Lot B) a distance of 11.93 feet;

 Thence North 21 degrees 49' 46" West a distance of 90.26 feet to a point on the Westerly line of said Parcel B (Lot B);

 Thence North 23 degrees 27' 35" East along said Westerly line a distance of 15.40 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area, said area containing 1,087 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Numbers: 735-RV-103; a portion of tax parcel number 266050-0210; King County Recording Number 20100730000182)

 is accepted, and that portions of parcel number 266050-0210 identified in Attachment 12, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 10. The Quit Claim Deed dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 735-RV-103

 PIN 266050-0210-02

 That portion of Lot B of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-151, according to Short Plat recorded February 2, 1981 under Recording No. 8102020575 and corrected by affidavit recorded under Recording No. 8104230449, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing from the Northeast corner of Parcel B (Lot B), of said Short Plat No. 80-151;

 Thence South 23 degrees 27' 35" West along the Westerly line of said Parcel B (Lot B), of said Short Plat No. 80-151 a distance of 15.40 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence South 21 degrees 49' 46" East a distance of 90.26 feet to a point on the South line of said Parcel B (Lot B);

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 51" West along said South line a distance of 21.75 feet;

 Thence North 21 degrees 49' 46" West a distance of 61.91 feet to a point on the Westerly line of said Parcel B (Lot B);

 Thence North 23 degrees 27' 35" East along said Westerly line a distance of 28.14 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Permanent Easement Area, said easement area containing 1,522 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 735-RV-103; a portion of tax parcel number 266050-0210-02; King County Recording Number 20100730000181)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 266050-0210-02 identified in Attachment 12, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 11. The Quit Claim Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 Acquisition Area

 R/W No. 730-RV-104 PIN 2660500242

 That portion of the North 40 feet of that portion of said Tract 3 of Frye's Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats at Page(s) 87, in King County, Washington, lying West of Empire Way, described as follows:

 Commencing from the Northwest corner of Tract 3, of Frye's Addition to Columbia;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along the North line of said Tract 3 a distance of 118.05 feet to the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area:

 Thence Southeasterly along said Westerly line along a curve to the right having a radius of 6662.70 feet, the radial center of which bears South 68 degrees 35' 31" West, through a central angle of 00 degrees 22' 21", for an arc distance of 43.31 feet to the Southeast corner of said Grantor's Parcel;

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 51" West along the South line of said Grantor's Parcel a distance of 11.90 feet;

 Thence North 21 degrees 15' 40" West a distance of 43.32 feet to a point on the North line of said Tract 3;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along the North line of said Tract 3 a distance of 11.93 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area;

 Containing 477 square feet more-or-less.

 AND ALSO,

 That portion of the North 40 feet of that portion of Tract 3 of Frye's Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats at Page(s) 87, in King County, Washington, lying West of Empire Way, described as follows;

 Commencing from the Northwest corner of Tract 3, of Frye's Addition to Columbia;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along the North line of said Tract 3 a distance of 106.12 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Permanent Easement Area:

 Thence South 21 degrees 15' 40" East a distance of 43.32 feet to a point on the South line of said Grantor's Parcel;

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 51" West along the South line of said Grantor's Parcel a distance of 21.66 feet;

 Thence North 21 degrees 15' 40" West a distance of 43.32 feet to a point on the North line of said Tract 3;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East a distance of 21.66 feet along the North line of said Tract 3 to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Permanent Easement Area;

 Containing 866 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-104; a portion of tax parcel number 266050-0242; King County Recording Number 20100730000183)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 266050-0242 identified in Attachment 13, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 12. The Quit Claim Deed dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 735-RV-106 PIN 266050-0245

 That portion of the South 60 feet of the North 100 feet of that portion of Tract 3 of Frye's Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats at Page(s) 87, in King County, Washington, lying Westerly of Empire Way, described as follows:

 Commencing from the Northwest corner of Tract 3, of Frye's Addition to Columbia;

 Thence South 01 degrees 10' 50" West along the West line of said Tract 3 a distance of 40.00 feet to the Northwest corner of said parcel;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along the North line of said Grantor's Parcel a distance of 122.66 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence South 19 degrees 54' 26" East a distance of 64.37 feet to a point on the South line of said parcel;

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 51" West along the South line of said Grantor's Parcel a distance of 21.46 feet;

 Thence North 19 degrees 54' 26" West a distance of 64.37 feet to a point on the North line of said parcel;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East a distance of 21.46 feet along said North line to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Permanent Easement Area;

 Containing 1287 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 735-RV-106; a portion of tax parcel number 266050-0245; King County Recording Number 20100730000184)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 266050-0245 identified in Attachment 14, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 13. The Statutory Warranty Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 735-RV-106

 PIN 266050-0242

 That portion of the South 60 feet to the North 100 feet of that portion of said Tract 3 of Frye's Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats at Page(s) 87, in King County, Washington, lying westerly of Empire Way, described as follows:

 Commencing from the Northwest corner of Tract 3 of Frye's Addition to Columbia;

 Thence South 01 degrees 10' 50" West along the West line of said Tract 3 a distance of 40.00 feet to the Northwest corner of said parcel;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along the North line of said Grantor's parcel a distance of 134.56 feet to a point on the westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence Southeasterly along the West line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right of way, along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of 6662.70 feet, the radial center of which bears South 68 degrees 57' 52" West, through a central angle of 00 degrees 33' 24", an arc distance of 64.75 feet to the Southeast corner of said parcel;

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 51" West along the South line of said Grantor's Parcel a distance of 12.93 feet;

 Thence North 19 degrees 54' 26" West a distance of 64.37 feet to a point on the North line of said parcel;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along said North line a distance of 11.90 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area;

 Containing 748 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 735-RV-106; a portion of tax parcel number 266050-0242; King County Recording Number 20100730000185)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 266050-0242 identified in Attachment 14, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 14. The Quit Claim Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 735-RV-107

 PIN 266050-0237

 That portion of Tract 3 of Frye's Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats at Page(s) 87, in King County, Washington; except the North 100.00 feet thereof, described as follows:

 Commencing at the Northwest corner of said Tract 3, of Frye's Addition to Columbia;

 Thence South 01 degrees 10' 50" West along the West line of said Tract 3 a distance of 100.00 feet to the Northwest corner of said parcel;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along the North line of said Grantor's Entire Parcel a distance of 158.41 feet to the Northeast corner of said parcel and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence Southeast along the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way, along a non- tangent curve to the right having a radius of 6662.70 feet, the radial center of which bears South 69 degrees 31' 17" West, through a central angle of 00 degrees 33' 46", an arc distance of 65.43 feet to the Southeast corner of said parcel;

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 50" West along the South line of said parcel a distance of 13.78 feet;

 Thence North 19 degrees 21' 10" West a distance of 65.06 feet to a point on said North line of said parcel;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along the North line of said Grantor's Entire Parcel a distance of 12.75 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING and the end of the herein described Area, said area containing 811 square feet more-or-less.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No. 735-RV-107

 PIN 266050-0235

 That portion of Tract 3 of Frye's Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats at Page(s) 87, in King County, Washington; except the North 100.00 feet thereof, described as follows:

 Commencing from the Northwest corner of said Tract 3, of Frye's Addition to Columbia;

 Thence South 01 degrees 10' 50" West along the West line of said Tract 3 a distance of 100.00 feet to the Northwest corner of said parcel;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East along the North line of said Grantor's Entire Parcel a distance of 146.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence South 19 degrees 21' 10" East a distance of 65.06 feet to the South line of said Tract 3;

 Thence North 88 degrees 40' 50" West along said South line a distance of 21.38 feet;

 Thence North 19 degrees 21' 10" West a distance of 65.06 feet to said North line of said parcel;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 51" East, along said North line a distance of 21.38 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein-described Permanent Easement Area, said easement area containing 1301 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 735-RV-107; a portion of tax parcel numbers 266050-0235, and 266050- 0237; King County Recording Number 20100730000186)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel numbers 266050-0235, and 266050-0237 identified in Attachment 15, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 15. The Quit Claim Deed, dated January 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 735-RV-109

 PIN 266050-0237

 That portion of Tracts 5 and 6 of Frye's Addition to Columbia, according to Plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats at Page(s) 87, in King County, Washington, lying between Empire Way South and 32nd Avenue South; except the west 100 feet thereof.

 Being further described as follows:

 Commencing at the Southeast corner of said Tract 6 said point also being the Southwest corner of Tract 5;

 Thence South 88 degrees 41' 58" East along the South line of said Tract 5 a distance of 4.32 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 20 degrees 00' 01" West a distance of 4.18 feet;

 Thence North 18 degrees 52' 11" West a distance of 132.13 feet;

 Thence North 20 degrees 42' 26" West a distance of 42.38 feet;

 Thence South 88 degrees 40' 50" East along said North line a distance of 7.39 feet to a point on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way;

 Thence Southeast along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of 6662.70 feet, the radial center of which bears South 70 degrees 05' 02" West, through a central angle of 01 degrees 32' 05", for an arc length of 178.46 feet to a point on the South line of said Tract 5;

 Thence North 88 degrees 41' 58" West along said South line a distance of 6.78 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING, containing 1170 square feet more-or- less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 735-RV-109; a portion of tax parcel number 266050-0237; King County Recording Number 20100730000187)

 is accepted, and the portions of parcel number 266050-0237 identified in Attachment 16, are laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 16. The Statutory Warranty Deed, dated June 30, 2010 by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-113

 PIN 266050-0301

 That portion of Lot D of Seattle Short Plat No. 80- 126, according to Short Plat Recorded February 3, 1982 under recording No. 8202030260, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot D;

 Thence North 88 degrees 41' 58" West along the South line of said Lot D a distance of 5.71 feet;

 Thence North 18 degrees 55' 39" West a distance of 69.01 feet to a point on the North line of said Lot D;

 Thence South 88 degrees 41' 58" East a distance of 6.78 feet along said North line to a point on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way;

 Thence southeast, along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of 6662.70 feet, the radial center of which bears South 71 degrees 37' 07" West, through a central angle of 00 degrees 35' 25", for an arc length of 68.64 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area containing 408 square feet more-or-less.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No. 730-RV-113.1

 PIN 266050-0301

 That portion of Lot C of Seattle Short Plat No. 80- 126, according to Short Plat Recorded February 3, 1982 under Recording No. 8202030260, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot C;

 Thence North 88 degrees 43' 29" West along the South line of said Lot C a distance of 18.51 feet;

 Thence North 19 degrees 46' 27" East a distance of 19.18 feet;

 Thence North 16 degrees 58' 07" West a distance of 71.62 feet to a point on the North line of said Lot C;

 Thence South 88 degrees 41' 58" East along said North line a distance of 5.71 feet to a point on Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way;

 Thence Southeast along said Westerly line and a non- tangent curve to the right having a radius of 6662.70 feet, the radial center of which bears South 72 degrees 12' 32" West, through a central angle of 00 degrees 46' 57", for an arc length of 90.99 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area containing 643 square feet more-or- less;

 SUBJECT TO: Side Sewer Easement including terms and provisions contained therein recorded January 15, 1949 under King County Recording No. 3870457.

 SUBJECT TO: Side Sewer Easement including terms and provisions contained therein recorded July 16, 1959 under King County Recording No. 5056849.

 SUBJECT TO: Restrictions, conditions, dedications, notes, easements and provisions contained or delineated on the face of the short plat recoded under King County Recording No. 8202030260.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Numbers: 730-RV-113 and 730-RV-113.1; portions of tax parcel number 266050-0301; King County Recording Number 20100730000188)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 266050-0301 identified in Attachment 17, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 17. The Statutory Warranty Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 Row No. RV-118 & RV-121

 PIN 266050-0305 and 266050-0310

 That portion of Tract 9 of Fryes Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats at Page 87, in King County, Washington, lying east of Empire Way.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Numbers: 730-RV-118 and 730-RV-121; a portion of tax parcel numbers 266050-0305 and 266050-0310; King County Recording Number 20100730000189)

 is accepted, and the portions of parcel numbers 266050-0305 and 266050-0310 identified in Attachment 18, are laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 18. The Statutory Warranty Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-126

 PIN 688890-0151

 That portion of Lot 2, except the East 54.5 feet thereof, and all of Lot 1 in Block 3 of Pratts Addition to the City of Seattle, according to Plat recorded in Volume 19 of Plats at Page(s) 4, in King County, Washington, Except that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for street purposes, described as follows:

 Commencing at the Northeast corner of said Lot 1;

 Thence North 88 degrees 42' 59" West along the North line of said Lot 1 a distance of 120.90 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Area:

 Thence South 21 degrees 40' 20" West a distance of 6.08 feet to a point on the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence North 17 degrees 00' 10" West along said Easterly line a distance of 6.00 feet to a point on the North line of said Lot 1;

 Thence South 88 degrees 42' 59" East along said North line a distance of 4.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described area containing 11 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-126; a portion of tax parcel number 688890-0151; King County Recording Number 20100730000190)

 is accepted, and the portions of parcel number 688890-0151 identified in Attachment 19, are laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 19. The Quit Claim Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-131

 PIN 688890-0151

 That portion of Lot 15, Except that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for Empire Way, of J.J. Bry's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to Plat recorded in Volume 19 of Plats at Page(s) 20, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing from the Southeast corner of said Lot 15;

 Thence North 88 degrees 31' 40" West along the South line of said Lot 15 a distance of 43.45 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 88 degrees 31' 40" West continuing along said South line a distance of 4.22 feet to a point on the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence North 17 degrees 00' 03" West along said Easterly line a distance of 3.16 feet;

 Thence South 58 degrees 38' 20" East a distance of 6.02 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING, containing 6 square feet more or less.

 AND ALSO,

 Commencing from the Southeast corner of said Lot 15;

 Thence North 88 degrees 31' 40" West along the South line of said Lot 15 a distance of 47.67 feet to a point on the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence North 17 degrees 00' 03" West along said Easterly line a distance of 9.06 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 17 degrees 00' 03" West continuing along said Easterly line a distance of 7.50 feet;

 Thence North 72 degrees 59' 57" East a distance of 2.00 feet;

 Thence South 17 degrees 00' 03" East a distance of 7.50 feet;

 Thence South 72 degrees 59' 57" West a distance of 2.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING, containing 15 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-131; portions of tax parcel number 688890-0151; King County Recording Number 20100730000191)

 is accepted, and the portions of parcel number 688890-0151 identified in Attachment 20, are laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 20. The Statutory Warranty Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-132.1

 PIN 234130-0006

 That portion of Lot 1 in Block 14 of Empire Way Addition to the City of Seattle, according to plat recorded in Volume 22 of Plats at page(s) 2, in King County, Washington, further described as follows:

 Commencing at the Northeast corner of said Lot 1;

 Thence North 88 degrees 31' 40" West along the North line of said Lot 1 a distance of 117.57 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area;

 Thence South 60 degrees 13' 44" West a distance of 8.23 feet;

 Thence South 35 degrees 13' 00" West a distance of 8.23 feet;

 Thence South 75 degrees 39' 21" East a distance of 2.88 feet;

 Thence South 14 degrees 14' 05" West a distance of 9.04 feet to the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way, said point also lying on the Westerly line of said Lot 1;

 Thence North 16 degrees 58' 13" West along said Westerly line a distance of 7.80 feet;

 Thence Northerly continuing along said Westerly line and along a curve to the right having a radius of 10.00 feet, the radial center of which bears North 73 degrees 01' 47" East, through a central angle of 108 degrees 26' 34", for an arc length of 18.93 feet to a point on the North line of said Lot 1;

 Thence South 88 degrees 31' 40" East along said North line a distance of 3.78 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area containing 77 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-132.1; a portion of tax parcel number 234130-0006; King County Recording Number 20100730000192)

 is accepted, and the portions of parcel number 234130-0006 identified in Attachment 21, are laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 21. The Quit Claim Deed, dated June 30, 2010, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-142

 PIN 342660-0028

 That portion of Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 in Block 12 of Empire Way Addition to the City of Seattle, according to plat recorded in Volume 22 of Plats at page(s) 2, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southwest corner of said Lot 8, said point also being the intersection of the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the Northerly line of South Orcas Street;

 Thence North 17 degrees 00' 12" West along said Easterly line a distance of 215.08 feet;

 Thence Northerly, along a curve to the right having a radius of 10.00 feet, the radial center of which bears North 72 degrees 59' 48" East, through a central angle of 108 degrees 29' 01", an arc distance of 18.93 feet to a point on the Southerly line of South Findley Street and the Northerly line of Lot 1;

 Thence South 88 degrees 31' 11" East along said Northerly line a distance of 12.18 feet;

 Thence South 64 degrees 47' 34" West a distance of 18.46 feet;

 Thence South 07 degrees 28' 34" West a distance of 12.66 feet;

 Thence South 19 degrees 05' 21" East a distance of 110.41 feet;

 Thence North 70 degrees 54' 39" East a distance of 3.00 feet;

 Thence South 19 degrees 05' 31" East a distance of 20.00 feet;

 Thence South 70 degrees 54' 39" West a distance of 3.00 feet;

 Thence South 19 degrees 07' 49" East a distance of 42.87 feet;

 Thence South 16 degrees 48' 31" East a distance of 14.28 feet;

 Thence North 72 degrees 59' 48" East a distance of 4.80 feet;

 Thence South 17 degrees 00' 12" East a distance of 16.85 feet;

 Thence South 55 degrees 04' 46" East a distance of 10.84 feet to a point on the South line of said Lot 8;

 Thence North 88 degrees 40 '53" West a distance of 20.00 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-142; portions of tax parcel number 342660-0028; King County Recording Number 20100730000193)

 is accepted, and the portions of parcel number 342660-0028 identified in Attachment 22, are laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 22. The real properties conveyed by the above- described deeds are placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 23. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken prior to its effective date is ratified and confirmed.

 Section 24. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Gretchen M. Haydel SDOT Sound Transit Deed Acceptance No. 4 February 14, 2011 Version #1

 Attachments 1-22: Maps of properties being conveyed to SDOT for general street purposes.

```
<table><tr><td>Attachment
   
 Number

</td><td>Right-of-Way

File Number(S)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>1

</td><td>[730-RV-073.1](/~ordpics/117128at1.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>2

</td><td>[730-RV-078](/~ordpics/117128at2.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3

</td><td>[730-RV-082](/~ordpics/117128at3.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>4

</td><td>[730-RV-083](/~ordpics/117128at4.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>5

</td><td>[730-RV-087](/~ordpics/117128at5.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>6

</td><td>[730-RV-087.1](/~ordpics/117128at6.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>7

</td><td>[730-RV-088](/~ordpics/117128at7.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>8

</td><td>[730-RV-091](/~ordpics/117128at8.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>9

</td><td>[730-RV-092](/~ordpics/117128at9.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>10

</td><td>[730-RV-098](/~ordpics/117128at10.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>11

</td><td>[730-RV-101](/~ordpics/117128at11.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>12

</td><td>[735-RV-103](/~ordpics/117128at12.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>13

</td><td>[730-RV-104](/~ordpics/117128at13.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>14

</td><td>[735-RV-106](/~ordpics/117128at14.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>15

</td><td>[735-RV-107](/~ordpics/117128at15.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>16

</td><td>[735-RV-109](/~ordpics/117128at16.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>17

</td><td>[730-RV-113 & 730-RV-113.1 ](/~ordpics/117128at17.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>18

</td><td>[730-RV-118 & 730-RV-121 ](/~ordpics/117128at18.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>19

</td><td>[730-RV-126](/~ordpics/117128at19.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>20

</td><td>[730-RV-131](/~ordpics/117128at20.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>21

</td><td>[730-RV-132.1](/~ordpics/117128at21.pdf)

</td></tr>

<tr><td>22

</td><td>[730-RV-142](/~ordpics/117128at22.pdf)

</td></tr>

</table>

