

********

**Council Bill Number: 117156**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123602**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; accepting deeds for real property and property rights acquired in connection with the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy in designated greenspaces (Southwest Queen Anne Greenbelt, Northeast Queen Anne Greenbelt, Westlake Greenbelt, St. Mark's Greenbelt, Harrison Ridge Greenbelt, Duwamish Head Green Space, West Duwamish Greenbelt, East Duwamish Greenbelt, Seola Beach Greenbelt, Thornton Creek Natural Area, Leschi Natural Area, Me-Kwa-Mooks Natural Area, Longfellow Creek Green Space, Kubota Gardens Natural Area, Kiwanis Ravine Green Space, Puget Creek Green Space, and Puget Ridge Green Space), for park additions (Ballard Corners Park, Hing Hay Park and the Whittier Pocket Park), for new neighborhood parks (Ballard Park, East Capitol Hill Park, Ercolini Park, Fremont Peak Park, Homer Harris Park, Junction Plaza Park, Linden Orchard Park, Maple Leaf Community Garden, Morgan Junction Park, Mt. Baker Ridge Park, Northgate Park and Queen Anne Neighborhood Park), and for an addition to the International District Community Center, all for open space, park, and recreation purposes, and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 9, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 16, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 16, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 18, 2011
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** BAGSHAW
   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass
   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** May 5, 2011
   
**Committee Vote:** 3 (Bagshaw, Harrell, Rasmussen) - 0
   
   
**Index Terms:** PARKS, OPEN-SPACE-LAND, LAND-ACQUISITION, BUDGET, GREENBELTS

**Fiscal Note:**117156

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123602](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123602.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; accepting deeds for real property and property rights acquired in connection with the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy in designated greenspaces (Southwest Queen Anne Greenbelt, Northeast Queen Anne Greenbelt, Westlake Greenbelt, St. Mark's Greenbelt, Harrison Ridge Greenbelt, Duwamish Head Green Space, West Duwamish Greenbelt, East Duwamish Greenbelt, Seola Beach Greenbelt, Thornton Creek Natural Area, Leschi Natural Area, Me-Kwa-Mooks Natural Area, Longfellow Creek Green Space, Kubota Gardens Natural Area, Kiwanis Ravine Green Space, Puget Creek Green Space, and Puget Ridge Green Space), for park additions (Ballard Corners Park, Hing Hay Park and the Whittier Pocket Park), for new neighborhood parks (Ballard Park, East Capitol Hill Park, Ercolini Park, Fremont Peak Park, Homer Harris Park, Junction Plaza Park, Linden Orchard Park, Maple Leaf Community Garden, Morgan Junction Park, Mt. Baker Ridge Park, Northgate Park and Queen Anne Neighborhood Park), and for an addition to the International District Community Center, all for open space, park, and recreation purposes, and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, in connection with the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy (2000 Parks Levy) the City of Seattle acquired property and property rights to expand existing parks and green spaces and to add new spaces to the park system; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle City Charter requires that all acquisition of real property be authorized by ordinance and that all deeds be accepted by or under authority of ordinance; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The deeds described below (by grantor, date, and recording number), conveying real property and property interests to the City of Seattle, are hereby accepted for open space, park and recreation purposes, and placed under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation.

 2000 PARKS LEVY PROGRAM PROPERTIES

 Southwest Queen Anne Greenbelt:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy:

 KING COUNTY, a political subdivision of the State of Washington, by Deed dated November 03, 2004, recorded November 04, 2004, under King County Recording Number 20041104000168, for $545, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16459 :

 Lot 17, Block 85, Replat of West Seattle Land & Improvement Company's Third Plat, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 58, records of King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No.770510-0037).

 Northeast Queen Anne Greenbelt:

 The following parcels in this area were funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170, and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122485:

 SPENCER M. & KAREN M. BELL, husband and wife, by Deed dated March 09, 2007, recorded March 15, 2007, under King County Recording Number 20070315002353, for $615,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16836 :

 Parcel A :

 The east three feet of Lot 1 and the west 60 feet of Lot 10, Block 64, Collins Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 1, records of King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 168940-0778);

 Parcel B :

 The East 23 3/4 feet of Lot 10, Block 64, Collins Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 1, records of King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 168940-0775);

 Parcel C

 Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 15, Westlake Boulevard Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, page 69, records of King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 930130-1540);

 Parcel D :

 Lots 4 and 5, Block 15, Westlake Boulevard Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, page 69, records of King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 930130-1555).

 Westlake Greenbelt:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170, and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122985:

 LAKESIDE PARTNERS LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, by Deed dated August 14, 2007, recorded August 15, 2007, under King County Recording Number 20070815000944, for $550,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16871 :

 Portion of Lots 4, 5 and 6, Block 15, Hunter Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 37, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the southwest corner of Lot 4, Block 15, of said addition; thence north 66 degrees 23'00" east a distance of 42.00 feet; thence south 23 degrees 37'00" east parallel with the west line of said Lot 4, a distance of 18.42 feet to the south line of said Lot 4; thence north 89 degrees 56'l0" west on the south line of said Lot 4 a distance of 45.86 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 TOGETHER WITH: Beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 5, Block 15 of said addition; thence south 89 degrees 56'l0" east on the north line of said Lot 5, a distance of 45.86 feet; thence south 23 degrees 37'00" east parallel with the west line of said Lot 5, a distance of 48.98 feet to the south line of said Lot 5; thence north 89 degrees 56'37" west on the south line of said Lot 5, a distance of 45.86 feet to the southwest corner of said Lot 5; thence north 23 degrees 37'00" west on the west line of said Lot 5, a distance of 48.98 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 TOGETHER WITH: Beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 6, Block 15 of said addition; thence south 89 degrees 56'37" east on the north line of said Lot 6, a distance of 45.86 feet; thence south 66 degrees 23'00" west distance of 42.00 feet to the west line of said Lot 6; thence north 23 degrees 37'00" west on the west line of said Lot 6, a distance of 18.41 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 352890-1085).

 St. Marks Greenbelt:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122129, and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122485:

 GRAHAM & CONI R.S. FITCH, husband and wife, by Deed dated June 26, 2006, recorded June 28, 2006, under King County Recording Number 20060628001589, for $110,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16582 :

 Those portions of Lots 13 and 14, Block 1, Replat of Allmond Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 15, records of King County, Washington, and those portions of Lots 10, 11 and 12, Block 1, Wight's Scenic Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, page 26 records of King County, Washington, being westerly of the east 30 feet thereof condemned for the widening of Lakeview Boulevard in King County Superior Court Cause No. 47300 under City of Seattle Ordinance No. 11404 and said Lot 13 being westerly of that portion thereof condemned for the widening of said Lakeview Boulevard in King County Superior Court Cause No. 92390 under the City of Seattle Ordinance No. 29066, all lying easterly of that right of way line drawn parallel with and 150 feet easterly, when measured radially, from the survey line of State Highway Route No. 5, Seattle Freeway East Galer Street to Shelby Street (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 018800-0035);

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122314, and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122485:

 TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND, a California public benefit non-profit corporation, by Deed dated December 14, 2006, recorded December 29, 2006, under King County Recording Number 20061229000635, for $200,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16807 :

 Lot 1, Block 2, Replat of Allmond Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 15, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 018800-0060).

 Harrison Ridge Greenbelt:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170, and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121375:

 FREDERICK L. NOLAND, who acquired title as his separate estate, and SUSAN M. HANSEN, husband and wife, by Deed dated September 20, 2007, recorded September 21, 2007, under King County Recording Number 20070921000339, for $779,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16872 :

 Lots 1 and 2, Block 10, Coulter's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, Page 151, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 177850-0714).

 Duwamish Head Green Space:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170:

 KING COUNTY, a political subdivision of the State of Washington, by Deed dated November 03, 2004, recorded November 04, 2004, under King County Recording Number 20041104000168, for $1,250,as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16460 :

 The East 10 feet of the West 85 feet of Lot 7, Block 1, Shaffer and Moncrieff's Olympic View Addition to Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 12 of Plats, page 9, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 927570-2870);

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170, and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122358:

 STONE GOSSARD, trustee of the Hilly Smith Trust, by Deed dated March 16, 2005, recorded March 18, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050318000222, for $820,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16467 :

 Lots 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39, Block 73, Replat of the West Seattle Land & Improvement Company's Third Plat, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 58, in King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the underlying fee title in the adjoining streets, as conveyed to the City Seattle by deed recorded under Recording Number 20010613000895,

 AND TOGETHER WITH an easement for ingress and egress as established by instruments recorded under Recording Numbers 20010613000896 and 20010621000919 (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel Nos. 927570-1255 and 927570-1350);

 The following parcels in this area were acquired by donation, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170:

 ARLYNE ANDERSON LOACKER, as her separate estate, by Deed dated September 5, 2008, recorded October 2, 2008, under King County Recording Number 20081002000310, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 21844 :

 Lots 1 through 5, inclusive, Block 8, Hughes Addition to West Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, Page 95, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 350510-0590);

 CHRISTOPHER LEADY, as his separate estate, and MICHAEL & MARCIA A. RODGERS, husband and wife, by Deed dated November 20, 2003, recorded December 15, 2003, under King County Recording Number 20031215002305, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16347 :

 Parcel A:

 The south 41 feet of Lot 7, Block 88, Replat of the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company's Third Plat, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, Page 58, in King County, Washington; (Also known as Parcel A of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 9007580, recorded under recording number 9202040420) (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 927570-3130);

 Parcel B :

 All of Lots 7 and 8, EXCEPT the South 41 feet of said Lot 7, Block 88, Replat of the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company's Third Plat, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, Page 58, in King County, Washington; (Also known as Parcel B of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 9007580, recorded under recording number 9202040420) (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 927570-3135 and 927570-3140);

 Parcel C :

 Lot 9, Block 88, Replat of the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company's Third Plat, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, Page 58, in King County, Washington; (Also known as Parcel C of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 9007580, recorded under recording number 9202040420) (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 927570-3140).

 West Duwamish Greenbelt:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120500, and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120855:

 WEDGEWOOD TACOMA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Washington State Limited Partnership, as to an undivided 85% interest and JOSEPH MAYER, as his separate estate, as to an undivided 15% interest, by Deed dated September 11, 2001, recorded September 14, 2001, under King County Recording Number 20010914000289, for $1,300,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16148 :

 Beginning at the southeast corner of Section 13, Township 24 North, Range 3 East W. M., in King County, Washington, and proceeding along the south line of said Section 13, a distance of 250 feet; thence north 0 degrees 45'23" west 1079.60 feet; thence north 86 degrees 16'02" west 74 feet; thence north 65 degrees 57'32 west 72 feet thence north 60 degrees 05'02 west 184 feet; thence north 21 degrees 44'22" west 125.57 feet; thence north 89 degrees 18'43" east to the east line of said Section 13; thence south 0 degrees 00'49 east along said east Section line to the point of beginning,

 TOGETHER WITH the following described parcel:

 Beginning at the northeast corner of Section 24, Township 24 North, Range 3 East W. M. in King County, Washington, and proceeding thence west along the north line of said Section 24, a distance of 250 feet; thence south 0 degrees 45'23" east 200 feet; thence north 89 degrees 17'52" east to the east line of said Section 24; thence north 0 degrees 00'21" west along said east section line to the POINT OF BEGINNING; EXCEPT that portion conveyed to the City of Seattle for street by deed recorded under Recording Number 9104120383 (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 132403-9019).

 East Duwamish Greenbelt:

 The following parcels in this area were funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170:

 MATHILDE DYDUCH GENTRY, MONIKA DYDUCH AQUIMO, REGINA ELFRIEDE DYDUCH FRYE, also appearing of record as ELFRIEDE DYDUCH FRYE, and CHRISTINE LISA DYDUCH HRUBIENSKI, each as their separate estates, by Deed dated December 20, 2005, recorded December 23, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20051223001801, for $258,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16554 :

 Lots 4 and 5, Block 2, Jos. C. Kinnear's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 123, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel Nos. 388190-0090 and 388190- 0095);

 STEPHEN VINCENT ACHESON & NANCE ANN ACHESON, trustees of the Stephen Vincent Acheson Revocable Trust, by Deed dated January 12, 2006, recorded January 25, 2006, under King County Recording Number 20060125001771, for $150,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16556 :

 Lots 3 and 4, Block 68, Central Seattle (commonly known as McNaught's Central Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 115, Records of King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 539360-0240);

 The following parcel in this area was acquired by donation, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170:

 A.C. GOODWIN, as his separate estate, by Deed dated December 07, 2005, recorded December 30, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20051230001883, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16555 :

 Lots 1 through 8, inclusive, Block 4, Washington View Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 15 of Plats, page 30, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel Nos. 918820-0210, 918820- 0215, 918820-0220, 918820-0225, 918820-0230, 918820-0235, 918820-0240 and 918820-0245).

 Seola Beach Greenbelt

 The following parcel in this area was acquired by donation:

 The Grantors, FREDERICK C. DUKE, JAMES LEROY DUKE, and JANELLE F. WILSON, each as their respective separate estate; MARGARET LOUISE BATTTN, Personal Representative of the Estate of ANGUS CHARLETON DUKE, deceased; and MARl SKELLY, Personal Representative of the Estate of MARGARET M. RADER, by Deed dated December 29, 2009, recorded January 4, 2010, under King County Recording Number 20100104001561, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 22024 :

 That portion of Government Lot 3, Section 12, Township 23 North, Range 3 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the intersection of the south line of the north 660 feet of said Government Lot with the northwesterly line of Seola Beach County Road, also known as Qualheim Avenue S.W.; Thence southwesterly along said road south 23 degrees 32'l0" west 32 feet; Thence north 88 degrees 52'49" west 20 feet; Thence north 23 degrees 32'l0" east 32 parallel to said road, to the south line of the north 660 feet of said Government Lot; Thence south 88 degrees 52'49" east 20 feet to THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (Being a portion of Tract 11, Ragleys Acre Tracts, unrecorded) (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 711000- 0066).

 Thornton Creek Natural Area:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170, and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121375:

 LARRY LUNDSTROM, as Personal Representative for the estate of Ester G. Lundstrom, by Deed dated July 31, 2003, recorded July 31, 2003, under King County Recording Number 20030731003793, for $60,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16310 :

 Lot 13, Block 13, Morningside Heights, an addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 21 of Plats, page 7, records of King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the east 11 feet thereof (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 565260-1158).

 The following parcels in this area were funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122067:

 JAMES T. & SHELLY E. ROSSI, husband and wife, by Deed dated May 14, 2004, recorded May 14, 2004, under King County Recording Number 20040514000463, for $405,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16410 :

 Parcel A:

 That portion of Lot 4 lying southwesterly of the centerline of Thornton Creek and all Lots 5 and 6, Acre 3 in Block 98 of Maple Leaf Addition to Green Lake Circle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 115, in King County, Washington,

 TOGETHER WITH the north half of northeast 100th Street adjoining said premises, acquired by decree quieting title filed under King County Superior Court Cause Number 83-2- 06956-4

 Parcel B:

 Lot 6, Acre 4 in Block 98 of Maple Leaf Addition to Green Lake Circle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 115, in King County, Washington,

 TOGETHER WITH the north half of northeast 100th Street adjoining said premises, acquired by decree quieting title filed under King County Superior Court Cause number 83-2- 06956-4;

 EXCEPT that portion of said Lot 6 lying northerly of the line described as follows:

 Beginning at the northwesterly corner of said Lot 6; thence southerly along the west line of said lot a distance of 101 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of said line; thence southeasterly to a point on the east line of said lot, said point being 145 feet south of the northeasterly corner of said lot and the terminus of said line, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 510140- 5675).

 Leschi Natural Area:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120502 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120855:

 MARK AND MICHELLE POTVIN, husband and wife, by Deed dated September 26, 2001, recorded September 28, 2001, under King County Recording Number 20010928000241, for $755,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 15969 :

 That portion of Tract 12 of Conover Park, as per plat recorded in Volume 15 of Plats, page 41, records of King County, lying west of a line 120 feet from and parallel with the east boundary of Conover Park; Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 174471-0115).

 Me Kwa Mooks Natural Area:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120855:

 THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, an agency of the State of Washington, as trustee under Charitable Remainder Unitrust, by Deed dated October 31, 2003, recorded October 31, 2003, under King County Recording Number 20031031002439, for $1,000,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16364 :

 That portion of vacated Tract 10 & 11 of Spring Hill Villa Tracts, as per plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats page 33, Records of King County, Washington, lying westerly of the westerly line of Terrace View Addition as per plat recorded in Volume 45 of Plats, page 18, Records of said County and easterly of Schmitz's South Alki Addition to the City of Seattle, Division No 1, as per plat recorded in Volume 22 of Plats, page 31, Records of said County and northeasterly of the northeasterly margin of Jacobsen Road as deeded to King County, and together with that portion of vacated SW Alaska Street as attached by law, described as follows:

 Commencing at the point where the northeasterly margin of Jacobsen Road, as originally established, intersects the southerly line of Tract 11, said Spring Hill Villa Tracts, said point also being the true POINT OF BEGINNING; thence N 50 degrees 36'53" W, along said northeasterly street margin, a distance of 179.46 feet to an angle point; thence continuing along said northeasterly street margin, N 59 degrees 37'01" W a distance of 231.89 feet to an intersection with the east line of Lot 9, Block 3, Schmitz South Alki Add Div#1 (v22, p31), thence N 00 degrees 42'41" E along said east line a distance of 105.45 feet, to the centerline of SW Alaska St. as vacated per City Ordinance 76649; thence S 88 degrees 53'18" E along said centerline a distance of 219.08 feet to a point lying 171.00 feet distant from the intersection of said centerline and the westerly line of Terrace View Add (v45, p18); thence S 0 degrees 38'42 W parallel to said westerly line a distance of 30.00 feet to the southerly margin of said vacated SW Alaska St, thence S 88 degrees 53'18" E along said southerly margin a distance of 9l.61 feet to an angle point, thence S 66 degrees 02'37" E a distance of 86.44 feet to an intersection with said westerly line of Terrace View Add ,thence S 0 degrees 38'42" W along said westerly line a distance of 20.20 feet to an angle point in the westerly line of said Terrace View Add; thence continuing along the westerly line of said Terrace View Add S 42 degrees 08'00" E a distance of 338.04 feet to the southerly line of Tract 11, Spring Hill Villa Tracts (v9, p33), thence N 88 degrees 53'18" W along said southerly line a distance of 278.46 feet to said northeasterly margin of Jacobsen Road and the true POINT OF BEGINNING.

 EXCEPT that portion of Tract 11 Spring Hill Vista Tracts described as follows:

 Beginning at the point where the northeasterly margin of Jacobsen Road, as originally established, intersects the southerly line of Tract 11, said Spring Hill Villa Tracts, thence N 50 degrees 36'53" W along said northeasterly margin a distance of 64.00 feet; thence N 47 degrees 23'22" E a distance of 102.00 feet; thence S 35 degrees 18'37" E a distance of 20.00 feet; thence S 28 degrees 32'37" E a distance of 20.00 feet; thence S 16 degrees 14'37" E a distance of 20.00 feet; thence S l8 degrees 36'23" W a distance of 23.00 feet; thence S 27 degrees 15'23" W a distance of 23.00 feet; thence S 36 degrees 00'37 E a distance of 18.81 feet to an intersection with the southerly line of said Tract 11; thence N 88 degrees 53'18" W a distance of 45.52 feet to the point of beginning;

 AND EXCEPT that portion of Tracts 10 and 11, Spring Hill Vista Tracts described as follows:

 Commencing at the point where the northeasterly margin of Jacobsen Road, as originally established, intersects the southerly line of Tract l1, said Spring Hill Villa Tracts, thence N 50 degrees 36'53" W along said northeasterly margin a distance of 133.30 feet to the point of beginning, thence continuing along said northeasterly margin N 50 degrees 36'53" W a distance of 46.16 feet to an angle point, thence continuing along said northeasterly margin N 59 degrees 37'01" W a distance of 58.49 feet; thence N 41 degrees 42'48" E a distance of 96.50 feet; thence S 52 degrees 48'39" E a distance of 103.80 feet; thence S 41 degrees 42'48" W a distance of 91.32 feet to said northeasterly margin and the point of beginning (Otherwise known as Parcel A of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment #2305056 recorded under King County Recording Number 2003102890013) (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel Nos. 793600-0061, 793600-0063 and 793600- 0065);

 Partial rights to a conservation easement on the following parcels in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170 and by the Community Improvement Fund, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 117276:

 CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY, a Washington non-profit corporation, by Assignment of Rights dated March 31, 2004, recorded March 31, 2004, under King County Recording Number 20040331003695, for $130,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16396 :

 Parcel A:

 North 50 feet of that portion of Tract 12, Spring Hill Villa Tracts, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 33, in King County, Washington, lying west of 52nd Avenue S.W. and east of a line 150 feet east of Jacobsen Road, measured on the south line of the north 50 feet of said Tract 12, in King County, Washington.

 Parcel B:

 That portion of Lot 12, Spring Hill Villa Tracts, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 33, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the east line of said Lot 12 which is 50 feet south of the northeast corner thereof; thence west 160 feet more or less, to a point 150 feet east of the east line of Southwest Jacobsen Road; thence south 70 feet more or less, to the south line of said Lot 12; thence east along said south line 160 feet more or less, to the east line thereof; thence north along said east line to the point of beginning.

 Parcel C:

 That portion of Tract 13, Spring Hill Villa Tracts, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 33, in King County, Washington and that portion of Lot 24, Marine Vista Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 30 of Plats, page 16, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the north line of said Tract 13, north 88 degrees 53'43" west 100 feet from the northeast corner thereof; thence south 0 degrees 40'07" west, parallel to the westerly margin of 52nd Avenue Southwest, a distance of 60 feet to an intersection with the easterly extension of the northerly line of Lot 18 of said Marine Vista Addition; thence north 88 degrees 53'43" west along said line a distance of 181.61 feet to a point on a curve in the easterly line of a tract of land conveyed to the City of Seattle for street purposes by deed recorded under recording number 2525622; thence northerly along said easterly line on a curve to the right having a radius of 200 feet, the radial center of which bears north 64 degrees 33'11" east a distance of 63.18 feet to a point on the north line of said Tract 13, which point is north 88 degrees 53'43" west 300.17 feet from the northeast corner of said Tract 13, thence south 88 degrees 53'43" east 200.17 feet to the point of beginning.

 Parcel D:

 That portion of Tract 13, Spring Hill Villa Tracts, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 33, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the northeast corner of said tract, thence north 88 degrees 53'43" west, along the north line thereof, 100 feet; thence south 0 degrees 40'07" west, parallel with the westerly margin of lot 52nd Avenue S.W. a distance of 50 feet to the northerly line of a Lot 24, of Marine Vista Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 30 of Plats, page 16, in King County, Washington; thence south 88 degrees 53'43" east along said northerly line, 100 feet to the westerly margin of said 52nd Avenue Southwest, thence north 0 degrees 40'07" east along said westerly margin, 50 feet to the true point of beginning.

 Parcel E:

 Lots 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24, Marine Vista Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 30 of Plats, page 16, in King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT that portion of said Lots 18, 19 and 20 conveyed to the City of Seattle for street purposes by deed recorded under recording number 2525621; and EXCEPT that portion of said Lot 24, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the north line of said Lot 24, which is 100 feet westerly of the northeast corner of said lot; thence south 00 degrees 40'07" west, parallel to the westerly margin of 52nd Avenue Southwest, a distance of 10 feet to an intersection with the easterly extension of the northerly line of lot 18 in said Marine Vista Addition to the City of Seattle; thence north 88 degrees 53'43" west, along said line, a distance of 20 feet to the westerly line of said Lot 24; thence north 0 degrees 40'07" east, along said westerly line, 10 feet to the north line of said Lot 24, thence south 88 degrees 53'43" east, along said north line, 20 feet to the point of beginning. (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 515420-0075, 515420-0090, 793600-0087, 793600-0090, 793600-0111, 793600-0113).

 Longfellow Creek Green Space:

 The following parcels in this area were funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121775:

 STEVE L. & JOSIE WHITE, husband and wife, by Deed dated February 28, 2005, recorded February 28, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050228000623, for $230,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16465 :

 The land referred to is situated in the State of Washington, and described as follows:

 Parcel F, City of Seattle Short Plat Number 83-497, recorded under Recording Number 8407270370, in King County, Washington, said Short Plat described as follows:

 Parcel D of City of Seattle Short Plat Number 78-76, recorded under Recording Number 7807250802, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Being a portion of Lot 10, Block 3, Homecroft Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 24 of Plats, page 42, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 343850-2164);

 Exparte Commissioner of the King County Superior Court, Representing MARK CARRIERE, a single person, pursuant to King County Superior Court Cause No. 03-2-09224-0 KNT and JANET P. CURRINGTON, who acquired title as Janet Carriere, a married woman as her separate estate, by Deed dated February 10, 2005, recorded February 28, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050228002740, for $215,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16464 :

 The northerly 50 feet of Lot 1, Block 41, Homecroft Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in volume 24 of Plats, page 42, in King County, Washington; EXCEPT the easterly 109 feet thereof (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 343850-2364);

 CAROL EGGLESTON, as Personal Representative of the estate of Richard H. Folker, deceased, by Deed dated March 17, 2005, recorded March 23, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050323001543, for $77,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16469 :

 The South 192.5 feet of the North 322.5 feet of Lot 14, Block 7, Steel Plant Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, Page 90, in King County, Washington; EXCEPTING there from the East 30 feet as conveyed to the City of Seattle for street purposes recorded under King County Recording Number 4781670 (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 798540-0425);

 WILLIAM P. & RHODA M. STOCKWELL, husband and wife, by Deed dated April 29, 2005, recorded April 29, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050429000190, for $130,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16490 :

 The north 200 feet of Lot 9, Block 7, Steel Plant Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 11 of Plats, page 90, in King County, Washington;

 Together with an interest in a side sewer easement and storm water line easement recorded under recording number 20040712001529 (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 798540-0356);

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170 and by the Washington Wildlife and Recreation Program, under IAC Contract 06-2056A, authorized under City of Seattle Resolution 30869, and King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122985:

 CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY, a Washington Non-Profit Corporation, by Deed dated July 10, 2008, recorded July 14, 2008, under King County Recording Number 20080714000602, for $711,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 21842 :

 Lots 1 thru 14, inclusive, Block 28, West Side Addition to West Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 48, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 928480-2285, 928480-2290, 928480-2295, 928480-2300, 928480-2305, 928480- 2310, 928480-2315, 928480-2320, 928480-2325, 928480-2330, 928480-2335, 928480-2340, 928480-2345 and 928480-2350).

 Kubota Gardens Natural Area:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinances 121775 and 122485:

 MOLLY M. & LINNA E. MCCARTHY, both single, each as their separate property, by Deed dated April 28, 2006, recorded May 02, 2006, under King County Recording Number 20060502000279, for $350,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16580 :

 Beginning at the intersection of the south line of Tract 5, Rainier Beach Garden Tracts, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 37, in King County, Washington, and the southwesterly margin of Renton Avenue, as established by King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096; thence west along said south line 203.89 feet, more or less, to a point 227 feet west from the southeast corner of said Tract 5; thence north along a line parallel with the west line of said Tract 5, 144.41 feet; thence east along a line parallel with the south line of said Tact 5, 69.89 feet, more or less, to the southwesterly margin of Renton Avenue;thence south 45*53'33" east along said margin 205.77 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 713130-0083);

 MARILYN A. AHEARN, as Trustee of the Revocable Trust of Marilyn A. Ahearn, by Deed dated January 29, 2007, recorded January 31, 2007, under King County Recording Number 20070131000843, for $495,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16835 :

 Tract 7, Plat of Rainier Beach Garden Tracts, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, Page 37, in King County, Washington; EXCEPT the South 115; and EXCEPT that portion thereof condemned for Renton Avenue South in King County Superior Court Cause Number 98096 (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 713130-0120).

 Kiwanis Ravine Green Space:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122985:

 SARA MARIE STEVENS, as Personal Representative of the estate of Ward Stevens, also appearing of record as Ward Anthony Stevens, deceased, by Deed dated August 24, 2005, recorded August 24, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050824002107, for $428,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16538 :

 Lots 1 through 4, inclusive, Block 5, Lawton Heights, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 16 of Plats, Page 94, In King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 423540-0275).

 Puget Creek Green Space:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121170 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121775:

 JACK HUTSON, as his separate estate, by Deed dated May 27, 2005, recorded May 31, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050531000564, for $178,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16522 :

 The east 184.16 feet of Lot 2, Block 14, Homecroft Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 24 of Plats, page 42, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 343850-0490).

 Puget Ridge Green Space:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120808 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120855:

 LAURENCE J. AND PATSY J. DANKEL, as Trustees of the Dankel Family Trust and Rodopi Andrews, as Trustee of the Andrews Revocable Living Trust, by Deed dated August 13, 2002, recorded August 13, 2002, under King County Recording Number 20020813001328, for $320,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16164 :

 Lots 2, 3 and 4, Block 43, Homecroft Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 24 of Plats, page 42, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 3438502460, 3438502470 and 3438502480).

 Ballard Corners Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120868 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121375:

 ROBERT L. & SUSAN B. HALE, husband and wife, by Deed dated March 17, 2003, recorded March 17, 2003, under King County Recording Number 20030317000929, for $270,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16227 :

 Lot 15, Block 17, Gilman Park Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, page 40, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 276760-1955).

 Hing Hay Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122451 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinances 122067 and 122985:

 KAREN AND DAVID WONG, husband and wife, by Deed dated December 13, 2007, recorded December 31, 2007, under King County Recording Number 20071231000201, for $3,111,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16881 :

 Lots 3 and 4, Block 41, Town of Seattle, as laid out by D.S. Maynard, commonly known as D.S. Maynard's plat of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 23, in King County, Washington; except the north 9 feet thereof (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 524780-1935).

 Whittier Pocket Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121138 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121375:

 CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY, a Washington non-profit corporation, by Deed dated June 13, 2003, recorded June 13, 2003, under King County Recording Number 20030613001543, for $225,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16322 :

 Lot 3 and the east half of Lot 4, Block 9, Salmon Bay Second Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, Page 47, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 751900-1945).

 Ballard Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122666 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 123257:

 SEVENTH ELECT CHURCH IN ISRAEL, a Washington non-profit corporation, by Deed dated April 18, 2008, recorded April 30, 2008, under King County Recording Number 20080430000804, for $3,000,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 21829 :

 Lots 30 through 45, inclusive, except the south 10 feet of said Lot 30, Block 19, Ballard Park Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 80, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 046100-5265).

 East Capitol Hill Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122425 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122985:

 16TH & DENNY LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, by Deed dated June 28, 2007, recorded June 29, 2007, under King County Recording Number 20070629000793, for $3,000,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16866 :

 Parcels A and B, City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 3004983, recorded under Recording No. 20070223900001, said lot boundary adjustment more particularly described as follows:

 Lots 5 and 6, Block 13, Summit Addition to Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 109, in King County, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH Lot 2, Block 8, Renton's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, page 118, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel Nos. 808040-0134 and 808040- 0144).

 Ercolini Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121858 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121775:

 JAMES ERCOLINI, as his separate estate, by Deed dated September 15, 2005, recorded September 15, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050915002591, for $896,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16540 :

 Lots 17 through 24, inclusive, Block 23, Euclid Addition to West Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 7, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 239160-2520).

 Fremont Peak Park:

 The following parcels in this area were funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120868 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120855:

 FREMONT DOCK COMPANY, a Washington Corporation, by Deed dated August 23, 2002, recorded August 23, 2002, under King County Recording Number 20020823001584, for $900,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16175 :

 PARCEL A

 Lots 9 and 10, Block 10, Palatine Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 166, in King County, Washington, EXCEPT the north 8 feet of Lot 10 (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 661000-0790);

 TOGETHER WITH an easement over the north 10 feet and the west 18 feet of Lot 14.

 PARCEL B

 Lot 14, Block 10, Palatine Hill Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 166, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 661000-0815).

 Homer Harris Park:

 The following parcels in this area were funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121014 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121375:

 CHARLES E. & MARY S. KYLE, husband and wife, by Deed dated December 13, 2002, recorded December 23, 2002, under King County Recording Number 20021223000775, for $560,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16203 :

 The north half of Lot 5 and all of Lot 6, Block 4, Yesler's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 216, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 982820-0180);

 SAM J. WRIGHT, a married man as his separate estate, by Deed dated December 31, 2002, recorded December 31, 2002, under King County Recording Number 20021231002861, for $560,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16202 :

 Lot 4 and the south half of Lot 5, Block 4, Yesler's Second Addition to the City Of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 216, in King County Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 982820-0170 and 982820-0165).

 Junction Plaza Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121858:

 ALASKA SQUARE ASSOCIATES, a Washington General Partnership, by Deed dated September 28, 2005, recorded September 28, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050928000262, for $400,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16545 :

 Parcel A, as delineated on and described in King County Short Plat Number 80-120, recorded under King County Recording Number 8011261007, being more particularly described as follows:

 Lots 16 to 24 inclusive, Block 50, Boston Company's Plat of West Seattle according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, page 19, in King County, Washington,

 EXCEPT that portion of said Lot 24 heretofore condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No 70682, for widening of West Alaska Street as provided by Ordinance No 21302 of the City of Seattle,

 TOGETHER with that portion of West Alaska Street adjoining said Lot 24 on the south vacated by Ordinance No. 50159 of said City as would revert to said lot by operation of law,

 EXCEPT that portion lying northerly of the following described line:

 Beginning at a point on the easterly line of aforesaid Lots 16 through 24, in Block 50, Boston Company's Plat of West Seattle, 154.33 feet southerly of the northeast corner of said Lot 16; Thence westerly perpendicular to said east line, 34.88 feet; Thence southerly parallel to said line 4.00 feet; Thence westerly perpendicular to said east line 17.17 feet; Thence northwesterly 11.31 feet to a point 60.00 feet westerly of 42 Avenue Southwest; Thence westerly 55.07 feet to a point on the west line of aforesaid Lots 16 through 24, which point lies 150.32 feet southerly from the northwest corner of said Lot 16 and the terminus of this described line (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 095200-6470).

 Linden Orchard Park:

 The following parcels in this area were funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120496 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120855:

 US BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Personal Representative of the estate of Margaret Stein O'Neil, deceased, by Deed dated September 06, 2001, recorded September 10, 2001, under King County Recording Number 20010910000411, for $760,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16121 :

 Parcel A :

 The east 25 feet of Lot 36 and all of Lot 37 in Block 3 of Craven's Division of Green Lake Addition to Seattle, according to plat recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 3, in King County, Washington; Situated in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 1814800774);

 Parcel B :

 The south 84 feet of Lots 38, 39, and 40 in Block 3 of Craven's Division of Green Lake Addition to Seattle, according to plat recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 3, in King County, Washington; Situated in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 1814800770).

 Maple Leaf Community Garden:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121236 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121375:

 FIRST NATIONAL BANK & TRUST OF POWELL, WYOMING, as Trustee of the Rudolph A Kartess Revocable Living Trust, by Deed dated August 25, 2003, recorded August 29, 2003, under King County Recording Number 20030829003875, for $420,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16323 :

 Beginning at the northeast corner of the west half of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 32, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, thence west 330 feet, thence south 132 feet; thence east 330 feet, thence north 132 feet to the point of beginning,

 EXCEPT the west 255 feet thereof,

 AND EXCEPT the north 20 feet thereof conveyed to King County for road purposes by deed recorded under Recording Number 2464333 (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel Nos. 322604-9406 and 322604-9489).

 Morgan Junction Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122215 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinances 122067 and122485:

 BEVERIDGE INVESTMENT LLC, a Washington Limted Liability Company, by Deed dated November 30, 2006, recorded November 30, 2006, under King County Recording Number 20061130002197, for $747,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16805 :

 Lot B, City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment Number 3005505, recorded under recording number 20061031900031 being a portion of the following:

 Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Replat of Block 47 and Lots 7 and 8, Block 45, Sea View Park, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 17 of Plats, page 100, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 762620-0005).

 Mt. Baker Ridge Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120868:

 THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, by Deed dated December 24, 2002, recorded January 09, 2003, under King County Recording Number 20030109002879, for $55,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16204 :

 The East 40 feet of Lots 11, 12 and 13, Block 7, Prospect Terrace Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, page 33; EXCEPT that subsurface portion thereof lying below 200 feet elevation, City of Seattle datum (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 690920-0510).

 Northgate Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120870 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 120855:

 NORTHGATE MALL PARTNERSHIP, a Deleware General Partnership, by Deed dated August 14, 2002, recorded August 14, 2002, under King County Recording Number 20020814001925, for $6,954,030, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16448 :

 The north 2/3rd of that portion of the south four-fifths of the west half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 29, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the southwest corner of said subdivision, thence south 88*18'58" east along the south line of said subdivision a distance of 40.02 feet to the east margin of Fifth Avenue Northeast and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; thence continuing south 88*18'58" east a distance of 290.53 feet; thence north 00*08'58" east a distance of 531 01 feet; thence north 88*19'59" west a distance of 291.97 feet to said east margin of Fifth Avenue Northeast; thence south 00*00'20" east along said east margin a distance of 530.96 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING,

 TOGETHER WITH

 The south 1/3rd of that portion of the south four-fifths of the west half of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 29, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, as follows:

 Beginning at the southwest corner of said subdivision; thence south 88*18'58" east along the south line of said subdivision a distance of 40.02 feet to the east margin of Fifth Avenue Northeast and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; thence continuing south 88*18'58" east a distance of 290.53 feet; thence north 00*08'58" east a distance of 531.01 feet; thence north 88*19'59" west a distance of 291. 97 feet to said east margin of Fifth Avenue Northeast; thence south 00*00'20" east along said east margin a distance of 530.96 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 292604-9431 and 292604-9143).

 Queen Anne Neighborhood Park:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 121434 and by the King County Conservation Futures Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122067:

 THE UNION GROUP LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, as to an undivided 80% interest; and CONNIE HEIDEL, a single person, as to an undivided 20% interest, by Deed dated April 15, 2004, recorded April 15, 2004, under King County Recording Number 20040415000900, for $1,700,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16348 :

 Lots 6 and 7, Block 2, supplemental plat of G. Kinnear's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 62, in King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 387990-0105).

 INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT COMMUNITY CENTER (Room ) Acq:

 The following parcel in this area was funded by the 2000 Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, authorized under City of Seattle Ordinance 122230:

 SEATTLE CHINATOWN INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT PRESERVATION AND PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, a public corporation, by Deed dated June 14, 2005, recorded June 17, 2005, under King County Recording Number 20050617002743, for $100,000, as to  RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16339 :

 Unit 2 of IDVS 2, a condominium created by Condominium Declaration recorded under Recording Number 20021211002628, records of King County, Washington, and Survey Map and Plans recorded in Volume 187, pages 14 through 25 of Condominiums, records of King County, Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 355830-0020).

 Section 2. Any act consistent with acceptance of the deeds described in Section 1 above and prior to the effective date of this ordinance, including, without limitation, acceptance of donations of real property and other acquisition of real property described in Section 1 above, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Chip Nevins DPR Pro Parks Deed Acceptance ORD March 1, 2011 Version #3

```
