

********

**Council Bill Number: 117103**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123567**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to regular property taxes; requesting that a special election be held concurrent with the November 8, 2011 general election for submission to the qualified electors of the City of a proposition to lift the limit on regular property taxes under Chapter 84.55 RCW and authorize the City to levy additional taxes for up to seven years for the purpose of providing Seattle School District No. 1 public school students, Seattle children, and their families education-support services designed to improve academic achievement; authorizing creation of a new subfund; creating an oversight committee; and authorizing implementing agreements for this levy lid lift commonly known as the Families and Education Levy.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 28, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 4, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 4, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 7, 2011
   
**Committee:** Special Committee on Educational Achievement for Seattle Schoolchildren
   
**Sponsor:** BURGESS
   
   
**Index Terms:** TAXES, PROPERTY-TAXES, ELECTIONS, SCHOOLS, EDUCATION, SCHOOL-DISTRICT-1, CHILDREN, YOUTHS, FAMILY

**Fiscal Note:**117103

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123567](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123567.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to regular property taxes; requesting that a special election be held concurrent with the November 8, 2011 general election for submission to the qualified electors of the City of a proposition to lift the limit on regular property taxes under Chapter 84.55 RCW and authorize the City to levy additional taxes for up to seven years for the purpose of providing Seattle School District No. 1 public school students, Seattle children, and their families education-support services designed to improve academic achievement; authorizing creation of a new subfund; creating an oversight committee; and authorizing implementing agreements for this levy lid lift commonly known as the Families and Education Levy.

 WHEREAS, providing equal access to a quality education is a cornerstone of our democracy, which thrives on an engaged and educated citizenry; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle is a dynamic city, with a strong arts and literature community, and enjoys a strong economic base with a variety of industries and a skilled and educated workforce; and

 WHEREAS, in order to maintain its competitiveness, keep existing employers and attract new family-wage jobs and economically sustainable industries, Seattle needs to provide a well educated and trained workforce with the advanced skills and abilities needed to compete in the 21st century; and

 WHEREAS, a 2010 Georgetown University study of workforce needs found "that by 2018 the United States economy will need 22 million new workers with college degrees but will fall short by at least 3 million. In addition, nationwide we will need at least 4.7 million new workers with postsecondary certificates." The Georgetown University study analyzed workforce needs by state and forecasts that by 2018 67% of the jobs in Washington state will require a college degree or career credential; and

 WHEREAS, it is incumbent upon the Seattle School District No. 1 ("School District") and the community at large to ensure all children within Seattle have the opportunity to attain the skills and education needed to participate in their community, be effective civic actors, and contribute to a strong Seattle economy; and

 WHEREAS, while the School District is directly responsible for promoting academic excellence in our schools and classrooms, the support and assistance of families, businesses, non-profit and community organizations and the City is also needed to help children realize their full academic potential; and

 WHEREAS, in 1990 Seattle residents came together in an Education Summit convened by Mayor Norm Rice to develop strategies so Seattle children could take advantage of their educational opportunities and the School District could focus its resources on teaching; and

 WHEREAS, in 1990 Seattle voters approved a $69 million, seven year property tax lid lift which became known as the Families and Education Levy (Levy) which invested in health, academic enrichment and support services for Seattle children and their families with the stated goal of helping children be safe, healthy and ready to learn; and

 WHEREAS, in 1997 Seattle voters approved a $69 million, seven year renewal of the Levy with the continued goal of helping children be safe, healthy and ready to learn; and

 WHEREAS, in 2004 a citizen advisory committee convened to review the 1997 Levy-funded strategies and services, and recommended deeper Levy investments with a clearer stated goal of helping students succeed academically; and

 WHEREAS, in 2004 Seattle voters approved a $117 million, seven year renewal of the Levy with the expanded goal of helping children be ready to learn, succeed academically and graduate from high school; and

 WHEREAS, since 1990 Seattle voters have generously approved three successive seven year Families and Education levies to support and improve student academic achievement within the city by significant margins of 56% in 1990, 61% in 1997 and 62% in 2004; and

 WHEREAS, the 2004 Levy focuses on programs and services intended to prepare children for kindergarten, improving academic achievement, closing the achievement gap, and increasing high school graduation rates; and measures all Levy investments by their ability to contribute to these goals; and

 WHEREAS, in 2010 Seattle residents participated in a series of community meetings throughout the city and a day-long Congress to identify challenges faced by Seattle's youth and families and resources and strategies to address them, in an effort that became known and continues forward as the Youth and Families Initiative (YFI); and

 WHEREAS, helping all students succeed academically in school was identified as an important goal by parents and community members participating in the YFI; and

 WHEREAS, in 2010 the City adopted Resolution 31206 setting forth a structure, process and schedule to develop and place a seven year renewal of the Levy on the November 8, 2011, ballot, and providing for a Families and Education Levy Advisory Committee (Levy Advisory Committee) to make recommendations regarding a Levy renewal; and

 WHEREAS, the 24 member Levy Advisory Committee is comprised of the 12 member Levy Oversight Committee (LOC), which oversees the current Levy, and 12 additional citizens. The LOC members are the School Board President, a School District representative, the chair of the Council's Public Safety and Education Committee, a representative of the Mayor and eight citizens. The 20 citizen members on the Levy Advisory Committee, including the eight who serve on the LOC, collectively have professional and personal experience working with students and families, and in evaluating evidence-based programs and education strategies. The members include parents, community-based service providers, former teachers and researchers; and

 WHEREAS, in 2010 the Levy Advisory Committee spent six months reviewing current Levy programs, research on best practices and evidence-based programs, education reform efforts and School District data and recommends that the Levy goals again be expanded and Levy investments be deepened because graduation from high school is no longer sufficient; post secondary work is necessary in the current and future economy and students must graduate with the skills necessary to succeed in college or their chosen career path; and

 WHEREAS, the Levy Advisory Committee Report is contained in Clerk File 311309, in which all research references cited in this ordinance may be found; and

 WHEREAS, the Levy Advisory Committee recommends the overarching goal for our children should be that all students will graduate from Seattle high schools ready for college and/or career; and

 WHEREAS the Levy Advisory Committee further recommends that the goals for the 2011 Levy should be to: 1) help children be ready for school, 2) help all students succeed academically and reduce the academic achievement gap, and 3) help all students graduate from high school college and career ready; and

 WHEREAS, the Levy Advisory Committee recommends the City place on the November 8, 2011, ballot a measure to renew the Families and Education Levy for seven years, at a funding level that requires a Levy of $231,562,000, which would add approximately $0.27 per $1,000 of assessed value of additional taxes and cost the owner of a home with 2012 average residential assessed value of $462,000 approximately $124 annually; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle School Board and School District actively participated in the Levy Advisory Committee, held a retreat to discuss how the Levy investments could align with and strengthen the School District's core mission of helping all children succeed academically and endorsed the recommendations of the Levy Advisory Committee; and

 WHEREAS, Proceeds from the Families and Education Levies are supplemental to the basic education financed by the State of Washington and the Seattle School District Levies and do not displace nor reduce State or School District funding for Seattle Public Schools; and

 WHEREAS, the collection of taxes from the current Levy will end in 2011 and services funded by the Levy will end unless the Levy is renewed; and

 WHEREAS, because the School District alone cannot address all barriers to academic achievement, and because Seattle residents support the economic, social and civic well- being of the city, supplemental funding provided through the Levy is a legitimate City purpose; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Findings and Declarations. The City Council makes the following findings and declarations:

 A. Seattle's children are its future and the quality of that future depends on providing all students a high quality education.

 B. Seattle needs an educated population that is actively engaged in its civic life and contributes to the economic and social well-being of the city.

 C. Graduating from high school and completing college or post-secondary training improves an individual's earnings potential and economic self-sufficiency. A high school diploma alone is insufficient to prepare our children to succeed in the 21st century economy.

 D. The need for all our children to succeed academically and the challenges to their doing so are even greater in 2011 than in 1990 when a Families and Education Levy was first approved by Seattle voters.

 E. In order to earn a high school diploma, students must now pass standardized tests or approved alternatives to those tests that show competency in math, science, reading, and writing.

 F. According to School District data of the 46,000 students enrolled in the School District in the 2009-2010 academic year, 40% qualified for the free and reduced lunch program, 14% qualified for special education services, 12% qualified for the transitional bilingual program and 0.6% were in foster care.

 G. The School District has developed and published a District Scorecard. For the 2009-2010 academic year it reports 67% of the students graduated from high school in four years or less, 70% graduated in 6 years and only 46% of the high school graduates were prepared for admission to a four-year college.

 H. The School District has also developed and published a school report on the performance of each school in the district. Many of the lowest performing schools are predominately in the central, southeast and southwest parts of Seattle and these schools have a concentration of students who face difficult barriers and encounter significant challenges to academic achievement.

 I. The Seattle School District has adopted a new student assignment plan that emphasizes enrollment in neighborhood schools.

 J. In recent years, research on child development has informed new strategies and across the nation there are examples where well-executed, research-based interventions can effectively improve a child's academic achievement.

 K. Since the 2005-2006 school year, Levy-funded programs and services have provided preschool support for approximately 4,000 children, out-of-school activities for more than 20,000 children and youth, parent engagement and family support services to at least 12,000 students' families, academic support and intervention to more than 19,000 students, and physical and mental health services to over 40,000 students.

 L. Research findings have underscored the importance of quality early childhood education by identifying critical periods when a child's brain development facilitates the acquisition of certain skills, such as language, and the need to capitalize on those learning opportunities. Children acquire a larger vocabulary and stronger language skills if exposed to adults with a larger vocabulary. Since the 2005-2006 school year, Levy investments in providing high quality preschools, professional development for preschool workers, and assisting at-home childcare givers have helped 1,600 children enter kindergarten ready to succeed in school.

 M. Education experts and advocates stress the need to provide a continuum of services from cradle to college. For example, Geoffrey Canada, founder of the Harlem Children's Zone, emphasizes that such services need to be consistent and provide appropriate support for children through each developmental stage and through key school transition years.

 N. This understanding of the need for consistent and sustained supportive services has led to the development of "road maps" from birth to the completion of college or career certification which identify key education milestones and transition years, and helps focus efforts to improve education outcomes. The Community Center for Education Results (CCER) in Seattle has developed such a road map for students in South Seattle and South King County which is modeled after those adopted in other parts of the country. CCER has brought together government, education, philanthropic and community partners who have endorsed the CCER project and its goal of doubling the number of students in our region who are on track to graduate from college or earn a career credential by 2020. Mayor Michael McGinn and all members of the current City Council have endorsed the CCER approach, and the City of Seattle's Office for Education and the School District are collaborating with CCER and its partners in this effort.

 O. Mary Beth Celio's recent studies of School District students has found that while most students don't drop out of school until their junior or senior year of high school, there are dropout early warning signs as early as 6th grade. These include a high rate of unexcused absences; very low scores on state proficiency tests in 7th and 10th grades; a grade point average below 1.5 in middle school; more than one out-of-school suspension during middle or high school; and failing one or more grades in any one year from 6th through 10th grades. The School District and Levy-funded programs use these key indicators to identify and respond to students who have these early warning signs.

 P. Research also shows there are key indicators of whether a child is on the path to academic achievement. For example, there is an instructional shift in 3rd grade from teaching children to read to having children learn through reading. Instruction relies increasingly on assigned written materials, including math directions and word problems. If a child is not reading at grade level in 3rd grade they are at great risk of never catching up and dropping out of school.

 Q. Many students enter middle school with reading and math skills several years behind their grade level. Data from the current Levy's investments in middle school show the effectiveness of extended learning opportunities that provide students additional time to master the academic skills they're lacking. Since the 2005-2006 school year Levy investments have helped 2,500 middle school students meet the required standard on state proficiency tests for the first time. In addition, Levy investments have helped 1,500 elementary school students meet the required standard on state proficiency tests so they enter middle school ready to succeed academically.

 R. Healthy eating and an active lifestyle are fundamental components of being ready to achieve academically. Levy investments should incorporate strategies that promote healthy eating and active living for students and their families when feasible and appropriate.

 S. Since 1990, the Levy has invested in health services for Seattle students. Research findings in a 2009 study by Sarah Cusworth Walker and others at the University of Washington show that school-based health centers improve student health and emotional well-being, and that these in turn aid academic performance by increasing attendance rates and student grade point averages over time.

 T. Increasing the academic skill level of high school graduates is as important as increasing the number of students who graduate. Today, many high school graduates do not have the academic skills necessary for apprenticeship programs or college level work and must take remedial courses. The need for remedial coursework increases the financial barriers to post-secondary education for these students. Top administrators of Seattle post-secondary institutions confirmed this problem in testimony to Council on November 15, 2010.

 U. The School District's graduation requirements are not presently aligned with requirements for entering or succeeding in post-secondary institutions.

 V. The School District Board of Directors agrees that students should leave high school college and career ready and adopted the following Instructional Policy in March 2010:

 "The Board of Directors of Seattle Public Schools believes that every student can and must learn at grade level and beyond, and that all students will be afforded the opportunity to reach their potential and graduate from high school ready for college, career, and life. We recognize that in today's global economy, college ready and career ready standards are the same and are appropriate for all students. It is the responsibility of the School Board and the Superintendent to ensure that all students receive an education that meets these goals."

 W. The academic and financial challenges facing the School District and its students have been and are being experienced throughout the country. Bold initiatives have been undertaken and positive results are possible. The management of the current Levy has relied heavily on the evaluation of outcomes and future investments should and will be made in areas of demonstrated effectiveness.

 X. An urgent need exists to continue the provision of City Education-Support Services that support academic achievement to be funded by regular property taxes. This urgency requires submission of a proposition authorizing regular property tax levies for up to seven years in excess of the levy limitations in Chapter 84.55 RCW. The proposition should be submitted to the qualified electors of The City of Seattle at a special election to be held in conjunction with the general election on November 8, 2011.

 Section 2. Statement of Policy. It is the paramount duty of the State "to make ample provision for the education of all students." The School District is directly responsible for providing a quality education for all students. However, the School District cannot do this essential work alone. Government, business, community and families should collaborate and together all can contribute to the academic success of Seattle's children. The City endorses the following Priorities for Levy Funding and Implementation Principles adopted and recommended by the Levy Advisory Committee. The School District and its Board were active participants on the Levy Advisory Committee, endorsed these Priorities and Principles and agreed that they are aligned with the School District's strategic goals.

 Priorities for Levy Funding:

 1. Children at risk, including English Language Learners,

 2. Children, birth to age 5, likely to attend low performing schools,

 3. Students with the highest level of academic need,

 4. Schools with the highest level of academic need,

 5. Maximizing impact by funding a targeted number of schools and students,

 6. Build on the success of previous investments, where possible,

 7. Use evidence-based and/or promising practices to improve academic outcomes, and

 8. Invest in family strengthening practices.

 Implementation Principles:

 1. Use an accountability structure based on student outcomes, indicators and performance-based contracts,

 2. Encourage course corrections to improve outcomes; defund projects that do not achieve outcomes,

 3. Report on student performance at least annually,

 4. Continue data-sharing agreement with Seattle Public Schools,

 5. Maximize partnerships to achieve outcomes,

 6. Provide support for innovative academic strategies aimed at dramatically improving academic achievement, and

 7. Help support academic elements of place-based community strategies for transformation of schools or feeder patterns of schools.

 Section 3. Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words when capitalized have the following meanings:

 A. "City" means The City of Seattle.

 B. "Education-Support Services" means the array of programs and activities referred to in Section 6, with such modifications as the City Council may from time to time authorize by ordinance.

 C. "Proceeds" means that portion of regular property taxes levied and collected as authorized by voter approval pursuant to this ordinance that are above the limits on levies provided for in RCW 84.55.010, and all interest and other earnings derived from that portion of the Levy.

 D. "Seattle School Board" and "School Board" mean Seattle School District No. 1 Board of Directors.

 E. "Seattle School District" and "School District" mean Seattle School District No. 1.

 Section 4. Levy of Regular Property Taxes - Submittal. The City hereby submits to the qualified electors of the City a proposition as authorized by RCW 84.55.050 to exceed the levy limitation on regular property taxes contained in Chapter 84.55 RCW, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, for property taxes levied in 2011 through 2017 for collection in 2012 through 2018, respectively, raising up to $231,562,000 in aggregate over a period of up to seven years. The proposition shall be limited so that the City shall not levy more than $32,101,000 in the first year, in addition to the maximum amount of regular property taxes it would have been limited to by RCW 84.55.010 in the absence of voter approval under this ordinance, plus other authorized lid lifts. Proceeds shall be used to provide Education-Support Services for Seattle School District students, Seattle youth, and their families. Pursuant to RCW 84.55.050(4), the maximum regular property taxes that may be levied in 2018 for collection in 2019 and in later years shall be computed as if the levy lid in RCW 84.55.010 had not been lifted under this ordinance.

 Section 5. Application of Proceeds. Unless otherwise directed by ordinance, Proceeds shall be deposited in the Education-Support Services Fund. The Director of Finance and Administrative Services, or the Director's designee, is authorized to create subfunds or accounts within the Education-Support Services Fund as may be needed or appropriate to implement the purposes of this ordinance. Proceeds may be temporarily deposited or invested in such manner as may be lawful for the investment of City money, and interest and other earnings shall be used for the same purposes as the Proceeds.

 Section 6. Education-Support Services. Education-Support Services funded by Proceeds are intended to promote school readiness and learning, support academic achievement and reduce the academic achievement gap, and prepare graduates for college and the career of their choice. Levy investments shall be guided by the Statement of Policy, Priorities for Funding and Implementation Principles in Section 2. Initially, these core strategies will be pursued through a variety of Education-Support Services that include the following:

 A. School readiness and early learning. Major program elements include preschool for low-income three and four year olds; access for low-income families to high quality childcare; professional development for early education providers; school readiness support for children in home day-care situations, including home visits; health screenings; and preschool to kindergarten transition services.

 B. Academic achievement in elementary school. Major program elements include extended learning time, out-of- school time activities, and summer learning programs; and school- and community-based family support services.

 C. Academic achievement and college/career preparation in middle school. Major program elements include extended learning time; out-of-school time activities; social, emotional, and behavioral supports; summer learning programs; and advising, guidance and related support for college readiness.

 D. Academic achievement and college/career preparation in high school. Major program elements include extended learning time; social, emotional, and behavioral supports; summer learning programs; and advising, guidance and related support for college readiness.

 E. Student health. Major program elements include school-based student health clinics and physical, mental and dental support services at clinic sites in middle and high schools, school based health services at high need elementary schools, and health services for high-risk middle and high school students in alternative school settings.

 F. Community partnership fund. Major program elements include funding for community and school-based partnerships to achieve Levy goals.

 G. Research and Evaluation. Major program elements include research and evaluation of the individual programs and services in the foregoing categories and of the overall outcomes of Education-Support Services funded by Proceeds.

 These program elements are illustrative examples. In the annual City budget or by separate ordinance, the City shall from year-to-year determine the Education-Support Services and funding allocations that will most effectively achieve the Levy goals and outcomes. Within a budget year the City is authorized to reallocate unexpended and unencumbered funds from one core strategy to another by making operating budget transfers consistent with SMC 5.08.020. The Council requires that before the Executive submits to the Council any proposed changes in Levy funding requiring Council approval by ordinance, the Executive will seek the recommendation of the Oversight Committee.

 Unexpended appropriations of Proceeds shall carry forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by ordinance.

 The City's expenditures on administrative costs over the seven-year period of the Levy shall not exceed a total of five percent of the total expenditure authority of the Proceeds.

 Section 7. Oversight Committee. Conditioned upon voter approval of the ballot proposition submitted by this ordinance, there is established an Oversight Committee (Committee) to make recommendations on the design and funding of Levy programs and to monitor the progress of Levy programs in meeting Levy outcomes and goals.

 A. The Committee shall make recommendations on the Implementation and Evaluation Plan called for in Section 8 and on the Partnership Agreement called for in Section 10.

 B. The Committee shall each year:

 * By February review the annual report of Levy outcomes and indicators for the previous school year;

 * By April review mid-year indicators of progress for the first semester of the current school year;

 * By May review and advise on proposed course corrections, program modifications, or program eliminations;

 * By September review and advise the City Council on proposed expenditures and reallocations, including the annual Levy budget; and

 * Periodically review and advise on program evaluations.

 C. The Council requires that before the Executive submits to the Council the Implementation and Evaluation Plan, Partnership Agreement or proposes any changes in Levy funding requiring Council approval by ordinance, the Executive will seek the recommendation of the Committee.

 D. The Committee shall consist of twelve (12) members: the Mayor, the Chair of the City Council's Public Safety and Education Committee or its successor with respect to education issues, the Superintendent of the School District, a member of the School District Board, and eight (8) citizens. The Mayor and City Council shall each appoint four (4) of the citizen Committee members. All members appointed by the Mayor shall be confirmed by the City Council.

 E. The eight citizen members shall be appointed to three (3) year staggered terms subject to reappointment, except that two of them (one Mayoral appointee and one Council appointee) shall be initially appointed for a single year term, three (two Mayoral appointees and one Council appointee) for a two (2) year term, and three (one Mayoral appointee and two Council appointees) for a three (3) year term. Upon the resignation, retirement, death, incapacity or removal of a Committee member, the authority appointing such member may appoint a replacement for the balance of the term. The appointing authority may remove any member who is absent from two or more consecutive meetings without cause. The appointing authority may remove any member for other good cause shown or to ensure compliance with subsection F of this section.

 F. The eight citizens should have professional, personal or research experience associated with the growth and development of children, including their academic success. For example, this experience may come from classroom teaching, student mentoring, or education policy research. The City will also seek candidates to serve on the Committee who have an understanding of and experience working with new immigrants and refugees, communities of color, Native American tribes, children of different abilities, and others who have historically not been academically successful in traditional education programs.

 G. At all times no more than three (3) Committee members shall be an officer, director, board member, trustee, partner or employee of an entity that receives or competes for funding under this ordinance; or be a member of the immediate family of, or an individual residing with, an officer, director, board member, trustee, partner or employee of an entity that receives or competes for funding under this ordinance; or be a person seeking or having an arrangement concerning future employment with an entity that receives or competes for funding under this ordinance. For the purposes of this ordinance an individual's "immediate family" means an individual's spouse or domestic partner, child, child of a spouse or domestic partner, sibling, sibling of a domestic partner, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, parent, parent of a spouse or domestic partner, a person for whom the individual is a legal guardian, or a person claimed as a dependent on the individual's most recently filed federal income tax return. Subject to the preceding sentence and applicable law, an individual serving as an officer, director, board member, trustee, partner or employee of an entity that receives or competes for funding under this ordinance, or who has an interest in such an entity, shall not thereby be disqualified from serving on the Committee, but shall fully disclose any such relationships and shall not vote on any matter in which the interest of such entity is directly involved. For purposes of this section, "entity" does not include a City department or office. The provisions of this section are in addition to the requirements of SMC chapter 4.16.

 H. The Mayor and the Chair of the City Council's Public Safety and Education Committee or successor committee overseeing education, or their respective designees, will co-chair the Committee. The Committee will generally meet every other month or as needed beginning January 2012. The Office for Education shall provide staff and logistical support for the Committee. Members shall serve without pay. The Committee shall continue in existence through December 31, 2018, and thereafter if so provided by ordinance.

 Section 8. Implementation and Evaluation Plan. Proceeds may be spent only in accordance with the Implementation and Evaluation plan (the Plan) approved by ordinance. The Plan may be amended by ordinance.

 The Plan shall set forth the criteria, measurable outcomes and methodology by which programs funded by Proceeds will be selected and evaluated. The evaluation methodology shall measure both individual programs and overall effects of the Education-Support Services. The achievement of all stated outcomes shall be evaluated and no one component will be determinative of an individual programs' effectiveness or the overall effectiveness of the Education-Support Services.

 Section 9. Implementing Agreements. If this proposition is approved by the voters, the City may carry out the Education- Support Services with City staff or by agreements with the School District, with Public Health Seattle-King County, and with such other agencies and persons as may be appropriate. It is the intent of the City Council that all 2011 Levy investments, including services previously funded in the 2004 Levy, shall be awarded through a competitive process. The Implementation and Evaluation Plan will set out a process and schedule for how programs will be selected and contracted.

 The Mayor or the Mayor's designee is authorized to enter into such agreements, consistent with Section 10 below. The City shall, when soliciting businesses for goods or services agreements, perform outreach to small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including those owned by women and minorities. City agreements with other public entities shall encourage those entities to actively solicit bids for the subcontracting of any goods or services, when such subcontracting is required or appropriate, from qualified small businesses, including those owned by women and minorities. City agreements with businesses for goods and services and with other public entities and non-profits shall encourage these entities to employ a workforce reflective of the region's diversity. All City agreements for goods and services shall require the contracting entities to comply with all then-applicable requirements for non-discrimination in employment in federal, state, and City of Seattle laws and regulations.

 All City agreements funded by Proceeds will stipulate that no assurances are made of continuation beyond the 2018-2019 school year after the levy lid lift authorized by the voters has expired.

 Section 10. City of Seattle/Seattle School District Partnership Agreement. There shall be a Partnership Agreement (the Partnership Agreement) developed by the City and the Seattle School District in which the roles and responsibilities of the City and the School District in developing the Implementation and Evaluation Plan, referenced in Section 8, and in implementing Education-Support Services are established. The Partnership Agreement shall set forth the parties roles and responsibilities for achieving the desired outcomes for Education-Support Services. It shall outline, in a variety of areas, ways in which both the City and the School District shall work collaboratively toward better results for children and youth. The Partnership Agreement shall cover items including, but not limited to: data sharing necessary to implement program evaluations and course corrections, standards for delivery of services, and methods for identifying and targeting students and schools most in need of support.

 The City cannot enter into the Partnership Agreement, or materially amend the Partnership Agreement, until the Partnership Agreement or the amendment, as the case may be, is approved by the Seattle City Council and the School District's Board of Directors. Proceeds may be spent on School District programs or functions only in accordance with an effective Partnership Agreement.

 Section 11. Reporting. The Director of the Office for Education will prepare and submit to the Oversight Committee, City Council, the Mayor and citizens of Seattle annual progress reports on the implementation of the Education- Support Services covering each of the core strategies and the actions taken as a result of the adopted City of Seattle/School District Partnership Agreement.

 Section 12. Election - Ballot Title. The City Council directs that the City Clerk file this ordinance with the Director of Elections of King County, Washington, as ex officio supervisor of elections, requesting that the Director of Elections call and conduct a special election in the City in conjunction with the state general election to be held on November 8, 2011, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the City the proposition set forth in this ordinance. The City Clerk is directed to certify to the King County Director of Elections the ballot title approved by the City Attorney in accordance with his responsibilities under RCW 29A.36.071. The following ballot title is submitted to the City attorney for his consideration:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 PROPOSITION NUMBER _____

 REGULAR TAX LEVY INCLUDING

 FAMILIES AND EDUCATION

 The City of Seattle's Proposition concerns renewing and enhancing Education-Support Services to improve academic achievement.

 This proposition would fund City services, including school readiness, academic achievement in elementary, middle and high school, college/career preparation, and student health and community partnerships as provided in Ordinance ____. It authorizes regular property taxes above RCW 84.55 limits, allowing additional 2012 collection of up to $32,101,000 (approximately $0.27/$1000 assessed value) and up to $231,562,000 over seven years. In 2012, total City taxes collected would not exceed $3.60 per $1,000 of assessed value.

 Should this Levy be approved?

 Levy, Yes

 Levy, No

 Those in favor shall vote "Yes;" those opposed shall mark their ballots "No."

 Section 13. Ratification. Certification of such proposition by the City Clerk to the King County Director of Elections in accordance with law prior to the date of such election on November 8, and any other act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance, are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 14. Severability. In the event any one or more of the provisions of this ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision of this ordinance or the levy of the taxes authorized herein, but this ordinance and the authority to levy those taxes shall be construed and enforced as if such invalid provisions had not been contained herein; and any provision which shall for any reason be held by reason of its extent to be invalid shall be deemed to be in effect to the extent permitted by law.

 Section 15. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Patricia Lee/Sid Sidorowicz DON 2011 FEL ORD March 4, 2011 Version #5

 lh

```
