

********

**Council Bill Number: 117114**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123575**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate changes proposed as part of the 2010-2011 Comprehensive Plan annual amendment process.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 11, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 19, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 18, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 22, 2011
   
**Committee:** Built Environment
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** AMENDMENT, COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, PORT-OF-SEATTLE, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, RAINIER-VALLEY, RAINIER-BEACH, NORTH-BEACON-HILL, HOLLY-PARK, SOUTHEAST, CENTRAL-AREA, ATLANTIC

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Resolution 30261](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exes1=&s3=30261&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=1&f=G), [Resolution 30976](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exes1=&s3=30976&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=1&f=G), [Resolution 31233](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exes1=&s3=31233&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=1&f=G), [Ordinance 123267](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exes1=&s3=&s4=123267&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G)

**Fiscal Note:**117114

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123575](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123575.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate changes proposed as part of the 2010-2011 Comprehensive Plan annual amendment process.

 WHEREAS, the City Council adopted procedures in Resolution 30261, as amended by Resolution 30976, for amending the Comprehensive Plan, consistent with the requirements for amendment prescribed by the Growth Management Act, RCW 36.70A; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Council Resolution 30976, a number of proposals for Plan amendments were submitted for Council consideration, both from within City government and from the public; and

 WHEREAS, on August 2, 2010, the City Council considered these proposed Comprehensive Plan amendments and adopted Council Resolution 31233 directing that City staff further review and analyze certain proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, these proposed amendments have been reviewed and analyzed by the Department of Planning and Development and considered by the Council; and

 WHEREAS, the City has provided for public participation in the development and review of these proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and considered the Executive's report and recommendations, public testimony made at the public hearing, and other pertinent material regarding the proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the amendments to be adopted are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety, and welfare of the general public; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan, as last amended by Ordinance 123267, is amended as follows:

 A.  Environmental Leadership:  Adopt the following new policy into Section E of the Environmental element: Seattle will act as a regional and national leader by becoming carbon neutral. The Climate Action Plan will identify strategies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transportation, building energy, and waste sectors, including establishing specific vehicle miles traveled reduction goals by transportation mode or sector.

 B.  Master Planned Community :

 1) Amend the Future Land Use Map to apply the designation "Master Planned Community" to a portion of the Capitol Hill/First Hill Urban Center and a portion of the Downtown Urban Center as shown in Attachment B.

 2) Adopt the following new policy in the Land Use Element Section C to follow policy LU179:

 In order to address the unique opportunities that large site redevelopment presents in dense areas of the city and to provide predictability to the City, community and potential developer, establish a Master Planned Community designation on the Future Land Use Map. Locations appropriate for that designation must be:

 * large, multi-block sites located in urban centers

 * subject to unified ownership control

 Establish a zone in the Land Use Code also to be named Master Planned Community. Locations appropriate to be rezoned on the Official Land Use Map as Master Planned Community are those that are designated on the Future Land Use Map as Master Planned Community.

 Specific standards for development within a proposed Master Planned Community should be established by the City Council when a rezone to the Master Planned Community zone occurs, and are expected to vary based on the location of the Master Planned Community. However, all applications of a Master Planned Community zone should result in development that provides:

 * a mixture of uses

 * appropriate urban density

 * cohesive urban design throughout the development

 * a higher level of environmental sustainability, affordable housing, and publicly accessible open space than is typically provided through conventional lot-by-lot development.

 3) In the Land Use Element, part A-1, titled The Future Land Use Map & the Location of Zones, amend the first two paragraphs of the Discussion as follows:

 Seattle is divided into a number of zones that regulate the uses and development in each area. These zones implement the urban village strategy, and the current zoning is generally appropriate.

 This plan organizes these zones into broad land use categories (single-family, multifamily, commercial / mixed- use, downtown, industrial, major institution , master planned community ), and describes how those categories of land use are intended to function. The Future Land Use Map shows how those categories are distributed throughout the city.

 C.  North Beacon Hill Neighborhood Plan Update:  Amend the Neighborhood Planning element by replacing the existing North Beacon Hill Neighborhood Plan with the goals and policies shown in Attachment C and amend the Future Land Use Map as shown in

 Attachment D.

 D.  North Rainier Neighborhood Plan Update : Amend the Neighborhood Planning element by replacing the existing North Rainier Neighborhood Plan with the goals and policies shown in Attachment E and amend the Future Land Use Map as shown in Attachment F.

 E.  MLK @ Holly (Othello) Neighborhood Plan Update:  Amend Neighborhood Planning element by replacing the existing MLK @ Holly Neighborhood Plan with goals and policies shown in Attachment G and amend the Future Land Use Map as shown in Attachment H.

 F.  Boundary Expansion for the 23rd @ Jackson Residential Urban Village : Amend the Future Land Use Map as shown in Attachment I expanding the boundary of the 23rd @ Jackson-Union Residential Urban Village, and redesignate the newly added land from single-family to multifamily.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Amended Future Land Use Map---Master Planned Community

 Attachment B: North Beacon Hill Neighborhood Plan Update: Amended Goals and Policies

 Attachment E: Amended Future Land Use Map---North Beacon Hill Urban Village

 Attachment F: North Rainier Neighborhood Plan Update: Amended Goals and Policies

 Attachment G: Amended Future Land Use Map---North Rainier Urban Village

 Attachment H: MLK@Holly Street (Othello) Neighborhood Plan Update: Amended Goals and Policies

 Attachment I: Amended Future Land Use Map---MLK@Holly Street (Othello) Urban Village

 Attachment J: Amended Future Land Use Map---23rd and Jackson Urban Village Boundary

 Tom Hauger/Cheryl Sizov/Martha Lester CB 117114 as Amended 4.11.2011 v.6.docx April 11, 2011 Version #6

[ Attachment A: Amended Future Land Use Map---Master Planned Community ](/~ordpics/117114_AtA.pdf)

 Attachment B

 North Beacon Hill Neighborhood Plan Update: Amended Goals and Policies

 Land Use & Housing Goals

 NBH-G1 A well-defined mixed-use residential  neighborhood where the lives of Beacon Hill residents are enhanced, in part, through affordable and diverse housing options available throughout the neighborhood  ((~~urban village that provides future housing opportunities and enhances the lives of Beacon Hill residents~~)).

 NBH-G2 A vibrant mix of housing close to the light rail station.

 Land Use & Housing Policies

 NBH-P1  Encourage sensitive transitions between development densities throughout the urban village; in particular between the Town Center and surrounding residential areas.  ((~~Establish methods to focus future growth to areas within the urban village best served by existing and future transit and community services. As part of this effort, consider NC2/R-40 as well as less intensive commercial and multifamily zoning in areas abutting existing NC2 zones, including consideration of upzoning single-family zoned areas approximately as shown on attached Map P-1.~~))

 NBH-P2 To enable any implementation of rezoning to be considered under Policy P1, that portion of Beacon Avenue South located within the boundaries of the North Beacon Hill Residential Urban Village is designated a principal commercial street.

 NBH-P3  Encourage a mix of unit prices and sizes through active use of incentives, direct City funding, and surplus property programs. ((~~Provide for a more diverse mix of housing types and densities, especially in the northern portion of the North Beacon Hill neighborhood.~~))

 NBH-P4 Encourage affordable, family-sized homes through incentives, direct City funding, and surplus property programs. In particular, strive to preserve, or when needed, replace affordable family-sized apartments.

 NBH-P5 Encourage a balance of affordable rental and homeownership housing through incentives, direct City funding, and surplus property programs.

 NBH-P6 Encourage the development of housing close to the light rail station.

 NBH-P7 Capture the opportunity created by light rail to support affordable housing development close to the light rail station by including homes appropriate for different family sizes, so that residents are able to stay in the neighborhood, even as the housing market changes over time.

 NBH- P8  ((~~P4~~)) Seek to maintain the character of low density multifamily areas in the northern portion of the urban village while providing opportunities for additional mixed-use residential development in the retail core in the southern portion of the urban village.

 ((~~NBH -P5 Recognize areas within the urban village where future growth will support economic development of small neighborhood businesses and mixed-use residential buildings~~.))

 ((~~NBH-P6 Support City housing initiatives such as the Mayor' s Housing Agenda recommendations and housing demonstration projects for affordable housing through design innovations for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Residential Small Lot (RSL) zoning.~~))

 NBH-P9 Allow alternative housing types, such as cottage housing, in single-family zones to support affordable choices while preserving the single-family character.

 NBH-P10 Support a continuing mix of small businesses and encourage new small businesses by providing technical assistance and access to financing.

 ((~~Library Siting Goal~~))

 ((~~NBH-G2 A neighborhood with a library in the "heart" of the neighborhood which will be consistent with the community-based siting criteria including improved pedestrian safety, improved transit access, visibility, and compatibility with neighborhood character and support the educational and informational mission of the library system.~~))

 ((~~Library Siting Policies~~))

 Town Center Goals

 NBH-G3 A civic gathering space appropriate and flexible for the diversity of cultures living in the neighborhood.

 NBH-G4 An urban village with a strong overall business district image and identity that is home to a variety of commercial services, including a grocery store and a mix of small, local and ethnic businesses.

 NBH-G5 Higher-density development surrounds the light rail station and is responsive to the neighborhood context at a variety of scales, from single-family houses to multistory buildings.

 NBH-G6 A redevelopment of El Centro de la Raza that builds on the site's history and serves as a defining civic element of the Town Center.

 NBH-G7 A Town Center urban form that transitions from denser development at the Town Center core to less dense and single-family residential neighborhoods in a manner that is responsive to the context and character of the North Beacon Hill neighborhood.

 Town Center Policies

 NBH-P11 Retain local access to food, including a grocery store in the commercial core.

 NBH-P12 Promote services that can serve neighborhood residents who commute by light rail, such as childcare, close to the station.

 NBH-P13 Preserve and support the expansion of the role of El Centro as a cultural and service center, including current social services such as childcare and a food bank.

 NBH-P14 Support a multicultural gathering venue.

 NBH-P15 Support mixed-use development on the El Centro site through appropriate zoning or regulatory changes.

 NBH- P16  ((~~P7~~)) Recognize the importance of the library as a focal point for a community with an ethnically diverse population, a significant number of whom are young, and its role as a symbol of pride and identity.

 NBH-P17 Guide future development and potential rezones so they contribute to an urban form and character at the Town Center that is responsive to the North Beacon Hill vision.

 ((~~NBH-P8 Support a new library design that is highly visible, incorporates opportunities for open space or civic gathering areas, and is a reflection of the diverse cultural and historic fabric.~~))

 Public Safety Goal

 NBH-G8 North Beacon Hill is an active and safe neighborhood for a diversity of people, throughout the day and evening.

 Public Safety Policy

 NBH-P18 Encourage additional eyes on the street over the course of the day and evening through community programs and festivals, the design of new developments and other means.

 Transportation: Pedestrian Improvements Goal

 NBH- G9  ((~~G3~~)) An urban village that is a pleasant place to walk  with good access to ((~~and use~~)) alternative transportation, where ((~~streetscapes are~~)) lively, friendly  and safe streetscapes encourage pedestrians and bicyclists ((~~places~~)), and where roadways are seen as public access for walkers, bicycles, and buses as well as cars.

 Transportation: Pedestrian Improvements Policies

 NBH- P19  ((~~P9~~))  Enhance pedestrian safety along key streets within the urban village and discourage projects that would hinder pedestrian access. ((~~Create enhancements to pedestrian safety along key pedestrian streets within the urban village and discourage barriers to those improvements.~~))

 NBH- P20  ((~~P10~~)) Seek improvements, such as crosswalks, pedestrian-activated crossing signals, signage, curb bulbs or other devices that will improve pedestrian safety along Beacon Ave. S., that support increased access to shopping and transit.

 NBH- P21  ((~~P11~~)) Provide for improved and safe pedestrian access to  the ((~~a new~~)) North Beacon Hill Library through the ((~~location and~~)) design of ((~~the library and~~)) surrounding streets and walkways.

 Transportation: Transit Service Goals

 NBH- G10  ((~~G4~~)) An urban village with transit service that serves the needs of the existing population and also provides for improvements to serve the neighborhood' s projected population growth.

 NBH- G11  ((~~G5~~)) An urban village with an established neighborhood station and transit linkages to all other alternative transit modes available.

 Transportation: Transit Service Policies

 NBH- P22  ((~~P12~~)) Recognize the current high levels of transit ridership on North Beacon Hill and support improvements to transit systems to encourage continued transit ridership and less reliance on the automobile.

 NBH- P23  ((~~P13~~)) Strive to improve transit connections within Beacon Hill and to and from other neighborhoods to create a seamless transportation network for the neighborhood.

 NBH- P24  ((~~P14~~)) Support the effort by King County Metro Transit to improve the transit system in and around Beacon Hill.

 Transportation: Traffic Calming Goals

 NBH- G12  ((~~G6~~)) A residential urban village in which neighborhood traffic functions efficiently and safely and in which traffic calming devices that improve pedestrian safety are placed at strategic locations.

 NBH- G13  ((~~G7~~)) Recognition of the link Beacon Avenue Boulevard provides through the entire neighborhood planning area.

 Transportation: Traffic Calming Policies

 NBH- P25  ((~~P15~~))Recognize the existing residential character of many streets within the urban village and support mechanisms to protect these streets from increased traffic.

 NBH- P26  ((~~P16~~))Strive to implement neighborhood traffic - calming control devices and strategies that protect local residential streets from through - traffic, short-cutting, high volumes, and high - speed traffic as growth occurs within the urban village.

 NBH- P27  ((~~P17~~)) Recognize the unique topography and location of North Beacon Hill and its connections to major arterials, freeway access points, and ((~~new~~)) sports- stadium destinations and seek ways to mitigate the resulting traffic impacts on residential street systems.

 NBH- P28  ((~~P18~~))Recognize the unique conditions along Beacon Avenue as it cuts diagonally across the regular north/south and east/west street grid and creates irregular intersections and difficulties for pedestrian crossings.

 NBH- P29  ((~~P19~~)) Use the Pedestrian Master Plan, which recognizes the importance of Beacon Ave. S., to identify and prioritize pedestrian improvements.  ((~~Enhance streetscapes on Beacon Avenue and provide pedestrian and bicycle improvements that will contribute to an improved image of the business district.~~))

 NBH-P30 Use the Bicycle Master Plan, which recognizes the importance of Beacon Ave. S., to identify, prioritize and improve bicycle connections to Downtown, Jefferson Park and Rainier Valley.

 NBH- P31  ((~~P20~~)) Encourage improvements on Beacon Avenue that enhance its functional use and physical appearance.

 Open Space & Urban Design Goals

 NBH- G14  ((~~G8~~)) An urban village that provides open space amenities and utilizes design guidelines for future development that benefits the neighborhood and contributes to a livable environment.

 ((~~NBH-G9 An urban village with a "sense of place" created through open space and urban design elements for residential areas and an improved overall business district image and identity.~~))

 NBH-G15 A range of well-maintained parks and community open spaces in the urban village core with programs that accommodate a diversity of uses and users.

 Open Space & Urban Design Policies

 NBH- P32  ((~~P21~~)) Seek to create additional public open space amenities within the urban village through future public acquisition and encourage the inclusion of public open space in private development.

 NBH- P33  ((~~P22~~)) Recognize that public streets are part of the open space network within the urban village and strive to improve the physical character and quality of the key pedestrian streets.

 NBH- P34  ((~~P23~~)) Consider the development of pedestrian and bicycle trails through publicly owned greenbelts throughout North Beacon Hill.

 NBH- P35  ((~~P24~~)) Develop, through public programs and public/private partnerships, at key locations within the commercial core along Beacon Avenue, small civic open spaces, gateways, landscaped features and pedestrian streetscape amenities.

 Parks & Recreation Goal

 NBH- G16  ((~~G10~~)) A neighborhood with parks that serve the needs of both regional and local users.

 Parks & Recreation Policies

 NBH- P36  ((~~P25~~)) Explore and support opportunities to increase usable open space in parks that serve the neighborhood, including at Jefferson Park.

 NBH-P37 Seek to create small pocket parks throughout the urban village, either through City acquisition or private development.

 NBH-P38 Continue to develop neighborhood-specific cultural programming and design elements in Seattle's parks.

 NBH- P39  ((~~P26~~)) Seek to preserve scenic views from parks located within the neighborhood.

 NBH- P40  ((~~P27~~)) Encourage opportunities for public art within the neighborhood's parks.

 Tom Hauger/Cheryl Sizov DPD-2010 Comp Plan Amendments ATT B March 23, 2011 Version #4

 Attachment B to the DPD-2010 Comp Plan Amendments ORD

[ Attachment C: Amended Future Land Use Map---North Beacon Hill Urban Village ](/~ordpics/117114_atC.pdf)

 Attachment D

 North Rainier Neighborhood Plan Update

 Town Center Goal

 NR-G1  A Town Center that concentrates housing, commercial uses, services and living-wage employment opportunities; that is well served by transit and nonmotorized travel options; and that is well designed and attractive to pedestrians. ((~~A Town Center with the highest densities in the neighborhood that is well connected with the regional light rail station, consists of housing and vital commercial activities, provides living-wage employment opportunities, is pedestrian and bicycle oriented, and has attractive streetscape and amenities.~~))

 Town Center Policies

 NR-P1 Recognize the "Town Center" as the area where ((~~the neighborhood would like to use~~)) land use ((~~and zoning~~)) designations ((~~that~~)) facilitate transit-oriented development to  promote appropriate ((~~assemble and finance the type of~~)) development ((~~envisioned by the neighborhood~~)) around the light rail station . ((~~, and~~)) ((~~strive to facilitate the vitality of existing businesses that help meet the neighborhood's employment goals.~~))

 NR-P2 Foster development of a shopping district comprised of businesses that provide products and services meeting the needs of community members from different cultural backgrounds.

 NR-P3 Promote uses around transit facilities such as businesses open into the evening hours, and housing that provides "eyes on the street."

 NR-P4 Encourage the construction of physical improvements and activity programming that are culturally relevant to people with disabilities throughout the Town Center.

 NR-P5 Provide sufficient utility capacity within the Town Center to support the desired future density.

 NR-P6 Within mixed-use zones in the Station Area Overlay District, define and consider minimum residential densities in new buildings in order to create the critical mass of people and activity for a Town Center.

 ((~~New~~)) Housing ((~~for North Rainier~~)) Goal s

 NR-G2 Housing in the neighborhood ((~~which~~)) meets community needs  for a range of household incomes and unit sizes, and makes a compatible transition from higher-intensity mixed-use and multifamily residential to single-family areas.

 NR-G3 Development within the Town Center prioritizes housing that serves households across a range of incomes.

 ((~~New~~)) Housing ((~~for North Rainier~~)) Policies

 NR-P 7 ((~~2~~)) Seek to promote the highest intensity residential development in the proposed "Town Center , ((~~.~~))" ((~~Encourage the "Town Center" to be~~)) the focal point of mixed-use commercial and residential development.

 NR-P8  Encourage additional multifamily or mixed-use development in the following areas: south of the Rainier/ MLK intersection within the urban village, and continue south toward Rainier Valley Square Shopping Center; and in vacant parcels located east to 23rd Ave. S. and west to 17th Ave. S. around the intersection of Massachusetts St. and Rainier Ave. S.

 NR-P 9 ((~~3~~)) Seek to maintain single-family zoned areas within the urban village, but allow rezones to Residential Small Lot to encourage cluster housing developments and bungalow courts. Any single- family-zoned area within the urban village is appropriate for any of the ((~~Residential Small Lot (RSL)~~))  small-lot single-family  designations, provided that the area meets other requirements of the land use code rezone evaluation criteria for rezones of single-family land. ((~~Allow for the rezone of property north of S. Holgate St. that is adjacent to both multifamily and commercially zoned areas to lowrise multifamily zones which permit residential densities that are no higher than permitted in the RSL zone.~~))

 NR-P10 Include a portion of single-family area located between 24th Ave. S. and 25th Ave. S. north of S. McClellan St. within the urban village and within the Station Area Overlay District, and support a multifamily zoning designation for the area that would allow more compact residential development.

 NR-P 11 ((~~4~~)) Seek partnerships with local social service providers, and continue to develop programs such as down payment assistance to develop affordable and attractive home-ownership opportunities in the North Rainier Valley.

 NR-P 12 ((~~5~~)) ((~~Seek to u~~)) U se design guidelines within the North Rainier Hub Urban Village  so that ((~~to promote mixed-use, townhomes, and~~)) higher-density development  includes ((~~which accommodates the anticipated growth, while promoting the development of~~)) well- designed structures that respond to the  desired future physical character and  existing positive attributes of the surrounding natural environment ((~~of~~))  and the neighborhood. ((~~Seek to avoid suburban "tract home style" developments that detract from the character of some North Rainier's single-family neighborhoods.~~))

 NR-P13 Encourage a mix of home prices and sizes through active use of incentives and funding.

 Economic Development Goals

 NR-G4 A vibrant business district that serves North Rainier residents and is a destination shopping area with stores that serve the greater Rainier Valley.

 NR-G 5 ((~~7~~)) The neighborhood retains sufficient zoning capacity to facilitate employment growth.

 NR-G 6 ((~~8~~)) A local economic climate in which North Rainier's unique small businesses can remain economically viable , and have the opportunity to grow as the Town Center grows .

 NR-G7 North Rainier Hub Urban Village is known as a "Green Hub" providing green jobs and training, and green development.

 Economic Development Polic((~~y~~)) ies

 NR-P 14 ((~~9~~)) Seek to maintain the general commercial zoning that is outside the proposed Town Center in order to provide a land supply that promotes higher-wage manufacturing, distribution, and office and professional employment.

 NR-P15 In fulfilling its role as the hub urban village for the Rainier Valley, North Rainier should include training programs and jobs for youth that prepare them for family-wage jobs in the area and region.

 NR-P16 Strive to facilitate the vitality of existing retail and businesses that help meet the neighborhood's employment goals and serve as destination businesses for customers from the Rainier Valley and beyond in addition to meeting the daily needs of residents .

 NR-P17 Provide technical and financial support to small business that meet the needs of the ethnic and cultural businesses in the neighborhood.

 NR-P18 Strengthen local business associations that include and support the presence and growth of businesses owned by immigrant and minority community members.

 NR-P19 Support and expand the existing diverse mix of generally small-scale businesses.

 NR-P20 Encourage the inclusion of affordable commercial space in new development.

 NR-P21 Support training programs and jobs in North Rainier that capitalize on the green technology market in order to support the role of North Rainier as the hub urban village within the Rainier Valley.

 NR-P22 Identify and promote opportunities for green infrastructure and development.

 Community Life Goals

 NR-G 8 ((~~9~~)) North Rainier Valley's network of parks, recreational facilities, open spaces, and arts and culture programs are functioning and are well utilized.

 NR-G9 Ethnic and cultural diversity is a continued presence in the businesses and community.

 NR-G10 A community that supports and provides opportunities for neighborhood youth.

 ((~~Community Services Node Goal~~))

 NR-G 11 ((~~6~~)) The transportation and housing needs of residents of North Rainier's community service facilities are met.

 NR-G 12 ((~~10~~)) North Rainier is known as a safe and hospitable neighborhood through its residents' increased awareness of community-based crime prevention programs.

 Community Life Policies

 NR-P 23 ((~~10~~)) Enhance community pride through  establishment of a multicultural community center, multicultural community festivals, ((~~youth~~)) mentoring, and ((~~other youth~~)) programs  that support positive and safe activities for youth .

 NR-P24 Promote the location of cultural community centers and services in the transit-accessible areas of the neighborhood.

 NR-P25 Support local agriculture and access to locally grown food through public mechanisms such as P-Patches and the Cultivating Communities program, as well as nonprofit and private mechanisms including farmers markets and on-site landscaping.

 ((~~Community Services Node Policies~~))

 NR-P 26 ((~~7~~)) Seek to meet the transit, access, and housing needs of users of North Rainier's community service facilities.

 NR-P 27 ((~~8~~)) Encourage housing and employment opportunities for people with special needs.

 NR-P28 Encourage community-based efforts for cross- cultural integration among the business owners as well as among the broader community.

 NR-P 29 ((~~11~~)) Seek ways to enhance North Rainier's built environment through actions such as neighborhood-wide clean-ups and "adopt-a-street" programs, rehabilitation and reuse of old or historic buildings, and through reclaiming public land for public use (i.e., street ends, planting strips, and City-owned vacant lots and buildings).

 NR-P30 Seek opportunities for the community and the Seattle Police Department to strengthen partnerships.

 NR-P 31 ((~~12~~)) Seek to promote community improvement projects that can be acted upon through community-based efforts, as well as through public investment.

 Open Space Goal

 ((~~Reclaiming North Rainier's Olmsted Park & Boulevards Goal~~))

 NR-G 13 ((~~5~~)) Cheasty Boulevard and Greenbelt has been reclaimed and developed in a manner consistent with the 1909 Olmsted Parks and Boulevards Plan.

 NR-G14 A "ring of green" surrounding the urban village with strong connections to the greenbelts, boulevards and parks, augmented with a hierarchy of open spaces.

 Open Space Policies

 NR-P32 Support partnerships with Parks, SDOT, DON, utilities, nonprofits and the community to enhance street-end stairs, and create safe trails where appropriate through the surrounding greenbelts.

 NR-P33 Design parks and open spaces and programming to accommodate users of diverse ages, interests and cultures.

 NR-P34 Consider using levy funds, general funds and partnerships with developers, to create a hierarchy of public and private open spaces that are publicly accessible and address the gaps identified in the Parks Gap Analysis.

 ((~~Reclaiming North Rainier's Olmsted Park & Boulevards Policy~~))

 NR-P 35 ((~~6~~)) Seek to preserve environmentally sensitive hillsides, particularly those in the Cheasty Greenbelt, and seek to protect them from further residential development.

 Transportation & Transit Service ((~~for North Rainier~~)) Goals

 NR-G 15 ((~~11~~)) Good connections between the North Rainier Valley, Mount Baker, and the Beacon Hill that  encourage use ((~~strengthen usage~~)) of the Link Light Rail station.

 NR-G 16 ((~~12~~)) Neighborhoods adjacent to Rainier Avenue S and MLK, Jr. Way have effective traffic circulation and have implemented traffic calming strategies/facilities.

 ((~~Encouraging Pedestrians & Bicyclists Goal~~))

 NR-G 17 ((~~3~~)) A neighborhood served by a network of  safe  streets with amenities for pedestrians and bicyclists.

 ((~~Rainier & MLK Streetscapes Goals~~))

 NR-G 18 ((~~4A~~)) ((~~Development of~~)) Rainier Ave. S.  is ((~~as~~)) a highly functioning multimodal ((~~boulevard-style~~))  "complete street" that  ((~~street which~~)) serves as the spine of the Rainier Valley((~~,~~)) and retains its existing vistas of Mount Rainier.

 NR-G 19 ((~~4B~~))  Continue to develop ((~~Development of~~)) Martin Luther King Jr. Way S. as a ((~~landscaped boulevard-style~~))  "complete street, "  and part of the neighborhood' s network of streets with amenities for pedestrians, bicyclists, and transit riders.

 NR-G20 A transformed Rainier Avenue S. between S. Bayview St. and Martin Luther King Jr. Way S. that functions as a pedestrian-oriented main street.

 Transportation & Transit Service ((~~for North Rainier~~)) Policies

 NR-P 36 ((~~13~~)) Promote alternative transportation programs, such as bicycle commuting, local hiring, van pools, and transit ridership. ((~~Consider penalties for businesses that do not comply with Commute Trip Reduction requirements.~~))

 NR-P37 Create seamless pedestrian and bicycle links within the Town Center, and to the surrounding community facilities.

 NR-P38 Prioritize development of universally accessible routes between the Town Center and locations such as Lighthouse for the Blind and Center Park.

 NR-P39 Ensure that standards for new development projects will accommodate a vibrant pedestrian environment throughout the Town Center.

 NR-P40 Enhance access throughout the Town Center for people of all ages and abilities.

 NR-P41 Support actions that improve the pedestrian and transit functions along Rainier Avenue S. between S. Bayview St. and MLK Jr. Way S. so that the section becomes more of a local main street for the North Rainier neighborhood.

 Tom Hauger/Cheryl Sizov DPD-2010 Comp Plan Amendments ATT D March 23, 2011 Version #4

[ Attachment E: Amended Future Land Use Map---North Rainier Urban Village ](/~ordpics/117114_atE.pdf)

 Attachment F to the DPD-2010 Comp Plan Amendments ORD

 Attachment F

 Othello Hill Neighborhood Plan Update

 Land Use & Housing Goals

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G1 A neighborhood that ((~~has~~))  offers a broad range of ((~~land uses~~)) activities  to ((~~respond to~~)) serve  the diverse needs of the community and to encourage neighborhood sustainability, including residential, commercial, retail, service, cultural, and open space uses.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G2  A neighborhood that supports the broad economic, cultural and family-size diversity of this neighborhood by keeping housing affordable with a ((~~A~~)) balance of both single-family and multifamily housing ((~~that is both~~)) for  both  rent ers  and owner s( -~~occupied~~).

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G3  The core Town Center, around the light rail station, is economically strong and serves the multicultural community who live, work and shop here.  ((~~The Sound Transit light rail station forms the heart of a transit- oriented, mixed-use town center.~~))

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G4 The  Othello ((~~MLK@Holly Street~~)) Residential Urban Village has ((~~a balanced system of~~)) parks, recreational facilities, and open spaces that  are designed and programmed to accommodate users of diverse ages, interests and cultures, and that allow for informal interactions of people from different cultures  ((~~responds to the recreational, cultural, environmental, and aesthetic needs of all segments of the neighborhood~~)).

 Land Use & Housing Policies

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P1 Encourage  dense urban development in the Town Center in a manner that creates a vibrant and active commercial district supportive of the community, along with  ((~~well-designed~~)) residential infill development to increase the housing supply.

 O-P2 Maintain and augment affordable housing to keep a range of housing prices and unit sizes and a balance of rental and owner-occupied housing.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 3 ((~~2~~)) Encourage well - designed multifamily development to contribute to the development of a mixed-use town center development.

 O-P4 Encourage development of housing available in a range of prices and sizes, including affordable family-sized homes with amenities for families.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 5 ((~~3~~)) Increase opportunities for  affordable  homeownership by working with ((~~Holly Park Redevelopment, HomeSight~~,)) lenders, and  non-profit and for-profit  developers.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 6 ((~~4~~)) Encourage the preservation of affordable housing resources through rehabilitation of existing single-family residences.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 7 ((~~5~~)) Encourage lenders to design mortgage programs, products~~,~~ and educational materials that meet the needs of a diverse neighborhood.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 8 ((~~6~~))  Support low- income, senior and disabled renters and homeowners with supportive services that will allow them  ((~~Encourage the development of senior housing and supportive services to allow elders~~)) to continue to live in the neighborhood.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 9 ((~~7~~)) In partnership with local, state, and federal agencies, ensure the preservation of a supply of subsidized housing units in the neighborhood.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 10 ((~~8~~)) Encourage service providers and managers to ((~~improve~~))  provide  security and  decent  physical condition ((~~of existing~~))  for  transitional housing to better integrate this housing into the surrounding neighborhood.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 11 ((~~9~~)) Encourage a range of affordable and market rate residential uses in ((~~the upper stories of the~~)) mixed-use development  that is  within short walking distance of a light rail station.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 12 ((~~10~~)) ((~~Design~~)) Use  the light rail station as a gateway with appropriate transitions to the  Othello ((~~MLK@ Holly Street~~)) Residential Urban Village.

 O-P13 Promote development standards that accommodate a vibrant pedestrian environment throughout the Town Center.

 O-P14 Support a uniquely identifiable Town Center that is a destination for international food and cultural experiences.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 15 ((~~11~~)) Coordinate with other public and private agencies((~~, organizations, and individuals~~)) to plan, develop, operate((~~,~~))  and  maintain ((~~and enhance~~)) park and recreational facilities.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 16 ((~~12~~))  Promote  ((~~Ensure the highest levels of~~)) public safety in parks through partnerships with local organizations and law enforcement, defensible design, lighting, and landscaping.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 17 ((~~13~~)) Encourage the development of pocket parks throughout the neighborhood in unopened rights-of-way and other surplus public property.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 18 ((~~14~~)) Use the P-patch program as a means of increasing open space and neighborhood amenities.

 Economic Development Goals

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G 5 ((~~12~~)) Ethnic diversity of Othello merchants, a key asset of this neighborhood, is supported and maintained over the years.  ((~~Develop a clear identity of the MLK@ Holly Street Residential Urban Village that reflects the diverse cultural and ethnic mix of residents and businesses.~~))

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G 6 ((~~5~~)) The retail and commercial core of the  Othello  ((~~MLK@Holly Street~~)) Residential Urban Village is an attractive and vibrant area for neighborhood residents and visitors.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G 7 ((~~6~~)) Othello ((~~The MLK@Holly Street Residential Urban Village~~)) has vibrant commercial areas with ((~~a~~)) diverse economic ((~~base~~))  opportunities for area residents, including  family-wage jobs and a variety of employment((~~opportunities for area residents~~)).

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G 8 ((~~7~~)) A continuum of  opportunities for  education((~~al~~)), training, skills enhancement, and  job  placement ((~~opportunities~~))  that responds to the changing needs of the work place locally and regionally ,  and is  readily available to neighborhood residents and workers((~~, is responsive to the changing needs of the work place locally and regionally~~)).

 Economic Development Policies

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 19 ((~~15~~))  Support a vibrant and attractive multicultural Town Center in providing a range of goods for those who live, work and shop in the neighborhood.  ((~~Encourage development and redevelopment that provides a greater range of products and services to serve the neighborhood.~~))

 O ((~~MLK~~)) -P20 Encourage retail and services that are destination businesses for customers from the Rainier Valley and beyond, as well as those that support the culturally specific daily needs of the community.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 21 ((~~16~~)) Promote retail, restaurant and entertainment uses that are pedestrian- oriented , that  ((~~and~~)) provide a high level of street activity , and that create a secure environment for people and businesses .

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 22 ((~~17~~)) Strive to develop pedestrian amenities to link commercial areas, transportation facilities, residential areas and parks.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 23 ((~~18~~))  Support implementation of coordinated long-term strategies for commercial district improvement including support for existing or expanding small businesses and ethnically based businesses to maintain the multicultural character.  ((~~Facilitate the establishment and development of small businesses as important contributors to the local economy through financial and technical assistance.~~))

 O-P24 Develop strategies that keep commercial space affordable for small businesses, especially culturally based businesses.

 O-P25 Support family-wage jobs in the neighborhood.

 O-P26 Support innovative employment opportunities, including green businesses and training programs.

 O-P27 Support programs that help residents be successful in their jobs including training and apprenticeships.

 Transportation Goals

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G 9 ((~~8~~)) The neighborhood has a safe and  effective network of buses and trains  ((~~efficient multimodal transportation system~~)) that supports land use goals and adequately serves the  community ((~~future growth and development of the  Othello ((MLK@Holly Street)) Residential Urban Village~~)).

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G 10 ((~~9~~)) Improve circulation within the existing capacity of the arterial street system to provide cost - effective mobility and minimal neighborhood disruption.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G 11 ((~~10~~)) There are safe and convenient pedestrian and bicycle transportation alternatives to and from residential areas, parks, schools, civic buildings, and commercial and employment areas.

 Transportation Policies

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 28 ((~~19~~)) Mitigate the impact of arterial traffic on pedestrian activity and  promote  ((~~ensure~~)) the safety of pedestrians by providing pedestrian amenities along arterials.

 O-P29 Create safe pedestrian and bicycle access to light rail and bus service, and to the business district, especially from the east and west.

 O-P30 Encourage King County Metro to provide effective bus service through the neighborhood to the light rail station and surrounding community facilities.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 31 ((~~20~~)) Work with  the  community to identify measures for residential streets, such as traffic circles, on-street parking, and street trees to mitigate impacts from nearby arterials.

 O-P32 Design streets for pedestrian safety, especially at light rail crossings.

 O-P33 Provide nonmotorized connections to open spaces.

 Public Safety Goal

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G 12 ((~~11~~))  This neighborhood is, and feels, safe for people and businesses -- from crime as well as from accidents while walking, biking and driving. ((~~A neighborhood that is and feels safe.~~))

 Public Safety Policy

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 34 ((~~21~~)) Work in partnership with the community , Seattle Police Department, and other agencies to identify public safety "hot spots" and appropriate courses of remedial action such as Block Watch programs, security lighting, and the Holly Park Merchants Assoc. Business Watch.

 O-P35 Encourage partnerships among businesses to create a safe and active commercial district.

 O-P36 Create a secure environment for people to walk and gather.

 O-P37 Create a secure environment for people and businesses.

 O-P38 Seek opportunities for the community and the Seattle Police Department to strengthen partnerships.

 Community Building Goals

 O ((~~MLK~~))-G13 A tightly knit community where people know how ,  ((~~to~~)) and want ,  to get involved in community activities.

 O-G14 Othello offers positive and safe activities for youth, including apprentice programs, recreation opportunities and jobs specifically for teens.

 O-G15 To support cultural diversity, there is improved access to education and employment training opportunities for all, including support specifically for immigrant and refugee families.

 Community Building Policies

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 37 ((~~22~~)) Encourage property and business owners to enhance and maintain the cleanliness and appearance of residential and commercial areas.

 O-P38 Support culturally inclusive local business associations that support the vitality of a business district that serves the entire community.

 O-P39 Support the growth of jobs for teenagers in the neighborhood.

 O-P40 Encourage local institutions to meet the needs of the residents through opportunities for life-long learning in the neighborhood.

 O ((~~MLK~~))-P 41 ((~~23~~)) Improve the availability of ((~~and access to~~)) community facilities for local organizations in the  Othello ((~~MLK@Holly Street~~)) Residential Urban Village.

 O-P42 Provide recreational and cultural programs and activities in parks and community centers that are relevant to the diverse population.

 O-P43 Support the creation of a variety of open spaces for informal public gathering and recreation, including an open space in the Town Center that can be used for community functions such as a farmers' market and cultural celebrations.

 O-P44 Enhance community pride through multicultural community festivals, youth mentoring and other youth programs.

 O-P45 Support key cultural assets such as the Filipino Community Center, Lao Highland Community Center, and cultural media.

 O-P46 Seek opportunities and partnerships to create a shared cultural center that could accommodate offices and gathering/performance space for various multicultural and interest groups.

 Tom Hauger/Cheryl Sizov DPD-2010 Comp Plan Amendments ATT F March 23, 2011 Version #4

 Attachment F to the DPD-2010 Comp Plan Amendments ORD

[ Attachment G: Amended Future Land Use Map---MLK@Holly Street (Othello) Urban Village ](/~ordpics/117114_atG.pdf)

[ Attachment H: Amended Future Land Use Map---23rd and Jackson Urban Village Boundary a>

](/~ordpics/117114_atH.pdf)

```
