

********

**Council Bill Number: 117296**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123726**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to purchase certain real property located at 10042 Rainier Avenue S., Seattle, Washington, King County Parcel Identification No. 807300-0538; to execute, accept and record deeds and other necessary and convenient documents and agreements on behalf of the City.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 3, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 12, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 12, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 19, 2011
   
**Committee:** Seattle Public Utilities and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** O'BRIEN
   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass
   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** September 27, 2011
   
**Committee Vote:** 3 (O'Brien, Conlin, Harrell) - 0
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, RIVERS-AND-STREAMS, RAINIER-BEACH

**Fiscal Note:**117296

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123726](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123726.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to purchase certain real property located at 10042 Rainier Avenue S., Seattle, Washington, King County Parcel Identification No. 807300-0538; to execute, accept and record deeds and other necessary and convenient documents and agreements on behalf of the City.

 WHEREAS, the City plans to implement a major creek habitat and flooding improvement project along lower Taylor Creek and the adjacent shoreline of Lake Washington in southeast Seattle on City-owned properties at 10032-10038 Rainier Ave S. (the "Proposed Project"); and

 WHEREAS, the Proposed Project will create open space to benefit Seattle residents and improve aquatic habitat for fish and wildlife in southern Lake Washington; and

 WHEREAS, the adjacent property at 10042 Rainier Avenue S. also contains Taylor Creek and abuts a portion of the creek delta; and

 WHEREAS, acquisition of 10042 Rainier Avenue S. provides opportunities to further enhance open space and creek and shoreline habitat; and

 WHEREAS, the owner of 10042 Rainier Ave S. is amenable to selling the property commonly known as 10042 Rainer Avenue S. and Seattle Public Utilities would like to purchase said property; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his designee (hereinafter the "Director"), is authorized to execute on behalf of The City of Seattle an agreement to purchase the following parcel of real property, as legally described in Attachment 1 hereto: 10042 Rainier Avenue S., King County parcel number 807300-0538, substantially in the form of the Purchase and Sale Agreement attached hereto as Attachment 2. The Director is further authorized to execute, accept and record deeds and other necessary and convenient documents and agreements on behalf of the City related to the purchase of said property.

 Section 2. The property shall be placed in the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1 -- Legal Description of Property

 Attachment 2 -- Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Julie Crittenden SPU 10042 Rainier Ave South ORD September 8, 2011 Version 3

 Attachment 1

 LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

 1. King County Tax Account No. 807300-0538; 10042 Rainier Avenue South

 Parcel A:

 Lot A, City of Seattle Short Plat Number 8406267, recorded under Recording Number

 8605021031, in King County, Washington. Together with second class shorelands adjoining.

 Parcel B:

 A non-exclusive easement for ingress and egress as delineated on City of Seattle

 Short Plat Number 8406267, recorded under Recording Number 8605021031, in King

 County, Washington.

 Julie Crittenden SPU 10042 Rainier Ave South ATT 1 September 8, 2011 Version 1

 ATTACHMENT 1

 Attachment 1 to SPU 10042 Rainier Ave South ORD

 Attachment 2

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 THIS AGREEMENT is made by and between - ______________________________ (the "Seller") and The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, acting by and through its Seattle Public Utilities Department ("Buyer"). This Agreement shall be effective the date it has been signed by both Seller and Buyer as evidenced by the last date appearing under their respective signatures (the "Effective Date").

 1. SALE OF PROPERTY

 Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Buyer Shall purchase and Seller shall convey to Buyer on the Closing Date that certain real property, improvements, and appurtenances thereon known as ________________________________, Seattle, situated in King County, Washington, legally described in Exhibit A attached to this document together with all rights appurtenant thereto (the "Property"). The property is being conveyed voluntarily by Seller without threat of condemnation.

 2. PURCHASE PRICE; PAYMENT

 The total purchase price for the Property is ______________________ Dollars ($ __________ ).

 2.1 Earnest Money Deposit. Within ten (10) working days following the Effective Date, Buyer will deposit in escrow with Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, (215 Columbia Street, Seattle) ("Closing Agent"), a copy of this Agreement and Buyer's earnest money deposit in the amount of ____________________Dollars ($______________) ("Deposit"), in the form of a check made payable to the Closing Agent to be held in trust for this transaction. The Closing Agent shall hold the Deposit and apply it to the Purchase Price at closing, unless forfeited or refunded as provided below.

 2.2 Balance of Purchase Price. The balance of the Purchase Price: ________________Dollars ($____________) in cash at closing will be paid by Buyer.

 3. CONDITION OF TITLE; DEED

 3.1 Title Insurance. Buyer shall obtain an owner's standard coverage policy of title insurance, issued through Pacific Northwest Title Company ("PNTC") describing the Property, listing the Buyer as the prospective insured, and showing as the policy amount the Purchase Price (the "Title Policy"). Seller agrees to take all reasonable steps to remove any defects or cause the Title Company to insure over said defects at Closing. If Seller is unable, in the exercise of due diligence, to cure or insure over said defects on or before the Closing date, Buyer, may, at Buyer's election, extend Closing for an additional 60 days, to permit Seller to cure such remaining defects, terminate this Agreement and recover its Deposit from Closing Agent, or exercise any other right Buyer has under this Agreement.

 3.2 Deed. At Closing, the Seller shall execute and deliver to Buyer a Statutory Warranty Deed conveying title to the Property to the Buyer free and clear of all defects or encumbrances except for any exceptions waived by the Buyer. A condition precedent to Buyer's completing the purchase of the Property shall be the willingness of the PNTC to issue, upon payment of the PNTC's regularly scheduled premium, an ALTA owner's standard coverage title insurance policy in the amount of the Purchase Price, showing title to the Property vested in Buyer in fee simple, subject only to the preprinted exceptions commonly contained in an owner's policy.

 4. FEASIBILITY PERIOD

 Buyer shall have until _______________, 2011 (i) to determine, in its sole discretion, the suitability of the Property for Buyer's intended use and (ii) for the Seattle City Council by ordinance to authorize and approve the acquisition of the Property ("Feasibility Period"). If Buyer fails to deliver to Seller written notice prior to the end of the Feasibility Period that Buyer has determined the Property to be suitable and the Seattle City Council has by ordinance approved acquisition of the Property, then the Property shall be deemed unsuitable for Buyer's purposes, this Agreement shall terminate, Closing Agent shall return the Deposit along with any accrued interest to Buyer, and Seller and Buyer shall have no further obligations or liability under this Agreement. Seller and Buyer agree that the Feasibility Period may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties through written amendment to this Agreement signed by both Seller and Buyer.

 5. RIGHT OF ENTRY

 Seller grants to Buyer and its employees, agent and contractors, the right to enter upon the Property from time to time during the Feasibility Period, for the purpose of conducting such inspections, investigations and studies as Buyer may reasonably deem necessary or appropriate and at Buyer's expense, in order to determine the feasibility of purchasing the Property. Buyer agrees to restore to the Property to substantially the same condition as existed prior to entry any portion of the Property disturbed by Buyer's investigation or studies.

 6. RISK OF LOSS

 Seller shall bear the risk of loss of or damage to the Property until the date of closing. In the event of destruction of vegetation or other material loss of or damage to the Property prior to closing, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by giving notice of termination to Seller and Closing Agent unless such loss or damage is caused by the Buyer. Upon such notification, Closing Agent shall refund the Deposit to Buyer and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations in connection with this Agreement.

 7. REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS

 7.1 Buyer's Representations and Warranties. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller at the date of execution of this Agreement and the date of closing that:

 (a) Buyer is a municipal corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington and has the power to own its property and assets.

 (b) The individual(s) executing this agreement on behalf of Buyer is authorized to do so by appropriate legislative enactment.

 7.2 Seller's Representations and Warranties. Seller represents, warrants and covenants to Buyer at the date of execution of this Agreement and the date of closing that:

 (a) Seller is the owner of the Property, subject to any liens, encumbrances and interests shown on the Title Report.

 (b) Seller has full power and authority to execute this Agreement and perform Seller's obligations;

 (c) Prior to closing, Seller will remove all debris and personal property located on the Property (if any), at Seller's cost and expense.

 (d) There is no pending or threatened litigation that would adversely affect the Property or Buyer's ownership thereof after Closing.

 (e) There are no covenants, conditions, restrictions, or contractual obligations of Seller that will adversely affect Buyer's ownership of the Property after Closing or prevent Seller from performing its obligations under the Agreement, except as disclosed in the Title Report.

 (f) Seller represents that it has had no dealing with any real estate brokers or agents in connection with the negotiation of this transaction. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any and all liability and costs which the other may suffer in connection with real estate brokers claiming by, through, or under that party seeking any commission, fee or payment in connection with this transaction.

 (g) Seller has not entered, and prior to closing shall not enter, into any contract or agreement, either written or oral, concerning cutting, removal, topping or other disturbance or destruction of vegetation on the Property.

 8. CONDITION OF PROPERTY

 Buyer acknowledges and agrees that it is relying solely on its inspection and investigation of the Property, and accepts the Property "As-Is," "Where-Is" in its present condition. Buyer acknowledges and agrees that the Seller has made no warranty or representation of any kind, oral or written, expressed or implied, with respect to any condition of the Property, including without limitation, the habitability, tenantability, or fitness for a particular purpose of the Property, the presence or absence of any hazardous substances, wastes or materials as defined by State, Federal or Local law.

 9. CLOSING AND POSSESSION

 9.1 Closing Costs. Buyer and Seller shall each pay their own attorneys' fees incurred in connection with negotiating and consummating this transaction Buyer will pay real estate excise taxes, the premium for the insurance policy, the cost of recording the Statutory Warranty Deed from Seller, and the Closing Agent's escrow fee.

 9.2 Prorations. Real property taxes, assessments, Surface Water Management charges, Conservation Service Charges, and utility charges constituting liens against the Property, all for the year of Closing, shall be prorated as of the date of Closing. Any documentary transfer tax, real estate excise tax, or other similar tax imposed in accordance with the requirements of lawful authority shall be paid by Seller.

 9.3 Time for Closing. This sale will be closed in the office of the Closing Agent on a date mutually agreed upon by the Buyer and Seller, subject to and after authorization through ordinance passed by the Seattle City Council no later than ______________, 2011. Seller and Buyer agree that the closing date may be extended by written amendment to this Agreement signed by both parties. Buyer and Seller will deposit in escrow with the Closing Agent all instruments, documents and monies necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, "closing" or "date of closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for disbursement to Seller. Funds held in reserve accounts pursuant to escrow instructions shall be deemed, for purposes of this definition, as available to disbursement to Seller.

 9.4 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property at time of closing. Seller shall deliver the Property to Buyer on the Closing Date in substantially the same physical condition as of the date of Seller's execution of this Agreement, excepting casualty and ordinary wear and tear. Seller shall remove all debris and personal property (if any) located on the Property at Seller's cost and expense as of the Closing Date.

 10. DEFAULT

 If either party to this Agreement fails or refuses to perform or satisfy a material obligation under this Agreement, that party shall be in default and the non-defaulting party may elect from the following remedies.

 10.1 Seller in Default. In the event that Seller breaches any of its obligations under this Agreement, Buyer shall have all remedies available to it at law or in equity, including, without limitation, the right to seek specific performance.

 10.2 Buyer in Default. If Buyer fails, without legal excuse, to complete the purchase of the property, the Deposit made by Buyer shall be forfeited to Seller as the sole and exclusive remedy available to Seller for such failure.

 11. BUYER'S CONDITIONS TO CLOSING

 11.1 It is a condition to Buyer's obligation to proceed to Closing that, as of the Closing Date

 (a) all of Seller's representations and warranties set forth in Section 7.2 are true and correct;

 (b) Seller has performed all of its covenants hereunder;

 (c) no moratorium, statute, order, regulation, ordinance or judgment of any court or governmental agency has been enacted, adopted, issued or initiated that would materially and adversely affect the current use of the Property or any portion thereof;

 (d) the Property is delivered to Buyer at Closing free and clear of any occupants or rights to possession;

 (e) the Title Company is prepared to issue the Title Policy to the Buyer;

 (e) Seller has delivered all documents listed in Section 13;

 (f) all other conditions to Buyer's obligations to proceed to Closing that are set forth in this Agreement have been satisfied.

 11.2 If any condition to Buyer's obligations hereunder has not been fulfilled, including any condition not set forth in this Section 11, Buyer shall have no obligation to proceed to Closing.

 12. SELLER'S CONDITIONS TO CLOSING

 12.1 It is a condition to Seller's obligation to proceed to Closing that, as of the Closing Date

 (a) all of Buyer's representations and warranties set forth in Section 7.1 are true and correct;

 (b) Buyer has performed all of its covenants hereunder;

 (c) Buyer has delivered the Purchase Price and all other documents and other deliveries listed in Section 13;

 (d) all other conditions to Seller's obligations to proceed to Closing that are set forth in this Agreement have been satisfied.

 12.2 If any condition to Seller's obligations hereunder has not been fulfilled, including any condition not set forth in this Section11, Buyer shall have no obligation to proceed to Closing.

 13. DELIVERIES

 13.1 Seller's Deliveries at Closing.

 On the Closing Date, Seller shall deliver at the Closing the following documents and materials, all of which shall be in form and substance acceptable to Buyer:

 (a) The duly executed and acknowledged Deed.

 (b) Any instruments reasonably necessary to convey title in the condition required by this Agreement, each of which instrument shall be duly executed and, if necessary, acknowledged.

 (c) A non-foreign certification, duly executed by Seller under penalty of perjury, certifying that Seller is not a "foreign person" as defined in or pursuant to Section 1445 (as may be amended) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 1445"). If Seller shall fail or be unable to deliver the same, then Buyer shall have the right to withhold such portion of the Purchase Price as may be necessary, in the reasonable opinion of the Title Company, to comply with Section 1445.

 (d) Such other documents as the Title Company may reasonably require to complete the Closing.

 13.2 Buyer's Deliveries at Closing.

 (a) Buyer shall deliver at the Closing the Purchase Price for the Property (plus any additional funds necessary to pay Buyer's share of closing costs and prorations, as hereinafter set forth) with immediately available funds. Such delivery shall be made in a timely manner to allow disbursement of the Purchase Price to Seller at the time of the Closing.

 (b) Such other documents as the Title Company may reasonably require to complete the Closing.

 14. NOTICES

 All notices, approvals and demands required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and personally delivered, sent by United States certified mail, return receipt requested, to the addressee's mailing address set forth below, or sent by telecopy to the addressee's fax number set forth below. Any notice will be effective when actually received or, if mailed as provided herein, on the earlier of actual receipt of two (2) days after the date deposited in the mail.

 If to Buyer:

 Seattle Public Utilities

 PO Box 34018

 Seattle, WA 98124-4018

 If by Carrier or Delivery: 700 Fifth Avenue, Floor 50

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Phone: 206-684-

 Fax: 206-

 If to Seller:

 If to Closing Agent: Escrow Office

 Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington

 215 Columbia Street

 Seattle, WA 98104-1040

 Phone: 206-343-1321

 Fax: 206-343-4720

 15. GOVERNING LAW; VENUE

 This Agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of Washington. Venue for any action arising out of this Agreement shall be in King County, Washington.

 16. TIME OF THE ESSENCE; CALCULATION OF TIME PERIODS

 16.1 Time is of the essence of this Agreement and of all acts required to be done and performed by either and both of the parties hereto. Any extension of time granted for performance of any obligation to this Agreement shall not be considered an extension of time for the performance of any other obligation under this Agreement.

 16.2 Unless otherwise specified, in computing any period of time described in this Agreement, the day of the act or event after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included and the last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless such last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. The final day of any such period shall be deemed to end at 5:00 p.m., Pacific Standard Time, unless another ending time is herein specified.

 17. COUNTERPARTS

 This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and, if so, only when a counterpart is delivered to the Closing Agent, with the signatures of each and every one of the parties constituting the Buyer and Seller, shall it be deemed a binding Agreement.

 18. NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER

 This Agreement may not be changed or amended orally, but only by an agreement in writing. No waiver shall be effective unless given in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default shall not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default.

 19. NEGOTIATED UNDERSTANDING

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 20. ATTORNEYS' FEES

 In the event of any litigation regarding the rights and obligations under this Agreement, each party shall be responsible for its own attorneys' fees and court costs.

 21. GENERAL

 This is the entire agreement of Buyer and Seller with respect to the Property and supersedes all prior agreements between them, written or oral. This Agreement may be modified or amended only in writing, and signed by Buyer and Seller. Any waivers under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default will not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. This Agreement is for the benefit of, and binding upon, Buyer and Seller and their heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision. All exhibits are hereby incorporated into this Agreement.

 22. SURVIVAL OF WARRANTIES

 The terms, covenants, representations and warranties shall not merge in the deed of conveyance, but shall survive closing.

 BUYER: THE CITY OF SEATTLE, acting by and through its

 Seattle Public Utilities Department

 By ___________________________________________

 Printed Name ___________________________________

 Title ___________________________________________

 Date ______________________, _______

 SELLER:

 By _____________________________________________

 _____________________________________________

 Date ______________________, ________

 Julie Crittenden SPU 10042 Rainier Ave South ATT 2 September 8, 2011 Version 1

 ATTACHMENT 2

 Attachment 2 to SPU 10042 Rainier Ave South ORD

```
