

********

**Council Bill Number: 117281**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123706**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, declaring certain real property rights surplus to utility needs; authorizing the Superintendent or his designee to grant an easement for access purposes over a portion of the City's fee-owned Duwamish Transmission Corridor adjacent to South 112th Street in the City of Tukwila, Washington; and accepting payment for the true and full value of the easement from Amalfi Investments, LLC.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 12, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 23, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 23, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 6, 2011
   
**Committee:** Energy, Technology, and Civil Rights
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass
   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** September 7, 2011
   
**Committee Vote:** 2 (Harrell, Licata) - 0
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, EASEMENTS, TUKWILA, SALES

**Fiscal Note:**117281

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123706](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123706.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, declaring certain real property rights surplus to utility needs; authorizing the Superintendent or his designee to grant an easement for access purposes over a portion of the City's fee-owned Duwamish Transmission Corridor adjacent to South 112th Street in the City of Tukwila, Washington; and accepting payment for the true and full value of the easement from Amalfi Investments, LLC.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle owns by recorded deed a certain parcel of land in Government Lot 1, Section 1, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M., King County Tax Parcel Number 102304-9056, being a portion of the Duwamish Transmission Corridor in the City of Tukwila, King County, Washington; and

 WHEREAS, Amalfi Investments, LLC ("Amalfi") owns certain real property adjacent to the City-owned transmission corridor that it leases to United Parcel Service for use as a truck shipping terminal; and

 WHEREAS, Amalfi has requested that the City grant a permanent easement of 50 feet in width across the City-owned transmission corridor for access purposes so that its tenant may gain safe and efficient access to East Marginal Way South via South 112th Street; and

 WHEREAS, the access easement requested by Amalfi is an acceptable use of the transmission corridor in accordance with City Light's real property use standards, will not interfere with City Light operations, and is excess to City utility needs; and

 WHEREAS, Amalfi will pay The City of Seattle the fair market value for the requested easement, as determined by independent appraisals of similar City properties in the area, in the amount of $124,000; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to the provisions of R.C.W. 35.94.040 and after public hearing, certain real property rights acquired for an electrical transmission corridor are no longer needed exclusively for the City of Seattle's utility purposes, over, under, and upon the following described property, and are declared surplus to City needs:

 A fifty (50) foot wide Easement within the following described Property:

 Beginning at the section corner common to Sections 3, 4, 9, and 10, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M.;

 Thence Easterly along the North line of Section 10 a distance of 548.72 feet;

 Thence Southerly along the West margin of State Highway 5M (East Marginal Way South) a distance of 123.11 feet;

 Thence South 871839 West a distance of 544.06 feet;

 Thence North 561246 West a distance of 50.62 feet to the West line of said Section 10;

 Thence Northerly along said West line of Section 10 a distance of 138.62 feet, more or less, to the above described common section corner;

 Said Easement being with twenty-five (25) feet on each side of a centerline further described as follows:

 Beginning at the section corner common to Sections 3, 4, 9, and 10, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M.;

 Thence Easterly along the North line of said Section 10 a distance of 163 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of this centerline description;

 Thence Southerly along said centerline perpendicular to the North line of said Section 10 to a point of intersection with the South line of the above described Property and the terminus of this centerline description.

 Section 2. The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his designee, is authorized to execute for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, an easement substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1.

 Section 3. Seattle City Light is authorized to accept payment for the access easement from Amalfi Investments, LLC, in the amount of $124,000 and to deposit the proceeds in the City Light Fund.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment1: Easement

 John Bresnahan SCL Amalfi Esmt ORD July 5, 2011 Version #2

 Attachment 1: Easement

 Attachment 1

 SEATTLE CITY LIGHT

 Real Estate Services

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3012

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 EASEMENT

 SCL P.M. #: 230410-2-302

 C/F #: ___________

 Grantor: City of Seattle

 Grantee: Amalfi Investments, LLC

 Short Legal: Ptn. G.L. 1, Sec. 10, Twp. 23 N., Rge. 4 E., W.M.

 Tax Parcel #: 102304-9056

 THIS EASEMENT ("Easement") is made this ______ day of________________, 2011, by and between the CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation, acting by and through its CITY LIGHT DEPARTMENT, hereinafter called the " Grantor" ; and AMALFI INVESTMENTS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, hereinafter called the " Grantee ". The term " Party " or " Parties " as used herein shall mean the signatories hereto, and their successors, including by assignment, merger, or other transfer.

 1. Conveyance and Consideration. Grantor, for and in consideration of the sum of One Hundred Twenty-Four Thousand ($124,000.00) Dollars, hereby grants, without warranty of title, to the Grantee, its successors and assigns, a non- exclusive easement for the purposes of ingress, egress and utilities over, through, under and across a portion of Grantor's property ("Grantor  Property ") that is legally described in Exhibit "A". The boundaries of the easement area (" Easement Area ") are legally described in Exhibit "B" and depicted in Exhibit "C". The Easement is appurtenant to and shall benefit Grantee's Property as described on Exhibit "D" (" Grantee Property "). Exhibits A, B, C, and D are attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. The right to use the Easement Area shall extend to Grantee and all of its tenants, and their respective agents, employees, invitees, contractors, and permittees, and shall extend to any development or changed use on the Grantee Property.

 2. Grantor's Reserved Rights. Grantor reserves unto itself and its assigns (i) all aerial rights above, over, across and through the Easement Area; (ii) the right to enter, exit, and traverse the Easement Area for the purpose of constructing, repairing, removing, operating and maintaining its present or future facilities or structures lying within, suspended above, or located on Grantor Property. If Grantor anticipates the need to temporarily close off the easement for safety purposes, Grantor shall make reasonable efforts to notify Grantee in advance. However, in cases of emergency, no such advance notification shall be required. Grantee shall at no time interfere with Grantor's access to, egress from, or ability to traverse the Easement Area or Grantor Property or allow such interference by its agents, lessees or assigns.

 3. Additional Terms and Conditions. Grantee, Grantor and their respective successors, agents, and assigns, hereby agree to the following additional terms and conditions:

 3.1 No building, structure, or fire hazard will be constructed, placed or allowed to remain within the Easement Area, with the exception of a roadway, curb and gutter, and underground utilities (" Permitted Improvements "). Permitted Improvements shall not be inconsistent with the safe and convenient operation of Grantor's facilities or with regulations, rules or orders of NERC, FERC, the State of Washington, or any other regulatory body or agency having authority or jurisdiction over the Grantor Property or Grantor's facilities.

 3.2 Not less than 90 days prior to commencing construction of any Permitted Improvements, Grantee shall provide detailed plans to Grantor for Grantor's review and approval. Approval shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld.

 3.3 Upon completion of any activity or construction described in 3.1 and 3.2 above, Grantee shall remove all debris and restore the surface of the Easement Area to the condition in which it existed as of the date of this Easement and shall provide Grantor with final as-built plans of any Permitted Improvement made within the Easement Area.

 3.4 A minimum 30 feet of vertical clearance between any transmission conductor and the finished grade of any proposed access driveway, private road, or other Permitted Improvement shall be maintained at all times. A minimum working clearance of 17 feet from 230 kV lines shall be maintained at all times for personnel and machinery. Grantee, its agents, employees, subcontractors, lessees and assigns shall comply with all National Electric Safety Code (NESC), Washington Department of Labor and Industries, and federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration codes and clearances while engaging in any activity within the Easement Area.

 3.5 No vegetation shall be planted, placed or allowed to remain within the Easement Area that has a height at maturity greater than 12 feet.

 3.6 No vehicles, trailers, cranes, construction equipment or any other such equipment with a height or potential height of over 25 feet shall be driven, pulled, pushed, operated or parked within the Easement Area. No cars, trucks, vans, semi-tractors, trailers or combinations thereof or any other vehicles or equipment shall be parked, stored, queued, or left idling within the Easement Area, except incident to prudent ingress and egress to the public street.

 3.7 No blasting or discharge of any explosives shall be permitted within 150 feet of Grantor's facilities.

 3.8 There shall be no storage, dumping, burying or transferring any hazardous substances, inoperable vehicles, chemicals, oils, fuels, flammable materials (" Hazardous Materials ") or containers for said substances, within the Easement Area; provided that nothing herein shall prohibit the passage of vehicles containing or transporting Hazardous Materials across the Easement Area coincident to the ordinary and safe operation of said vehicles on Grantee Property. Grantee, its successors, agents, lessees, and assigns shall comply with all environmental laws of the State of Washington or any other governmental subdivision or agency having regulatory authority over Grantor Property with respect to its use of the Easement Area.

 3.9 Grantee, its successors and assigns, assume all risk of loss, damage or injury which may result from its use of the Easement Area, or the use of the Easement Area by its respective agents, employees, invitees, contractors, subcontractors, permittees or licensees. Grantee, its successors, and assigns, agree to indemnify and hold harmless Grantor from all claims, actions, or damages of every kind and description, which may accrue from or be suffered by reason of Grantee's, its successors or assigns, or their respective agents, employees, invitees, contractors, subcontractors, permittees, or licensees use of the Easement Area, the performance of any work in connection with its use, or the exercise of any rights granted in this Easement; and in case of any such suit or action being brought against Grantor, or damages arising out of or by reason of any of the above causes, Grantee shall, upon notice of commencement of such action, defend Grantor at Grantee's sole cost and expense and will fully satisfy any judgment after the said suit shall have been finally determined, if adversely, to Grantor, except to the extent of the sole negligence of the Grantor, its agents, or representatives.

 3.10 Grantee shall at all times exercise its rights under this Easement in accordance with the requirements of all applicable statutes, orders, rules and regulations of any public authority having jurisdiction.

 3.11 This Easement and all covenants, terms and conditions of this easement shall become perpetual and run with Grantor Property. Upon conveyance of a Party's property, the successor in interest shall automatically be deemed to have assumed all obligations and liabilities arising out of or in connection with this Easement, and the predecessor released therefrom. Within 60 days of written request by a Party, the other Party shall provide an estoppel certificate to the other Party, which may be relied upon by any successor stating (i) whether this Easement has been modified or supplemented, (ii) whether the party requesting the certificate is in default, (iii) whether there is any pending or threatened litigation or claim arising out of or in connection with this Easement.

 This Easement shall become effective and binding only upon execution by both Parties and approval by ordinance passed by the Seattle City Council.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been executed the day and year first above written.

 GRANTOR: GRANTEE:

 CITY OF SEATTLE, AMALFI INVESTMENTS, LLC, a

 CITY LIGHT DEPARTMENT, a Washington Limited Liability Corporation

 Washington Municipal Corporation

 By: ________________________________ By: ________________________________

 Print Name: _________________________ Print Name: _________________________

 Title: _______________________________ Title: _______________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of ______________________, 2011, before me personally appeared ____________________________, to me known to be the _______________________________ of AMALFI INVESTMENTS, LLC, the Washington limited liability company that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that said instrument was the free and voluntary act and deed of said company for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument on behalf of AMALFI INVESTMENTS, LLC.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year above written.

 Signature: ____________________________

 Print name: ____________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at:____________________________

 (notary seal) My commission expires:_________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of ______________________, 2011, before me personally appeared ____________________________, to me known to be the _______________________________ of SEATTLE CITY LIGHT, a department of the CITY OF SEATTLE, the Washington municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that said instrument was the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument on behalf of the CITY OF SEATTLE.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year above written.

 (notary seal)

 Signature: ____________________________

 Print name: ____________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at:____________________________

 My commission expires:_________________

 Exhibit A

 Grantor Property

 That portion of Government Lot 1, Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M, described as follows:

 Beginning at the section corner common to Sections 3, 4, 9, and 10, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M., and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence Easterly along the North line of Section 10 a distance of 548.72 feet;

 Thence Southerly along the West margin of State Highway 5M (East Marginal Way South) a distance of 123.11 feet;

 Thence South 871839 West a distance of 544.06 feet;

 Thence North 561246 West a distance of 50.62 feet to the West line of said Section 10;

 Thence Northerly along said West line of Section 10 a distance of 138.62 feet, more or less, to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Exhibit B

 Easement Area

 A fifty (50) foot wide Easement within the following described Property:

 Beginning at the section corner common to Sections 3, 4, 9, and 10, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M.;

 Thence Easterly along the North line of Section 10 a distance of 548.72 feet;

 Thence Southerly along the West margin of State Highway 5M (East Marginal Way South) a distance of 123.11 feet;

 Thence South 871839 West a distance of 544.06 feet;

 Thence North 561246 West a distance of 50.62 feet to the West line of said Section 10;

 Thence Northerly along said West line of Section 10 a distance of 138.62 feet, more or less, to the above described common section corner;

 Said Easement being with twenty-five (25) feet on each side of a centerline further described as follows:

 Beginning at the section corner common to Sections 3, 4, 9, and 10, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M.;

 Thence Easterly along the North line of said Section 10 a distance of 163 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of this centerline description;

 Thence Southerly along said centerline perpendicular to the North line of said Section 10 to a point of intersection with the South line of the above described Property and the terminus of this centerline description.

 The Easement Area contains approximately 7,772 square feet and its general location is depicted in Exhibit "C", attached hereto, which is a pictorial reference not to be relied upon for determining the exact boundaries or location of the Easement Area.

 Exhibit C

[ Access Easement -- Amalfi Investments, LLC ](/~ordpics/117281a1.gif) 11231 East Marginal Way S

 Exhibit D

 Grantee's Property

 All that portion of Government Lot 1, Section 10, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M., lying north of the Duwamish River and west of the westerly line of East Marginal Way South;

 EXCEPT that portion as condemned by King County Superior Court Cause No. 469557 for transmission lines; and

 EXCEPT all existing County Roads; and

 EXCEPT that portion thereof described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the west line of said Government Lot 1, lying South 00 degrees 32'40" West 636.35 feet from the northwest corner thereof;

 Thence South 88 degrees 51'20" East parallel with the north line of said Government Lot 1, 208.79 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 69 degrees 47'10" East 514 feet, more or less, to the westerly line of East Marginal Way South;

 Thence South 16 degrees 48'50" East along said westerly line to the Duwamish River;

 Thence westerly along the Duwamish River to a point which bears South 20 degrees 12'50" East from the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 20 degrees 12'50" West to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 John Bresnahan SCL Amalfi Easement ATT 1 July 5, 2011 Version #2

 Page 1 of 10 Attachment 1 to SCL Amalfi Easement Ordinance

```
