

********

**Council Bill Number: 117204**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123640**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to cable television; designating Seattle Community College District VI as the Designated Access Manager for public access television; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to enter into a contract with Seattle Community College District VI for the provision, management and operation of public access television services; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to remove Seattle Community College District VI as Designated Access Manager and to terminate or amend the terms of the contract; increasing appropriations in connection thereto; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to terminate the designation of Seattle Community Access Network as the Designated Access Manager; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts; all by a three- fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 20, 2011
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: O'Brien)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 23, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 23, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 13, 2011
   
**Committee:** Energy, Technology, and Civil Rights
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass as amended
   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** June 15, 2011
   
**Committee Vote:** 3 (Harrell, Conlin, Licata) - 0
   
   
**Index Terms:** CONTRACTS, FEES, FRANCHISES, CABLE-TELEVISION

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 120214](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=120214&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G), [Ordinance 122089](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=122089&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G), [Ordinance 122514](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=122514&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G), [Ordinance 123461](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=123461&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G)

**Fiscal Note:**117204

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123640](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123640.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to cable television; designating Seattle Community College District VI as the Designated Access Manager for public access television; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to enter into a contract with Seattle Community College District VI for the provision, management and operation of public access television services; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to remove Seattle Community College District VI as Designated Access Manager and to terminate or amend the terms of the contract; increasing appropriations in connection thereto; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to terminate the designation of Seattle Community Access Network as the Designated Access Manager; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, Comcast of Washington I, Inc. and Comcast of Washington IV, Inc. (collectively "Comcast") is authorized to provide cable services in the City of Seattle ("City") in accordance with a Cable Franchise Agreement ("Franchise") approved under Ordinance 122089 and Millennium Digital Media Systems, L.L.C., d/b/a Broadstripe Cable, is authorized to provide cable services in the City in accordance with a Franchise approved under Ordinance 122514; and

 WHEREAS, the Franchises between the City and the cable operators provide for public access channels and allow the City to name an outside entity to act as the designated access manager ("Designated Access Manager") to operate the public access channels and to manage the use of any or all public access facilities and resources provided by the cable companies; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120214 designated the Seattle Community Access Network ("SCAN") as the Designated Access Manager and SCAN provided public access services until its contract ended on December 31, 2010, and was subsequently awarded a contract to provide interim public access services until June 30, 2011; and

 WHEREAS, the 2011 Adopted Budget authorizes implementation of a new model for providing the public access television services and issuance of a request for proposals to develop a new operational model; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Community College District VI was selected through a competitive process and is willing to act as the Designated Access Manager and provide public access services, training, outreach and programs on the public access channels on a city-wide basis, in accordance with the RFP; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 123461 increased the franchise fee chargeable to cable television operators by 0.2 percent, from 4.2 percent to 4.4 percent of gross revenues, thereby increasing revenue to the Cable Subfund by approximately $320,000 per year, of which only $138,000 was designated for specific use in the 2011 Adopted Budget; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Information Technology and the Citizens Telecommunications and Technology Advisory Board ("CTTAB") have recommended that $87,000 of this increased revenue to the Cable Subfund be used to pay for services to be provided by the public access television operator; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Seattle Community College District VI is hereby designated as the new Designated Access Manager for public access television superseding and terminating the previous designation of SCAN provided under Ordinance 120214.

 Section 2. The Chief Technology Officer ("CTO") is authorized to enter into an agreement with Seattle Community College District VI substantially in the form of Attachment 1 to this ordinance. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of that agreement Seattle Community College District VI, hereinafter referred to as the "Designated Access Manager," shall manage and operate the City's public access channels and the use of public access resources provided to it by the City.

 Section 3. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred or to be incurred, but for which insufficient appropriations were made due to causes that could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time the 2011 Budget was adopted, the appropriations for the following items in the 2011 Budget are increased from the funds shown, as follows:

```
<table><tr><td>Item

</td><td>Fund

</td><td>Department

</td><td>Budget Control Level

</td><td>Amount

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3.1

</td><td>Cable Television Franchise Subfund (00160)

</td><td>Information Technology

</td><td>Cable Fee Support to Information Technology Fund (D160B)

</td><td>$87,000

</td></tr>

<tr><td>3.2

</td><td>Information Technology Fund (50410)

</td><td>Information Technology

</td><td>Office of Electronic Communications (D4400)

</td><td>$87,000

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Total

</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$174,000

</td></tr>

</table> Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a 3/4 vote of all the members of the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_\_day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 D'Anne Mount / Martha Lester DoIT Public Access Television ORD June 10, 2011 Version #14

 Attachment 1: Agreement for Public Access Cable Television Channel Manager

 The City of Seattle

 Department of Information Technology

 And

 Seattle Community College District VI

 AGREEMENT FOR

 Public Access Cable Television Channel Manager

 DPO DIT 110031

 THIS AGREEMENT is made effective June 1, 2011 (the "Effective Date"), and entered into by and between The City of Seattle ("City"), a first class city of the State of Washington, through its Department of Information Technology, and Seattle Community College District VI ("Public Access Manager"), an agency of the State of Washington and authorized to do business in the State of Washington.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle has entered into or will enter into franchise agreements with Cable Operators, including Comcast of Washington I, Inc. and Comcast of Washington IV, Inc. (collectively "Comcast"), and Millennium Digital Media Systems, L.L.C., d/b/a Broadstripe Cable ("Broadstripe"), that require such Cable Operators to provide certain channels and resources dedicated for use by the public;

 WHEREAS, the franchise agreements between The City of Seattle and its Cable Operators provide for public access channels and allow the City to appoint an outside entity to act as the Designated Public Access Manager and to manage and operate the Public Access Channel;

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle, through the Department of Information Technology, initiated a Request for Proposal on March 21, 2011 to seek a Public Access Manager to operate and provide related community digital media production services;

 WHEREAS, the Request for Proposals was consistent with the guidelines provided by the Seattle City Council through its Statement of Legislative Intent 37-1-A-1;

 WHEREAS, as a result of the Request for Proposals process, the Seattle Community College District VI was selected as the Public Access Manager;

 WHEREAS, under this Agreement, the Public Access Manager will utilize an online software platform designed specifically for public access stations to streamline functions, increase and simplify access for producers, increase access to produced programming, and encourage connection with others in the public access community locally and nationally through other online services including social media;

 WHEREAS, under this Agreement, the Public Access Manager will seek to ensure that all communities, including youth, people of color, immigrant, refugee, and disadvantaged, understand that public access is available for them to give voice to their issues and causes, and,

 WHEREAS, funds for this purpose will be subject to annual appropriation by the Seattle City Council in the City's budget process,

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants, and performance of the scope of services contained herein The City of Seattle and the Public Access Manager mutually agree as follows:

 1. Entire Agreement: This Agreement, including all exhibits, attachments, addenda, and subsequently issued amendments addenda, comprises the entire agreement between the City and the Public Access Manager. The Request for Proposals ("RFP"), its Addenda, and the Public Access Manager's Proposal are explicitly included as Exhibits B through G. Where there are conflicts between these documents, the controlling document will first be this Agreement as amended, then the Public Access Manager's proposal, and then the RFP and its Addenda.

 2. Designation as Public Access Manager: The Seattle Community College District VI shall serve as the City's Public Access Manager and shall have sole responsibility for operating and managing the Public Access Channel and for providing and managing all Public Access services pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 3. City's Right to designate Public Access Manager: The City reserves the right to remove Seattle Community College District VI as the Public Access Manager and appoint any other Person or entity to be the designated Public Access Manager upon the termination of this Agreement pursuant to the termination procedures set forth herein.

 4. Term: The term of this Agreement shall commence as of the effective date and shall terminate on June 30, 2014 unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties or terminated earlier as provided herein.

 5. Scope of Services

 5.1  Management of Public Access Channels:  The Public Access Manager shall manage access to and use of the public access channels, Comcast channel 77 and Broadstripe channel 23 (hereinafter collectively the "Public Access Channel"), facilities and equipment so that members of the public have an opportunity to create, produce and distribute programming on the Public Access Channel. Access to and management of these resources shall be consistent with the terms of this Agreement.

 5.2  Transition Services : During the initial transition period from June 1 to June 30, 2011, the Public Access Manager will work cooperatively with the City and the Interim Public Access Cable Provider ("SCAN") to ensure that the Public Access Manager is prepared and equipped to commence cable-casting on July 1, 2011. Initial transition services will include but not be limited to:

 ? Work with the City and Comcast to originate a second channel from North Seattle Community College facilities for the cable- casting of public access programming beginning July 1, 2011.

 5. Scope of Services

 5.1  Management of Public Access Channels:  The Public Access Manager shall manage access to and use of the public access channels, Comcast channel 77 and Broadstripe channel 23 (hereinafter collectively the "Public Access Channel"), facilities and equipment so that members of the public have an opportunity to create, produce and distribute programming on the Public Access Channel. Access to and management of these resources shall be consistent with the terms of this Agreement.

 5.2  Transition Services : During the initial transition period from June 1 to June 30, 2011, the Public Access Manager will work cooperatively with the City and the Interim Public Access Cable Provider ("SCAN") to ensure that the Public Access Manager is prepared and equipped to commence cable-casting on July 1, 2011. Initial transition services will include but not be limited to:

 ? Work with the City and Comcast to originate a second channel from North Seattle Community College facilities for the cable- casting of public access programming beginning July 1, 2011.

 ? Meet with SCAN representatives and the City to ensure a smooth and orderly transition of Public Access management responsibility from SCAN to the Public Access Manager.

 ? On or approximately July 1, 2011 obtain the Tightrope Cablecast broadcast server from SCAN.

 ? Identify and maintain a secure location for storage of City-owned equipment (e.g. cameras, computers, etc).

 ? Implement Open Media to allow for upload of content, check out equipment, schedule programming, coordinate crews and other activities.

 ? Contact current producers and obtain permission to continue cable-casting their programs. Ensure proper controls are in place so that no copyrighted material is cable-cast.

 ? Develop preliminary schedule for public access programming.

 5.3  Transition Services between July 1 and September 30, 2011:  The Public Access Manager shall:

 ? Determine what City-owned equipment it needs and take possession of any City-owned equipment. Maintain a complete record of City-owned equipment.

 ? Initiate training for Producers in the use of the new Open Media platform.

 ? Provide a management plan for the City's review to ensure efficient and sustainable operations, including but not limited to: program scheduling; automated playback and encoding; channel operations and administrative policies and procedures.

 ? Develop and conduct revenue-generating activities. Provide a 3-year revenue generation plan for the City's review.

 ? Provide policies to the City for channel administration, oversight and governance, including:

 ? Channel policies, including policies for acceptable use of facilities and channel

 ? Handling obscene and illegal content

 ? Enforcement and remedies for violations of policies

 ? Appeal of enforcement decisions

 ? Complaint procedures

 The Public Access Manager shall use SCAN current policies as a model for policies until such time as it formulates and adopts its own or by September 30, 2011 whichever is sooner.

 5.4  Cable-Casting:  On July 1, 2011 at 12:01 a.m., the Public Access Manager will commence cable-casting non-commercial programming over the Public Access Channel. Cable-casting will be twenty-four (24) hours per day.

 5.5  Outreach : The Public Access Manager will promote the use and benefit of the Public Access Channel. Outreach efforts should target participation in the production of programming from:

 A. individuals and groups who are currently using, or have recently used, SCAN facilities or equipment to produce public access television programs, and

 B. youth, people of color, immigrant and refugee, and disadvantaged communities.

 5.6  Training:  The Public Access Manager will provide training in media production and in the use of its equipment and facilities. Training shall also cover use of new media and social networking techniques. Training opportunities should target participation by:

 A. individuals and groups who are currently using, or have recently used, facilities or equipment of SCAN to produce public access television programs, and

 B. youth, people of color, immigrant and refugee, and disadvantaged communities.

 5.7  Facility Space and Location:  The Public Access Manager shall provide secure premises that enable the Public Access Manager to provide the services required under this Agreement and to house the equipment provided under this Agreement. The facilities shall be located within the City limits throughout the term of this Agreement.

 5.8  Equipment:  The Public Access Manager will have equipment necessary for and used in connection with the creation, production, storage, and archiving of video programming. The equipment will include cameras, lights, control boards, video recording decks, mixers, etc. The Public Access Manager will make equipment available for producers to use at the facility or to borrow/check out for use outside of the facility.

 5.9  Website  A. Basic information: The Public Access Manager will maintain a website containing information about the Public Access Channel, its policies and procedures, fees, and training schedules.

 B. Video Upload and Storage: The website will accept digital media and support simultaneous streaming of content and on-line archiving of current and recent programs.

 5.10  Policies and Procedures:  The Public Access Manager will develop and implement policies and procedures to ensure that public access to facilities, equipment and training are available to all Seattle residents on a non-discriminatory basis. By September 30, 2011, the Public Access Manager shall adopt and make available to the public written policies and procedures including:

 a) handling obscene and illegal content; b) production standards for public access television and web programming, and, c) acceptable use of equipment, facilities and services.

 5.11  Warranty By Producers:  The Public Access Manager shall require all persons who produce and submit programming ("Producer") to execute an agreement holding the Public Access Manager and the City, its officers, departments, agents, boards and employees harmless for program content, and a written representation and warranty that the program they are submitting does not contain:

 A. Any material that promotes the sale of commercial products or services, or any material that in whole or in part depicts, demonstrates, or discusses products, services, or businesses with the intent or effect of benefiting or enhancing profit making enterprises.

 B. Any advertisement or other information concerning any lottery, gift enterprise, or similar scheme offering prizes dependent in whole or in part upon lot or chance, or any list of the prizes drawn or awarded by means of any such lottery, gift enterprise, or scheme;

 C. Any violation of any City, state or federal law relating to obscenity or indecency;

 D. Any material that is libelous, slanderous or an unlawful invasion of privacy;

 E. Any use of material that violates copyright law;

 F. Any material that would otherwise violate any City, federal or state statute, law, or regulation

 G. Any direct or indirect solicitation of political support by or on behalf of any candidate for public office.

 The Public Access Manager shall have the right to limit, terminate, or suspend the use of production facilities by any Person, who uses such production facilities to produce programming of a nature prohibited under this Section, or who fails to abide by reasonable rules of the Public Access Manager.

 The Public Access Manager shall retain for the applicable statute of limitations copies of such Producers agreements and such other relevant records and shall make them available for the City's inspection, upon reasonable notice by the City.

 5.12  Programming Obligations:  The Public Access Manager may not prohibit access to the Public Access Channel by non- commercial programmers and non-revenue producing programming except to the extent authorized by 47 U.S.C. 532(h), as it may from time to time be amended, or to the extent otherwise provided by law, regulations or administrative rulings promulgated thereunder. The Public Access Manager shall schedule programming for the Public Access Channel and provide equal opportunity for use of the facilities and equipment, except residents of the City shall be given preference over non- residents. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, nothing in this Agreement shall require the Public Access Manager to act, or to refrain from acting, in violation of any federal, state, or local law or regulation.

 5.13  Non-Profit Organization Programming . Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit the use of the Public Access Channel and equipment for the creation or production or distribution of noncommercial programming that may be used by nonprofit organizations to solicit contributions or subscriptions to support the goals and purposes of such nonprofit organization; provided, however, that any programming that is created or produced using the equipment shall first be cablecast on the Public Access Channel before it may be redistributed or used by such nonprofit organization for purposes of soliciting contributions or subscriptions.

 5.14.  User Fees . If user fees are charged, the Public Access Manager shall publish the schedule of user fees on its website. Such user fees schedules shall be submitted to the City for review. User fees shall be reasonable and if applied to Seattle residents, such fees shall not substantially impede such resident's ability to use the Public Access Channel. The Public Access Manager shall provide discounts or free use to individuals who qualify for reduced rates for City utilities. The City will provide income guidelines for determining eligibility. Any user fees shall be limited to fees for membership, the use of studio space, editing space and editing equipment, and for training. Nothing herein shall be construed to allow the Public Access Manager to charge for channel time on the Public Access Channel.

 5.15.  Underwriting and Sponsorship of Public Access Programming . The programming obligations in Section 5.12 shall not prevent limited use of the Public Access Channel by the Public Access Manager to solicit sponsorship of Public Access shall not prevent the Public Access Manager from producing or sponsoring Programming, and shall not prevent any person, including the Public Access Manager, the City or Cable Operators, from underwriting Programming.

 5.16  Obscenity . Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. section 532(h), the Public Access Manager shall not transmit, or permit to be transmitted, over the Public Access Channel any programming that is obscene in the sense that the programming is not protected speech under the Constitution of the United States. The Public Access Manager shall adopt a written policy and rules prohibiting obscene programming. The Public Access Manager acknowledges that the City's Cable Operators are subject to this prohibition and that transmission of such Programming over any Channel is a breach of Cable Operator's Franchise Agreement(s) with the City.

 5.17  No City Control over Decisions Concerning Programming Content . The City shall have no right under this Agreement to exercise control over the decisions of the Access Manager regarding any programming content, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or by law.

 5.18  Programming Content Decisions and Review . The Public Access Manager shall adopt a formal process to respond to complaints regarding content decisions made by the Public Access Manager, including but not limited to decisions concerning obscenity, commercial/non-commercial programming and time- channeling of programming, pursuant to Sections 5.10 and 5.11.

 6. Performance Standards: Under Normal Operating Conditions, the Public Access Manager shall meet the performance standards of this Section. Normal Operating Conditions means service conditions within the control of the Public Access Manager. Those conditions that are not within the control of the Public Access Manager include but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual weather conditions.

 6.1 Cable-cast twenty-four (24) hours a day;

 6.2 Cable-cast a minimum of 540 hours of programming per month that are produced by local producers or submitted by local producers;

 6.3 Make studio times available that are convenient and practical for users for a minimum of 32 hours per month;

 6.4 Make editing suite times available that are convenient and practical for users for a minimum of 32 hours per month;

 6.5 Provide a minimum of 24 hours of training per month;

 6.6 Conduct a minimum of 4 outreach events (e.g., program, meeting, etc.) per month, and

 6.7 Make check-out and return of equipment available at least 32 hours per month.

 7. Additional Services: During the term of the Agreement, the City may request the Public Access Manager to perform additional services related to Public Access and outside of the performance standards stated in Section 6. If the parties mutually agree to the additional deliverables, the additional deliverables and associated compensation shall be incorporated into this Agreement by amendment.

 8. Non-Monetary Resources to be Provided by the City

 8.1 The City shall coordinate provision of the Public Access Channel connectivity between Comcast and the Public Access Manager, including the return path to send television signal to Comcast's head-end for downstream distribution to cable subscribers.

 8.2 Exhibit A lists all the equipment owned by the City. The Public Access Manager will determine the City-owned equipment it needs, will provide a list of such equipment to the City, and will take possession of such equipment by September 30, 2011. The equipment shall be lent by the City to the Public Access Manager during the term of this Agreement. The Public Access Manager shall provide regular maintenance and repair of the equipment. The Public Access Manager shall return any or all lent equipment to the City a) at the end of the equipment's useful life, b) at any time upon demand by the City or c) upon the termination of this Agreement for whatever reason.

 9. Compensation, Invoicing and Payment

 9.1  Total Compensation:  Total compensation under this agreement shall not exceed $654,500 pursuant to the following increments:

 For the period June 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 $187,000.00

 For the period January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012 $187,000.00

 For the period January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 $187,000.00

 For the period January 1, 2014 through June 30, 2014 $93,500.00

 The compensation is payable as follows:

 A.  Compensation for Transition Services:  The City will compensate the Public Access Manager for transition services performed during the period from June 1 through September 30, 2011:

 June 1 to June 30, 2011 $50,000.00

 July 1 to July 31, 2011 $20,000.00

 August 1 to August 31, 2011 $11,750.00

 September 1 to September 30, 2011 $11,750.00

 B.  Monthly Compensation:  The City will compensate the Public Access Manager in the amount of $15,583.33 per month for cable-casting services during the period from July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2014. The City shall compensate the Public Access Manager for cable-casting only when the Public Access Manager satisfactorily meets the performance standards in Section 6.

 9.2  Invoicing:  The Public Access Manager shall submit an invoice for cable-casting and related services after the end of each month of service. A performance report shall accompany the invoice. The performance report shall describe the Public Access Manager's activities for the month and the achievement of the performance standards contained in Section 6. The Public Access Manager may note efforts toward securing non-city funds for the supporting of its public access efforts and any results thereof.

 Other Reporting:  The City from time to time may request additional information from the Public Access Manager if it deems such information useful in determining the progress of the Public Access Manager in relation to Public Access services. Examples of such additional information include but are not limited to: annual equipment inventory and maintenance records; any surveys conducted about the use of the equipment and facilities; number of visitors to website etc. The Public Access Manager shall make good faith efforts to assist the City in obtaining such information.

 The Public Access Manager shall submit invoices and performance reports to:

 Department of Information Technology

 Accounts Payable Unit

 PO Box 94709

 Seattle, WA 98124-4709

 Nitaya Kambhiranond

 206-684-0482

 nitaya.kambhiranond@seattle.gov

 9.3  Payment:  The City will remit payment within 30 days of receipt of a properly executed invoice and performance report. In the event the City determines that the Public Access Manager is not in compliance with an obligation of this Agreement, the City may exercise among other remedies, the right to withhold funds payable for those services not performed or not properly performed. The City may also exercise its right to terminate the Agreement pursuant to the Termination Section of this Agreement and appoint another entity to serve as the Public Access Manager. In addition, the City may exercise any other remedies available to it under law or in equity.

 10. Distribution Rights

 10.1.  First Distribution . The Public Access Manager shall require that all programs produced with funds paid or equipment lent under this Agreement shall be distributed first on the Public Access Channel whose use is authorized by this Agreement. Subsequent distribution must be consistent with any pertinent guidelines established in the Public Access Manager's operating policies and procedures.

 10.2  Disclaimers.  No less than four times each day approximately six hours apart, the Public Access Manager shall display a message stating that the opinions expressed in Public Access programs are the sole responsibility of the program producers and not those of the Public Access Manager, the City of Seattle or the Cable Operator.

 11. Representations: The Public Access Manager represents and warrants that it has the requisite training, skill and experience necessary to provide Services and is appropriately accredited and licensed by all applicable agencies and governmental entities and shall remain so throughout the term of this Agreement.

 12. Independent Contractor: It is the intention and understanding of the parties that the Public Access Manager is an independent contractor. This Agreement is not intended for the Public Access Manager to act in any way, in the capacity of a City employee. The parties agree that the City has neither direct nor immediate control over the Public Access Manager or the right to control the manner or means by which the Public Access Manager performs the Services. The Public Access Manager agrees that neither the Public Access Manager nor any of its employees shall be deemed to be an employee of the City for any purpose. This Agreement does not authorize the Public Access Manager to act as the agent or legal representative of the City for any purpose whatsoever. The Public Access Manager is not granted any express or implied right or authority to assume or create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of or in the name of the City or to bind the City in any manner or thing whatsoever. The City shall be neither liable for nor obligated to pay sick leave, vacation pay or any other benefit of employment, nor to pay any social security or other tax that may arise as an incident of employment. The Public Access Manager shall pay all income and other taxes as due. Industrial or other insurance that is purchased for the benefit of the Public Access Manager shall not be deemed to convert this Agreement to an employment contract. It is recognized that the Public Access Manager is permitted to perform work during the term of this Agreement for other parties and that the City is not the exclusive user of the services that the Public Access Manager provides.

 13. No Partnership or Joint Venture: The City shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate or joint venture of the Public Access Manager or its subcontractors, officers or employees as a consequence of this Agreement.

 14. Not an Agency: The Public Access Manager is not, nor shall it be deemed to be, or hold itself out to be, a department or operating agency of the City.

 15. No Responsibility for Obligations of Public Access Manager: The City shall not be liable for any obligation incurred by the Public Access Manager. The Public Access Manager shall not represent to any Person that the City is liable for The Public Access Manager's obligations.

 16. No Third Party Rights: Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to permit anyone other than the parties hereto and their successors and assigns to rely upon the covenants and agreements herein nor to give any such third party a cause of action whether as a third party beneficiary or otherwise on account of any non- performance hereunder.

 17. Non-Discrimination in Employee Benefits

 17.1  Compliance with SMC Ch. 20.45 : The Public Access Manager shall comply with the requirements of SMC Ch.20.45 and Equal Benefits Program Rules implementing such requirements, under which the Public Access Manager is obligated to provide the same or equivalent benefits ("equal benefits") to its employees with domestic partners as the Public Access Manager provides to its employees with spouses. At the City's request, the Public Access Manager shall provide complete information and verification of the Public Access Manager's compliance with SMC Ch. 20.45. Failure to cooperate with such a request shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement.

 17.2  Remedies for Violations of SMC Ch. 20.45 : Any violation of this Section shall be a material breach of Contract for which the City may:

 A. Require the Public Access Manager to pay appropriate sanctions for each day that the Public Access Manager is in violation of SMC Ch. 20.45 during the term of the Agreement; or

 B. Terminate the Agreement; or

 C. Disqualify the Public Access Manager from bidding on or being awarded a City contract for a period of up to five (5) years; or

 D. Impose such other remedies as specifically provided for in SMC Ch. 20.45 and the Equal Benefits Program Rules promulgated thereunder, or as provided in this Agreement.

 18. Women and Minority Business Inclusion, Equal Employment Opportunity

 18.1 The Public Access Manager shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The public Access Manager shall make affirmative efforts to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, creed, religion ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such efforts shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation and selection for training.

 18.2 The Public Access Manager shall promote and seek inclusion of women and minority businesses on subcontracting opportunities within the Agreement scope of work. The Public Access Manager agrees to make such efforts a condition of the Agreement. A women or minority business is one that self-identifies to be at least 51% owned. Such firms may also be, but do not have to be, certified by the State of Washington.

 18.3 Inclusion efforts may include the use of solicitation lists, advertisements in publications directed to minority communities, breaking down total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities where economically feasible, making other useful schedule or requirements modifications that are likely to assist small or WMBE businesses to compete, targeted recruitment efforts, and using the services of available minority community and public organizations to perform outreach, and selection strategies that result in great subcontractor diversity.

 18.4  Record-Keeping : The Public Access Manager shall maintain, for at least 24 months after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, relevant records and information necessary to document Public Access Manager affirmative efforts to solicit to women and minority business participation, including solicitations to subcontractors and suppliers, all subcontractors and supplier proposals received, and all subcontractors and suppliers actually utilized under this Agreement. The City shall have the right to monitor the affirmative efforts of the Public Access Manager and to inspect and copy such records of the Public Access Manager as are necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Section.

 18.5  Sanctions for Violation : Any violation of this Section, or a violation of SMC Ch. 14.04 (Fair Employment), SMC Ch. 14.10 (Fair Contracting), SMC Ch. 20.42 (Equality in Contracting), SMC Ch. 20.45 (Nondiscrimination in Benefits), or other local, state or federal non-discrimination laws shall be a material breach of contract for which the Public Access Manager may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by applicable law. Contractors found to be in violation of the requirements may be subject to debarment from City contracting activities in accordance with SMC Ch. 20.70.

 19. Assignment and Subcontracting: The Public Access Manager shall not assign or subcontract any of its obligations under this Agreement without City's written consent, which may be granted or withheld in City's sole discretion. Any subcontract made by the Public Access Manager shall incorporate by reference all the terms of this Agreement. The Public Access Manager shall ensure that all subcontractors comply with the obligations and requirements of the subcontract. The City's consent to any assignment or subcontract shall not release the Public Access Manager from liability under this Agreement, or from any obligation to be performed under this Agreement, whether occurring before or after such consent, assignment, or subcontract.

 20. Involvement of Former City Employees: Throughout the term of the Agreement, the Public Access Manager shall provide prompt written notice to the City of any current or former City employee, officer, or volunteer who is working on or assisting the Public Access Manager with solicitation or performance of City business. In addition to the foregoing notice, except as provided by law, the Public Access Manager shall not permit any former City officer or employee, for a period of two years after leaving City office or employment, to assist the Public Access Manager on a matter in which the former City officer or employee participated while with the City. The Public Access Manager shall comply with all applicable requirements of the City's Code of Ethics, Chapter 4.16, Seattle Municipal Code, and shall advise its officers, employees, and subcontractors, as necessary.

 21. No Conflict of Interest: The Public Access Manager confirms that it does not have a business interest or close family or domestic partner relationship with any City officer or employee who was, is, or will be involved in the Public Access Manager's selection, negotiation, drafting, signing, administration, or evaluating the Public Access Manager's performance.

 22. Proprietary and Confidential Information

 22.1 The Public Access Manager understands that any records (including but not limited to bid or proposal submittals, the Agreement, and any other Agreement materials) it submits to the City, or that are used by the City even if the Public Access Manager possesses the records, are public

 records under Washington State law, RCW Chapter 42.56. Public records must be promptly disclosed upon request unless a statute exempts them from disclosure. The Public Access Manager also understands that even if part of a record is exempt from disclosure, the rest of that record generally must be disclosed.

 22.2 If the City receives a public disclosure request made pursuant to RCW 42.56, the City will not assert an exemption from disclosure on behalf of the Public Access Manager. The City may notify the Public Access Manager of the request and postpone disclosure for ten business days to allow the Public Access Manager to file a lawsuit seeking an injunction preventing the release of documents pursuant to RCW 42.56.540. Any notification is provided as a courtesy and is not an obligation on behalf of the City. Unless the Public Access Manager obtains and serves an injunction upon the City before the close of business on the tenth business day after the date of the notification, the City may release the documents. It is the Public Access Manager's discretionary decision whether to file the lawsuit.

 22.3 If the Public Access Manager does not obtain and serve an injunction upon the City within 10 business days of the date of the City's notification of the request, the Public Access Manager is deemed to have authorized releasing the record.

 22.4 Notwithstanding the above, the Public Access Manager must not take any action that would affect (a) the City's ability to use goods and services provided under this Agreement or (b) the Public Access Manager's obligations under this Agreement.

 22.5 The Public Access Manager will fully cooperate with the City in identifying and assembling records in case of any public disclosure request.

 23. Indemnification: To the extent permitted by law, the Public Access Manager shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold the City, its officers, departments, agents, boards and employees, harmless from and against all losses, claims, demands, damages, costs, actions and causes of actions, liabilities, fines, penalties, judgments, expenses and attorney fees, resulting from the injury or death of any person or the damage to or destruction of property, or suits brought against the City for content decisions by the Public Access Manager, or the infringement of any patent, copyright, trademark or trade secret, arising out of the work and Services performed or goods provided under this Agreement, or the Public Access Manager's violation of any law, ordinance or regulation, Agreement provision or term, or condition of regulatory authorization or permit, except for damages resulting from the sole negligence of the City. As to the City of Seattle, the Public Access Manager waives any immunity it may have under RCW Title 51 or any other Worker's Compensation statute. The parties acknowledge that this waiver has been negotiated by them, and that the Agreement price reflects this negotiation.

 24. Notification of Action Brought: In the event that any claim, demand, suit or legal action is made or brought by any Person(s), firm, corporation, or other entity against the Public Access Manager relating to or arising out of this Agreement, the Public Access Manager shall give written notice thereof to the City within five (5) working days after being notified of such claim, demand, suit or other action.

 25. Insurance: Seattle Community College District VI warrants that it is self-insured against liability claims in accordance with the risk management and tort claims statutes, including RCW 4.92 and RCW 43.41.280 et seq. The tort claims procedure, RCW 4.92.100 et seq., provides the fundamental remedy for all tort liability claims against the Seattle Community College District VI and its officers, employees, and agents acting as such and all such claims must be filed and processed as provided therein. The Public Access Manager will provide a certificate of self-insurance from the Washington State Office of Financial Management upon request.

 26. Inspection of Records: The City, and its designated agent, shall have access at all reasonable time, including the Public Access Manager's normal business hours, to all books and records of the Public Access Manager.

 27. Audit: Upon request, the Public Access Manager shall permit City, and any other governmental agency involved in the funding of the Services ("Agency"), to inspect and audit all pertinent books and records of Public Access Manager, any subcontractor, or any other person or entity that performed work in connection with or related to the Work, at any and all times deemed necessary by City or Agency, including up to six years after the final payment or release of withheld amounts has been made under this Agreement. Such inspection and audit shall occur in King County, Washington or other such reasonable location as City or Agency selects. The Public Access Manager shall supply City with, or shall permit City to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof. The Public Access Manager shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of City and Agency is a condition of any subcontract, agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to perform work under this Agreement.

 28. Compliance with Law, Rules, Regulations and Franchise Agreements.

 28.1  General Requirement:  The Public Access Manager, at its sole cost and expense, shall perform and comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their respective administrative agencies and officers.

 28.2  Licenses and Similar Authorizations:  The Public Access Manager, at no expense to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all related requirements.

 28.3  Taxes:  The Public Access Manager shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, import duties, levies, and assessments arising from its activities and undertakings under this Agreement; taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements; and taxes on the Public Access Manager's interest in this Agreement.

 28.4  Franchise Agreements:  The Public Access Manager shall conduct all operations in a manner that is consistent with the requirements, conditions, obligations and principles set forth in the existing Franchise Agreements between the City and Cable Operators and any future Franchise Agreements that the City may grant to Cable Operators. Such Franchise Agreements are incorporated by reference into this Agreement.

 29. Americans with Disabilities Act: The Public Access Manager shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) in performing its obligations under this Agreement. In particular, if the Public Access Manager is providing services, programs or activities to City employees or members of the public as part of this agreement, the Public Access Manager shall not deny participation or the benefits of such services, programs, or activities, to people with disabilities on the basis of such disability. Failure to comply with the provisions of the ADA shall be a material breach of, and be grounds for the immediate termination of this Agreement.

 30. No Gifts or Gratuities: The Public Access Manager shall not directly or indirectly offer anything of value (such as retainers, loans, entertainment, favors, gifts, tickets, trips, favors, bonuses, donations, special discounts, work or meals) to any City employee, volunteer or official, that is intended, or may appear to a reasonable person to be intended, to obtain or give special consideration to the Public Access Manager. Promotional items worth less than $25 may be distributed by the Public Access Manager to City employees if the Public Access Manager uses the items as routine and standard promotions for business. Any violation of this provision may result in termination of this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement prohibits donations to campaigns for election to City office, so long as the donation is disclosed as required by the election campaign disclosure laws of the City and of the State.

 31. Amendments: No modification or amendment of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the Chief Technology Officer and the authorized representative of the Public Access Manager. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement, from time to time, by mutual agreement.

 32. Binding Effect: The Agreement shall not be binding until signed by both parties. The provisions, covenants and conditions in this Agreement shall bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 33. Waiver: No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed or operate as a waiver of any subsequent default or breach of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement. The payment of compensation to the Public Access Manager shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or the acceptance of defective performance.

 34. Applicable Law: This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue for any action relating to this Agreement shall be in the Superior Court for King County, State of Washington.

 35. Remedies Cumulative: Remedies under this Agreement are cumulative; the failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 36. Captions: The titles of sections, or subsections, are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 37. Severability: Any invalidity, in whole or in part, of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity of any other of its provisions.

 38. No Personal Liability: No officer, agent, or authorized employee of the City shall be personally responsible for any liability arising under this Agreement, whether expressed or implied nor for any statement or representation made herein or in any connection with the Agreement.

 39. Disputes: The City and the Public Access Manager shall maintain business continuity to the extent practical while pursuing disputes. Any dispute or misunderstanding that may arise under this Agreement concerning the Public Access Manager's performance shall first be resolved, if mutually agreed to be appropriate, through negotiations between the Public Access Manager's Operations Manager and the City's Office of Cable Communications' Director, or if mutually agreed, referred to the Chief Technology Officer and the Public Access Manager's senior executive(s). Either party may decline or discontinue such discussions and may then pursue other means to resolve such disputes, or may by mutual agreement pursue other dispute alternatives such as alternate dispute resolution processes. Nothing in this dispute process shall in any way mitigate the rights, if any, of either party to terminate the Agreement in accordance with the termination provisions herein.

 40. Termination:

 40.1 Termination for Convenience. Either party may terminate this Agreement any time by written notice to the other party of such termination and specifying the effective date thereof, at least one-hundred twenty (120) days before the effective date of such termination.

 40.2 Termination by City. This Agreement may be terminated by the City upon thirty (30) days written notice to the Public Access Manager, unless otherwise provided by this Agreement, if the Public Access Manager is in material breach of any of the terms of this Agreement, as determined in City's sole discretion, and such breach has not been corrected to the City's reasonable satisfaction in a timely manner.

 40.3. Termination of Agreement by the Public Access Manager. This Agreement may be terminated by the Access Manager upon ninety (90) days written notice to the City if the City fails to materially perform in accordance with the terms of this Agreement through no fault of the Public Access Manager.

 40.4 Non-Appropriation of Funds: The City may terminate this Agreement at any time without notice due to non-appropriation of funds, whether such funds are local, state or federal, and no such notice shall be required notwithstanding any notice requirement that may be agreed upon for other causes of termination.

 40.5 Acts of Insolvency: This Agreement may be terminated by the City at any time upon written notice to the Public Access Manager if the Public Access Manager becomes insolvent, makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, suffers or permits the appointment of a receiver for its business or assets, becomes subject to any proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law whether domestic or foreign, or is wound up or liquidated, voluntarily or otherwise.

 40.6 Actions upon Termination: In the event termination is not the fault of the Public Access Manager, the Public Access Manager shall be paid for the services properly performed prior to termination. The Public Access Manager agrees that this payment shall fully and adequately compensate the Public Access Manager and its subcontractors for all profits, costs, expenses, losses, liabilities, damages, taxes, and charges of any kind whatsoever (whether foreseen or unforeseen) attributable to the termination of this Agreement. Upon termination for any reason, the Public Access Manager shall provide the City with the most current design documents, contract documents, writing and other product it has completed to the date of the termination, along with copies of all project-related correspondence and similar items. The City shall have the same rights to use these materials as if termination had not occurred.

 41. City Debarment: In accordance with SMC Ch. 20.70, the Director of Finance and Administrative Services or designee may debar a Public Access Manager from entering into a Agreement with the City or from acting as a subcontractor on any Agreement with the City for up to five years after determining that any of the following reasons exist:

 a) Public Access Manager has received overall performance evaluations of deficient, inadequate, or substandard performance on three or more City Agreements.

 b) Public Access Manager failed to comply with City ordinances or Agreement terms, including but not limited to, ordinance or Agreement terms relating to small business utilization, discrimination, prevailing wage requirements, equal benefits, or apprentice utilization.

 c) Public Access Manager abandoned, surrendered, or failed to complete or to perform work on or in connection with a City Agreement.

 d) Public Access Manager failed to comply with Agreement provisions, including but not limited to quality of workmanship, timeliness of performance, and safety standards.

 e) Public Access Manager submitted false or intentionally misleading documents, reports, invoices, or other statements to the City in connection with an Agreement.

 f) Public Access Manager colluded with another entity to restrain competition.

 g) Public Access Manager committed fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing an Agreement for the City or any other government entity.

 h) Public Access Manager failed to cooperate in a City debarment investigation.

 i) Public Access Manager failed to comply with SMC Ch. 14.04, SMC Ch. 14.10, SMC Ch. 20.42, or SMC Ch. 20.45, or other local, State, or federal non-discrimination laws.

 The Director may issue an Order of Debarment after adhering to the procedures specified in SMC 20.70.050. The rights and remedies of the City under these provisions are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under the Agreement.

 42. Negotiated Agreement: The parties acknowledge that this is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 43. Representatives: The contacts for communications between the parties, other than official notices, are:

 City: Tony Perez, Director, Office of Cable Communications Department of Information Technology

 PO Box 94709

 Seattle, WA 98124-4709

 206-386-0070

 Tony.perez@seattle.gov

 Public Access Manager: John Sharify, General Manager

 Seattle Community Colleges Television

 9600 College Way North

 Seattle, WA 98103

 206-934-3919

 John.sharify@seattlecolleges.edu

 44. Addresses for Notices: All notices provided under this Agreement shall be sufficient if made in writing and deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and address as follows:

 If to City: Office of Cable Communications Department of Information Technology

 PO Box 94709

 Seattle, WA 98124-4709

 If to the Public

 Access Manager: John Sharify, General Manager

 Seattle Community Colleges Television

 9600 College Way North

 Seattle, WA 98103

 206-934-3919

 John.sharify@seattlecolleges.edu

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, in consideration of the terms, conditions, and covenants contained herein, or attached and incorporated and made a part hereof, the parties have executed this Agreement by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 SEATTLE COMMUNITY COLLEGES

 By THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By

 Signature Date

 Signature Date

 Type or Print Name William M. Schrier

 Title Chief Technology Officer

 City of Seattle Business License Number: 702719

 Washington State Unified Business Identifier Number (UBI): 578076239

 City of Seattle Vendor Number: 38718 Television's) Proposal

 Authorized by Ordinance #: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 D'Anne Mount / Martha Lester DoIT Public Access Television ATT 1 June 13, 2011 Version #4

[Exhibit A: List of City-owned equipment ](/~ordpics/117204.pdf)

 Exhibit B: Request for Proposals (RFP)

 The City of Seattle

 Department of Information Technology

 Request for Proposals #DIT 110031

 For

 Public Access Cable Channel Operator

 The City of Seattle seeks proposals from qualified organizations to operate the City of Seattle's Public Access Cable Television Channel and to provide related community digital media production services. A qualified Proposer will be a government agency, a non-profit educational agency, or other non-profit organization that has been in existence for a minimum of five years. Furthermore, a qualified Proposer will have a minimum of five years experience as a video production organization or will assign to the Channel a lead executive who has a minimum of five years experience in managing video production organization.

 The Request for Proposals documents and related information may be obtained via The City of Seattle's website at www.seattle.gov/doit/vendor.htm .

 1.0  Schedule:  The following is the estimated schedule of events. The City of Seattle ("City") reserves the right to modify this schedule at its discretion. Notification of changes will be posted at www.seattle.gov/doit/vendor.htm .

<table><tr><td>Request for Proposal ("RFP") Release

</td><td>Monday, March 21, 2011

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Pre-proposal Conference

</td><td>Tuesday, March 29, 2011

Time: 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.
   
   
 Location: Seattle Municipal Tower
   
 700 Fifth Avenue

Conference Room 2750

Seattle, WA 98104

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Deadline for Proposer Questions

</td><td>Tuesday, April 5, 2011

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Deadline for City Answers

</td><td>Thursday, April 7, 2011

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Proposal Due Date and Time

</td><td>Friday, April 15, 2011 4:00 p.m.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Announcement of Finalist Proposers

</td><td>Friday, April 22,2011

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Interview logistics arranged with Finalist Proposers

</td><td>Friday, April 22, 2011

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Interviews of Finalist Proposers

</td><td>Tuesday and Wednesday, April 26 and April 27, 2011

Time: TBD

Location: TBD

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Announcement of Apparent Successful Proposer

</td><td>Friday, April 29, 2011

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Contract Award

</td><td>Wednesday, June 1, 2011

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Cable-cast Performance Start Date

</td><td>Friday, July 1, 2011 at 12:01 a.m.

</td></tr>

</table> 2.0  Purpose:  The purpose of this RFP is to enter into an agreement with a qualified Proposer to operate the City's Public Access Cable Television Channel and to provide related community digital media production services. The Channel is viewed on Comcast channel 77 and Broadstripe channel 23.

 To respond to this RFP, Proposers must submit the information and forms as described in Section 12 of this RFP.

 During the term of the Agreement, the Operator will perform minimum types of service at minimum levels of service. In its response to this RFP, the Proposer will be asked to describe how it will meet the minimums and at the Proposer's option, to propose service types and levels beyond the minimums. As compensation, the City will provide $360,000 over three years and one month, and certain equipment (see Section 7.0). Compensation for service types and levels above the minimum must be funded 1) within the resources provided by the City ($360,000 and certain equipment), and 2) at the Proposer's option, by funding/resources the Operator will generate from sources other than the City (other sources may include other governments, grants, donations, user fees, etc.). See also Section 10.0, Pending Decision on Possible Additional Compensation from the City.

 3.0  Introduction:  Advances in digital media production, distribution techniques, and social media technologies afford opportunities to develop and distribute content and programming in new and more cost effective ways. The City encourages proposals that offer creative approaches to incorporate these technology advances. Specifically, the City desires proposals that complement traditional television cable-casting and video production techniques with new methods for content creation and distribution.

 Seattle has a strong and valued community of current Public Access producers. The Operator selected as a result of this RFP will be required to outreach to these producers and potential new producers to encourage their continued participation in Public Access.

 Seattle also values expression through Public Access programs from its diverse communities, including youth, people of color, immigrants and refugees, and disadvantaged communities. The Operator will be required to outreach to these communities inviting them to take advantage of programming opportunities.

 Proposers are encouraged to form partnerships or subcontracts with other entities to support the goals of public access.

 4.0  Background  The City has granted franchises to Comcast and Broadstripe to operate cable systems within the Seattle city limits. In establishing the franchises, the City defined its commitment to public access to:

 - Encourage the widest feasible scope and diversity of programming and other service to all City residents consistent with community needs and interests;

 - Encourage telecommunications services of all kinds to be offered to City residents on a non-discriminatory basis;

 - Ensure that Seattle citizens have the opportunity and facilities for training in video production and the opportunity to produce and air Video Programming over the cable systems;

 - Ensure that Seattle citizens have the opportunity to view public, educational, and governmental programming.

 Copies of the current cable franchise agreements can be found at: http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/CBOR1.htm (search words "cable franchise").

 In an era of increasing media consolidation, the City remains committed to the preservation of local Public, Education, and Government (PEG) Access programming. The PEG Channels contain valuable programming that would otherwise not be made available. They serve to provide Seattle residents with avenues for free speech and expression of alternative view points, to tell the stories of our diverse local communities, educate and inform the public, engage the citizenry and enhance the democratic process by making government more transparent.

 5.0  Term:  The estimated term of the Agreement is three years and one month starting on June 1, 2011 and ending on June 30, 2014. The Operator will commence cable- casting public access programming on July 1, 2011 and end on June 30, 2014. At the City's option, the Agreement may be extended for one additional three-year period.

 6.0  Minimum Qualifications:  A Proposer must meet or exceed the following minimum qualifications and will be asked to demonstrate this in its proposal. In the event the Proposer does not clearly demonstrate that it meets the minimum qualifications, the proposal may be rejected. The City requests that entities who do not meet these minimum qualifications NOT respond to this RFP.

 6.1  Experience

 a) The Proposer is a government agency, a non-profit educational agency, or other non-profit organization that has been in existence for a minimum of five years, and

 b) The Proposer has a minimum of five years experience as a video production organization or will assign to the Channel a lead executive who has a minimum of five years experience in managing a video production organization.

 6.2  Facility(s) located within the Seattle city limits:  The Proposer owns, leases, contracts for or holds an option to purchase, lease or contract for a facility(s) located within the Seattle city limits. At a minimum the facility will have:

 a) a studio and editing suite where members of the public can create, produce, and distribute programming on the Channel, and

 b) space for equipment necessary for and used in connection with the creation and production of video programming.

 7.0  Resources to be Provided by the City:  The City will make the following resources available for use by the successful Proposer:

 7.1 Public Access Channel viewed on Comcast channel 77 and Broadstripe channel 23.

 7.2 Coordination for provision of a return path to send television signal to the cable company's head-end for downstream distribution to cable subscribers.

 7.3 A one-time provision of new and used video production equipment. A list of the equipment is will be available at the Pre-proposal Conference. See Section 1.0. The City may request the Operator to return the equipment to the City upon termination of the agreement.

 7.4 Compensation from the City:

 a) $100,000.00 for start-up costs and services performed between June 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011;

 b) $100,000.00 for services performed during the 2012 calendar year;

 c) $100,000.00 for the services performed during the 2013 calendar year;

 d) $60,000.00 for services performed between January 1, 2014 and June 30, 2014.

 8.0  Minimum Service Types and Minimum Service Levels

 8.1  Transition and Commencement of Services : During the transition period from June 1 and June 30, 2011, the Operator will work cooperatively with the City and the Interim Public Access Cable Provider to ensure that the Operator is prepared and equipped to commence cable-casting on July 1, 2011.

 8.2  Cable-Casting:  On July 1, 2011 at 12:01 a.m., the Operator will commence cablecasting non-commercial programming over the existing public access Channel, Comcast channel 77 and Broadstripe channel 23. Cable-casting will be on a 24x7 basis.

 8.3  Programming:  The Operator will cable-cast live and pre-recorded programming.

 8.4  Outreach : The Operator will promote the use and benefit of the Public Access Channel. Outreach efforts should target participation in the production of programming from:

 a) individuals and groups who are currently using, or have recently used, SCAN facilities or equipment to produce public access television programs, and

 b) youth, people of color, immigrant and refugee, and disadvantaged communities.

 8.5  Training:  The Operator will provide training in media production and in the use of its equipment and facilities. Training opportunities should target participation by:

 a) individuals and groups who are currently using, or have recently used, facilities or equipment of the current Interim Public Access Provider (i.e., SCAN) to produce public access television programs, and

 b) youth, people of color, immigrant and refugee, and disadvantaged communities.

 8.6  Facility:  The Operator will have a secure and safe facility(s) located within the Seattle city limits consistent with the minimum qualifications of this RFP.

 8.7  Equipment:  The Operator will have equipment necessary for and used in connection with the creation, production, storage, and archiving of video programming. The equipment will include cameras, lights, control boards, video recording decks, mixers, etc. The Operator will make equipment available for producers to use at the facility or to borrow for use outside of the facility.

 8.8  Website  a) Basic information: The Operator will maintain a website containing information about the Public Access Channel, its policies and procedures, fees, and training schedules.

 b) Video Upload and Storage: The website will accept digital media and support simultaneous streaming of content and on-line archiving of current and recent programs.

 8.9  Policies and Procedures:  The Operator will develop and implement policies and procedures to ensure that public access to facilities, equipment and training are available to all Seattle residents on a non-discriminatory basis. By July 1, 2011, the Operator shall adopt and make available to the public written policies and procedures including:

 a) handling obscene and illegal content; b) production standards for public access television and web programming, and, c) acceptable use of equipment, Channel, facilities and services.

 9.0  Additional Funding and Resources from Sources other than the City:  To provide services, the Operator may need to generate additional funding and resources from sources other than the City. The sources may include other governments, grants, donations, fees for services, etc. If the Operator will charge user fees, the fee schedule shall be developed in consultation with the City. User fees shall be reduced or waived to assist low-income residents. (The City will provide information to identify low-income residents.)

 10.0  Pending Decision on Possible Additional Compensation from the City:  This Section is for informational purposes only. At the time of RFP release, the City is considering recommendations to increase funds available for additional public access services. The additional funding will be less than $182,000.00 per calendar year through the term of the Agreement. The funds may be added to the compensation described in Section 7.4. There is no guarantee that additional funding will become available. Information as it becomes available will be posted per RFP Section 1.

 11.0  Solicitation Requirements

 11.1  Communications with the City : All communications regarding this RFP must be directed to:

 Ann Kelson, DoIT Contracts Manager

 Phone: 206-684-0539

 E-mail: paoperator@seattle.gov Website: www.cityofseattle.gov/doit/

 Unless authorized by the DoIT Contracts Manager, no other City official or employee is empowered to speak for the City with respect to this RFP. Proposers are advised that the City shall not be bound by information, clarifications, or interpretations from other City officials or employees. Proposers are cautioned against contacting any City official or employee other than the DoIT Contracts Manager. Failure to observe the requirements of this Section may be grounds for rejection of Proposer's proposal.

 11.2  Pre-Proposal Conference:  A pre-proposal conference will be held at the time and location indicated in RFP Section 1. Attendance at the pre-proposal conference is optional. Failure to attend the pre-proposal conference will not preclude a Proposer from submitting a proposal or having its proposal evaluated.

 The purpose of the pre-proposal conference is provide an opportunity for potential Proposers to ask questions, discuss information, and obtain clarification regarding the RFP. Potential Proposers are encouraged to raise concerns regarding specifications, terms, condition and any requirements of this solicitation. Failure to raise concerns over any issues at the pre-proposal conference will be a consideration in any protest filed regarding such items that were known as of the pre-proposal conference.

 Potential Proposers are encouraged to submit questions, comments and requests in writing to the DoIT Contract Manager prior to the pre-proposal conference.

 11.3  Questions and Requests for Addenda : Proposers who have questions about or suggestions for changes to this RFP including the proposed agreement may direct them by email to the DoIT Contracts Manager.

 Questions and requests for addenda must be emailed to the DoIT Contracts Manager no later than the date and time listed in Section 1.0. Questions emailed after this time may not be considered or answered.

 Failure by a Proposer to request clarification of any inadequacy, omission or conflict shall not relieve the Proposer of the responsibility of being in compliance with the RFP or resulting Agreement.

 11.4  Changes to the RFP by Addenda : The City may make changes to this RFP if, in the sole judgment of the City, the changes will not compromise the City's objectives in this acquisition.

 Changes to this RFP will be made only by formal written addenda issued by the DoIT Contracts Manager. All addenda issued by the City shall become a part of this RFP and will be made part of the resulting Agreement.

 11.5  Proposer Receipt of Addenda, City's Answers to Questions, and other Pertinent Information : Any addenda and the City's answers to questions will be posted on the City's website no later than the date and time listed in RFP Section 1.

 The City will also provide courtesy notices, reminders, or similar announcements concerning the acquisition on the City's website.

 It is the responsibility of the Proposer to obtain any addenda, City's answers to questions, and other pertinent information from the City's website.

 Please note that some third-party services independently post City solicitations on their websites. The City does not guarantee that such services have accurately provided all information published by the City.

 11.6  City Ethics Code:  The Seattle Ethics Code was recently revised. New requirements become effective June 22, 2009 for City employees and elected officials. Beginning October 22, 2009, the Code covers certain vendors, contractors and consultants. Please see http://www.seattle.gov/ethics/etpub/et\_home.htm. Attached is a pamphlet for vendors, customers and clients. Specific question should be addressed to the staff of the Seattle

 Ethics and Elections Commission at 206-684-8500 or via email: (Executive Director,

 Wayne Barnett, 206-684-8577, wayne.barnett@seattle.gov or staff members Kate Flack, kate.flack@seattle.gov and Mardie Holden, mardie.holden@seattle.gov ).

 [See Attachment]

 11.7  No Gifts and Gratuities:  Vendors shall not directly or indirectly offer anything of value (such as retainers, loans, entertainment, favors, gifts, tickets, trips, favors, bonuses, donations, special discounts, work, or meals) to any City employee, volunteer or official, if it is intended or may appear to a reasonable person to be intended to obtain or give special consideration to the Vendor. An example is giving a City employee sporting event tickets to a City employee that was on the evaluation team of a bid you plan to submit. The definition of what a "benefit" would be is very broad and could include not only awarding a contract but also the administration of the contract or the evaluation of contract performance. The rule works both ways, as it also prohibits City employees from soliciting items of value from vendors. Promotional items worth less than $25 may be distributed by the vendor to City employees if the Vendor uses the items as routine and standard promotions for the business.

 11.8  Involvement of Current and Former City Employees:  If a Proposer has any current or former City employee, official or volunteer, working or assisting on solicitation of City business or on completion of an awarded contract, the Proposer must provide written notice to DoIT Contracts Manager of the current or former City official, employee or volunteer's name. The Vendor Questionnaire to be submitted as part of the Proposal documents requires this information. The Operator must continue to update the information during the term of the Agreement. Proposers and the selected Operator are to be aware and familiar with the Ethics Code, and educate vendor workers accordingly.

 11.9  No Conflict of Interest:  Vendor (including officer, director, trustee, partner or employee) must not have a business interest or a close family or domestic relationship with any City official, officer or employee who was, is, or will be involved in selection, negotiation, drafting, signing, administration or evaluating Vendor performance. The City shall make sole determination as to compliance.

 11.10  Proprietary Material : Proposers should be aware that any record (including but not limited to the Proposer's Proposal, the Agreement, and other agreement materials) they submit to the City shall become a public record. See RCW 42.56 at www.leg.wa.gov/LawsAndAgencyRules/. The City is required by law to make public records promptly available for public inspection and disclosure except for certain exemptions as provided by State law. Proposers are expected to be familiar with any potentially applicable exemptions and the limits of those exemptions.

 To assert an exemption, the Proposer shall complete the appropriate portion of the Vendor Questionnaire Form and clearly and specifically identify each sentence or paragraph or other parts of a record and the exemption(s) that may apply. The Proposer shall not identify an entire page as exempt unless each sentence is within the exemption claimed on the Certification Form. The Proposer shall also clearly mark any proprietary information contained in its proposal with the words "proprietary information." Marking all or nearly all of a Proposal as proprietary may result in rejection of the Proposal.

 A Proposer, by submission of materials marked proprietary, acknowledges and agrees that the City will have no obligation to assert an exemption from disclosure or to advocate for non-disclosure in any forum. The City will have no liability to the Proposer in the event that the City must disclose these materials.

 In the event the City receives a request for public disclosure of materials the Proposer has marked "proprietary," the City may notify the Proposer of the request and briefly postpone disclosure to allow the Proposer to move the King County Superior Court to enjoin disclosure. However, this is a courtesy of the City and not an obligation. If the Proposer believes the materials are exempt from disclosure, the Proposer is responsible for seeking an injunction.

 11.11  Equal Benefits Requirements : Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 20.45 requires consideration of whether Proposers provide health and benefits that are the same or equivalent to the domestic partners of employees as to spouses of employees, and of their dependents and family members. RFP Subsection 12.1.2 includes a "Vendor Questionnaire" which is the mandatory form on which Proposers make a designation about the status of such benefits. If a Proposer does not comply with Equal Benefits and does not intend to do so, the Proposer must still supply the information on the Vendor Questionnaire. Instructions are provided in the Questionnaire form.

 11.12  Subcontracting to Women and Minority Owned Businesses:  The City intends to provide the maximum practicable opportunity in City contracts for successful participation by minority and women owned firms, given that such businesses are underrepresented. In the Agreement with the City, the apparent successful Proposer will be required to agree to comply with SMC Chapter 20.42, Equality in Contracting. Consistent with City administrative rules, the City believes there are no meaningful subcontracting opportunities for services associated with the Public Access Cable Television Operator. However, if the Apparent Successful Proposer believes there are such opportunities, it will submit a WMBE Inclusion Plan. The City reserves the right to improve the Plan with the apparent successful Proposer prior to Agreement execution. Performance of the Inclusion Plan will be a material Agreement provision.

 11.13  Insurance:  The insurance requirements attached to this RFP are mandatory. If selected as an apparent successful Proposer, the Proposer shall be required to provide evidence of insurance prior to award of an Agreement. In preparing its proposal, a Proposer is encouraged to contact its Broker to begin preparation of the required insurance documents. A Proposer may elect to provide the requested insurance documents with its proposal. An Agreement will not be executed until all required evidence of insurance has been received and approved by the City. In the event the Proposer fails to meet the deadlines, the City may reject the Proposer's proposal.

 11.14  Taxpayer Identification Number:  Unless the apparent successful Proposer is on record as having submitted a Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification Request Form (W-9) to the City, the City will request it to do so prior to agreement execution. Alternatively a Proposer may include the Form with its Proposal.

 11.15  Seattle Business License:  For-profit and non-profit organizations may be required to obtain a Seattle Business license. A Proposer may obtain City of Seattle business licensing information from the City Revenue and Consumer Affairs Division, phone: 206-684-8484. Instructions and applications may also be obtained at www.seattle.gov/rca/ .

 11.16  Availability of Documents after Announcement of Apparent Successful Proposer : The City requests interested parties to delay submitting a request for public disclosure of proposal information until the City has announced the apparent successful Proposer. This measure is intended to shelter the fairness and timeliness of the solicitation process, particularly during evaluation and selection or in the event of a cancellation or re- solicitation. Notwithstanding this request, the City will continue to be responsive to all requests for disclosure of public records as required by State law.

 11.17  Cost of Proposal : The City shall not be liable for any costs incurred by a Proposer in the preparation and submittal of a proposal in response to the RFP or in participation of any part of the acquisition process.

 11.18  Errors in Proposal : The Proposer is responsible for all errors or omission in its Proposal, and any such errors or omission will not serve to diminish its obligations to the City.

 11.19 Withdrawal of Proposals : A proposal may be withdrawn by written request of the Proposer if requested prior to the proposal due date and time listed in RFP Section 1. No proposal may be withdrawn for a period of ninety (90) calendar days after the proposal due date and time.

 11.20 Changes to Proposal : Prior to the proposal due date and time listed in RFP Section 1, a Proposer may make changes to its proposal provided the change is initialed and dated by the Proposer. No changes to a proposal shall be made after the proposal due date and time listed in RFP Section 1.

 11.21  Rejection of Proposals : The City reserves the right to reject any and all proposals at any time with no penalty and to waive any immaterial defects and minor irregularities in a proposal.

 11.22  Disposition of Proposals : All materials submitted in response to the RFP shall become the property of the City upon delivery to the City.

 11.23 Incorporation of RFP and Proposal in Agreement : This RFP, including all attachments and addenda, and all promises, warranties, commitments and representations in the successful proposal, shall be binding and shall become obligations in the Agreement.

 12.0  Proposal Submittal

 12.1  Written Proposal

 12.1.1  Binding and Number of Copies:  The Proposer must submit seven hardcopy sets of all proposal documents; one set clearly marked original and six sets clearly marked copy. The original and copies should be stapled on the left-hand upper corner only. The Proposer must also submit one electronic copy of the Proposal in .pdf format on disk. The City prefers that documents be copied double-sided and on 100% processed chlorine free (PCF) paper.

 12.1.2  Format and Organization:  The Proposer shall include following documents in its proposal:

 1) Cover Letter on the Proposer's letterhead, signed by an individual authorized to legally commit the Proposer. The Cover Letter must designate the officer, employee, or agent who will be the Proposer's contact for all communications regarding its proposal. The following information for this individual shall be provided: *Name *Title *Organization's Name *Mailing Address *Office Telephone Number *Mobile Telephone Number *Email Address

 2) Vendor Questionnaire

 [See Attachment]

 3) Minimum Qualifications Form

 [See Attachment

 4) Written Proposal Form

 [See Attachment]

 12.1.3  Delivery of Written Proposals:  Sealed proposals must be received at the Department of Information Technology no later than the date and time listed in Section 1.0.

 If the proposal is delivered by the U.S. Postal Service, it should be addressed to:

 Ann Kelson, Contracts Manager Department of Information Technology PO Box 94709 Seattle, WA 98124-4709

 If the proposal is delivered by an entity other than the U.S. Postal Service, it should be addressed to:

 Ann Kelson, Contracts Manager Department of Information Technology 700 5th Ave., #2700 Seattle, WA 98104

 The City shall not consider proposals submitted by facsimile (fax) or email.

 Proposers are solely responsible for ensuring that proposals are delivered on time. Delays caused by any delivery service, including the U.S. Postal Service, will not be grounds for an extension of the deadline for receipt of proposals. At the City's sole discretion, a proposal received after the deadline may be returned to the Proposer, may be declared non-responsive and may not be subject to evaluation.

 12.2  Interviews : Proposers who are selected as Finalist Proposers will be invited to an interview with the Evaluation Team. Below is a draft of the interview questions. All Proposers should reserve the dates listed in Section 1.0 in the event they are invited to an interview.

 [See Attachment]

 12.3  Information Required by Apparent Successful Proposer:  Only the Apparent Successful Proposer will be required to submit the following:

 1) Agreement (Note: The City's proposed Agreement will be available at the Pre-proposal Conference. See Section 1.0.)

 2) WMBE Inclusion Plan (optional)

 [See Attachment]

 3) References

 [See Attachment]

 4) Evidence of Insurance

 [See Attachment]

 6) IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification

 [See Attachment]

 7) State of Washington UBI Number and City of Seattle Business License Number

 www.seattle.gov/rca/

 http://www.dol.wa.gov/business/file.html

 13.0  Evaluation, Selection, and Award

 13.1  Evaluation Process

 Step 1: The DoIT Contracts Manager will review written proposals for initial determination of responsiveness and responsibility, including the responses to the Vendor Questionnaire and Minimum Qualifications. Those Proposals found responsive and those Proposers found responsible based on this initial review shall proceed to Step 2.

 Step 2: The Evaluation Team will evaluate Written Proposals based on the criteria in RFP Section 3.2. The Evaluation Team will be comprised of City staff and community members with expertise in PEG channels. The proposals with the highest scores will be considered as Finalist Proposals and will proceed to Step 3. At its sole discretion, the City will determine the number of proposals that will proceed to Step 3. All Proposers will be notified of the outcome.

 Step 3: The DoIT Contracts Manager will contact the Finalist Proposers to schedule interview times and logistics.

 Step 4: The Evaluation Team will evaluate Interviews based on the criteria listed below. The scores from the Written Proposal and the Interview will be summed. The Proposer with the highest score will be selected as the Apparent Successful Proposer. The other Finalist Proposers will be notified of the outcome.

 Step 5: The Apparent Successful Proposer shall submit reference information. Reference checks will be reviewed on a pass/fail basis.

 Step 6: The Apparent Successful Proposer shall provide the City with the documents listed in RFP Section 12.3. The City cannot execute an Agreement until after receipt and approval of these documents.

 Step 7: The City and the Apparent Successful Proposer will discuss the scope of work and other relevant issues. As appropriate, items will be incorporated into the Agreement.

 Note: The City's proposed Agreement will be available at the Pre-proposal Conference. See Section 1.0.

 Repeat of Evaluation Steps: In the event an agreement is not executed at the conclusion of the above steps, the City may return to any step in the process to repeat evaluation of those proposals that were active at that step in the process.

 13.2  Evaluation Criteria:  Proposals will be evaluated based on the following criteria:

 Written Proposal

<table><tr><td>Transition and Commencement of Services

</td><td>5

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Cable-Casting

</td><td>5

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Programming

</td><td>5

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Outreach and Promotion

</td><td>10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Training

</td><td>10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Facility

</td><td>5

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Equipment

</td><td>5

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Website

</td><td>10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Policies and Procedures

</td><td>5

</td></tr>

<tr><td>New Technology Opportunities

</td><td>15

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Funding and Resource Generation

</td><td>15

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Financial Stability

</td><td>10

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Organizational Structure

</td><td>0

</td></tr>

<tr><td></td><td></td></tr>

<tr><td>Total Possible Points for Written Proposal

</td><td>100

</td></tr>

</table> Interviews <table><tr><td>Total Possible Points for Interview

</td><td>100

</td></tr>

</table> Exhibit C: Amendment #1 to RFP

 City of Seattle

 Department of Information Technology

 Request for Proposals #DIT-110031 Public Access Cable Television Channel Operator

 Amendment #1

 1. RFP Section 6.2, is amended as follows:

 a) a studio and editing suite where members of the public can create, produce, and distribute  live and pre- recorded  programming on the Channel, and

 b) space for equipment necessary for and used in connection with the creation and production of video programming.

 2. Minimum Qualifications Response Form, Written Proposal Form and Interview Questions are amended as attached. (Note: Proposers should use these forms in preparing their proposals)

 In all other respects the RFP remains the same.

 Exhibit D: Amendment #2 to RFP

 City of Seattle

 Department of Information Technology

 Request for Proposals #DIT-110031 Public Access Cable Television Channel Operator

 Amendment #2

 1. RFP Section 6.2, is amended as follows:

 a) a studio and editing suite where members of the public can create, produce, and distribute~~live and pre-recorded~~ programming on the Channel, and

 b) space for equipment necessary for and used in connection with the creation and production of video programming.

 2. Minimum Qualifications Response Form, Written Proposal Form and Interview Questions are amended as attached. (Note: Proposers should use these forms in preparing their proposals)

 In all other respects the RFP remains the same.

 Exhibit E: Amendment #3 to RFP

 City of Seattle

 Department of Information Technology

 Request for Proposals #DIT-110031 Public Access Cable Television Channel Operator

 Amendment #3

 1. RFP Section 8.3, is amended as follows:

 8.3  Programming:  The Operator will cable-cast ~~live and~~pre-recorded programming.

 2. RFP Section 12.3 is amended to add the proposed Agreement, attached.

 In all other respects the RFP remains the same.

[Exhibit F: Insurance Requirements Transmittal Form](/~ordpics/117204exf.pdf)

[Exhibit G: Public Access Manager's (Seattle Community Colleges Television's) Proposal](/~ordpics/117204exg.pdf)

