

********

**Council Bill Number: 117284**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123723**
********

 AN ORDINANCE granting Grange Insurance Association permission to maintain and operate a skybridge over and across the alley between 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue, north of Cedar Street, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for the acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 3, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 12, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 12, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 6, 2011
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** BELLTOWN, SKYBRIDGES, PEDESTRIAN-BRIDGES, STREET-USE-PERMITS

**Fiscal Note:**117284

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123723](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123723.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE granting Grange Insurance Association permission to maintain and operate a skybridge over and across the alley between 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue, north of Cedar Street, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for the acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 109660, the City of Seattle (City) granted permission to the Grange Insurance Association to construct, maintain, and operate a skybridge over and across the alley between 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue, north of Cedar Street; and

 WHEREAS, the permission authorized by Ordinance 109660 was amended by Ordinance

 120503 and Resolution 28330 to allow its extension for a maximum of 30 years, and the permission ended on November 30, 2010; and

 WHEREAS, Grange Insurance Association has submitted an application to the Seattle Department of Transportation Director (Director) to continue maintaining and operating the skybridge; and

 WHEREAS, Grange Insurance Association has satisfied all terms of the original authorizing ordinance as amended, and the Director recommends that the term permit be approved subject to the terms identified in this ordinance; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Permission. Subject to the terms and conditions of this ordinance, permission (also referred to in this ordinance as a permit) is granted to the Grange Insurance Association, and its successors and assigns as approved by the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation, (Permittee) to maintain and operate a pedestrian skybridge (skybridge) over and across the alley between 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue, north of Cedar Street, adjacent in whole or in part to the property legally described as:

 Block 18, Lots 1-6, Second Addition to that part of the City of Seattle, as laid off by A. A. Denny and W. N. Bell (commonly known as Bell and Denny's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of plats, page 77, records of King County, Washington; except the easterly 12 feet of said Lots 5 and 6 condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 52280, for the widening of 3rd Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 13776 of the City of Seattle; and except the southwesterly 12 feet of said Lots 1-4 condemned in District Court Cause Number 7087, for the widening of 2nd Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 1107 of the City of Seattle.

 Section 2. Term. The permission granted to the Permittee, and its successors and assigns as approved by the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation (Director), shall be for a term of ten years starting on December 1, 2010, and ending at 11:59 p.m. on November 30, 2020. Upon written application of the Permittee at least 180 days before expiration of the term, the Director or the City Council may renew the permit twice, each time for a successive ten-year term, subject to the right of the City of Seattle (City) to require the removal of the skybridge or to revise by ordinance any of the terms and conditions of the permission granted by this ordinance. The total term of the permission, including renewals, shall not exceed 30 years. The Permittee shall submit any application for a new permission no later than 180 days prior to the expiration of the then-existing term.

 Section 3. Protection of utilities. The permission granted is subject to the Permittee bearing the expense of any protection, support, or relocation of existing utilities deemed necessary by the owners of the utilities, and the Permittee being responsible for any subsequent damage to the utilities due to the construction, repair, reconstruction, maintenance, operation, or removal of the skybridge.

 Section 4. Removal for public use or for cause. The permission granted is subject to use of the street right-of- way or other public place by the City and the public for travel, utility purposes, and other public uses or benefits. The City expressly reserves the right to deny renewal, or terminate the permission at any time prior to expiration of the initial term or any renewal term, and require the Permittee to remove the skybridge, or any part thereof or installation thereon, at the Permittee's sole cost and expense in the event that:

 (a) the City Council determines by ordinance that the space occupied by the skybridge is necessary for any public use or benefit or that the skybridge interferes with any public use or benefit; or

 (b) the Director determines that use of the skybridge has been abandoned; or

 (c) the Director determines that any term or condition of this ordinance has been violated, and the violation has not been corrected by the Permittee by the compliance date after a written request by the City to correct the violation (unless a notice to correct is not required due to an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public).

 A City Council determination that the space is needed for, or the skybridge interferes with, a public use or benefit is conclusive and final without any right of the Permittee to resort to the courts to adjudicate the matter.

 Section 5. Permittee's obligation to remove and restore. If the permission granted is not renewed at the expiration of a term, or if the permission expires without an application for a new permission being granted, or if the City terminates the permission, then within 90 days after the expiration or termination of permission, or prior to any earlier date stated in an ordinance or order requiring removal of the skybridge, the Permittee shall, at its own expense, remove the skybridge and all of the Permittee's equipment and property and replace and restore all portions of the street right-of-way or public place that may have been disturbed for any part of the skybridge in as good condition for public use as they were prior to construction of the skybridge and in at least as good condition in all respects as the abutting portions of the right-of-way as required by the applicable SDOT standards for right-of-way restoration.

 Failure to remove the skybridge as required by this section is a violation of Chapter 15.90 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) (or successor provision); however, applicability of Chapter 15.90 does not eliminate any remedies available to the City under this ordinance or any other authority. If the Permittee does not timely fulfill its obligations under this section, the City may in its sole discretion remove the skybridge and restore the street right- of-way or public place at the Permittee's expense, and collect such expense in the manner provided by law.

 Upon the Permittee's completion of removal and restoration in accordance with this section, or upon the City's completion of the removal and restoration and Permittee's payment to the City of the City's costs in connection therewith, the Director shall then issue a certification that the Permittee has fulfilled its removal and restoration obligations under this ordinance. Upon prior notice to the Permittee and entry of written findings that it is in the public interest, the Director may, in the Director's sole discretion, conditionally or absolutely excuse the Permittee from compliance with all or any of the Permittee's obligations under this section.

 Section 6. Repair or reconstruction. The skybridge shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Permittee and the Permittee agrees to maintain the skybridge in good and safe condition for the protection of the public. The Permittee shall not reconstruct or repair the skybridge except in strict accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Director. The Director may, in the Director's judgment, order the skybridge reconstructed or repaired at the Permittee's cost and expense because of: the deterioration or unsafe condition of the skybridge; the installation, construction, reconstruction, maintenance, operation, or repair of any municipally-owned public utilities; or for any other cause.

 Section 7. Failure to correct unsafe condition. After written notice to the Permittee and failure of the Permittee to correct an unsafe condition within the time stated in the notice, the Director may order the skybridge be closed or removed at the Permittee's expense if the Director deems that the skybridge has become unsafe or creates a risk of injury to the public. If there is an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public, a notice to correct is not required.

 Section 8. Continuing obligations. Notwithstanding termination or expiration of the permission granted, or closure or removal of the skybridge, the Permittee shall remain bound by all of its obligations under this ordinance until the Director has issued a certification that the Permittee has fulfilled its removal and restoration obligations under Section 5 of this ordinance. Notwithstanding the issuance of that certification, the Permittee shall continue to be bound by the obligations set forth in Section 9 of this ordinance and shall remain liable for any unpaid fees assessed pursuant to Section 17 of this ordinance.

 Section 9. Release, hold harmless, indemnification, and duty to defend. The Permittee, by accepting the terms of this ordinance, releases the City, its officials, officers, employees, and agents from any and all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expense, attorneys' fees, or damages of every kind and description arising out of or by reason of the skybridge or this ordinance, including but not limited to claims resulting from injury, damage, or loss to the Permittee or the Permittee's property.

 The Permittee agrees to at all times defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City, its officials, officers, employees, and agents from and against all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expense, attorneys' fees, or damages of every kind and description (excepting only damages that may result from the sole negligence of the City) that may accrue to or be suffered by any person or property (including, without limitation, damage or injury to members of the public or to the Permittee's officers, agents, employees, contractors, invitees, tenants, tenants' invitees, licensees, or successors and assigns) arising out of or by reason of: (a) the existence, construction, reconstruction, modification, maintenance, operation, use, or removal of the skybridge or any portion thereof, or Permittee's use, occupation, or restoration of the street right-of-way or other public place, or any portion thereof; (b) anything that has been done or may at any time be done by the Permittee by reason of this ordinance; or (c) the Permittee failing or refusing to strictly comply with every provision of this ordinance; or arising out of or by reason of the skybridge or this ordinance in any other way.

 If any suit, action, or claim of the nature described above is filed, instituted, or begun against the City, the Permittee shall upon notice from the City defend the City at the sole cost and expense of the Permittee, and if a judgment is rendered against the City in any suit or action, the Permittee shall fully satisfy the judgment within 90 days after the action or suit has been finally determined, if determined adversely to the City. If it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that Revised Code of Washingtion (RCW) 4.24.115 applies to this ordinance, then in the event claims or damages are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of:

 (a) the City, its agents, contractors, or employees; and

 (b) the Permittee, its agents, contractors, or employees,

 this indemnity provision shall be valid and enforceable only to the extent of the negligence of the Permittee or the Permittee's agents, contractors, or employees.

 Section 10. Insurance. For as long as the Permittee exercises any permission granted by this ordinance and until the Director has issued a certification that the Permittee has fulfilled its removal and restoration obligations under Section 5, the Permittee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at its own expense, insurance that protects the City from claims and risks of loss from perils that can be insured against under commercial general liability (CGL) insurance policies in conjunction with:

 (a) construction, reconstruction, modification, operation, maintenance, use, existence, or removal of the skybridge or any portion thereof, as well as restoration of any disturbed areas of the street right- of-way or other public place in connection with removal of the skybridge;

 (b) the Permittee's activity upon or the use or occupation of the public place described in Section 1 of this ordinance; and

 (c) claims and risks in connection with activities performed by the Permittee by virtue of the permission granted by this ordinance.

 Minimum insurance requirements are CGL insurance based on the Insurance Services Office (ISO) form CG 00 01 or equivalent. The City requires insurance coverage to be placed with an insurer admitted and licensed to conduct business in Washington State or with a surplus lines carrier pursuant to RCW Chapter 48.15, except that if it is infeasible to obtain coverage with the required insurer, the City may approve an alternative insurer.

 Minimum limits of liability shall be $2,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage, with $4,000,000 annual aggregate. Coverage shall name the "City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non-contributory limits of liability subject to a Separation of Insureds clause.

 Within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance, the Permittee shall provide to the City, or cause to be provided, certification of insurance coverage consisting of the CGL declarations page, schedule of forms and endorsements, and blanket or additional insured policy provision per the ISO CG 20 12 or equivalent. The insurance coverage certification shall be delivered or sent to the Director or to the Department of Transportation at an address as the Director may specify in writing from time to time.

 If the Permittee is self-insured, a letter of certification from the Corporate Risk Manager or appropriate Finance Officer may be submitted in lieu of the insurance coverage certification required by this ordinance, if approved in writing by the City Risk Manager. The letter of certification must provide all information required by the City Risk Manager and document, to the satisfaction of the City Risk Manager, that self-insurance equivalent to the insurance requirements of this ordinance is in force. After a self-insurance certification is approved, the City may from time to time subsequently require updated or additional information. The approved self-insured Permittee must provide 30 days' notice of any cancellation or material adverse financial condition of its self-insurance program. The City may at any time revoke approval of self-insurance and require the Permittee to obtain and maintain insurance as specified in this ordinance.

 In the event that Permittee assigns or transfers the permission granted by this ordinance, the Permittee shall maintain in effect the insurance required under this section until the Director has approved the assignment or transfer pursuant to Section 14.

 Section 11. Contractor insurance. The Permittee shall contractually require that any and all of its contractors performing work on any premises contemplated by this permit name the "City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non-contributory limits of liability on all CGL, Automobile and Pollution liability insurance and/or self- insurance. The Permittee shall also include in all contract documents with its contractors a third-party beneficiary provision extending construction indemnities and warranties granted to Permittee to the City.

 Section 12. Performance bond. Within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance, the Permittee shall deliver to the Director for filing with the City Clerk a sufficient bond executed by a surety company authorized and qualified to do business in the State of Washington that is: in the amount of $15,000 and conditioned with a requirement that the Permittee shall comply with every provision of this ordinance and with every order the Director issues under this ordinance. The Permittee shall ensure that the bond remains in effect until the Director has issued a certification that the Permittee has fulfilled its removal and restoration obligations under Section 5. An irrevocable letter of credit approved by the City Risk Manager may be substituted for the bond upon approval of the Director. In the event that the Permittee assigns or transfers the permission granted by this ordinance, the Permittee shall maintain in effect the bond or letter of credit required under this section until the Director has approved the assignment or transfer pursuant to Section 14.

 Section 13. Adjustment of insurance and bond requirements. The Director, in consultation with the City Risk Manager, may adjust minimum liability insurance levels and surety bond requirements during the term of this permission. If the Director and City Risk Manager determine that an adjustment is necessary to fully protect the interests of the City, the Director shall notify the Permittee of the new requirements in writing. The Permittee shall, within 60 days of the date of such notice, provide proof of the adjusted insurance and surety bond levels to the Director.

 Section 14. Consent for and conditions of assignment or transfer. The permission granted by this ordinance shall not be assignable or transferable by operation of law; nor shall the Permittee transfer, assign, mortgage, pledge or encumber the same without the Director's consent, which the Director shall not unreasonably refuse. The Director may approve assignment or transfer of the permission granted by this ordinance to a successor entity only if the successor or assignee has accepted in writing all of the terms and conditions of the permission granted by this ordinance; has provided, at the time of said acceptance, the bond and certification of insurance coverage required under this ordinance; and has paid any fees due under Section 17 of this ordinance. Any person or entity seeking approval for an assignment or transfer of the permission granted by this ordinance shall provide the Director with a description of the current and anticipated use of the skybridge.

 Section 15. Inspection fees. The Permittee shall, as provided by SMC Chapter 15.76 (or successor provision), pay the City the amounts charged by the City to inspect the skybridge during construction, reconstruction, repair, annual structural inspections, and at other times deemed necessary to ensure the safety of the skybridge and the public.

 Section 16. Inspection reports. The Permittee shall submit to the Director, or to the Department of Transportation at an address specified by the Director, an inspection report that:

 (a) describes the physical dimensions and condition of all load-bearing elements;

 (b) describes any damages or possible repairs to any element of the skybridge;

 (c) prioritizes all repairs and establishes a timeframe for making repairs; and

 (d) is stamped by a professional structural engineer licensed in the State of Washington.

 A report meeting the foregoing requirements shall be submitted within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance; subsequent reports shall be submitted every 5 years, within 30 days prior to the anniversary date of the effective date of this ordinance; provided that, in the event of a natural disaster or other event that may have damaged the skybridge, the Director may require that additional reports be submitted by a date established by the Director. The Permittee has the duty of inspecting and maintaining the skybridge, and the responsibility to submit structural inspection reports periodically or as required by the Director does not waive or alter any of the Permittee's obligations under this ordinance nor create any duties on the part of the Director.

 Section 17. Annual fee. Beginning on December 1, 2010, and annually thereafter, the Permittee shall promptly pay to the City, upon statements or invoices issued by the Director, an annual fee of $5,658 or as adjusted annually thereafter, for the privileges granted by this ordinance.

 Adjustments to the annual fee shall be made in accordance with a term permit fee schedule adopted by the City Council and may be made every year. In the absence of a schedule, the Director may only increase or decrease the previous year's fee to reflect any inflationary changes so as to charge the fee in constant dollar terms. This adjustment will be calculated by adjusting the previous year's fee by the percentage change between the two most recent year-end values available from the Consumer Price Index for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Area, All Urban Consumers, All Products, Not Seasonally Adjusted. All payments shall be made to the City Finance Director for credit to the Transportation Operating Fund.

 Section 18. Non-discrimination. In all matters pertaining to the skybridge, the Permittee shall comply with the City's laws prohibiting discrimination in employment and contracting including Seattle's Fair Employment Practices Ordinance, Chapter 14.04 and Fair Contracting Practices code, Chapter 14.10 (or successor provisions).

 Section 19. Acceptance of terms and conditions. The Permittee shall deliver to the Director its written signed acceptance of the terms of this ordinance within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance. The Director shall file the written acceptance with the City Clerk. If no such acceptance is received within that 60-day period, the privileges conferred by this ordinance shall be deemed declined or abandoned and the permission granted deemed lapsed and forfeited and Permittee shall, at its own expense, remove the skybridge and all of Permittee's equipment and property and replace and restore all portions of the street right-of- way or public place as provided in Section 5.

 Section 20. Obligations of successors and assigns. The obligations and conditions imposed on the Permittee by and through this ordinance are also imposed on the Permittee's successors and/or assigns regardless of whether the Director has approved assignment or transfer of the permission granted by this ordinance to such successors and/or assigns. All references in this ordinance to obligations or conditions imposed on the "Permittee" shall also be deemed to refer to the successors and assigns of the Permittee.

 The obligations and conditions imposed on the Permittee by and through this ordinance are covenants that run with the land and bind subsequent owners of the property adjacent to the skybridge and legally described in Section 1 of this ordinance, regardless of whether the Director has approved assignment or transfer of the permission granted herein to such subsequent owner(s). The Permittee shall, within 60 days of the effective date of this ordinance, and prior to conveying any interest in the property legally described in Section 1 of this ordinance, deliver to the Director upon a form to be supplied by the Director, a covenant agreement containing the obligations and conditions set forth in this ordinance, signed by the Permittee and recorded with the King County Recorder's Office. The Director shall file the recorded covenant agreement with the City Clerk. The covenant agreement shall contain a reference to this ordinance by its ordinance number.

 Section 21. Public benefit mitigation. The permission granted by this ordinance is subject to the Permittee maintaining the existing public realm benefit mitigation, as recommended by the Seattle Design Commission. The Permittee shall maintain the following:

 a) Public-use plaza, including landscaping, seating, paving, and lighting elements, occupying approximately 7,575 square feet in the southwest quadrant of the block located between 2nd and 3rd Avenues and Cedar and Clay Streets;

 b) Pedestrian lighting in alley and on roof of building;

 c) Security cameras in alley, plaza, and parking area; and

 d) Paving details around perimeter of building and tree pits.

 Any changes to this list must be approved by the Director.

 Section 22. Section titles. Section titles are for convenient reference only and do not modify or limit the text of a section.

 Section 23. Ratify and confirm. Any act taken by the City or the Permittee pursuant to the authority and in compliance with the conditions of this ordinance but prior to the effective date of the ordinance is ratified and confirmed.

 Section 24. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Angela Steel SDOT Grange Insurance Skybridge ORD August 9, 2011 Version #3

```
