

********

**Council Bill Number: 117293**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123720**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation, authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into an egress easement agreement with Seattle School District No. 1 over portions of vacated N. 42nd Street between Woodlawn Avenue N. and Densmore Avenue N., and to execute a covenant restricting the use of property at Wallingford Playfield to satisfy permit requirements related to the construction of a new gymnasium on the Hamilton International Middle School property; authorizing acceptance of reimbursed City- incurred costs related to the egress easement agreement and covenant; superseding the requirements of Ordinance 118477, which adopted Initiative 42, for the purposes of this ordinance; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 26, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 30, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 30, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 19, 2011
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** BAGSHAW
   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass
   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** September 22, 2011
   
**Committee Vote:** 1 (Bagshaw) - 0
   
   
_(No indexing available for this document)_

**Fiscal Note:**117293

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123720](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123720.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation, authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into an egress easement agreement with Seattle School District No. 1 over portions of vacated N. 42nd Street between Woodlawn Avenue N. and Densmore Avenue N., and to execute a covenant restricting the use of property at Wallingford Playfield to satisfy permit requirements related to the construction of a new gymnasium on the Hamilton International Middle School property; authorizing acceptance of reimbursed City- incurred costs related to the egress easement agreement and covenant; superseding the requirements of Ordinance 118477, which adopted Initiative 42, for the purposes of this ordinance; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle ("City") adopted Resolution Number 28865, committing the City's support to the Seattle School District's ("SSD") Building Excellence Capital Improvement Program ("BEX"); and

 WHEREAS, Hamilton International Middle School is adjacent to Wallingford Playfield and has been redeveloped as part of the BEX; and

 WHEREAS, SSD and the City, through the Department of Parks and Recreation ("DPR"), executed a Memorandum of Agreement (fully executed as of July 2, 2009) ("MOA") "for the purpose of defining and limiting a mutually beneficial arrangement whereby, in conjunction with SSD's renovation of Hamilton International Middle School, SSD will make certain improvements to DPR property and, after making such improvements, DPR and SSD will cooperate in shared use and maintenance of the vacated street area;" and

 WHEREAS, a new gymnasium constructed as part of the redevelopment of Hamilton International Middle School will enhance sports and other activities for students and members of the community, and will be available for programming by DPR; and

 WHEREAS, City of Seattle Department of Planning and Development ("DPD") Project Numbers 6147629 and 6215479 require emergency exiting egress from SSD's property through Wallingford Playfield to the street rights-of- way; and

 WHEREAS, DPD Project Numbers 6147629 and 6215479 require a thirty-foot no-build zone adjacent to the doors and windows in the north gym wall; and

 WHEREAS, the egress easement agreement and no-build covenant authorized by this ordinance are intended to satisfy DPD permit conditions for the Hamilton International Middle School gymnasium, allowing SSD to obtain a permanent Certificate of Occupancy; and

 WHEREAS, the public will realize enhanced educational and recreational opportunities in the form of community access to the new gym and outdoor basketball courts located on SSD property and SSD's construction of an outdoor plaza, amphitheater, and garden located on DPR property; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent"), or his designee, is authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to enter into an egress easement agreement with the Seattle School District, substantially in the form of Attachment 1, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference. The legal description of the egress easement is as follows:

 The north one-half of vacated North 42nd St as vacated per City of Seattle Ordinance 98969, between the west margin of Densmore Ave North and the east margin of Woodlawn Ave North.

 Section 2. The Superintendent or his designee is authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to execute a covenant restricting use of real property referred to as Wallingford Playfield, substantially in the form of Attachment 2, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference. The legal description of the restricted area is as follows:

 The south 30 feet of the east 116 feet of the north one-half of vacated North 42nd St as vacated

 per City of Seattle Ordinance 98969, between the west margin of Densmore Ave North and the east Margin of Woodlawn Ave North.

 Section 3. The Superintendent is further authorized to accept reimbursement from SSD for all administrative expenses accrued in processing the egress easement agreement and the covenant in an amount not to exceed of $15,000, which is to be deposited in the Parks and Recreation Fund.

```
<table><tr><td>Fund

</td><td>
### Department

</td><td>Budget Control Level

</td><td>Amount or Reimbursement

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Operating Fund (10200)

</td><td>Parks and Recreation

</td><td>Planning and Development (K370C )

</td><td>$15,000

</td></tr>

</table> Section 4. For purposes of this ordinance, the requirements of Ordinance 118477, which adopted Initiative 42, are hereby superseded.

 Section 5. Any acts consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within 10 days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Egress Easement Agreement

 Attachment 2: No-Build Covenant

 Terry Dunning DPR Wallingford Easement ORD June 21, 2011 Version #6

 Engress Easement Agreement

 Return Address:

 City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Avenue South

 Third Floor

 Seattle, WA 98134-1334

 ATTN: Property Management

 Please print or type information WASHINGTON STATE RECORDER'S Cover Sheet (RCW 65.04)

 Document Title(s) (or transactions contained therein): (all areas applicable to your document must be filled in)1. \_\_\_Egress Easement Agreement \_\_\_\_\_ 2. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 3. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 4. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Reference Number(s) of Documents assigned or released: n/a

 Additional reference #'s on page \_n/a\_\_ of document

 Grantor(s) (Last name, first name, initials)

 1. The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation acting by and through its Department of Parks & Recreation

 2. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Additional names on page \_\_n/a\_\_\_\_ of document.

 Grantee(s) (Last name first, then first name and initials)

 1. Seattle School District No. 1, a municipal corporation

 2. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Additional names on page \_n/a\_\_\_\_\_ of document.

 Legal description (abbreviated: i.e. lot, block, plat or section, township, range)

 GRANTOR:

 Lots 1 through 12, inclusive, Block 13, and 1 through 12, inclusive, Block 14, Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 238, in King County , Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of vacated Densmore Avenue North, vacated North 42nd Street, and vacated alley in said Block 14 which attaches by operation of law as provided by City of Seattle Ordinance Number 98969.

 GRANTEE:

 All of Block 17, Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of plats, page 238, in King County, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of North 42nd St. adjacent as vacated by the City of Seattle Ordinance No. 98969, recorded under recording number 6659167, which was attached by operation of law.

 Additional legal is on page \_1\_\_\_\_ of document.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel/Account Number ? Assessor Tax # not yet assigned

 GRANTOR: 4083301190

 GRANTEE: 4083301505

 The Auditor/Recorder will rely on the information provided on the form. The staff will not read the document to verify the accuracy or completeness of the indexing information provided herein.

 I am requesting an emergency nonstandard recording for an additional fee as provided in RCW 36.18.010. I understand that the recording processing requirements may cover up or otherwise obscure some part of the text of the original document.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Signature of Requesting Party

 EGRESS EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 This Egress Easement Agreement ("Easement Agreement") is made this \_\_\_\_\_ day of\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, by The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation acting by and through its Department of Parks and Recreation ("Grantor") for the benefit of the Seattle School District No. 1, a municipal corporation ("Grantee").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, the Grantor is the owner of the property affected by this Easement Agreement, commonly known as the Wallingford Playfield, located at 4225 Wallingford Avenue North in Seattle, King County, Washington, parcel number 408330-1190 and legally described as:

 Lots 1 through 12, inclusive, Block 13, and 1 through 12, inclusive, Block 14, Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 238, in King County , Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of vacated Densmore Avenue North, vacated North 42nd Street, and vacated alley in said Block 14 which attaches by operation of law as provided by City of Seattle Ordinance Number 98969.

 ("Parks Property"); and

 WHEREAS, the Grantee is the owner of the property adjacent to the Wallingford Playfield, commonly known as Hamilton International Middle School, located at 1610 North 41st Street in Seattle, King County, Washington, parcel number 408330-1505 and legally described as:

 All of Block 17, Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of plats, page 238, in King County, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of North 42nd St. adjacent as vacated by the City of Seattle Ordinance No. 98969, recorded under recording number 6659167, which was attached by operation of law.

 ("District Property"); and

 WHEREAS, the Grantee desires to occupy and use the District Property as more specifically described in the plans and specifications contained in the Seattle Department of Planning and Development building permit application number 6147629 and revised by permit number 6215479; and

 WHEREAS, Grantee needs an easement across a portion of the Parks Property for the building egress required for the District Property by Section 1001.1 of the 2003 Seattle Building Code (SBC), on the terms and conditions described herein, and Grantor is willing to grant an egress easement subject to certain terms and conditions.

 AGREEMENT

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

 1.  Easement . Grantor hereby grants to Grantee, for the benefit of the District Property, a non-exclusive easement for the purpose of providing a continuous, unobstructed and undiminished path of egress or exit, as shown on Exhibit A, from District Property over and through the Parks Property to Woodlawn Avenue North to the East and Densmore Avenue N to the West, both public ways, legally described as:

 The north one-half of vacated North 42nd St as vacated per City of Seattle Ordinance 98696, between the west margin of Densmore Ave North and the east margin of Woodlawn Ave North.

 2.  Indemnification . Grantee shall indemnify, defend, and hold the Grantor harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions and damages suffered by any person or entity by reason of or resulting from any negligent, reckless, or intentionally wrongful act or omission of the Grantee or any of its officers, employees, students, or agents on the Parks Property, provided, that in the event the Grantor determines that one or more principles of government or public law are involved, the Grantor retains the right to participate in such action.

 In the event both parties are held to have been liable in any suit arising out of their acts or omissions under this Easement Agreement, the costs and expense arising therefrom shall be prorated between the parties according to the relative degrees of their liability.

 For purposes of this Easement Agreement only, each of the parties specifically and expressly waives, with respect to the other, its immunity and limitation on liability under any industrial insurance legislation including but not limited to Title 51 RCW, and acknowledges that this waiver was specifically entered into after mutual negotiation.

 3.  Maintenance Responsibilities . As provided in that certain Memorandum of Agreement between Grantor and Grantee, fully executed as of July 2, 2009 ("MOA"), Grantee is responsible, at its sole cost and expense, for maintaining, including both daily, routine upkeep maintenance and long-term repair/replacement maintenance, the two (2) staircases (installed by Grantee), including railings, that provide required emergency pedestrian egress from the District Property across Parks Property. (The staircases, located on Parks Property at the northwest and northeast corners of a hard surface play court, provide egress to Woodlawn Avenue North and directly to Wallingford Playfield, respectively.) As additional consideration, and pursuant to the MOA, Grantee is also responsible, at its sole cost and expense, for maintaining, including both daily, routine upkeep maintenance and long-term repair/replacement maintenance, the entire hard surface play court, including the portion on Parks Property, and the accessory elements associated with the play court, for example, railings and lighting.

 4.  Binding Effect of Easement.  This Easement Agreement and its terms and conditions shall constitute covenants running with the land affected or benefited thereby and the rights and obligations of the parties herein shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon their respective successors and assigns, so long as means of egress from a building to a public way is required by SBC Section 1001 or a like successor provision, and may not be terminated, extinguished, suspended or modified, except with the express, written consent of the City of Seattle Department of Planning and Development, or its functional successor.

 5.  Termination of Easement . If there is a change in ownership of the District Property or a change in the ownership of the building located on the District Property, or if the building on the District Property is no longer being used as a public school, this Easement Agreement shall be automatically terminated, subject to the written consent of the Seattle Department of Planning and Development or its functional successor.

 (Signature on following page)

 The City of Seattle

 By: Christopher Williams

 Title: Acting Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 Seattle School District No. 1

 By: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Name: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Its: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, to me known to be the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

 My Commission expires on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011, I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that said person signed this instrument, on oath stated that said person was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of the SEATTLE SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON to be the free and voluntary act of such entity for the uses and purposed mentioned in the instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

 My Commission expires on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

 Terry Dunning DPR Wallingford Easement ORD ATT 1 June 21, 2011 Version #5

[Exhibit A:Path of Egress](/~ordpics/117293ex.pdf)

 Attachment 2 Return Address:

 City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Avenue South

 Third Floor

 Seattle, WA 98134-1334

 ATTN: Property Management

 Please print or type information WASHINGTON STATE RECORDER'S Cover Sheet (RCW 65.04)

 Document Title(s) (or transactions contained therein): (all areas applicable to your document must be filled in)

 1. \_\_\_No Build Covenant\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 2. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 3. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 4. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Reference Number(s) of Documents assigned or released: n/a

 Additional reference #'s on page \_\_n/a\_\_\_ of document

 Grantor(s) (Last name, first name, initials)

 1. The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation acting by and through its Department of Parks & Recreation

 2. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Additional names on page \_\_n/a\_\_\_\_ of document.

 Grantee(s) (Last name first, then first name and initials)

 1. Seattle School District No. 1, a municipal corporation

 2. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Additional names on page \_n/a\_\_\_\_\_ of document.

 Legal description (abbreviated: i.e. lot, block, plat or section, township, range)

 GRANTOR

 Lots 1 through 12, inclusive, Block 13, and 1 through 12, inclusive, Block 14, Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 238, in King County , Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of vacated Densmore Avenue North, vacated North 42nd Street, and vacated alley in said Block 14 which attaches by operation of law as provided by City of Seattle Ordinance Number 98969.

 GRANTEE:

 All of Block 17, Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of plats, page 238, in King County, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of North 42nd St. adjacent as vacated by the City of Seattle Ordinance No. 98969, recorded under recording number 6659167, which was attached by operation of law.

 Additional legal is on page \_\_\_\_ of document.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel/Account Number ? Assessor Tax # not yet assigned

 GRANTOR: 4083301190

 GRANTEE: 4083301505

 The Auditor/Recorder will rely on the information provided on the form. The staff will not read the document to verify the accuracy or completeness of the indexing information provided herein.

 I am requesting an emergency nonstandard recording for an additional fee as provided in RCW 36.18.010. I understand that the recording processing requirements may cover up or otherwise obscure some part of the text of the original document.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Signature of Requesting Party

 NO-BUILD COVENANT

 This No-Build Covenant ("Covenant") is made by The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation acting by and through its Department of Parks and Recreation ("Grantor") for the benefit of Seattle School District No. 1, a municipal corporation ("Grantee").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, the Grantor is the owner of the property affected by this covenant, commonly known as the Wallingford Playfield, located at 4225 Wallingford Avenue North in Seattle, King County, Washington, parcel number 408330-1190 and legally described as:

 Lots 1 through 12, inclusive, Block 13, and 1 through 12, inclusive, Block 14, Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 238, in King County , Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of vacated Densmore Avenue North, vacated North 42nd Street, and vacated alley in said Block 14 which attaches by operation of law as provided by City of Seattle Ordinance Number 98969.

 ("Parks Property"); and

 WHEREAS, the Grantee is the owner of the property adjacent to the Wallingford Playfield, commonly known as Hamilton International Middle School, located at 1610 North 41st Street in Seattle, King County, Washington, parcel number 408330-1505 and legally described as:

 All of Block 17, Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of plats, page 238, in King County, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of North 42nd St. adjacent as vacated by the City of Seattle Ordinance No. 98969, recorded under recording number 6659167, which was attached by operation of law.

 ("District Property"); and

 WHEREAS, the Grantee desires to occupy and use the District Property ("the gymnasium") as more specifically described in the plans and specifications contained in the Seattle Department of Planning and Development building permit application number 6147629 and revised by permit number 6215479; and

 WHEREAS, the north exterior wall of the gymnasium must comply with Section 704.8, Allowable Area of Openings of the 2003 Seattle Building Code in order for the Grantee to occupy and use the gymnasium; specifically the maximum area of protected and unprotected openings permitted in an exterior wall in any story shall not exceed the values set forth in Table 704.8; and

 WHEREAS, the Grantee desires to have an unlimited area of protected exterior wall opening, and the 2003 Seattle Building Code, Table 704.8 provides that an unlimited area would be allowed if the fire separation distance were greater than 30 feet; and

 WHEREAS, the Grantee desires a greater floor area for the building, and the 2003 Seattle Building Code section 506.2 allows increased frontage for having more than 25 percent of its perimeter on a public way or open space having a minimum width of 20 feet; and

 WHEREAS, the Grantor enters into this Covenant freely and voluntarily;

 NOW THEREFORE, the Grantor:

 1. Covenants that it will observe, consent to, and abide by the conditions and obligations described herein, and hereby grants to Grantee a No-Build Zone to reflect those protected and unprotected exterior wall opening requirements found in Section 704.8 of the 2003 Seattle Building Code, specifically provide a minimum fire separation distance of 30 feet for unlimited opening and also increasing the percentage of the perimeter on open space for purpose of allowing increased frontage as provided in Section 506.2, as shown on Exhibit A (the "No-Build Zone"). Such No-Build Zone is legally described as:

 The north 30 feet of the east 116 feet of the north one- half of vacated North 42nd St as vacated per City of Seattle Ordinance 98696, between the west margin of Densmore Ave North and the east Margin of Woodlawn Ave North.

 2. Acknowledges that the covenants contained herein are covenants running with the land and shall be binding upon the Grantor, its successors and assigns, heirs, grantees, or lessees of Parks Property, beginning on the date of recording in the County's records office. Each and every contract, deed, mortgage or other instrument covering or conveying the Parks Property, or any portion thereof, shall be conclusively held to have been executed, delivered and accepted subject to such covenants, regardless of whether such covenants are set forth in such contract, deed, mortgage or other instruments.

 3. Covenants that no buildings or structures shall be erected within the herein defined No-Build Zone.

 DEFAULT: If a violation of any of the foregoing covenants occurs, the City, acting through its Department of Planning and Development or functional successor, or the Grantee, may, after thirty days notice to the Grantor, and if applicable, its successors and assigns, heirs, grantees, or lessees of the Parks Property, institute and prosecute any proceeding at law or in equity to abate, prevent, or enjoin any such violation or to compel specific performance by the Grantor of its obligations hereunder. No delay in enforcing the provisions hereof as to any breach or violation shall impair, damage or waive the right of the City or the Grantee to enforce the provisions hereof or to obtain relief against or recover for the continuation or repetition of such breach or violations or any similar breach or violation hereof at any later time.

 TERMINATION: This Covenant shall remain in effect and not be removed by any party as long as it is necessary to satisfy the requirements of the 2003 Seattle Building Code and its successors. However, if the Seattle Building Code is amended to eliminate the necessity of the No Build Area or if the building on the District Property is demolished or remodeled such that it does not require the No Build Area under the Seattle Building Code, this Covenant shall automatically terminate, subject to the written consent of the Seattle Department of Planning and Development or its functional successor.

 (Signature on following page)

 IN WITNESS HEREOF, Grantor has executed this Covenant on the \_\_\_\_\_day of  ,  2011.

 The City of Seattle

 By: Christopher Williams

 Title: Acting Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2011 before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, to me known to be the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

 My Commission expires on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

 Terry Dunning DPR Wallingford Easement ORD ATT 2 July 25, 2011 Version #5

 1 ATT 2 to DPR Wallingford Easement ORD

[Exhibit A: No-Build Zone ](/~ordpics/117293ex2.pdf)

