

********

**Council Bill Number: 117395**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123834**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the 2011 Families and Education Levy; approving an implementation and evaluation plan as required by Ordinance 123567; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 5, 2012
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 13, 2012
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 13, 2012
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 30, 2012
   
**Committee:** Government Performance and Finance
   
**Sponsor:** BURGESS
   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass as Amended
   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** February 29, 2012
   
**Committee Vote:** 3 (Burgess, Clark, Licata) - 0
   
   
**Index Terms:** TAXES, PROPERTY-TAXES, ELECTIONS, SCHOOLS, EDUCATION, SCHOOL-DISTRICT-1, CHILDREN, YOUTHS, FAMILY

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 123567](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=123567&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=1&f=G)

**Fiscal Note:**117395

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123834](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123834.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the 2011 Families and Education Levy; approving an implementation and evaluation plan as required by Ordinance 123567; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 123567, the City placed before voters a proposition to authorize the City to levy regular property taxes for up to seven years in excess of the 101% limitation and any other limitation on levies in Chapter 84.55 RCW for the purpose of providing City services, including providing Seattle School District public school students, Seattle youth, and their families with education support; and

 WHEREAS, on November 8, 2011, the City's voters approved that proposition; and

 WHEREAS, Section 8 of Ordinance 123567 states that proceeds from the voter-approved additional taxes and interest earnings may be spent only in accordance with an implementation and evaluation plan (the "Plan") approved by ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, Section 8 of Ordinance 123567 also states that the Plan will set forth the criteria, measurable outcomes and methodology by which programs funded by those additional taxes and interest earnings will be selected and evaluated; and

 WHEREAS, City Departments have developed plans for investments of levy proceeds to achieve specific, measurable outcomes for school readiness, academic achievement and reduction of the academic achievement gap, dropout reduction, and college and career readiness; and

 WHEREAS, the Families and Education Levy Oversight Committee has reviewed the implementation and evaluation plan as required by Ordinance 123567;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Families and Education Levy Implementation and Evaluation Plan attached as Attachment 1 is approved as required by Section 8 of Ordinance 123567. The plan is consistent with the City Council's intent expressed in Section 9 of Ordinance 123567 that all 2011 Levy investments, including services previously funded by the 2004 Families and Education Levy, be awarded through a competitive process.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Section 3. Ratify and Confirm. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2012, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2012.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2012.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2012.

 ____________________________________

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Sid Sidorowicz/dg DON FEL Implementation and Evaluation ORD December 30, 2011 Version #3

 Attachment 1: The Families and Education Levy Implementation and Evaluation Plan

 OVERVIEW

 This Families and Education Levy Implementation and Evaluation Plan sets forth the criteria, measurable outcomes and methodology by which Families and Education Levy (Levy) programs will be selected and evaluated for the Levy approved by voters in November 2011.

 All Levy investments will be made for the purpose of achieving the outcomes described below. Progress towards those outcomes will be used to measure success and to provide information for course corrections. Specific numeric targets will be set each year so that organizations receiving investments are clear of their goals and understand how their success will be evaluated.

 All Levy programs will be selected and evaluated using an outcome funding framework. In this approach the City is investing Levy proceeds to achieve the following three city- wide outcomes:

 ? Children will be ready for school

 ? All students will achieve academically and the achievement gap will be reduced

 ? All students will graduate from school college/career ready

 School readiness is measured by:

 ? The Washington Kindergarten Assessment of Developmental Skills

 Academic achievement is measured by:

 ? The Measurements of Student Progress;

 ? The Washington English Language Proficiency Assessment;

 ? The High School Proficiency Exam;

 ? On-time promotion to 10th grade; and,

 ? End-of-Course Math Exams.

 Students graduating from school college/career ready is measured by:

 ? On-time graduation;

 ? Graduating with the Washington State requirements for entry into a four-year college, and/or completion of a career and technical education course of study;

 ? Graduates enrolling in post-secondary education;

 ? Graduates not needing to enroll in remedial education courses; and,

 ? Graduates continuously enrolled in college for one year.

 To achieve the three Levy outcomes, the City will set clear numeric targets for each Levy program and define and track indicators that measure progress toward targets. These indicators include, but are not limited to:

 ? Families demonstrating increased positive behavior on the PACT and the CBT

 ? Children making gains in the Standard Score from the fall pre-PPVT to the spring post-PPVT

 ? Children with a minimum of two assessments meeting age-level expectations on Teaching Strategies Gold

 ? Children are in classrooms meeting an ECERS standard of 4 in each subscale or an average of 6 in all subscales

 ? English Language Learners in all grades making State English proficiency test gains

 ? Elementary students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on reading MAP

 ? Elementary students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on math MAP

 ? Elementary students with fewer than 5 absences per semester

 ? Middle school students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on reading MAP

 ? Middle school students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on math MAP

 ? Middle School students passing all courses

 ? Middle School students with fewer than 5 absences per semester

 ? 7th and 8th grade students enrolled in the College Bound Scholarship Program

 ? 9th grade students making or exceeding annual typical growth on reading MAP

 ? 9th grade students making or exceeding annual typical growth on math MAP

 ? High School students passing all courses

 ? High School students with fewer than 5 absences per semester

 Progress toward outcomes and indicators will be measured using assessments in effect during the 2011-12 school year. Should these be changed or terminated during the period Levy programs are in effect, OFE will substitute the appropriate assessment replacements.

 Measurable outcome, methodology, and criteria for program evaluation:

 The outcome funding framework includes the tracking and verification of results as the key tool of program evaluation. The City will consistently review progress toward targets and make course corrections. Targets will be updated annually based on results.

 Levy-funded programs will rely on approaches that have demonstrated success at achieving results. OFE and Levy partners will track to success on a regular basis through a system of data collection, analysis and evaluation, and course corrections.

 Each program using Levy investments will be required to collect specific data that is likely to be predictive of successful outcomes. Staff will be expected to review and consider student and program data on an ongoing basis to determine whether course corrections are necessary.

 Through a data-sharing agreement with SPS, OFE will provide Levy programs with periodic summaries of student progress on the specific indicators listed above. Because the data-sharing agreement will provide for OFE to receive anonymized individual-level records, comparisons can be made with students in the same school, across the district, or with similar characteristics.

 Periodic, in-depth analysis or evaluation of Levy programs can be conducted to provide direction for course correction. As resources are available, and as program needs dictate, the Levy database will be used for more rigorous statistical analysis of the effects of Levy investments on academic achievement. The database is robust enough to allow for modeling of statistically controlled comparison groups with appropriate safeguards for student confidentiality and protection of subjects' privacy.

 Results from these methods of tracking to success are shared with Levy partners and are reported to the Levy Oversight Committee. During the annual review cycle, course corrections are adopted as informed by the different levels of data analysis.

 Measurable outcomes, methodology and criteria by which Levy programs will be selected:

 OFE will use a combination of Requests for Qualifications (RFQ) and Requests for Investments (RFI) to competitively award Levy proceeds. Health service investments will be awarded as described in the Health section below.

 First, OFE will use the RFQ process to identify organizations with various areas of expertise to determine which of them meet OFE standards, using criteria described below, for providing Levy-funded programs. Organizations intending to partner with schools for programs funded by Levy investments will submit an application to OFE responding to specific questions regarding their experience with improving academic outcomes. OFE will review responses and identify those organizations that demonstrate qualifications for achieving results. When schools submit RFIs, as described below, they may select any organizations approved through the RFQ process that are likely to achieve the school's specific results. There is no Levy funding directly resulting from the RFQ process.

 Second, OFE will require schools to compete for Levy investments by submitting an RFI application that outlines how they will achieve Levy outcomes. The RFI application will require schools to develop and commit to a plan that will improve academic outcomes for specific groups of students. OFE will review plans and contract with the School District to invest in those schools that propose and are most likely to achieve the greatest results for the amount of funding requested.

 In the RFI application, schools may directly provide program elements or may partner with any organizations approved by OFE in the earlier RFQ process. Schools proposing to partner with organizations that have not participated in the RFQ process and who are proposed to receive $5,000 or more in Levy funding in any school year will be required to include an RFQ response from the organization in the school's RFI application. OFE will not allocate Levy funding for partner organizations that do not meet RFQ standards, with the exception of organizations that will receive no more than $5,000 per school year in Levy investments.

 RFIs will also be used to award Levy proceeds for Early Learning, Summer Learning, and Health programs. These investments may be awarded either to schools or community partners. Once OFE has selected a particular school or organization through the RFI process, OFE may negotiate changes to specific program elements to meet the intended targets or to adjust for available funding.

 When evaluating RFQ and RFI submittals, OFE will use a variety of methods to determine which proposals sufficiently demonstrate an ability to achieve academic results. OFE will review past success at achieving results, the means and methods proposed, and the commitment of leadership to improving outcomes. Additionally, OFE may consider the costs of programs as a factor, though this shall not be the sole determinative factor. Depending on the RFQ or RFI under consideration, OFE will use some, or all, of the criteria listed below. In addition, in its performance of due diligence prior to investing Levy proceeds, OFE may use other approaches to ensure proposers have the capacity and commitment to achieve results.

 RFQ and RFI Criteria for Non-School Partner Organizations:

 1. Knowledge and demonstrated use of best and/or promising practices

 2. Experience and evidence of achieving academic outcomes previously

 3. Use of data to monitor progress of students

 4. Evidence of ability to change course if data warrants

 5. Expertise in working with students and families from groups that over populate the academic achievement gap -- immigrants/refugees, low income and students of color

 6. Experience working in school settings or collaborating with schools

 7. Use of English language learner instruction techniques

 8. Use of quality assessment tools

 9. Ability to leverage additional funds

 RFI Criteria for Schools

 1. Title One School/Schools with high numbers of low performing students

 2. Experience and evidence of achieving academic results

 3. Ability to provide schedule flexibility

 4. Ability to provide hiring stability

 5. Ability to identify target student populations and their academic needs

 6. Collective effectiveness and expertise of the team of community providers the school includes in their plan to comprehensively address the academic (and other relevant) needs of students targeted for improvement

 7. Pre-School -- 3rd grade framework in place

 8. Active use of data to guide instructional practice

 9. Use of Common Core Standards

 10. Standards-based grading

 11. College-going culture

 12. Teachers and principals trained in English Language Learner acquisition

 13. In-School suspension policy

 14. Algebra I in 8th grade

 15. Integration of social, emotional, behavioral and family support

 16. Ability to leverage additional funds

 The specific uses of the RFI and RFQ processes and their frequency are described in the Investment Area section that follows.

 The City shall use the process established under SMC Chapter 20.50 for selection of consultants.

 LEVY INVESTMENT AREAS:

 Ordinance 123567 established the following primary investment areas for Levy proceeds:

 ? Early Learning and School Readiness

 ? Elementary School Academic Achievement

 ? Middle School Academic Achievement and College/Career Preparation

 ? High School Academic Achievement and College/Career Preparation

 ? Student Health

 1.  EARLY LEARNING AND SCHOOL READINESS

 Early Learning and School Readiness consists of the following strategies:

 ? Professional development for early learning educators

 ? High-quality preschool programs

 ? Home visiting program

 ? Health and mental health screening and support

 Early Learning investments will contribute toward the following outcomes:

 ? Children meeting age level expectations on WaKIDS

 ? 3rd graders meeting MSP reading standard

 The following indicators will be used to track to results:

 ? English Language Learners in all grades making State English proficiency test gains

 ? Students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on reading MAP

 ? Students at all grades having fewer than 5 absences per semester

 Methodology:

 Early learning providers for high-quality preschool programs and health and mental health screening and support will be selected using a competitive RFI approach. Providers of professional development and assessment will be selected through a combination of RFI, RFQ, and consultant contract approaches. The City will contract with United Way King County to manage the home visiting program, and the agreement will require United Way to award investments to subcontractors through a competitive process. Early learning programs will be phased in over the course of six school years so RFIs will be issued each year as additional programs are implemented. In addition, RFIs will be issued to replace providers who have been unable to achieve results.

 Early learning programs may also be proposed as part of an elementary school RFI as described below.

 2.  ELEMENTARY SCHOOL ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT

 Elementary School Academic Achievement consists of the following strategies:

 ? Elementary school innovation sites

 ? Community based family support services for immigrant, refugee, and Native American students

 ? Summer learning

 Elementary School investments will contribute toward the following outcomes:

 ? Children meeting age level expectations on WaKIDS

 ? 3rd graders meeting MSP reading standard

 ? 4th graders meeting MSP math standard

 ? 5th graders meeting MSP science standard

 The following indicators will be used to track to results:

 ? English Language Learners in all grades making gains on the State English language proficiency test

 ? Students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on reading MAP

 ? Students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on math MAP

 ? Students at all grades having fewer than 5 absences per semester

 Methodology:

 Elementary school investments will be awarded using a combination of RFQ and RFI processes. For elementary innovation sites, schools will submit an RFI that describes in detail the outcomes and indicators to be achieved, the means and methods to achieve the results, and the proposed partners for the school year. Levy proceeds may be applied only to partners who were qualified by OFE through the RFQ process. Elementary innovation sites may also submit an RFI that includes a partner approved through the early learning RFI, or may propose to provide pre-k programs directly if the school had responded to the RFI for Early Learning Pre- School Providers.

 Elementary innovation sites must address five key areas:

 ? Pre-K-3 Alignment and Collaboration

 ? Extended in-school learning time

 ? Social/emotional/behavioral support

 ? Student and family support services

 ? Out-of-school time programs

 Four new elementary innovation sites will be added each year for five years, until approximately 23 schools are using this approach. In addition to new sites, each participating school must resubmit an RFI annually.

 In addition to school based student and family support services, investments in community based family support will be awarded through an RFI process separate from the school innovation site RFIs.

 Summer learning may be awarded as part of an elementary innovation RFI, either in combination with an RFQ approved partner organization or provided directly by the school. Summer learning may also be awarded directly to non-school partners through an RFI. Summer learning will be phased in over six school years, beginning with the 2012-13 school year.

 3.  MIDDLE SCHOOL ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AND COLLEGE/CAREER PREPARATION

 Middle School Academic Achievement and College/Career Preparation consists of the following strategies:

 ? Middle school innovation sites

 ? Middle school linkage sites

 ? Summer learning

 ? Supporting middle school strategies - athletics and transportation

 Middle School Investments will contribute toward the following outcomes:

 ? 6th graders meeting MSP reading standard

 ? 7th graders meeting MSP math standard

 ? 8th graders meeting MSP science standard

 The following indicators will be used to track to results:

 ? English Language Learners in all grades making State English proficiency test gains

 ? Students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on reading MAP

 ? Students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on math MAP

 ? Students in all grades passing all courses

 ? Students in all grades having fewer than 5 absences per semester

 ? 7th and 8th graders enrolled in College Bound

 Middle school investments for innovation sites and linkage sites will be awarded using a combination of RFQ and RFI processes. For both innovation sites and linkage sites, schools will submit an RFI that describes in detail the outcomes and indicators to be achieved, the means and methods to achieve the results, and the proposed partners for the school year. Levy proceeds may be applied only to partners who were qualified by OFE through the RFQ process.

 Middle schools must address five key areas:

 ? Extended in-school learning time

 ? Social/emotional/behavioral support

 ? College and career planning

 ? Family involvement

 ? Out-of-school time programs

 All investments for middle school innovation and linkage sites will be awarded in the 2012-13 school year, although full investments for extra learning time and college/career planning will be phased in over two years. Each participating school must resubmit an RFI annually.

 Summer learning may be awarded as part of a middle school innovation site RFI, either in combination with an RFQ approved partner organization or provided directly by the school. Summer learning may also be awarded directly to non- school partners through an RFI. Summer learning will be phased in over five school years, beginning with the 2012-13 school year.

 Funding for middle school athletics and transportation will be awarded through a direct contract with Seattle Public Schools on a non-competitive basis and will be negotiated annually.

 4.  HIGH SCHOOL ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AND COLLEGE/CAREER PREPARATION

 High School Academic Achievement and College/Career Preparation consists of the following strategies:

 ? High School innovation sites

 ? Summer learning

 High School investments will contribute to the following outcomes:

 ? 9th graders promoting on time to 10th grade

 ? Students graduating on time

 ? Students graduating with HECB requirements for entry into college

 ? Students completing CTE course of study before graduation

 ? Students passing end-of-course math tests

 ? Graduates enrolling in post-secondary education

 ? Graduates taking fewer remedial courses in college

 ? Graduates continuously enrolled in post secondary education for one year

 The following indicators will be used to track to results:

 ? English Language Learners in all grades making State English proficiency test gains

 ? 9th grade students making or exceeding annual typical growth on reading MAP

 ? 9th grade students making or exceeding annual typical growth on math MAP

 ? Students in all grades passing all courses

 ? Students in all grades having fewer than 5 absences per semester

 High school investments for each strategy will be awarded using a combination of RFQ and RFI processes. For innovation sites, schools will submit an RFI that describes in detail the outcomes to be achieved, the means and methods to achieve the results, and the proposed partners for the school year. Levy proceeds may be applied only to partners who were qualified by OFE through the RFQ process.

 High schools must address five key areas:

 ? Extended in-school learning time

 ? Social/emotional/behavioral support

 ? College and career planning

 ? Family involvement

 ? 8th to 9th grade transition

 All investments for high school innovations sites will be awarded in the 2012-13 school year, although investments for college/career case management will be phased-in starting in 2015. Each participating high school must resubmit an RFI annually.

 Summer learning may be awarded as part of a high school innovation site RFI, either in combination with an RFQ approved partner organization or provided directly by the school. Summer learning may also be awarded directly to non- school partners through an RFI. Summer learning is awarded beginning with the 2012-13 school year.

 5.  STUDENT HEALTH

 Student Health consists of the following:

 ? School-based health centers (SBHCs)

 ? School district health services

 ? Interagency health services

 ? Mental health and dental enhancements

 ? Elementary health

 Health investments will contribute to the following outcomes:

 ? Children meeting age level expectations on WaKIDS

 ? 3rd graders meeting MSP reading standard

 ? 4th graders meeting MSP math standard

 ? 5th graders meeting MSP science standard

 ? 6th graders meeting MSP reading standard

 ? 7th graders meeting MSP math standard

 ? 8th graders meeting MSP science standard

 ? Students graduating high school on time

 ? Students graduating with HECB requirements for entry into college

 ? Students completing CTE course of study before graduation

 ? Students passing end-of-course math tests

 ? 9th graders promoting on time to 10th grade

 The following indicators will be used to track to results:

 ? English Language Learners in all grades making State English proficiency test gains

 ? Students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on reading MAP

 ? Students in all grades making or exceeding annual typical growth on math MAP

 ? Students at all grades having fewer than 5 absences per semester

 Health services investments will be awarded as follows:

 SBHCs

 ? The City will directly contract with Public Health -- Seattle & King County (PHSKC) for SBHCs.

 ? Prior to receiving Levy investments, operators of SBHCs will be required to submit to PHSKC detailed plans that illustrate

 o Program enhancements and new strategies under their continuing partnership

 o Collaboration with other Levy-funded strategies,

 o Coordination with schools to identify and address the academic and health needs of the Levy's priority students, and

 o New academically oriented performance targets.

 ? Failure to achieve Levy outcomes will result in competitive RFI processes to re-award Levy proceeds.

 School District Health Services

 ? The City will directly contract with Public Health -- Seattle & King County (PHSKC) for School District Health Services.

 ? Prior to receiving Levy investments, SPS will submit to PHSKC a plan that:

 o Illustrates how the Levy investment:

 ? Maximizes school district health service capacity.

 ? Explores alternative service delivery methods or staffing models to increase efficiencies.

 o Demonstrates how district health services will collaborate with other Levy-funded investments.

 o Includes new academically oriented performance targets.

 Interagency Health Services

 The City will directly contract with PHSKC for interagency health services. PHSKC will present an RFI process to the Levy Oversight Committee in the first quarter of 2013. Public Health -- Seattle & King County (PHSKC) will coordinate the RFI process in partnership with OFE and HSD.

 Mental Health and Dental Enhancement

 The City will directly contract with Public Health -- Seattle & King County (PHSKC) for Mental Health Enhancement. PHSKC will manage a technology implementation and quality improvement process in SBHC mental health services.

 The City will directly contract with PHSKC for dental enhancement services. PHSKC will present an RFI process for dental enhancement to the Levy Oversight Committee in the first quarter of 2013. PHSKC will coordinate the RFI process in partnership with OFE and HSD.

 Elementary Health

 The City will directly contract with PHSKC for elementary health services. PHSKC will coordinate the RFI process for Elementary Health in partnership with OFE and HSD. An RFI for Elementary Health investments beginning in the 2012-13 school year will be issued in early 2012. An RFI for additional investments starting in the 2013-14 school year will be issued in the first quarter of 2013.

 Criteria for selection

 ? Previous experience providing similar services and achieving results.

 ? Demonstrated use of data to design, implement and modify programs.

 ? Demonstrated ability to jointly plan and implement strategies with schools and with community-based organizations to achieve results.

 ? Demonstrated willingness to implement innovative strategies.

 ? Demonstrated ability to leverage financial and in- kind resources to achieve results.

 Sid Sidorowicz/dg DON FEL Implementation and Evaluation ORD ATT December 30, 2011 Version #7

```
