

********

**Council Bill Number: 117348**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123793**
********

 AN ORDINANCE granting the Board of Regents of the University of Washington permission to maintain and operate an underground pedestrian concourse tunnel under and across 6th Avenue north of University Street, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 19, 2011
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Disqualified: Harrell)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 29, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 28, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 28, 2011
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass
   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** December 13, 2011
   
**Committee Vote:** 2 (Rasmussen, Godden) - 0
   
   
**Index Terms:** CENTRAL-BUSINESS-DISTRICT, TUNNELS, PERMITS, PEDESTRIANS, DOWNTOWN, STREET-USE-PERMITS, UNIVERSITY-OF-WASHINGTON

**Fiscal Note:**117348

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123793](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123793.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE granting the Board of Regents of the University of Washington permission to maintain and operate an underground pedestrian concourse tunnel under and across 6th Avenue north of University Street, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 105902, the City of Seattle (City) granted permission to UNICO Properties, Inc., the lessee of the Board of Regents of the University of Washington (University), to construct, maintain, and operate a pedestrian concourse under and across 5th Avenue, the alley between 5th and 6th Avenues, and 6th Avenue; and

 WHEREAS, the conditions of Ordinance 105902 were amended by Ordinance 121855 and the permission granted ended on October 31, 2009; and

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 105902 permission was also granted to UNICO Properties, Inc., to construct, maintain, and operate underground pedestrian concourses and certain appurtenances under the alley between 5th and 6th Avenues, and 5th Avenue; however, those street areas are owned by the University and a permit is not needed by the University for continued occupation of this area; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 105902 expired on October 31, 2009, and the parties seek to ratify prior acts and occupation of the 6th Avenue street area; and

 WHEREAS, the University has submitted a written request to the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation (Director) to continue maintaining and operating this underground pedestrian concourse tunnel; and

 WHEREAS, the University has satisfied all terms of the original authorizing ordinance and the Director recommends that the term permit be approved subject to the terms identified in this ordinance; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Permission. Subject to the terms and conditions of this ordinance, permission is granted to the Board of Regents of the University of Washington, a state institution of higher education and an agency of the State of Washington, and its successors and assigns including UNICO Properties, Inc., as approved by the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation, Permittee, to maintain and operate an underground pedestrian concourse tunnel and appurtenances, including but not limited to, existing utilities and supports, (tunnel) adjacent in whole or in part to the property legally described in Attachment A, and under and across 6th Avenue approximately 156 to 177 feet north of the centerline of University Street as further described:

 6th Avenue, from approximately 156 feet north of the centerline of University Street measured along the easterly margin of 6th Avenue to the centerline of the concourse, and from approximately 177 feet north of University Street measured along the westerly margin of 6th Avenue to the centerline of the concourse, where such concourse may occupy a horizontal space of eight (8) to fourteen (14) feet wide (interior dimension) (northwesterly to southeasterly) in said 6th Avenue extending the full width of said street including the sidewalks thereof, a vertical space of approximately ten (10) feet (interior dimension), and the top and bottom of such concourse shall be approximately four (4) and thirty-seven (37) feet respectively below the existing street surface; connecting said portion of the Hilton Hotel Garage with the W.A.C. Garage.

 Section 2. Term. The permission granted to the Permittee, and its successors and assigns as approved by the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation (Director), shall be for a term of ten years starting on November 1, 2009 and ending at 11:59 p.m. on October 31, 2019. Upon written application of the Permittee at least 180 days before expiration of the term, the Director of Transportation may renew the permit for two successive ten-year terms subject to the right of the City of Seattle (City) to require the removal of the tunnel or to revise by ordinance any of the terms and conditions of the permission granted by this ordinance. The total term of the permission, including renewals, shall not exceed 30 years.

 Section 3. Protection of utilities. The permission granted is subject to the Permittee bearing the expense of any protection, support or relocation of existing utilities deemed necessary by the owner of the utilities and the Permittee being responsible for any subsequent damage to the utilities due to the construction, repair, reconstruction, maintenance, or operation of the tunnel.

 Section 4. Removal for public use or for cause. The permission granted is subject to use by the City and public of the street right-of-way for travel, utility purposes, and other public uses or benefits. The City expressly reserves the right to require the Permittee to remove the tunnel, or any part thereof or installation thereon, at Permittee's sole cost and expense in the event that:

 (a) the City Council determines by ordinance that the space occupied by the tunnel is necessary for any public use or benefit or that the tunnel interferes with any public use or benefit; or

 (b) The Director determines that any term or condition of this ordinance has been violated and the violation has not been corrected by the Permittee by the compliance date after written request by the City (unless a notice to correct is not required due to an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public).

 A City Council determination that the space is needed for or interferes with a public use or benefit shall be conclusive and final.

 Section 5. Permittee's obligation to remove and restore. If the permission granted is not renewed at the expiration of a term, or if the permission is extended to its termination date in 30 years and an application for a new permit is not granted after that date, or the City orders removal of the tunnel pursuant to the terms of this ordinance, then within 90 days after the expiration or termination, or prior to the date stated in an order to remove, the Permittee shall, at its own expense, remove the tunnel and shall restore all portions of the right-of-way that may have been disturbed for any part of the tunnel in as good condition for public use as they were prior to construction of the tunnel and in at least as good condition in all respects as the abutting portions of the public place as they were prior to construction of the concourse and in at least as good condition in all respects as the abutting portions of the right-of-way as required by the applicable SDOT standards for right-of-way restoration.

 Failure to remove the tunnel as required by this section is a violation of Chapter 15.90 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) (or successor provision); however, applicability of Chapter 15.90 does not eliminate any remedies available to the City under this ordinance or any other authority. If the Permittee does not timely fulfill its obligations under this section, the City may in its sole discretion remove the tunnel and restore the street right-of- way or public place at the Permittee's expense, and collect such expense in the manner provided by law.

 Upon the Permittee's completion of removal and restoration in accordance with this section, or upon the City's completion of the removal and restoration and Permittee's payment to the City of the City's costs in connection therewith, the Director shall then issue a certification that the Permittee has fulfilled its removal and restoration obligations under this ordinance. Upon written request by the Permitee, or upon prior notice to the Permittee and entry of written findings that it is in the public interest, the Director may, in the Director's sole discretion, conditionally or absolutely excuse the Permittee from compliance with all or any of the Permittee's obligations under this section.

 Section 6. Repair or reconstruction. The Permittee shall not reconstruct or repair the tunnel except under the supervision of, and in strict accordance with plans and specifications, approved by the Director. The Director, in the Director's judgment, may order the tunnel reconstructed, or repaired at the Permittee's own cost and expense because of: the deterioration or unsafe condition of the tunnel; the installation, construction, reconstruction, maintenance, operation, or repair of any and all municipally-owned public utilities; or for any other cause.

 Section 7. Failure to correct unsafe condition. After notice to the Permittee and failure of the Permittee to correct an unsafe condition(s) within the time stated in the notice, the Director may order the tunnel be closed or removed at the Permittee's expense if the Director deems that the tunnel has become unsafe or creates a risk of injury to the public. If there is an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public, notice to correct is not required.

 Section 8. Continuing obligations. Notwithstanding termination or expiration of the permission granted, or closure or removal of the tunnel, the Permittee shall remain bound by its obligation under this ordinance until:

 (a) the tunnel and all its equipment and property are removed from the right-of-way;

 (b) the area is cleared and restored in a manner and to a condition satisfactory to the Director; and

 (c) the Director certifies that the Permittee has discharged its obligations under this ordinance.

 Upon prior notice to the Permittee and entry of written findings that it is in the public interest, the Director may, in the Director's sole discretion, excuse the Permittee, conditionally or absolutely from compliance with all or any of the Permittee's obligations to remove the tunnel and its property and to restore any disturbed areas.

 Section 9. Release, hold harmless, indemnification, and duty to defend. The tunnel shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Permittee, and the Permittee agrees to maintain the tunnel in good and safe condition for protection of the public. To the extent authorized by law, the Permittee, by acceptance of the terms of this ordinance and the permission granted, releases the City from any and all claims resulting from damage or loss to its own property and does covenant and agree for itself with the City, to at all times defend, indemnify and hold the City harmless from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expense or damages of every kind and description, (excepting only such damages that may result from the sole negligence of the City), that may accrue to, or be suffered by, any person or persons and/or property or properties, including without limitation, damage or injury to the Permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, invitees, tenants and tenants' invitees, or licensees, by reason of the construction, maintenance, operation or use of the tunnel, or any portion thereof, or by reason of anything that has been done or may at any time be done by the Permittee by reason of this ordinance or by reason of the Permittee failing or refusing to strictly comply with each and every provision of this ordinance; and if any such suit, action or claim be filed, instituted or begun against the City, the Permittee shall, upon notice thereof from the City, defend the same at its or their sole cost and expense, and in case judgment shall be rendered against the City in any suit or action, the Permittee shall fully satisfy said judgment within a reasonable period after such action or suit is finally determined, if determined adversely to the City. If it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that Revised Code of Washington (RCW) 4.24.115 applies to this ordinance, then in the event claims or damages are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of:

 (a) the City, its agents, contractors or employees; and,

 (b) the Permittee, its agents, contractors, or employees;

 this indemnity provision shall be valid and enforceable only to the extent of the negligence of the Permittee or the Permittee's agents, contractors, or employees.

 Section 10. Insurance. For as long as the Permittee shall exercise any permission granted by this ordinance and until the tunnel is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1, or until discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 5, the Permittee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at its own expense, self insurance or other insurance that protects the City from claims and risks of loss from perils that can be insured against under Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance policies in conjunction with:

 (a) construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance, use or existence of the tunnel permitted by this ordinance and of any and all portions of the tunnel;

 (b) Permittee's activity upon, or the use or occupation of the area described in Section 1 of this ordinance; and

 (c) claims and risks in connection with activities performed by the Permittee by virtue of the permission granted by this ordinance.

 Unless self insured, minimum insurance requirements are CGL insurance based on the Insurance Services Office (ISO) form CG 00 01 or equivalent. The City requires insurance coverage to be placed with an insurer admitted and licensed to conduct business in Washington State or procured under Chapter 48.15 RCW, "Unauthorized insurers" except that if it is infeasible to obtain coverage with such insurers, the City may approve an alternative insurer.

 Minimum limits of liability shall be $2,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage, with $4,000,000 annual aggregate. Coverage shall apply to tunnel exposure. Liability insurance coverage shall include the "City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non-contributory limits of liability subject to a Separation of Insureds clause.

 Permittee shall cause certification of insurance coverage consisting of the CGL declarations page, schedule of forms and endorsements, and blanket or additional insured policy provision per the ISO CG 20 12 or equivalent to be provided to the City. The insurance certification shall be delivered or sent to the following department and address or to such other address as the Director may specify, from time to time, in writing

 Should the insurance coverages and limits of liability to be maintained by the Permittee be self-insured, certification from the Corporate Risk Manager or appropriate Finance Officer may be acceptable in lieu of the insurance required by this ordinance, if such letter documents to the satisfaction of the City's Risk Manager that self-insurance equivalent to the insurance requirements of this ordinance is in force. After such self-insurance certification is approved, the City may subsequently from time to time require updated or additional information. The approved self-insured Permittee shall provide not less than a 30-day notice of cancellation or material adverse financial condition of its self-insurance program. The City may at any time revoke approval of self-insurance and require the Permittee to obtain and maintain insurance as specified in this ordinance.

 Section 11. Contractor insurance. The Permittee shall contractually require that any and all of its contractors performing work on any premises contemplated by this permit include the "City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non-contributory limits of liability on all CGL, Automobile and Pollution liability insurance and/or self-insurance. Permittee shall also include in all contract documents with its contractors a third party beneficiary provision extending construction indemnities and warranties granted to Permittee to the City as well.

 Section 12. Performance bond. Within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance the Permittee shall deliver to the Director for filing with the City Clerk a sufficient bond in the sum of $110,000 executed by a surety company authorized and qualified to do business in the State of Washington, conditioned that the Permittee will comply with each and every provision of this ordinance and with each and every order of the Director issued under this ordinance. The Permittee shall ensure that the bond shall remain in effect until the concourse is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1, or until the Permittee is discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 5. An irrevocable letter of credit approved by the City Risk Manager may be substituted for the bond.

 Section 13. Waiver of bond requirement. The City may waive the bond requirements for any public entity permittee for which the City's Risk Manager has determined that the City's interest will be adequately protected. If at any time during the term granted by this ordinance the City's Risk Manager determines that a bond is necessary to adequately protect the City's interests, the Director shall notify the Permittee of the new requirements in writing. The Permittee shall provide the bond to the Director within 60 days after notification.

 Section 14. Adjustment of insurance and bond requirements. The Director, in consultation with the City Risk Manager, may adjust minimum levels of liability insurance and surety bond requirements if any is required under Section 12. If the Director and City Risk Manager determine that an adjustment is necessary to fully protect the interests of the City, the Director shall notify the Permittee of the new requirements in writing. Upon receipt, the Permittee shall provide proof of the adjusted required levels of insurance and surety bond to the Director within 60 days.

 Section 15. Consent for and conditions of assignment or transfer. The right, privilege and authority granted shall not be assignable or transferable by operation of law; nor shall the Permittee assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge, or encumber the same without the consent of the Director, which consent the Director shall not unreasonably refuse. The Director may approve assignment and/or transfer of the permit to a successor entity in the case of a change of name and/or ownership if the successor or assignee has demonstrated its acceptance of all of the terms of the permission provided by this ordinance.

 Section 16. Inspection fees. The Permittee shall pay to the City such amounts as may be charged by the City as costs of inspection of the tunnel during construction, reconstruction, repair, annual structural inspections, and at other times deemed necessary to ensure the safety of the tunnel, under the direction of the Director, as provided by Chapter 15.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 17. Inspection reports. The Permittee shall submit to the Director, or to the Department of Transportation at an address as the Director may specify in writing from time to time, an inspection report that:

 (a) describes the physical dimensions and condition of all load bearing elements;

 (b) describes any damages or possible repairs to any element of the tunnel;

 (c) prioritizes all repairs and establishes a timeframe for making repairs; and

 (d) is stamped by a Structural Engineer licensed in the State of Washington.

 The initial inspection report shall be submitted within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance; subsequent reports shall be submitted biennially, within 30 days prior to the anniversary date of the effective date of this ordinance. The Director may also require that an inspection report be submitted after a natural disaster or disturbance, such as an earthquake or fire, to assess any damage that may have occurred.

 Section 18. Annual fee. Permittee shall promptly pay to the City, upon statements issued by the Director, an annual fee for the privileges granted by this ordinance in the amount of $12,672, beginning on November 1, 2009, and adjusted annually thereafter. Adjustments to the annual fee shall be made in accordance with a term permit fee schedule adopted by the City Council by ordinance and may be made every year. In the absence of a schedule, the Director may only increase or decrease the previous year's fee to reflect any inflationary or deflationary changes so as to charge the fee in constant dollar terms. This adjustment will be calculated by adjusting the previous year's fee by the percentage change between the two most recent year-end values available from the Consumer Price Index for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Area, All Urban Consumers, All Products, Not Seasonally Adjusted. All payments shall be made to the City Finance Director for credit to the Transportation Operating Fund.

 Section 19. Non-discrimination. The Permittee shall comply with the City's laws prohibiting discrimination in employment and contracting, contained in Seattle's Fair Employment Practices Ordinance, contained in Chapter 14.04 of the Seattle Municipal Code and in the Fair Contracting Practices code contained in Chapter 14.10 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 20. Acceptance of terms and conditions. The Permittee shall deliver its written acceptance of the terms and conditions of this ordinance to the Director within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance. The acceptance shall be filed with the City Clerk. If no such acceptance is received within that 60-day period, the privileges conferred by this ordinance shall be deemed declined or abandoned and the permission granted deemed lapsed and forfeited.

 Section 21. Successors and assigns. The rights conferred to the Permittee and the obligations and conditions imposed on the Permittee through this ordinance are also conferred and imposed on the Permittee's successors and assigns. All references in this ordinance to the "Permittee" shall be deemed to refer also to the successors and assigns of the Permittee. References in this ordinance to "Permittee and its successors and assigns" or "Permittee or its successors and assigns" are included as reminders and do not limit the scope of "Permittee" used alone.

 Section 22. Ratify and confirm. Any act taken, or occupation of the street right of way, by the City or the Permittee pursuant to the authority and in compliance with the conditions of this ordinance or prior ordinance, but prior to the effective date of this ordinance, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 23. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Description of Parcel 1975700040 and Parcel 1976700155

 Angela Steel SDOT UW Tunnel ORD November 17, 2011 Version #9a

 Attachment A:

 Parcel 1975700040

 Lots 4, 5 and 6 , Block 16, Addition to the town of Seattle, as laid out by A. A. Denny (commonly known as A. A. Denny's Third Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 33, Records of King County, Washington

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington

 Parcel1976700155

 That portion of Block 61, Addition to the town of Seattle, as laid out by A. A. Denny (commonly known as A. A. Denny's 5th Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, page 89, in King County, Washington:

 And of vacated alley lying therein as provided by Ordinance number 107299 of the City of Seattle

 And of vacated 7th Avenue adjacent, as vacated by City of Seattle Ordinance number 111138, described as follows:

 Commencing at the most southerly corner of Lot 12 of said Block 61;

 Thence north 30ø 37' 08" west, along the westerly line of said Block, 199.84 feet to the true point of beginning;

 Thence north 59ø 20' 00" east 105.15 feet;

 Thence north 30ø 40' 32" west 38.89 feet;

 Thence north 59ø 23' 00" east 14.80 feet;

 Thence north 30ø 37' 00" west 0.55 feet;

 Thence north 59ø 20' 34" east 135.80 feet to the easterly line of said Block;

 Thence south 30ø 35' 43" east along said east line 116.45 feet to the westerly margin of Interstate Highway No. 5;

 Thence north 59ø 24' 17" east 33.00 feet to the centerline of said vacated 7th Avenue;

 Thence north 30ø 35' 43" west, along said centerline, 311.89 feet to the southerly margin of Union Street as established by City of Seattle Ordinance number 18188; Thence south 59ø 22' 04" west along said southerly margin 288.79 feet to the easterly margin of 6th Avenue;

 Thence south 30ø 37' 08" east 234.99 feet to the true point of beginning;

 (Also known as parcel B of City of Seattle short subdivision number 8606903, recorded under King County Recording number 8702260616).

 Angela Steel SDOT UW Tunnel ATT A November 17, 2011 Version #1

 Attachment A to SDOT UW Tunnel ORD

```
