

********

**Council Bill Number: 117367**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123800**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an easement agreement granting a non-exclusive easement for ingress, egress, and public utilities under, over, and across The City of Seattle's fee-owned [municipal water pipeline property] for the benefit of abutting property owned by 112 Skyway Associates LLC located in the Skyway area of unincorporated King County just south of Seattle in the NW 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of Section 11, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W. M.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 19, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 29, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 28, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 5, 2011
   
**Committee:** Seattle Public Utilities and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** O'BRIEN
   
**Committee Recommendation:** Pass
   
**Date of Committee Recommendation:** December 13, 2011
   
**Committee Vote:** 2 (O'Brien, Harrell) - 0
   
   
_(No indexing available for this document)_

**Fiscal Note:**117367

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123800](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123800.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an easement agreement granting a non-exclusive easement for ingress, egress, and public utilities under, over, and across The City of Seattle's fee-owned [municipal water pipeline property] for the benefit of abutting property owned by 112 Skyway Associates LLC located in the Skyway area of unincorporated King County just south of Seattle in the NW 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of Section 11, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W. M.

 WHEREAS, 112 Skyway Associates LLC owns property abutting a City fee-owned 30-foot wide right of way in which the City operates a municipal water pipeline and appurtenances, and plans to develop its abutting property for residential housing; and

 WHEREAS, access to the 112 Skyway Associates LLC property is via a road easement that travels 800 feet along the City's pipeline right of way; and

 WHEREAS, 112 Skyway Associates LLC and the City desire to avoid having additional residential traffic using the 800 foot long existing road easement; and

 WHEREAS, 112 Skyway Associates LLC is requesting the City grant a new easement to access its property using a 30- foot crossing of the City's pipeline right of way; and

 WHEREAS, the City is willing to grant 112 Skyway Associates LLC the requested easement; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. After a public hearing and pursuant to the provisions of RCW 35.94.040, certain real property rights in King County, Washington, legally described in Attachment 1 and attached hereto, are hereby declared to be no longer required for providing public utility service and to be surplus to the City's needs.

 Section 2. Upon receipt of payment in the amount of $3,900.00, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his designee is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, an easement agreement with 112 Skyway Associates LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, substantially in the form of the Easement Agreement (Attachment 1 hereto) granting a non-exclusive easement for ingress and egress, and public utilities under, over, and across that portion of City's real property legally described in Attachment 1 and according to the terms and conditions therein.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2011, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2011.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2011.

 ____________________________________

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1 -- Easement Agreement for Ingress, Egress and Public Utilities

 Robert Gambill SPU, 112 Skyway Road Easement, ORD October 13, 2011 Version # 2

 Attachment 1

 Recording Requested By And

 When Recorded Mail To:

 City of Seattle SPU - WTR

 700 5th Ave, Suite 4900

 PO Box 34018

 Seattle WA 98124-4018

 EASEMENT AGREEMENT for INGRESS, EGRESS and PUBLIC UTILITIES

 Reference #s of Document Released or Assigned: None

 Grantor: The City of Seattle, Seattle Public Utilities

 Grantee: 112 Skyway Associates, LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company

 Legal Description (abbreviated) Ptn of NW 1/4 of NE 1/4 of Sec. 11, Twp. 23 N, Rng 4 E, W.M.

 Assessor's Tax Parcel ID#: 7989800012, 7989800014, 7989800030, 7989800050, 7989800070,

 112 Skyway Road Easement - SPU R/W File # 316-605

 THIS AGREEMENT, made this  day of,  by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through Seattle Public Utilities, hereinafter called ("City") and 112 Skyway Associates, LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company, hereinafter called ("Grantee"), WITNESSETH:

 Recitals

 1. Whereas, the City owns and operates a municipal water pipeline and appurtenances (City's Facilities) within a portion of its fee-owned 30-foot wide right of way located in the north 30 ft. of Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4, E. Steinles 40 Acre Tracts, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 34, in unincorporated King County, Washington just south of Seattle ("City Property"); and

 2. Whereas, Grantee owns property legally described as:

 That Portion of Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4, E. Steinles 40 Acre Tracts, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 34, in King County, Washington, lying northeasterly of City of Seattle transmission line as established by deeds recorded under recording numbers 2640883 and 2642325; EXCEPT the north 30 feet thereof conveyed to the City of Seattle by deeds recorded under recording Numbers 4190255 and 4191334 ("Grantee Property"); and

 3. Whereas, Grantee plans to develop the Grantee Property as residential building sites; and

 4. Whereas, Grantee has requested an easement under, over and across City Property, for a private roadway for ingress, egress, and public utilities, which may include gas, electricity, sewer, drainage and communications that will be owned and operated by a public utility company, including a temporary construction easement for the purpose of the construction of such roadway, and

 5. Whereas, City is willing to grant the easement under certain terms and conditions;

 Now therefore, for and in consideration of TEN and NO/100 Dollars ($10.00), mutual and off-setting benefits, and subject to the terms and conditions, mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, and other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

 A. EASEMENT GRANT AND AGREEMENT

 1. Subject to the purpose, terms, conditions, and restrictions herein described, City hereby grants to Grantee, a non-exclusive easement for a private roadway for ingress and egress, and public utilities under, over and across that portion of City's right of way, including a temporary construction easement for the purpose of the construction of such roadway for a length of time to be determined at the time the roadway construction plans are approved by Seattle Public Utilities, as legally described in pages 1 and 2 of Exhibit A, attached and incorporated herein ("Easement Area"), for the benefit of the Grantee Property.

 2. All references to the City's activities or use of its City Property, including the Easement Area, shall also apply to City officers, employees, agents, consultants, contractors, representatives, invitees, or licensees.

 3. All references to 112 Sky Associates, LLC or Grantee activities or use of the Easement Area, shall also apply to successors, heirs, assigns, officers, employees, agents, consultants, contractors, representatives, invitees, or licensees of Grantee or 112 Sky Associates, LLC.

 4. This Easement Area is granted only to serve the existing Grantee Property for up to 12 residential housing units; it cannot be used for any other purpose or serve property other than the existing Grantee Property.

 B. Rights Reserved by the City

 1. City retains the right to grant or deny permission to use or occupy the Easement Area for any other purpose; provided that such use or occupancy shall not unreasonably conflict with the Grantee's rights granted herein.

 2. The City shall have the right to enter upon said Easement Area at any and all times for the purpose of the security, operation, maintenance, or reconstruction of the existing and future City Facilities, including the right to temporarily close the ingress and egress area in the Easement Area to travel when necessary for City's operational needs.

 3. City shall have the right to install, repair, replace, maintain, operate and make lateral connections to any of its City Facilities within the Easement Area. This may result in the Easement Area being blocked temporarily or Grantee's facilities being disturbed. Grantee will restore its own facilities at no expense to the City.

 C. Existing Uses and Rights

 1. Easement Area may be subject to other authorized uses and existing rights, and the Grantee shall not interfere with access or use by other such authorized uses and rights.

 D. Grantee's Use of the Easement Area

 1. Grantee's use of the Easement Area is for only the limited purposes herein described, and Grantee is responsible for limiting its use to those purposes approved herein.

 2. Grantee shall acquire no right or interest in the Easement Area, or to the occupancy of the same, or any part thereof, other than for herein described.

 3. Grantee's use of the Easement Area shall not interfere with the security, or the present or future use of the City Property by City for municipal utility purposes.

 E. Private Road and Storm Drain System

 1. Grantee shall be responsible for the design, construction, operation, maintenance and safety of the private road, including any storm drainage facilities installed as part of or with the road within the Easement Area, which shall be at no cost or expense to City.

 2. Grantee shall construct the road and storm drain facilities in accordance with plans approved by Seattle Public Utilities, and to the specifications of any agency or subdivision of government having jurisdiction, but in no case to specifications of a lower standard than those of the American Association of Highway and Transportation Officials HS20-44 Standard Truck Loading.

 3. The grading of the road and access to it shall be designed to allow for City vehicles and equipment to enter and exit the road and Easement Area from and to the patrol road on City Property.

 F. Construction Activities within the Easement Area

 1. Before undertaking the construction, reconstruction, repairs or maintenance of the road, storm drainage facilities, or other public utilities, plans must be submitted to, and approved by Seattle Public Utilities. Such plans shall indicate the permanent grade established and depth of cover over any existing pipelines and other existing utilities, and shall show the drainage pattern within the vicinity.

 2. Vehicles exceeding the HS20-44 Standard Truck Loading limit may not enter the Easement Area without permission from Seattle Public Utilities. Seattle Public Utilities may require pipe protection procedures including temporary bridging or some other load dispersing methods.

 3. Any construction traffic related to the development of the Grantee's Property or building of structures, including but not limited to the delivery of construction materials, may not enter the Easement Area without permission from the Seattle Public Utilities even if the trucks meet the HS20-44 loading limit. The City may require pipe protection procedures including temporary bridging or some other load dispersing methods because of the frequency and duration of heavy traffic.

 4. To protect the City facilities, the City has the right to stop work or modify the approved plans or use of its City Property during any construction.

 G. Other Grantee Responsibilities

 1. Grantee shall be responsible for the purchase cost and installation of guardrail, fencing or other traffic control devices as required by the City and any agency or subdivision of government having jurisdiction to control access to the private road for the purposes herein.

 2. Grantee shall be responsible for the purchase cost and installation of gates and guardrails or fencing for the purpose of controlling access to the patrol road and City Property as required by the City. There shall be one gate on each side of the Easement Area, to be located as approved by the City. Upon completion of the installation, the City will own, maintain and have access to the gates. If gates or guardrails controlling access to City Property are damaged by Grantee's use of the Easement Area, City will invoice Grantee or its successors and assigns for the reasonable cost to fix the damage, which Grantee or its successors or assigns shall pay within 30 days. Any late payments will be charged 1% per month interest.

 3. Grantee shall maintain the Easement Area in a safe, passable, orderly, and fit condition at all times.

 4. All work to be prosecuted with diligence, and with due respect to all property, contracts, persons, rights and the interests and convenience of the public.

 5. Any and all damage or injury done to the Easement Area, City Property, City Facilities, or facilities of others, resulting from the use of the Easement Area by Grantee, must be repaired to the City's and/or other facility owner's satisfaction within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of such damage or of notification to Grantee by the City or other facility owner of the existence of such damage, at the sole cost and expense of Grantee or its successors or assigns.

 6. If Grantee has not corrected, or made an acceptable agreement with City to correct any condition caused by Grantee that City determines as unacceptable within thirty (30) days of notification by City, City may perform such work, and all reasonable costs incurred shall be paid by Grantee within 30 days of receipt of an invoice for the work. City may act immediately for conditions which pose a threat to public health, safety or the environment. Any late payments will be charged 1% per month interest.

 H. Compliance with Laws and Regulations

 1. The Easement herein granted is based on the Grantee developing the Grantee Property as approved by the King County Department of Development and Environmental Services as building lots for residential housing units. If any development plan is approved by King County which allows more intensive use than 12 residential dwelling units, this Easement and Agreement is void and terminated.

 2. Grantee's use of the Easement Area is subject to all applicable rules, regulations and laws governing the construction, operation and maintenance of such use, including environmental laws.

 3. Purpose, terms, conditions, and restrictions herein described shall not be construed to replace or to be used in lieu of any permit or licenses which may be required, granted or supervised by any agency or subdivision of government with jurisdiction over the Grantee Facilities or the Project, including the City's issuance of Water and Sewer Availability Certificates.

 4. Grantee has not relied on the City for assessing site conditions or determining the suitability of the site conditions to accommodate Grantee's construction activities within the Easement Area or for the Project.

 I. Utilities

 1. Grantee understands and agrees that at Grantee's sole expense, a control valve must be installed near the west margin of Renton Avenue South and South 112 Street, in order to convert the 12- inch feeder pipeline to serve the Grantee Property in a distribution capacity, including the connection of fire hydrants and water meters. The valve will be installed by the City and the City will invoice Grantee for the cost of the valve and work to install, which Grantee will pay within 30 days of receipt of the invoice. Any late payments will be charged 1% per month interest.

 2. Public Utilities to serve Grantee Property only will be allowed in the Easement Area, upon approval of an application and plans for the installation by Seattle Public Utilities. Approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Public Utilities are defined as governmental or quasi-governmental entities or legally registered companies providing public utility services. SPU will charge its then applicable fees for the administration of the application, plan review, and operational oversight of the proposed installation.

 3. Private property owners, developers, and/or homeowner's associations are not allowed to install, operate, and/or maintain any utility facilities within the Easement Area.

 4. Public utility agencies must restore the roadway and Easement Area at the time of the utility installation. Restoration shall be only as approved by the City, and to the specifications of any agency or subdivision of government having jurisdiction. If the utility agency fails to restore, restoration is the responsibility of the Grantee.

 5. Any City utility facilities that are installed within the Grantee's Property that will be owned by, and the responsibility, of the City, will require the Grantee to grant an easement to the City for the utilities. Grantee will be required to pay the then current standard charges for the City's acceptance of the utility easement.

 J. Release and Indemnification

 1. Grantee shall release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City and its officials, employees, agents, licensees, contractors, consultants and representatives (collectively, the "Indemnitees") from and against any and all claims, liens, demands, actions, costs, losses, expenses, harm, damages, and liability of any kind or character (collectively, "Claims"), including any damage or injury to any person or property, asserted or arising from, on account of, or caused by (i) Grantee's exercise of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (ii) the acts or omissions of Grantee or Grantee's employees, agents, consultants, contractors, representatives, licensees or invitees in or upon the Easement Area, or (iii) the existence of, damage to, or failure of any of Grantee's improvements both on and off the Easement Area; provided, however, nothing herein shall require Grantee to indemnify and hold harmless the Indemnitees from Claims arising out of any damage or injury to any person or property to the extent caused by or resulting from the Indemnitees' sole negligence.

 2. Grantees shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Indemnitees from any and all liabilities, losses, damages, costs, expenses or claims of any kind or nature (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and any liability for costs of investigation, abatement, remediation, cleanup, fines, penalties, or other damages arising under any environmental laws) arising out of or in connection with the disposal, release or discharge, migration, handling, or transportation of hazardous materials or substances, as that term may be defined by applicable local, state or federal law on or from any portion of Grantee's Property, Grantee Facilities or activities, uses or operations within the Easement Area, except to the extent caused by the City's municipal operations.

 3. As between the parties and solely for the purpose of effectuating the indemnities contained in subsections 1 and 2 of this section J , Grantee specifically and expressly waives, with respect to the Indemnitees, its immunity and limitation, defense or protection on liability that may be granted to it under any industrial insurance legislation, including but not limited to, the Washington State Industrial Insurance Act, Revised Code of Washington Title 51 or any other industrial insurance, workers' compensation or similar laws of the State of Washington. This section shall not be interpreted or construed as a waiver of Grantee's right to assert any such immunity, defense or protection directly against any of its own employees or such employee's estate or other representatives. Grantee acknowledges that this subsection 3, was specifically entered into after mutual negotiation.

 The Indemnifications set forth in this agreement shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 K. Miscellaneous

 1. This Agreement and each of the terms, provisions, conditions and covenants herein shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. No termination of this Agreement shall release Grantee or City from any liability or obligation with respect to any matter occurring prior to such termination. Upon termination of this Agreement, the Grantee shall decommission all installed improvements pursuant to applicable laws as regulated by the Local, State, and Federal agencies.

 2. 112 Sky Associates, LLC and the City agree that the terms and conditions in this Easement Agreement shall be a covenant running with the land and binding on the parties, their heirs, successors, and assigns, forever, including the subsequent owners of all the lots in the Project that will be served by the 112 Sky Associates, LLC Facilities within the Easement Area. 112 Sky Associates, LLC understands and agrees that it will include a provision in a recordable covenant or other recordable format in a form acceptable to the City, prior to transferring ownership of any Grantee's Property, that legally binds all subsequent owners of the project to the terms and conditions of this Easement Agreement, including any Homeowner's Association, if any. Until such time that provision under this section is implemented and all lots in the Project are sold to subsequent owners, 112 Sky Associates, LLC will remain individually and severably liable for the terms and conditions of this Easement. If Grantee does not meet this provision prior to transferring any ownership of Grantee Property, this easement will terminate and no longer be valid.

 L. Governing Law

 1. This Easement Agreement shall be construed and governed under Washington Law. Venue for any action between the parties arising from the subject matter of this Easement Agreement will be in King County Superior Court.

 M. Severability

 1. If any provision of this Easement Agreement is found to be invalid, the remainder of the provisions of this Agreement that are not materially altered or invalidated shall remain in full force and effect.

 N. Contacts

 City of Seattle, Seattle Public Utilities:

 24-hours: (206) 386-1800.

 Real Property Services: Bob Gambill, Sr. Real Property Agent at 206-684-5969 or  bob.gambill@seattle.gov , or the Director of Facilities and Real Property Services

 Seattle Public Utilities, P.O. Box 34018, Seattle WA 98124-4018

 Skyway Associates LLC:

 Carl Winge Ph 206-463-5567

 112 Skyway Associates LLC Fax 206-770-6450

 PO Box 727  carl.winge@cgfinc.net

 22936 Vashon Hwy SW

 Vashon, WA 98070

 THE BALANCE OF THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this instrument to be executed.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE 112 SKYWAY Associates, LLC

 Ray Hoffman Carl Winge

 Director, Seattle Public Utilities Its: Member / Manager

 Date: Date:

 Pursuant to Ordinance

 City of Seattle, Seattle Public Utilities Acknowledgment

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 THIS IS TO CERTIFY that on this day, before me the undersigned Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Ray Hoffman to me known to be the Director of Seattle Public Utilities that executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said agency, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal this _____day of ____________________, 2011.

 Notary Public in and for the State of

 residing at

 My appointment expires

 112 Sky Associates, LLC Acknowledgement

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that Carl Winge signed this instrument, on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the duly authorized Member of 112 Skyway Associates, LLC to be the free and voluntary act of such parties for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal this _____day of ____ ______________, 2011.

 Notary Public in and for the State of

 residing at

 My appointment expires

 Robert Gambill SPU 112 Skyway Easement ATT 1 October 13, 2011 Version # 1

 Page 11 of 12 Attachment 1 to SPU 112 Skyway Easement ORD

 Page 1 of 6

[Exhibit ](/~ordpics/117367a1.pdf)

```
