

********

**Council Bill Number: 117431**
********

 AN ORDINANCE transferring jurisdiction of certain real property from the Department of Finance and Administrative Services to the Department of Parks and Recreation, including parcels located within or adjacent to Magnolia, Northeast Queen Anne, West Duwamish and East Duwamish Greenbelts; parcels located within or adjacent to Duwamish Head, Cheasty and Longfellow Creek Greenspaces; parcels located within or adjacent to Maple School Natural Area; parcels adjacent to Interlaken, Jefferson and Schmitz Parks; an underwater tideland parcel off Alki Point; and a view parcel in Magnolia; all for open space, park, and recreation purposes; accepting deeds; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** In Committee
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 26, 2012
   
**Committee:** Parks and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** BAGSHAW
   
   
**Index Terms:** MAGNOLIA, QUEEN-ANNE, GREENBELTS, DUWAMISH-WATERWAY, BEACON-HILL, OPEN-SPACE-LAND, ALKI-POINT, NORTH-BEACON-HILL, ROXHILL, DELRIDGE, WEST-SEATTLE, DEEDS

**Fiscal Note:**117431

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE transferring jurisdiction of certain real property from the Department of Finance and Administrative Services to the Department of Parks and Recreation, including parcels located within or adjacent to Magnolia, Northeast Queen Anne, West Duwamish and East Duwamish Greenbelts; parcels located within or adjacent to Duwamish Head, Cheasty and Longfellow Creek Greenspaces; parcels located within or adjacent to Maple School Natural Area; parcels adjacent to Interlaken, Jefferson and Schmitz Parks; an underwater tideland parcel off Alki Point; and a view parcel in Magnolia; all for open space, park, and recreation purposes; accepting deeds; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Resolution 28653 the City Council adopted a Greenspaces Policy and identified designated greenspaces, including Magnolia, Northeast Queen Anne, West Duwamish and East Duwamish Greenbelts; Duwamish Head, Cheasty and Longfellow Creek Greenspaces and Maple School Natural Area, as priority areas for preservation; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR) has jurisidiction over and manages open space, park and recreation property in a variety of designated greenspaces, parks and viewpoints throughout the City; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Finance and Administration Services (FAS) has been managing a number of properties that DPR and FAS staff recommend could be more efficiently and appropriately managed by DPR as part of the City of Seattle's park and recreation system; and

 WHEREAS, The 2008 Parks and Green Spaces Levy encourages cooperation between City departments in meeting the Levy's goals and these transfers help meet the Green Space Acquisition Program goals by filling gaps in existing ownership and preserving continuity within the City's designated greenspaces; and

 WHEREAS, there is no record of acquisition authority or deed acceptance for some of the properties; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The following described real property, which is currently under the jurisdiction of the Department of Finance and Administration Services, is hereby transferred to the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation for open space, park and recreation purposes:

 Magnolia Greenbelt

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37665, dated February 2, 1960, recorded February 3, 1960, under King County Recording Number 5127857. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88399, dated July 14, 1959.

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1071 (AKA 1797 Amherst Ave W) : Lots 26 -- 32, Block 5 of Hyde Park Addition to the City of Seattle; (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 3547900755);

 Northeast Queen Anne Greenbelt

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37547, dated September 11, 1959, recorded September 17, 1959, under King County Recording Number 5080994. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88399, dated July 14, 1959:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 456 (AKA 2099 6th Ave N) : Lot 6, Block 64 of Collins Addition to the City of Seattle (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 1689400760);

 West Duwamish Greenbelt

 Dedicated to the City of Seattle for Greenbelt purposes by Cygnet Management, LTD, as part of the Highland Park 3 Plat recorded in Volume 18 of Plats, pages 39-40, records of King County Washington, on April 22, 1981, under King County Recording Number 8104220800:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 4744 (AKA 7398 6TH AV S):  Lot 22 of Highland Park 3 Addition to the City of Seattle; (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 3024049015);

 East Duwamish Greenbelt

 Acquired by Local Improvement Assessment Deed dated April 15, 1953, recorded April 15, 1953, under King County Recording Number 4334705 pursuant to a real property local improvement assessment judgment entered in Superior Court in the County of King December 30, 1950 in proceedings to foreclose local improvement assessment liens upon real property.

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1176 (AKA 999 S SNOQUALMIE PL) : Lot 11, Block 21, Ladd's 2nd Addition to South Seattle, except the south 25 feet, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 3959401890);

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1177 (AKA 999 S SNOQUALMIE PL): ) : The south 25 feet of Lot 11, Block 21, Ladd's 2nd Addition to South Seattle, except portion lying southwesterly of a line drawn midway between 10th Ave South and Colfax Place, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 3959401892);

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1178 (AKA 999 S SNOQUALMIE PL) : Lot 12, Block 21, Ladd's 2nd Addition to South Seattle, lying easterly of a line drawn midway between 10th Ave South and Colfax Place, except the southwesterly 10.77 feet, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 3959401906);

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37532, dated August 5, 1959, recorded August 18, 1959, under King County Recording Number 5069644. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88399, dated July 14, 1959:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 15705 (AKA 9340 CARKEEK DR S):  Lots 23-32, Block 18, of Beacon Hill View Addition to the City of Seattle, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 0603002100);

 Duwamish Head Greenspace

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37619, dated October 20, 1959, recorded October 30, 1959, under King County Recording Number 5097441. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88399, dated July 14, 1959:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 2806 (AKA 1439 Sunset Ave SW):

 Portion of Tract designated as Reservation on the First Plat of West Seattle by the West Seattle Land and Improvement Company according to plat thereof recorded in Volume 3 of plats, page 2, records of King County, Washington, lying northerly of the south line of Section 2, Township 24 North, Range 3 East, W.M., and southerly of a line beginning at the most westerly corner of Lot 28, Block 1, said addition, thence North 42 degrees 09'48" West 204.86 feet; thence in straight line to most southerly corner of Lot 28, Block 1, King Addition, less southeasterly 250 feet adjoining the northwesterly line of Lots 1 to 7, inclusive, Block 2, also less the southeasterly 125 feet adjoining Lots 8 to 16, inclusive, Block 2, both in the First Plat of West Seattle, also less portion included in King Addition, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 9272202710);

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37620, dated October 20, 1959, recorded October 30, 1959, under King County Recording Number 5097442. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88399, dated July 14, 1959:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 4761 (AKA 3398 33rd Ave SW): Lots 19-22, Block 9, of Steel Works Addition to West Seattle, (commonly known as portion of King County Tax Account Parcel No. 7987400710);

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37665, dated February 2, 1960, recorded February 3, 1960, under King County Recording Number 5127857. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88399, dated July 14, 1959:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 4762 (AKA 3398 33rd Av SW) : Lots 16-18, less street, Block 9, of Steel Works Addition to West Seattle, (commonly known as portion of King County Tax Account Parcel No. 7987400710

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 39320, dated January 25, 1966, recorded February 24, 1966, under King County Recording Number 5992894. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88399, dated July 14, 1959:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 4788 (AKA 3398 33rd Av SW) : Lots 10 and 11, less street, Block 9, of Steel Works Addition to West Seattle, (commonly known as portion of King County Tax Account Parcel No. 7987400710);

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37526, dated August 6, 1959, recorded August 18, 1959, under King County Recording Number 5069648. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88399, dated July 14, 1959::

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 20305 (AKA 3099 SW ADMIRAL WY):  Lots 5 & 6, less street, Block 9 of Prospect Tracts, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 6911200110 and 6911200115);

 Cheasty Greenspace

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37477, dated May 21, 1959, recorded May 26, 1959, under King County Recording Number 5036132. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance #88201, dated May 18, 1959:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 20314 (AKA 2896 MT VIEW DR S):  All of Lot 3 and Lots 4 & 5, less portion of each for street, and portion of Lot 6 lying north of street, Block 2 of McCoys Addition to Columbia, (commonly known as portion of King County Tax Account Parcel No. 5295200210);

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed # 37500, dated June 10, 1959, recorded June 17, 1959, under King County Recording Number 5045403. Acquisition authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance # 88280, dated June 9, 1959.

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1346 (AKA 2896 MT VIEW DR S):  Lot 7, lying north of Mt. View Drive, Block 2, McCoys Addition to Columbia, (commonly known as portion of King County Tax Account Parcel No. 5295200210);

 Longfellow Creek Greenspace

 Acquired by Condemnation as an uneconomical remainder for Sylvan Way for general municipal purposes, authorized under Ordinance 61480, dated August 11, 1931:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1814 (AKA 2423 SW Myrtle St): That portion of Lot 13, Block 7, Steel Plant Addition to the City of Seattle, lying southwesterly of Sylvan Way, as condemned in Ordinance 61480, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 7985400415);

 Acquired by Local Improvement Assessment Deed dated May 2, 1978, recorded May 17, 1978, under King County Recording Number 7805170618 pursuant to a real property local improvement assessment judgment entered in Superior County in the County of King December 16, 1975 in proceedings to foreclose local improvement assessment liens upon real property.

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1023 (AKA 6556 25th Ave SW) : Portion of Lot 2, Block 37, of Homecroft, lying westerly of a line drawn midway between 24th Avenue Southwest and 25th Avenue Southwest, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 3438502185).

 Maple School Natural Area

 Acquired by Condemnation as an uneconomical remainder for South Lucile Street for general municipal purposes, authorized under Ordinance 97660, dated April 29, 1969, King County Cause No. 757799, and accepted by Ordinance 102376, dated July 25, 1973.

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 2 (AKA 1898 S LUCILE ST):  That portion of Luther M. Collins Donation Claim No. 46, in the southwest one-quarter of Section 21, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., lying south of the center line of South Lucile Street produced easterly except the north 30 feet thereof, (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 0001800025).

 Interlaken Park

 Acquired from WILLIAM W & BERYL B WARREN, by Quit Claim Deed, dated October 4, 1943, recorded October 4, 1943, under King County Recording Number 3352031. Acquisition accepted by City of Seattle Ordinance 72929, dated November 16, 1943, for protection against earth slides:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16111 (AKA 1600 Block East Boston Terrace) : That certain portion of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 21, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W. M. described as follows:

 Beginning at the southeast corner of the west quarter of the said northwest quarter of the southwest quarter thence north 14 degrees 37'59.1" west along the westerly line of Interlaken Park, as the same was conveyed to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in volume 530 of deeds, page 110, records of said county, and accepted by Ordinance No. 23336 of said City, a distance of 306.621 feet to an angle in said westerly line; thence continuing along said westerly line north

 0 degrees 29'27.1" east 210.50 feet to the true point of beginning; thence continuing along said westerly line north 0 degrees 29'27.1" east 33.00 feet to an angle point in said westerly line, thence north 71 degrees 24'59" west 142.697 feet, thence south 25 degrees 55'28" west 22.356 feet to a point of curve; thence on a curve to the left with a radius of 388.327 feet, a distance of 62.546 feet; thence south 83 degrees 14'21" east 167.366 feet to the true point of beginning; being known as tract "E" Cape Horn, according to the unrecorded plat thereof; (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 1333300030);

 Acquired from LUCILLE C ELLSBURY, by Quit Claim Deed dated October 18, 1943, recorded October 18, 1943 under King County Recording Number 3352032. Acquisition accepted by City of Seattle Ordinance 72929, dated November 16, 1943, for protection against earth slides:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16112 (AKA 1600 Block East Boston Terrace): That certain portion of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 21, Township 25 North, Range 4 East , W. M. described as follows:

 Beginning at the southeast corner of the west quarter of the said northwest quarter of the southwest quarter thence north 14 degrees 37'59.1" west along the westerly line of Interlaken Park, as the same was conveyed to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in volume 530 of deeds, page 110, records of said county, and accepted by Ordinance No. 23336 of said City, a distance of 306.621 feet to an angle in said westerly line; thence continuing along said westerly line north 0 degrees 29'27.1" east 157.50 feet to the true point of beginning; thence continuing along said westerly line north 0 degrees 29'27.1" east 53.00 feet to an angle point in said westerly line, thence north 83 degrees 14'21" west 167.365 feet, thence southerly on a curve to the left with a radius of 388.327 feet, the radial center of said curve bearing south 74 degrees 18'14.2' east a distance of 84.452 feet to a point from which the true point of beginning bears north 86 degrees 40'27" east; thence north 86 degrees 40'27' east 179.912 feet to the true point of beginning; being known as tract "F" Cape Horn Residential Addition, according to the unrecorded plat thereof; (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 1333300030);

 Acquired from GEORGE L GRAPP, by Quit Claim Deed dated September 29, 1943, recorded September 29, 1943 under King County Recording Number 3352033. Acquisition accepted by City of Seattle Ordinance 72929, dated November 16, 1943, for protection against earth slides:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16113 (AKA 1600 Block East Boston Terrace): That certain portion of the northwest one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter of Section 21, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W. M. described as follows:

 Beginning at the southeast corner of the west one-quarter of the said northwest one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter thence north 14 degrees 37'59.1" west along the westerly line of Interlaken Park, as the same was conveyed to the City of Seattle by deed recorded in volume 530 of deeds, page 110, records of said county, and accepted by Ordinance No. 23336 of said City, a distance of 306.621 feet to an angle in said westerly line; thence continuing along said westerly line north 0 degrees 29'27.1" east 104.50 feet to the true point of beginning; thence continuing along said west line north 0 degrees 29'27.1" east 53.00 feet; thence south 86 degrees 40'27" west 179.912 feet; thence southerly on a curve to the left with a radius of 388.327 feet, the radial center of said curve bearing south 86 degrees 45'52' east, a distance of 19.053 feet to a point of compound curve; thence on a curve to the left with a radius of 156.0 feet, a distance of 65.22 feet; thence north 76 degrees 32'29" east 171.508 feet to the true point of beginning; being known as tract "G" Cape Horn Residential Addition, according to the unrecorded plat thereof; (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 1333300030);

 Jefferson Park

 Acquired from the State of Washington, by Deed dated February 18, 1904, recorded February 18, 1904, under King County Recording Number 289688. Acquisition accepted by City of Seattle Ordinance # 23141, dated January 24, 1910:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 16477 and 16478 (AKA 36XX BEACON AV S):

 The N 1/2 (half) of the SW 1/4 (quarter) of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, WM;

 EXCEPTING that portion lying east of the westerly margin of Beacon Avenue South;

 AND EXCEPTING that portion transferred to Parks Jurisdiction per City of Seattle Ordinance 29379, described as follows:

 Beginning at the southwest corner of the N 1/2 of the SW 1/4 of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, WM; thence N 2 degrees 01'18" E along the westerly line of said subdivision a distance of 132.41 feet to the south margin of 60' Nevada Street extended easterly as per City of Seattle Ordinance 29379; thence S 89 degrees 06'47" E along said south margin extension of Nevada Street a distance of 1534.61 feet to the westerly margin of Beacon Avenue South; thence S 10 degrees 33'25" E along said westerly margin of Beacon Avenue South a distance of 194.26 feet to the south line of the N 1/2 of the SW 1/4 of said Section 16; thence N 87 degrees 00'17" W along said south line of the N 1/2 of the SW 1/4 a distance of 1576.84 feet to the point of beginning.

 Said property lying within the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington; (commonly known as a portion of King County Tax Account Parcel No. 1624049080);

 Schmitz Park

 Acquired by Treasurer's Deed 21694, dated November 12, 1943, recorded December 19, 1943, under King County Recording Number 3352026.

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1485 : Block 10, Olson Land company's Third Addition; (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 6372000525);

 Alki Underwater Tidelands

 Acquired by Local Improvement Assessment Deed dated May 8, 1956, recorded May 8, 1956, under King County Recording Number 4690683 pursuant to a real property local improvement assessment judgment entered in Superior Court in the County of King December 1, 1953 in proceedings to foreclose local improvement assessment liens upon real property.

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1720 : Portion of Block 468, Seattle Tide Lands, Extension No. 1, and of the 2nd Class Tide Lands adjoining, lying between the northwesterly line of said Block and the production northeasterly thereof and a line 148.8 feet northwesterly of and parallel with a line bearing south 46 degrees 47'29.6" west from the most southerly corner of Tract P, Alki Point Addition; (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 7666707156);

 Magnolia Viewpoint

 Acquired by Local Improvement Assessment Deed dated May 12, 1959, recorded May 12, 1959, under King County Recording Number 5030838 pursuant to a real property local improvement assessment judgment entered in Superior Court in the County of King December 3, 1956 in proceedings to foreclose local improvement assessment liens upon real property. Acquisition accepted by City of Seattle Ordinance # 93333, dated October 19, 1964, for corporate use as a view site in perpetuity:

 RPAMIS Subject Parcel No. 1596 (AKA 4098 W Hooker St) : Portion of Government Lot 4, Section 10, Township 25 North, Range 3 East W.M., lying between production northerly of easterly line of 40th Avenue West and a line 90 feet westerly of and parallel with production northerly of westerly line thereof, and between north line of West Hooker Street and Bluff Line north thereof; (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 7293700089).

 Section 2. To the extent that any of the deeds described in Section 1 above were not formally accepted by ordinance, those deeds are hereby accepted as of the date of recording.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2012, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2012.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2012.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2012.

 ____________________________________

 Monica Martinez Simmons, City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Chip Nevins DPR FAS Transfers 2012 ORD February 9, 2012 Version #4

```
