

********

**Council Bill Number: 22998**
   
**Ordinance Number: 34378**
********

 An Ordinance amending Section 18 of Ordinance No. 16370, entitled "An Ordinance relating to the municipal light and power plant of the City of Seattle, regulating the use of electric current therefrom, providing for the sale of such electric current, fixing the price thereof and providing a method for the collecting of rates, therefor, and providing penalties for violation of this ordinance," approved July 1, 1907, as amended by Ordinance No. 27495, approved July 3, 1911, as amended by Ordinance NO. 29486, approved May 29. 1912, and as amended by Ordinance No. 34171, approved January 5, 1915, by adding thereto a new subdivision to be known as Subdivision (e) for the for the purpose of establishing rates for electric current furnished the city railway system.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 25, 1915
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 9, 1915
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 1, 1915
   
**Committee:** City Utilities
   
   
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-RATES, ELECTRICITY

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 16370

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

