

********

**Council Bill Number: 6032**
   
**Ordinance Number: 18930**
********

 An ordinance amending section 5 of Ordinance No. 5874, as amended by Ordinance No. 10666, and further amended by Ordinance No. 12192, by providing for the continuance of the grade crossing now located where the tracks described in Route No. 9 cross the steam railroad tracks of the Northern Pacific Railway Company (formerly Seattle & International Railroad) upon 14th Avenue Northeast (formerly called Columbus Avenue), and requiring the Seattle Electric Company, in order to discontinue said crossing, to construct a double track railway over the following route: beginning at the intersection of 6th Avenue Northeast with Northlake Avenue, at a point of connection with the existing railway tracks and running thence north along and upon 6th Avenue Northeast to East 40th Street; thence easterly along East 40th Street to the intersection of said East 40th Street with 14th Avenue Northeast at a point of connection with the existing street railway tracks - fixing the time within which said grade crossing shall be discontinued and the railway on such new route constructed and operated and fixing the Seattle Electric Company's proportion of the cost and expense of discontinuing such crossing and establishing and constructing such new route ready for the construction of a double track railway thereon; and requiring such railway to conform to and be operated under Ordinance No. 5874; and providing for the acceptance of this ordinance.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 3, 1908
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 10, 1908
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 10, 1908
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 27, 1908
   
   
**Index Terms:** RAILROAD-LINES, WALLINGFORD, UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 5874. Related: Ord 10666, Ord 12192

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

