

********

**Council Bill Number: 6686**
   
**Ordinance Number: 19604**
********

 An Ordinance providing for a special election to be held in the City of Seattle the 29th day of December, 1908, and providing for the submission to the qualified electors of the City of Seattle at such special election the question of the issuance and sale of negotiable bonds of said city in the amount of Eighth Hundred Thirteen Thousand One Hundred Eighty ($813,180) Dollars, to provide money for the purchase of land for sites for fire houses, city stables, city shops, pest house, the construction of fire houses, city stables, city shops, public comfort stations, sub-station for police department and a pest house, an approach to the public library building, the improvement of portions of Westlake Avenue and Alki Avenue by bridging or filling, or both, the improvement of the Duwamish River at First Avenue South produced, by the construction of a swinging bridge across the same, for the completion of the improvement of Jackson Street and other streets, under Ordinance No. 13309 of Jackson Street and other streets, under Ordinance No. 13309 of the City of Seattle, of Third Avenue and other streets, under Ordinance No. 14993 of said city, of Fourth Avenue and other streets, under Ordinance No. 14784 of said city, of Dearborn Street and other streets mentioned in Ordinance No. 13320 of said city, by regrading the same, of Pine Street and other streets, under Ordinance No. 13614 of said city, and of Olive Street and other streets, under Ordinance No. 18113 of said city, and providing for the payment of said bonds, and interest thereon, and declaring an emergency.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 23, 1908
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 27, 1908
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 27, 1908
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 26, 1908
   
   
**Index Terms:** ELECTIONS, INITIATIVES-AND-REFERENDA, BONDS, SALES, LAND-ACQUISITION, FIRE-STATIONS, HORSES, FACILITIES, RESTROOMS, POLICE-STATIONS, HEALTH-CARE-FACILITIES, BRIDGES, CONSTRUCTION, SOUTH-PARK, GEORGETOWN, GRADING, DOWNTOWN

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 13309, Ord 14993, Ord 14784, Ord 13320, Ord 13614, Ord 18113

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

