

********

**Council Bill Number: 58103**
   
**Ordinance Number: 67088**
********

 An ordinance of the City of Seattle relating to the franchise granted to the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company of Washington, its successors and assigns, by Ordinance No. 14532, as amended by Ordinance No. 52460, extending the term thereof to December 31, 1946, designating the present owners of said franchise amending the description of the location of track authorized thereby, amended by said Ordinance No. 52460, and providing for the acceptance by said owners of said franchise as amended and extended.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 25, 1937
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** January 27, 1937
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** January 27, 1937
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 18, 1937
   
**Committee:** Franchise
   
   
**Index Terms:** CHICAGO-MILWAUKEE-ST-PAUL-PACIFIC-RAILROAD, FRANCHISES, RAILROAD-LINES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 52460, Ord 52460, CF 152019. Amending: Ord 14532

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

