

********

**Council Bill Number: 100**
   
**Ordinance Number: 13555**
********

 An Ordinance authorizing and directing the City Treasurer to cancel a certain assessment levied against Lot Four (4), Block Thirteen (13), Lakeview Addition to the City of Seattle, for the improvement of Latona Avenue, et al, by constructing water mains therein, as provided for in Ordinance No. 10677, creating Local Improvement District No. 896, and appropriating money therefor, and repealing Ordinance No. 13407, entitled "An Ordinance authorizing the City Treasurer to cancel a certain assessment levied against Lot Four (4), Block Thirteen (13), Lakeview Addition, for the improvement of Latona Avenue, by constructing water mains therein, as provided for in Ordinance No. 10677, creating Local Improvement District No. 896 and appropriating money therefor," approved March 14, 1906.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 9, 1906
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 11, 1906
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 11, 1906
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 2, 1906
   
**Committee:** Streets
   
   
**Index Terms:** ASSESSMENT, WALLINGFORD, UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 10677. Repealing: Ord 13407

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

