

********

**Council Bill Number: 701**
   
**Ordinance Number: 14106**
********

 An Ordinance providing for the improvement of Westlake Avenue, from Denny Way to Mercer Street, all in the City of Seattle, by grading and regrading the same to the elevations herein below set forth, and by constructing all necessary slopes or retaining walls for cuts or fills upon the real property abutting upon said streets and avenues, and by reconstructing sewers where necessary, in accordance with Resolution No. 144 of the City Council of the City of Seattle: On Westlake Avenue. At the north margin of Denny Way, East Curb, 54.20 feet, west curb 54.20 feet. At the south margin of John Street, East curb, 49.92 feet, West curb, 49.92 feet. At the north margin of John Street, East curb 49.14 feet, West curb, 49.14 feet. At the south margin of Thomas Street, East curb, 44.85 feet, West curb, 44.85 feet. At the north margin of Thomas Street, East curb, 44.07 feet, West curb, 44.07 feet. At the south margin of Harrison Street, East curb 39.79 feet, West curb, 39.79 feet. At the north margin of Harrison Street, East curb 39.00 feet, West curb, 39.00 feet. At the south margin of Republican Street, East curb, 30.80 feet, West curb 30.80 feet. At the north margin of Republican Street, and East curb, 29.31 feet, West curb, 29.31 feet. At the south margin of Mercer Street, East curb 20.00 feet, West curb, 20.00 and providing for the payment therefor by the mode of "Payment by Bonds," as provided by an act of the Legislature of the State of Washington, entitled "An act authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds by cities, to pay for local improvements, providing for the payment thereof, and declaring an emergency," approved March 14, 1899, and Ordinance No. 5693 of said city, approved December 6, 1899.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 30, 1906
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 6, 1906
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 6, 1906
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 23, 1906
   
   
**Index Terms:** STREET-CONSTRUCTION, GRADING, SOUTH-LAKE-UNION, CASCADE

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 144

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

