

********

**Council Bill Number: 78263**
   
**Ordinance Number: 86824**
********

 An ordinance relating to and amending Plat 228W, page 19, of the Official Zoning Map of the City of Seattle, Ordinance 86300, to rezone certain property in University Lake Shore Addition, Lot 7 except west 135 ft. thereof, Lot 8 except west 150 ft. of south 40 ft. and west 135 ft. of north 10 ft. thereof, Lot 9 except west 150 ft. thereof, located on the northwest corner of Sand Point Way and East 123rd St., as Neighborhood Business (BN) Zone.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 6, 1958
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** January 7, 1958
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** January 7, 1958
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 30, 1957
   
**Committee:** Public Safety
   
   
**Index Terms:** REZONES, CEDAR-PARK, MATTHEWS-BEACH, LAKE-CITY, SINGLE-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, NEIGHBORHOOD-COMMERCIAL-AREAS, BUSINESS-DISTRICTS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 232390; Amends: Ord 86300

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

