

********

**Council Bill Number: 78261**
   
**Ordinance Number: 86822**
********

 An ordinance relating to and amending Plat 76E & 77W, page 180 & 181, of the Official Zoning Map of the City of Seattle, Ordinance 86300, to rezone certain property in Highland Park, South 60 ft. of Lot 9, Block 1, Lots 1, 4, 5 and 8, Block 8, Southwest Seattle Addition, Lots 16 and 17, Block 1, Lots 20 to 30 incl., Block 8, located on both side of 16th Ave. S.W. from line north of W. Henderson St. (1 lot north on east side - 2 lots north on west side) to line north of W. Barton St. (1 lot no. on east side - 4 lots no. on west side) as Neighborhood Business (BN) Zone.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 6, 1958
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** January 7, 1958
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** January 7, 1958
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 30, 1957
   
**Committee:** Public Safety
   
   
**Index Terms:** REZONES, HIGHLAND-PARK, WEST-SEATTLE, SOUTH-DELRIDGE, MULTI-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, NEIGHBORHOOD-COMMERCIAL-AREAS, BUSINESS-DISTRICTS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 232566, 232496; Amends: Ord 86300

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

