

********

**Council Bill Number: 114076**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120793**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing an easement agreement from King County allowing the City of Seattle, by and through Seattle Public Utilities to install, construct, reconstruct, erect, alter, improve, repair, operate, monitor and maintain electrical and water utility facilities in real property located in the Cecil Moses Park area, SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 23 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W. M., King County, Washington.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 6, 2002
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin, Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 13, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 13, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 14, 2002
   
**Committee:** Water Resources, Solid Waste and Public Health
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, KING-COUNTY, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, EASEMENTS, ENERGY-FACILITIES, TUKWILA, ESTUARIES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE___________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing an easement agreement from King County allowing the City of Seattle, by and through Seattle Public Utilities to install, construct, reconstruct, erect, alter, improve, repair, operate, monitor and maintain electrical and water utility facilities in real property located in the Cecil Moses Park area, SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 23 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W. M., King County, Washington.

 WHEREAS, King County intends to and has applied for permits to develop an intertidal estuary on a parcel of undeveloped land (the "Cecil Moses Memorial Park") located in Tukwila, Washington; and

 WHEREAS, the site of the Cecil Moses Memorial Park currently contains certain street rights-of-way, which belong to the City of Tukwila ("Tukwila"); and

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle, by and through Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU") has certain water and electrical utility facilities located in certain portions of the aforementioned rights-of-way; and

 WHEREAS, Tukwila has agreed to vacate the aforementioned rights-of-way so that King County may develop its intertidal estuary, provided that, King County simultaneously grants and conveys to SPU a permanent easement that allows SPU to continue to operate and maintain its electrical and water utility facilities in the area; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Managing Director of the Seattle Public Utilities and recommended by the Mayor, said Managing Director is hereby authorized to execute and accept an Easement Agreement from King County, in substantially the same form as set forth in the Easement Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A. This Easement Agreement allows SPU to install, construct, reconstruct, erect, alter, improve, repair, operate, monitor and maintain electrical and water utility facilities, together with the right of ingress to and egress from the premises, over, under, through, across and upon the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 EXHIBIT A

 ELECTRICAL LINE EASEMENT DESCRIPTION

 THAT PORTION OF GORDON'S ADDITION NO. 2, AS RECORDED IN VOLUME 36 OF PLATS PAGE 42, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, BEING A PORTION OF GOVERNMENT LOT 11 IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 23 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W. M., INCLUDING THOSE PORTIONS DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE AND SHOWN AS SOUTH 110TH STREET AND 27TH AVENUE SOUTH ON SAID PLAT, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 A STRIP OF LAND 10 FEET IN WIDTH LYING 5 FEET EACH SIDE OF THE FOLLOWING REFERENCE LINE:

 COMMENCING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE CENTERLINE OF WEST MARGINAL WAY SOUTH (AS SHOWN ON SAID PLAT) AND THE NORTH LINE OF THE SOUTH 460 FEET OF GOVERNMENT LOT 11;

 THENCE NORTH 85 degrees 13'00" EAST ALONG SAID NORTH LINE A DISTANCE OF 185.07 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 THENCE SOUTH 21 degrees 09'25" WEST A DISTANCE OF 16.10 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 20 degrees 13'00" EAST A DISTANCE OF 264.77 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 69 degrees 37'47" EAST A DISTANCE OF 22.25 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 20 degrees 13'00" EAST A DISTANCE OF 10.71 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 03 degrees 22'51" WEST A DISTANCE OF 70.00 FEET TO THE TERMINUS OF SAID REFERENCE LINE.

 THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS EASEMENT DESCRIPTION IS AS REFERENCED FROM SAID PLAT OF GORDON'S ADDITION NO 2.

 THE SIDELINES OF SAID EASEMENTS SHALL BE SHORTENED OR LENGTHENED SO AS TO COMMENCE AND TERMINATE IN THE PROPERTY LINES STATED IN THE CORRESPONDING REFERENCE LINE DESCRIPTION.

 PREPARED BY: BEN EHRICH

 PENHELLEGON ASSOCIATES

 JOB NO. 01605.10

 EXHIBIT B

 WATER LINE EASEMENT DESCRIPTION

 THAT PORTION OF GORDON'S ADDITION NO. 2, AS RECORDED IN VOLUME 36 OF PLATS PAGE 42, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, BEING A PORTION OF GOVERNMENT LOT 11 IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 23 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W. M., INCLUDING THOSE PORTIONS DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE AND SHOWN AS SOUTH 110TH STREET AND 27TH AVENUE SOUTH ON SAID PLAT, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 A STRIP OF LAND 30 FEET IN WIDTH LYING 10 FEET NORTHERLY AND EASTERLY AND 20 FEET SOUTHERLY AND WESTERLY OF THE FOLLOWING REFERENCE LINE:

 COMMENCING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE CENTERLINE OF WEST MARGINAL WAY SOUTH (AS SHOWN ON SAID PLAT) AND THE NORTH LINE OF THE SOUTH 460 FEET OF GOVERNMENT LOT 11;

 THENCE NORTH 85 degrees 13'00" EAST ALONG SAID NORTH LINE A DISTANCE OF 94.88 FEET TO THE INTERSECTION WITH A WATER MAIN AND THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 THENCE SOUTH 65 degrees 21'37" EAST ALONG SAID WATER MAIN A DISTANCE OF 100.57 FEET TO AN ANGLE POINT IN SAID WATER MAIN;

 THENCE SOUTH 20 degrees 13'00" EAST ALONG SAID WATER MAIN A DISTANCE OF 363.71 FEET TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF THE SOUTH 60 FEET OF SAID GOVERNMENT LOT 11, AND THE TERMINUS OF SAID REFERENCE LINE. SAID POINT BEARS NORTH 88 degrees 13'00" EAST A DISTANCE OF 168.84 FEET FROM THE CENTERLINE OF WEST MARGINAL WAY SOUTH, (AS SHOWN ON SAID PLAT), AS MEASURED ALONG SAID NORTH LINE.

 THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS EASEMENT DESCRIPTION IS AS REFERENCED FROM SAID PLAT OF GORDON'S ADDITION NO 2.

 THE SIDELINES OF SAID EASEMENTS SHALL BE SHORTENED OR LENGTHENED SO AS TO COMMENCE AND TERMINATE IN THE PROPERTY LINES STATED IN THE CORRESPONDING REFERENCE LINE DESCRIPTION.

 PREPARED BY: BEN EHRICH

 PENHELLEGON ASSOCIATES

 JOB NO. 01605.10

 The real property interests conveyed by the easement agreement is hereby placed under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 2. Any act pursuant to and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this_____ day of _________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________________

 President ___________________of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 BG.ekm

 December 3, 2001

 ORD.-Cecil Moses Park Accept

 (Ver.2)

 After recording send to:

 City of Seattle

 SPU Real Estate Services/WTR

 710 Second Avenue 10th Floor

 Seattle, WA 98104

 WATER AND ELECTRICAL UTILITIES EASEMENT AGREEMENT

 Reference No.: none

 Grantor: King County

 Grantee: The City of Seattle

 Legal Description: Portions of Lots 1 through 7, inclusive and portions of Lots 12 and 13, together with portions of West Marginal Place South adjoining Lots 1 through 13, inclusive, Gordon's Addition No. 2, Volume 36 of Plats, page 42 (full legal descriptions on pages 6 and 8)

 Tax ID No.: portions of 284380-0005, 284380-0010, 284380-0015, 284380-0020, 284380-0025, 284380-0030, 284380-0035, 284380-0040, 284380-0045, 284380-0050, 284380-0055, 284380-0060 & 284380-0065

 THIS EASEMENT AGREEMENT made this day of , by and between KING COUNTY, a Home Rule Charter County of the State of Washington, hereinafter called "Grantor", and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, by and through its Seattle Public Utilities Department, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, hereinafter called "Grantee"; WITNESSETH;

 Grantor intends to and has applied for permits to develop an intertidal estuary on a parcel of undeveloped land (the"Cecil Moses Memorial Park") located in Tukwila, Washington.

 The site of the Cecil Moses Memorial Park currently contains certain street rights-of-way, which belong to the City of Tukwila ("Tukwila").

 Grantee has certain water and electrical utility facilities located in certain portions of the aforementioned rights-of-way.

 Tukwila has agreed to vacate the aforementioned rights-of-way so that Grantor may develop its intertidal estuary, provided that, Grantor simultaneously grants and conveys to Grantee a permanent easement that allows Grantee to continue to operate and maintain its electrical and water utility facilities in the area.

 That the Grantor, for and in consideration of the sum of Ten Dollars ($10.00) and other valuable considerations, receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, hereby conveys, grants and warrants to the Grantee, its successors and assigns, the right, privilege and authority to install, construct, reconstruct, erect, alter, improve, repair, operate, monitor and maintain a water main, electrical service and appurtenances (related to both), including but not limited to connecting water service pipes, vaults, hydrants, electrical lines and meters, together with the right of ingress and egress, over, under, through, across, along and upon property located in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 (Legal Description on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof).

 (Legal Description on Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof).

 The Grantor and the Grantee agree and covenant as follows:

 SPECIAL TERMS

 1. The Grantor shall maintain the existing asphalt roadway located in what is now S. 110th St. and 27th Ave. S. as an access roadway (at least twelve (12) feet in width) and turnaround, which will provide Grantee non-exclusive access to the Grantee's water and electrical utility facilities and the park itself. If the said existing roadway is ever replaced or relocated the new access roadway and turnaround shall be constructed according to design plans, which must be approved in advance by the Grantee in writing.

 2. The Stone Column construction as shown in the March 14, 2001 HWA Geosciences, Inc. Report ("Geosciences Report"), and as may be referred to in King County's Cecil Moses Memorial Park Estuary Project Plans, King County Plan # C13130C, dated October 10, 2001 and subsequent Addendum Number 1, dated November 14, 2001 and Addendum #2, dated November 21, 2001 (hereinafter the "Cecil Moses Memorial Park Estuary Plans"), are to be designed and installed in a manner approved by Grantee and operated and maintained by Grantor in a manner that will neither interfere with or damage the Grantee's water and electrical utility facilities.

 3. Grantor, and its successors and assigns, agree to defend, indemnify and save the Grantee, its elected officials, directors, employees, agents and affiliates harmless from and against any and all claims, liabilities, actions, demands, judgments, losses, costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees), suits or damages which are caused by the negligence of the Grantor, its authorized agents or employees in Grantor's development of the Cecil Moses Memorial Park Estuary, including, but not limited to the construction, maintenance, repair and/or design of the underground Stone Columns referred to in the preceding paragraph and in the Geosciences Report.

 4. The Grantee agrees to defend, indemnify and save Grantor, its elected officials, inspectors, employees, agents and affiliates harmless from and against any and all claims, liabilities, actions, demands, judgements, losses, costs, expenses (including reasonable attorney fees), suit or damages which are caused by the negligence of the Grantee, its authorized agents or employees.

 5. Loading on the Grantee's water and electrical utility facilities shall not exceed HS-20.

 GENERAL TERMS

 1. The Grantee and its agents shall have the right without prior institution of any suit or proceeding at law, at such times as may be necessary, to enter upon said easement area for the purposes herein described, without incurring any legal obligation or liability therefore. The Grantee shall use reasonable efforts to return park property to its preexisting condition after its entry is complete. Notwithstanding this provision, the Grantee shall bear no responsibility for the construction, maintenance and/or repair of Grantor property and the Grantee shall be insulated from liability for such under Provision No. 3 of the SPECIAL TERMS; provided, however, that the Grantee shall remain responsible for any failures in the Grantee's facilities which do not arise out of, and/or are not in any way connected to Grantor's development of the area as more specifically identified in the Cecil Moses Plans.

 2. Grantor shall have the right to use said property for any legal purpose not inconsistent with the rights herein granted to the Grantee.

 3. Other than those depicted in the Cecil Moses Plans as approved by the Grantee, the Grantor hereby agrees that no building, fence, wall, rockery, trees, shrubbery or obstruction of any kind shall be erected or planted, or any fill material placed within the boundaries of said easement area without the written permission of the City of Seattle's Director of Seattle Public Utilities. No excavation shall be made within three feet of the Grantee's water and electrical utility facilities, and that the earth cover over the Grantee's water and electrical utility facilities shall be maintained at not less than 35 inches nor more than 48 inches.

 4. Grantor hereby agrees that no other utility facilities, such as conduits, cables, pipelines, vaults poles, posts, whether public or private, will be installed within the granted easement area, without prior written approval from the Grantee.

 5. Vehicle parking or storage of materials over utility facilities, such as vaults, water meter or valve boxes will not be allowed. Vehicles or materials may be moved or impounded at the expense of owner and the Grantee shall be held harmless from any damage, claim, liability actions, judgment or costs arising out of the movement or impoundment of said vehicle or material.

 6. Grantor agrees to allow the Grantee, its agents or assigns, the use of such additional area immediately adjacent to said easement area, as shall be required for the non-emergency installation, construction, reconstruction, erection, alteration, improvement, repair, monitoring, maintenance and operation of the Grantee's water and electrical utility facilities. Prior to such non-emergency work, the Grantee shall apply to Grantor for its standard Special Use Permit. Said area will be returned to the same condition as it was immediately before entry by the Grantee or its agents. Notwithstanding this provision, no restrictions are placed on the Grantee's entry and/or right of entry onto the Grantee's actual easement area as provided for in Provision No. 1 of this section.

 7. In an emergency, Grantor agrees that the Grantee, its agents or assigns, shall have the right to close the easement area and to cut into any private roadway without prior notice and the use of such additional area immediately adjacent to said easement area, as shall be required for the installation, construction, reconstruction, erection, alteration, improvement, repair, monitoring, maintenance and operation of said water and electrical service facilities. Said area will be returned to the same condition as it was immediately before entry by the Grantee or its agents. Notwithstanding this provision, no restrictions are placed on the Grantee's entry and/or right of entry onto the Grantee's actual easement area as provided for in Provision No. 1 of this section.

 8. Grantor waives any present or future claim against the Grantee relating to hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants, and shall indemnify the defend the Grantee from any such claim, including enforcement action by a regulatory agency, unless the hazardous substances, pollutants or contaminants result from the Grantee's operations.

 9. Any references to the word "approve" by the Grantee with respect to any plans, reports or other items prepared for or in response to the terms in this Easement Agreement refer to the Grantee's approval for internal purposes only and are not and should not be construed or relied on in any way as a validation, confirmation or other attestation of the statements made therein.

 10. This agreement and each of the terms, provisions, conditions and covenant herein, shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, successor and assigns.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, pursuant to the provisions of Ordinance No. of the City of Seattle, said City has caused this instrument to be executed by the Director of Seattle

 Public Utilities on this_______________ day of _____________, 2002.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE,

 By:

 Signature

 Name

 Title

 Seattle Public Utilities

 KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON APPROVED AS TO FORM:

 ____________________________________ __________________________________

 Dave Preugschat, for the County Executive Deputy Prosecuting Attorney

 Manager, Property Services Division

 DATED: ____________________________ DATED: ___________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that signed this instrument, on oath stated that they were authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Manager, Property Services, of King County to be the free and voluntary act of such parties for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Notary (print name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at

 My appointment expires

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that signed this instrument, on oath stated that he is authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the

 DIRECTOR, SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES, to be the free and voluntary act of the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 Dated:

 Notary (print name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at

 My appointment expires

 EXHIBIT A

 ELECTRICAL LINE EASEMENT DESCRIPTION

 THAT PORTION OF GORDON'S ADDITION NO. 2, AS RECORDED IN VOLUME 36 OF PLATS PAGE 42, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, BEING A PORTION OF GOVERNMENT LOT 11 IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 23 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W. M., INCLUDING THOSE PORTIONS DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE AND SHOWN AS SOUTH 110TH STREET AND 27TH AVENUE SOUTH ON SAID PLAT, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 A STRIP OF LAND 10 FEET IN WIDTH LYING 5 FEET EACH SIDE OF THE FOLLOWING REFERENCE LINE:

 COMMENCING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE CENTERLINE OF WEST MARGINAL WAY SOUTH (AS SHOWN ON SAID PLAT) AND THE NORTH LINE OF THE SOUTH 460 FEET OF GOVERNMENT LOT 11;

 THENCE NORTH 85 degrees 13'00" EAST ALONG SAID NORTH LINE A DISTANCE OF 185.07 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 THENCE SOUTH 21 degrees 09'25" WEST A DISTANCE OF 16.10 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 20 degrees 13'00" EAST A DISTANCE OF 264.77 FEET;

 THENCE NORTH 69 degrees 37'47" EAST A DISTANCE OF 22.25 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 20 degrees 13'00" EAST A DISTANCE OF 10.71 FEET;

 THENCE SOUTH 03 degrees 22'51" WEST A DISTANCE OF 70.00 FEET TO THE TERMINUS OF SAID REFERENCE LINE.

 THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS EASEMENT DESCRIPTION IS AS REFERENCED FROM SAID PLAT OF GORDON'S ADDITION NO 2.

 THE SIDELINES OF SAID EASEMENTS SHALL BE SHORTENED OR LENGTHENED SO AS TO COMMENCE AND TERMINATE IN THE PROPERTY LINES STATED IN THE CORRESPONDING REFERENCE LINE DESCRIPTION.

 PREPARED BY: BEN EHRICH

 PENHELLEGON ASSOCIATES

 JOB NO. 01605.10

 EXHIBIT A

 EXHIBIT B

 WATER LINE EASEMENT DESCRIPTION

 THAT PORTION OF GORDON'S ADDITION NO. 2, AS RECORDED IN VOLUME 36 OF PLATS PAGE 42, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, BEING A PORTION OF GOVERNMENT LOT 11 IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 4, TOWNSHIP 23 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W. M., INCLUDING THOSE PORTIONS DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE AND SHOWN AS SOUTH 110TH STREET AND 27TH AVENUE SOUTH ON SAID PLAT, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 A STRIP OF LAND 30 FEET IN WIDTH LYING 10 FEET NORTHERLY AND EASTERLY AND 20 FEET SOUTHERLY AND WESTERLY OF THE FOLLOWING REFERENCE LINE:

 COMMENCING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE CENTERLINE OF WEST MARGINAL WAY SOUTH (AS SHOWN ON SAID PLAT) AND THE NORTH LINE OF THE SOUTH 460 FEET OF GOVERNMENT LOT 11;

 THENCE NORTH 85 degrees 13'00" EAST ALONG SAID NORTH LINE A DISTANCE OF 94.88 FEET TO THE INTERSECTION WITH A WATER MAIN AND THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 THENCE SOUTH 65 degrees 21'37" EAST ALONG SAID WATER MAIN A DISTANCE OF 100.57 FEET TO AN ANGLE POINT IN SAID WATER MAIN;

 THENCE SOUTH 20 degrees 13'00" EAST ALONG SAID WATER MAIN A DISTANCE OF 363.71 FEET TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF THE SOUTH 60 FEET OF SAID GOVERNMENT LOT 11, AND THE TERMINUS OF SAID REFERENCE LINE. SAID POINT BEARS NORTH 88 degrees 13'00" EAST A DISTANCE OF 168.84 FEET FROM THE CENTERLINE OF WEST MARGINAL WAY SOUTH, (AS SHOWN ON SAID PLAT), AS MEASURED ALONG SAID NORTH LINE.

 THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS EASEMENT DESCRIPTION IS AS REFERENCED FROM SAID PLAT OF GORDON'S ADDITION NO 2.

 THE SIDELINES OF SAID EASEMENTS SHALL BE SHORTENED OR LENGTHENED SO AS TO COMMENCE AND TERMINATE IN THE PROPERTY LINES STATED IN THE CORRESPONDING REFERENCE LINE DESCRIPTION.

 PREPARED BY: BEN EHRICH

 PENHELLEGON ASSOCIATES

 JOB NO. 01605.10

 EXHIBIT B

 Page 1 of 9

```
