

********

**Council Bill Number: 114093**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120732**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Public Health expenditures; increasing the expenditure allowance in the 2002 budget of the Seattle & King County Department of Public Health; and reducing and reappropriating the expenditure allowance in the Reserve for Enhanced Health Services in the 2002 Finance General budget.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 19, 2002
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Nicastro, Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 27, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 22, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Methadone Coupon Program, First-time Mother Program, Asthma

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 11, 2002
   
**Committee:** Water and Health
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, HEALTH, HEALTH-CARE, HEALTH-AGENCIES, HEALTH-CARE-DELIVERY, DRUG-REHABILITATION, CHILD-WELFARE, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ______________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Public Health expenditures; increasing the expenditure allowance in the 2002 budget of the Seattle & King County Department of Public Health; and reducing and reappropriating the expenditure allowance in the Reserve for Enhanced Health Services in the 2002 Finance General budget.

 WHEREAS in the 2002 budget the City Council appropriated $550,000 for the Department of Finance General as a reserve for enhanced health services; and

 WHEREAS in making that appropriation the City Council stated its intent to fund additional methadone treatment, nurse home visits to low-income first-time mothers, and asthma management tools for low- income families of asthmatics; and

 WHEREAS the Department of Public Health - Seattle & King County ("Department of Public Health") has provided a plan for funding and delivering these services, as described in Attachment 1 to this ordinance; and

 WHEREAS the City Council endorses this plan and intends through the appropriations made in this ordinance to fund these services as described in the plan; and

 WHEREAS, in accordance with the interlocal agreement between the City of Seattle and King County regarding the Department of Public Health that was authorized by Ordinance 118377, the City Council intends the funding of these services to enhance health services for citizens of Seattle, and not to supplant funding that is or may be available to the Department of Public Health to provide like services to the citizens of King County as a whole; and

 WHEREAS, in accordance with that interlocal agreement, in the event that the Department of Public Health receives increased funding to provide like services to the citizens of King County as a whole, the City Council expects the Department of Public Health, to the extent consistent with best public health practice, to provide to Seattle citizens a share of the services provided by such increased funding that is proportionate to their share of the total King County demand for the services, including the demand met by the services provided through this ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, in accordance with that interlocal agreement, in the event that the Department of Public Health receives decreased funding to provide like services to the citizens of King County as a whole, the City Council expects the Department of Public Health, to the extent consistent with best public health practice, to provide to Seattle citizens a share of the remaining services that is proportionate to their share of the total King County demand for the services, including the demand met by the services provided through this ordinance; NOW THEREFORE

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The appropriations for the following lines of business in the 2002 Budget for Public Health - Seattle & King County are increased as follows:

 Department Fund Line of Business Amount

 Public Health 00100 VHC $321,000

 Public Health 00100 VHD $229,000

 by the reduction and reappropriation hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Five Hundred Fifty Thousand dollars ($550,000) from the 2002 Budget of the Department of Finance General - Reserve for Enhanced Health Services (Q551006) in the General Subfund.

 Section 2. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _______ day of ____________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of ____________ , 2002.

 ______________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _______ day of ____________, 2002.

 ______________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _______ day of _______________ , 2002.

 _______________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 114093.doc

 [ph] 02/06/02 v.1

 Methadone Vouchers

 Seattle General Fund

 PROGRAM PLAN - DRAFT 2

 January 14, 2002

 Contact: Michael Hanrahan

 Coordinator, Drug Use & HIV/AIDS Prevention

 Public Health - Seattle & King County

 206-205-5509

 michael.hanrahan@metrokc.gov

 Year 01 funding period: February-December, 2002 (11 months)

 Target population:

 * Opiate-dependent residents of the City of Seattle who utilize any of the five Seattle Needle Exchange sites, or

 * Opiate-dependent individuals who have been arrested for crimes within the City of Seatle and are participating in either Drug Court or Mental health Court

 Based on experience with similar programs in the past, PH estimates that half the people served will be homeless and that 90% will be criminally involved. Sixty percent will be male; 60% will be people of color.

 2002 Budget: $313,966

 Program overview: This program will build on existing effective mechanisms for distributing vouchers and facilitating timely access to opiate replacement treatment in the City of Seattle. Vouchers redeemable for opiate replacement treatment will be distributed through Public Health Needle Exchange and King County Drug Court. Needle Exchange will set aside a sufficient number of vouchers to assure that opiate-dependent clients in Mental Health Court can access vouchers when needed. Treatment will be provided by Therapeutic Health Services and by Evergreen Treatment Services. Voucher term will be through December 31, 2002; extension may be possible pending 2003 budget allocations. Placement, retention and treatment outcomes will be monitored and evaluated through the State's TARGET management information system (WA State DASA). Public Health will oversee the program and will report progress to the City on a quarterly basis.

 Principles:

 1. Timeliness: In order to maximize impacts, participating agencies are committed to getting the vouchers out to where the demand is as soon as possible. Treatment agencies will schedule intake appointments in a timely way so as to minimize loss of clients due to changes in client readiness for treatment.

 2. Client-centered services: Clients will have autonomy in deciding which agency to go to to get services. Distributing agencies will provide information to clients regarding agency locations, intake procedures and treatment policies to assist clients in their choice.

 3. Multiple access points: Clients may access vouchers through the five needle exchange sites in the City of Seattle, through King County Drug Court, and through Mental Health Court (Seattle Municipal Court).

 4. Leveraging/non-supplanting: These funds will be used to enhance treatment options for City of Seattle residents. A portion of the fund, based on historic eligibility data from the needle exchange wait list, will be designated as non-federal match for Title XIX (Medicaid) clients. Residents of King County outside Seattle will not be eligible for this fund source. City of Seattle funds will not be used to supplant treatment funds from other fund sources.

 5. Tracking, reporting, evaluation: Public Health, with the help of participating agencies, will monitor program performance and will report utilization and outcome data as well as process data to assure accountability of the voucher system.

 Designated funds for Drug Court & Mental Health Court:

 * 8 slots will be set aside for Drug Court participants.

 * 6 slots will be set aside for Mental Health Court participants.

 These set-asides are sufficient to meet un-funded demand projections through December 2002. They are best estimates of need. Slot reservations have been calculated at a level designed to assure adequate funds to meet expected demand, while not over-reserving funds for clients wait-listed through the Needle Exchange.

 The Drug Court set-aside is based on the adopted 2002 budget compared to 2001 methadone utilization. The Court has budgeted nine months of methadone treatment for 125 drug court participants in 2002. While the majority of clients will move on to stable funding from other sources by the end of nine months, approximately 30 participants may face premature detoxification from treatment because of lack of funds. Extending treatment for three months for each of the 30 individuals would cost $29,400. This translates into roughly eight 11-month treatment slots. With the additional Seattle funding, all City residents who are Drug Court clients and who require funding through year's end will receive it.

 The Mental Health Court set-aside is based on projected need estimated by staff at Seattle Municipal Court. While the Court tracks need for drug treatment, it currently does not differentiate need by type of treatment required. The Court is initiating a tracking mechanism to capture more accurate information on opiate dependency among MH Court clients in 2002. MH Court participants will access treatment vouchers through the Needle Exchange pool. MH Court slots will be either Title XIX (Medicaid) or full-pay, depending on individual client need. Referrals will be authorized in a timely way via telephone and/or fax communication between Joni Wilson, Supervisor, Mental Health Court Probation Office, and Michael Hanrahan, Coordinator, Drug Use & HIV/AIDS Prevention Program.

 Meeting opiate treatment demand through Mental Health Court is a priority. Public Health and Municipal Court staff will closely monitor the need for treatment vouchers throughout the first quarter. If it appears likely that the year's need will be greater than six slots, additional vouchers will be reserved for clients of Mental Health Court.

 Voucher term: Clients will be offered funding through December 31, 2002. Depending on availability of funds in 2003, progress in treatment, and continued client need, extended funding may be offered.

 Distribution of funds: Funds will be budgeted to Public Health, org 8056, project H00994. Anticipated cost for standard methadone treatment for the 11-month period February-December, 2002 is $3,430/11-month treatment slot. This is based on a daily rate of $10.21 through September and $10.42 /day for October- December. This rate is set by DSHS and incorporates a legislatively-mandated increase in October, estimated at 2.3%. Costs for drug-court clients are slightly higher, per contract, $10.89/day or $3,637/11-month treatment slot. The table below summarizes proposed slot and fund distribution.

 #

 11-mo. slots

 Distributor

 # tx. mos.

 $$ Amount

 Money transfer/contract mechanism

 8

 Drug Court

 88

 $ 29,096

 Inter-fund transfer from PH to KC Drug Court. Drug Court contracts directly with tx. agencies.

 40

 Needle Exchange*

 880

 $ 68,080

 Title XIX (Medicaid) non-federal match. Inter-fund transfer from PH to KC MHCADSD. MHCADSD contracts directly with tx. agencies. Non-fed rate = 49.63% of total cost = $1702/eleven-mo period.**

 53

 Needle Exchange*

 583

 $181,790

 PH contracts directly with tx. agencies.

 101

 1551

 $278,966

 Direct Cost

 $ 35,000

 PH overhead

 $313,966

 Total Budget

 * Six Needle Exchange slots will be reserved for Mental Health Court participants. Clients may be either full pay of sponsored by Title XIX.

 ** WA State DASA & the DSHS Office of Medical Assistance have designated the County Drug/Alcohol Coordinator as the single point of contact for reimbursing the state for the non-federal portion of Medicaid payments. In King County, the Coordinator resides in the Department of Community & Human Services, Mental Health, Chemical Abuse and Dependency Services Division (MHCADSD).

 Distribution & placement timeline: Needle Exchange and Drug Court will start issuing vouchers in February, with a goal of filling all slots except those set aside for Mental Health Court by the end of April, 2002. Additional vouchers will be issued throughout the year as clients transfer to other fund sources or prematurely discontinue treatment. As of January 11, there are about 450 individuals on the Needle Exchange wait list. Vouchers will be targeted first to Seattle residents who signed up mid-2000. Locating strategy will include reviewing the jail census and working with jail health staff to locate incarcerated wait-listed clients. The distribution/placement plan assumes a 90% redemption rate, with 1-2 weeks lag from time voucher is issued to time intake is completed and client is placed in treatment.

 Month

 # vouchers issued

 # not redeemed

 # intakes carried forward to next mo.

 # clients placed in treatment

 estimated # tx. months committed

 February

 40

 4

 11

 25

 263

 March

 75

 8

 8

 70

 665

 April

 65

 8

 0

 65

 557

 MH Court set aside

 6

 0

 6

 66

 TOTAL

 186

 20

 166

 1,551

 Tracking & Reporting: PH has arranged with DASA to assign unique TARGET identifier codes to SGF-supported clients. All clients utilizing City funding, including both full-pay and Title XIX vouchers, will be tracked in the State's TARGET information system. Together with distribution logs, these data will inform quarterly reports submitted to the City for review. Quarterly report data elements will include:

 Number of vouchers issued by distribution point (NX, DC, MHC)

 Number of clients placed in treatment

 Baseline summary of reported criminal activity in 30 days prior to intake (TARGET data element H-4: Illegal Activities for Profit)

 Demographic summary, including age, gender, race/ethnicity, housed/homeless

 Number of clients discharged from treatment

 Reason for discharge

 Number of treatment months provided

 Program Evaluation: City Council members, along with program planners, have identified interest in three primary impact/outcome measures:

 Reduced criminal activity and CJS impacts among opiate dependent residents of Seattle

 Reduce street impacts of opiate injectors in Downtown Seattle

 Stopping transmission and acquisition of HIV among Seattle area opiate injectors, their families and sexual partners.

 Length of stay in treatment is the single strongest predictor of social stabilization, cessation of illicit drug use, reduced criminal activity, and cessation of risk behaviors for HIV and other blood- borne illnesses. A recent study conducted by WA State DASA, including a majority of study-subjects selected from Seattle area treatment centers, documented dramatic declines in adverse social/economic costs among opiate-dependent persons enrolled in opiate substitution treatment. Study results, comparing events during treatment to the 12 months prior to entering treatment, are displayed in the following table. Rates of decline in all domains and fund sources were greater for patients who had been in treatment one year or longer compared to patients who remained in treatment less than one year.

 Publicly Funded

 Private Pay

 (n=744)

 (n=488)

 Drug offense arrests were reduced by:

 63%

 81%

 Property crime arrests were reduced by:

 64%

 75%

 Overall arrests declined by:

 54%

 72%

 Medical hospital admissions were reduced by:

 59%

 81%

 Emergency room visits decreased by:

 70%

 75%

 Major health care service utilization dropped by:

 56%

 71%

 Psychiatric hospitalization declined by:

 55%

 75%

 Public assistance utilization was reduced by:

 13%

 0%

 Similar results have been documented in other studies. The magnitude of effect is directly related to length of stay in treatment. Because outcome studies on the effects of methadone treatment are costly and, at this point, redundant, we propose measuring treatment retention as a reliable surrogate marker for improved social functioning and decreased criminal conduct. We will note baseline functioning, including recent criminal history, at intake, then track retention in treatment. The retention analysis will differentiate between clients referred from the courts vs. clients referred through the needle exchange. Analyses will also compare clients by gender, race/ethnicity, homeless/housed status, baseline criminal engagement, and treatment location. These data will be supplemented by volume and encounter data obtained from the downtown needle exchange.

 Alternatively, the project could conduct Addiction Severity Index (ASI) surveys (at intake and at six or nine months) with a subset of clients. However, to get accurate information, independent investigators would be required to conduct the follow-up interviews. Clients are less likely to report reliable information if they perceive continued treatment status will be affected by their responses. The Alcohol & Drug Abuse Institute at the University of Washington has assisted Public Health and local treatment providers with such studies in the past, and could make staff available, at a cost, to conduct ASI interviews with project participants. Investing in this level of evaluation, however, would be costly and would considerably reduce funds available for treatment. Because of the consistency of results reported by such studies, both locally and nationally, we recommend forgoing this option and focusing instead on length of stay in treatment as a reliable surrogate marker for reduced crime, reduced utilization of medical and psychiatric health services, and improved social functioning.

 Program Committee: This program plan was developed in collaboration with KC Mental Health, Chemical Abuse and Dependency Services Division, methadone treatment providers, and representatives from Drug and Mental Health Courts. The program plan was compiled by an ad hoc group organized by City Council Staff Member, Peter Harris. Participants included:

 Michael Hanrahan, HIV/AIDS Program, Public Health - Seattle & King County (chair)

 Ron Jackson, Executive Director, Evergreen Treatment Services

 Geoff Miller, Interim County Alcohol and Other Drug Services Coordinator; Mental Health, Chemical Abuse & Dependency Services Division; King County Department of Community & Human Services

 Mary Taylor, Manager, King County Drug Court

 Roger Valdez, Regional Public Health Officer for the City of Seattle, Public Health - Seattle & King County

 Susanne White, Probation Office, Mental Health Court, Seattle Municipal Court

 This proposed program plan has been reviewed and approved by Alonzo Plough, Director, Public Health - Seattle & King County.

 Attachment 1, Part 1

 City of Seattle: Best Beginnings: Nurse Family Partnership

 Scope of Work: The Best Beginnings: Nurse Family Partnership will provide intensive home visiting services to low income, first-time pregnant women.

 Staffing: 2 Public Health Nurses and a part time Supervisor will be hired in February 2002 to begin services in this project. 2 additional Public Health Nurses will be hired in April 2002 to complete the team. Hiring will be staggered to accommodate for referral patterns for first time pregnant, low income women.

 Site: The program will be housed at the Downtown Public Health Center at 2124 4th Ave. Logistical concerns may necessitate an interim initial site at the North Public Health Center at 10501 Meridian Ave. N.

 Training: Public Health Nurses and the supervisor will attend a week long mandatory training in Denver, Colorado as part of program requirements. This training is mandated by the National Center for Children, Families and Communities which is the oversight organization for replication of the David Olds Nurse Family Partnership model.

 Program

 Measures:

 Performance Measure

 2002 Target

 Outcome: Number of Enrolled Best Beginnings Clients

 Baseline is 0

 95

 Output: Number of Visits to Best Beginnings Clients

 Baseline is 0

 800

 Demand: The number of first time, pregnant young low income women in the city of Seattle.

 Baseline is 534

 534

 Efficiency: Visits per FTE

 Baseline is 0

 266

 Performance Targets are based on program experience with existing Best Beginnings teams in King County.

 Staff Responsible for Lois Schipper

 Program Monitoring (206)296-4562

 and Reporting:

 2002 Budget: $229,000

 Attachment 1, Part 2

 Indoor air quality improvements for low-income families

 Master Home Environmentalist Program

 American Lung Association of Washington

 Description

 The funding this ordinance provides for the Master Home Environmentalist (MHE) program will supplement current MHE work to improve indoor air quality for low income families. These funds will purchase "green cleaning" kits, walk off mats and dust impermeable pillow and mattress covers for low income families, and will provide MHE volunteers with small stipends for conducting home assessments and training families in the use of these tools and other techniques for improving indoor air quality. Priority for the distribution of the "green cleaning" kits, walk off mats and dust impermeable pillow and mattress covers will be given to households with asthmatic children living in the home.

 The funds will be administered through the existing Public Health contract with the American Lung Association for the MHE program.

 2002 Budget: $7034

 Attachment 1, Part 3

 Budget Summary:

 Methadone Vouchers

 $313,966

 "Best Beginnings" Nurse Family Partnership

 $229,000

 Master Home Environmentalist Indoor Air Quality program

 $7,034

 total

 $550,000

 Attachment 1, Part 4

```
