

********

**Council Bill Number: 114124**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120830**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fleets and Facilities Department; declaring property identified in Section 1 below surplus to the City's needs; approving the sale of property by public bid; authorizing execution of a Quit Claim Deed with respect to each such property; designating the disposition of sales proceeds; and, ratifying and confirming prior actions.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 17, 2002
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Steinbrueck, Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 25, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 25, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 18, 2002
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** FLEETS-AND-FACILITIES-DEPARTMENT, RAINIER-BEACH, LONGFELLOW-CREEK, HIGH-POINT, SALES, RIVERVIEW, MID-BEACON-HILL

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res. 29799

**Fiscal Note:**114124

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Fleets and Facilities Department; declaring property identified in Section 1 below surplus to the City's needs; approving the sale of property by public bid; authorizing execution of a Quit Claim Deed with respect to each such property; designating the disposition of sales proceeds; and, ratifying and confirming prior actions.

 WHEREAS, Resolution 29799 adopted policies and procedures and a process for notifying other City departments or other government agencies of the potential availability of property excess to department needs; and

 WHEREAS, after being notified of the potential availability of property identified in Section 1 below, no other City department or other government agency has requested jurisdiction or has proposed a public use of any of the properties; and

 WHEREAS, the Real Estate Services Division of the Fleets and Facilities Department has reviewed the suitability of each property against the criteria adopted in Resolution 29799; and

 WHEREAS, the Real Estate Oversight Committee has concurred with the Fleets and Facilities Department recommendation that the property be offered for sale by public bid; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The following described real properties in King County, Washington:

 PMA #77

 Lots 4, 5 and 6, Block 32, Rainier Beach Addition, recorded in Vol. 8 of Plats, Page 11, Records of King County, WA, together with Lots 28 through 33, inclusive, Block 32, 2nd Subdivision of Rainier Beach Addition, recorded in Vol. 11 of Plats, Page 71, Records of King County, WA;

 PMA #1616

 The south 249 feet of the north 403.5 feet of the west 150 feet of the east 330 feet of the Southeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 21, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., King County, Washington, except the south 50 feet thereof;

 PMA #1631

 Lot 2, Block 5, Christine Heights Addition to the City of Seattle, as recorded in Vol. 20 of Plats, pg. 64, of Records of King County, Washington;

 PMA #1636

 That portion of Lot 2, Block 33, Homecroft Addition, as recorded in Vol. 24 of Plats, Page 42, Records of King County, WA, lying east of a line drawn midway between 16th Avenue SW and 17th Avenue SW; and

 PMA #3793

 The west half of Lot 3, Block 47, Homecroft Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 24 of Plats, Page 42, in King County, WA;

 are hereby found and declared to be no longer required for municipal service and are hereby declared surplus to the City's needs.

 Section 2. As requested and recommended by the Fleets and Facilities Department Director in the attachments hereto, said Director is authorized to offer the surplus property identified in Section 1 hereof for sale by public bid, pursuant to the Public Bid Procedure for Disposing of Surplus Real Property (identified as Attachment A) and, subject to the Director's approval, to accept the highest offer for the purchase of each such parcel and to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Quit Claim Deed ("Deed") in substantially the form attached hereto as "Exhibit A," pursuant to which the real property legally described in Section 1 above will be conveyed to the highest offeror for each such property.

 Section 3. Proceeds from the sales authorized herein shall be deposited in the Property Acquisition Subaccount of the Unrestricted Account of the Cumulative Reserve Subfund pursuant to C.B. 114201, if such Council Bill is passed, but otherwise, shall be deposited in the Unrestricted Account of the Cumulative Reserve Subfund in accordance with SMC 5.80.030. These proceeds may be used for property acquisition and related costs only.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty days from and after its passage and approval, if approved by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect at the time it shall become a law under the provisions of the City Charter.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 20___, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 20___. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___. ___________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___ ___________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: Public Bid Procedure for Disposing of Surplus Real Property Exhibit A: Quit Claim Deed Form

 November 7, 2001 5/20/02 V #2 ta ATTACHMENT A

 Public Bid

 Procedure for Disposing

 of Surplus Real Property

 The Fleets and Facilities Department (FFD) Real Estate Services Division shall have notified City departments and other public agencies of the property's availability and made a determination resolving any potential use proposed by a department or agency.

 The basis for disposing of property shall be by competitive bid. Each property is to be conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE PURCHASER'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. The City makes no representation or warranty whatsoever as to the condition of the property to be conveyed to the purchaser.

 If any property to be offered is located in an area zoned to permit the operation of retail business, the property will be offerred pursuant to the provisions of RCW 35.87.010.

 FFD shall prepare the form of a Quit Claim Deed, subject to Law Department review.

 Bid packets shall include a brief description of each property offered, a neighborhood map, an Offer Sheet and a Quit Claim Deed. Copies of the bid packet and other related documents shall be available to prospective bidders on request.

 Notice of the sale shall be given in general media publications including but not limited to the Seattle Daily Journal of Commerce and the Seattle Times, through direct mail to interested parties, and by such other means as determined to be reasonable, fair, and effective for the marketing of the property, including a posted "For Sale" sign on each site.

 Notice of the proposed offering shall be given to taxpayers within a three hundred (300) foot radius of each site being offered for sale.

 The successful bidder shall be the one offering the highest, acceptable price and agreeing to the terms of the Quit Claim Deed.

 An acceptable price shall be a price above a threshold set by FFD below which it may reject any and all bids. The threshold will be based on an opinion of value expressed as a range, and will not be made public prior to the bid opening.

 If the FFD Director determines that a competitive environment did not exist for any property, the bid or bids may be rejected. FFD will evaluate whether to readvertise or hold the property.Sales will be completed within thirty (30) days after acceptance of the bid.

 ATTACHMENT 1

 PMA NUMBER KING COUNTY TAX SIZE ZONING ASSESSED

 ACCOUNT NUMBER SQ. FT. VALUE (2002)

 77 713030-1295 35,700 SF 5000 $137,000

 1616 212404-9120 5,945 SF 5000 $35,000

 1616 212404-9121 11,175 SF 5000 $38,000

 1616 212404-9125 12,730 SF 5000 $40,000

 1631 157770-0215 5,160 SF 5000 $53,000

 1636 343850-1881 20,976 SF 5000 $78,000

 3793 343850-2732 20,976 SF 5000 $95,000

 PRELIMINARY REPORT

 EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR

 PMA No. 1616

 Resolution 29799 directs the Executive is to make its recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution. Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines that are to be considered in making a recommendation. This report addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the recommendation.

 Property Management Area: PMA No. 1616

 Vacant parcels at 31st Avenue S. and South Hudson St.

 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

 Legal Description: The south 249 feet of the north 403.5 feet of the west 150 feet of the east 330 feet of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 21, Township 24 North, Range 4 east, W.M., King County, Washington, except the south 50 feet thereof.

 Physical Description and Related Factors:

 This 29,850 SF property includes three tax parcels - PIN Nos. 212404- 9120, 212404-9121, and 212404-9125. Combined, these three parcels create a PMA that is rectangular in shape - 199 feet long on its east and west lines and 150 feet on the north and south. It is situated only a block and one-half west of Martin Luther King Jr. Way; however, there is presently no legal street or alley access to the property. The closest approach to the property is north on 31st Avenue S. (a narrow unimproved roadway which cuts across three privately owned parcels) from S. Dawson Street. The parcel is relatively heavily wooded with a variable topography that includes some moderately sloping areas, predominately upward from east to west. It is situated in a neighborhood with a wide range of lot sizes and a variety of housing styles. It is located in a single-family residential (SF 5000) zone and is surrounded by single-family homes or undeveloped lots.

 GUIDELINE A: CONSISTENCY

 The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.

 The three tax parcels comprising PMA No.1616 were purchased in 1959 under the provisions of City of Seattle Ordinance No. 88201 which authorized their purchase from King County in order to protect assessment liens and for possible future use for the proposed Empire Way Expressway. The City of Seattle received a Treasurer's Deed from King County that was recorded under # 5036133. The funds for the acquisition were appropriated from the Tax Property Sales Fund and the property became an asset of that fund, "not to be released for sale until the exact route of the proposed Empire Way Expressway has been established." Proceeds from the sale of this property will accrue to the General Fund. The city is not bound by any instrument or contract pertaining to this property and there are no known specific laws or regulations to which the property is subject.

 GUIDELINE B: COMPATIBILITY AND SUITABILITY

 The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space; in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development; as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.

 Context

 PMA No. 1616 is located within the city limits of Seattle. It is not within the boundaries of any Neighborhood Planning Area, and therefore, it was not specifically identified in the neighborhood planning process as a site that was either needed or desired for the implementation of community goals. A proposal to develop the site with 3-4 single-family residences targeted towards public housing residents as first-time homeowners did not proceed because of access and infrastructure deficiencies. The property has not been identified as a candidate for park or open space use and is not located within a Sound Transit station planning area. It has not been noted as a site to be used as or in support of childcare facilities or in support of priorities established by any relevant city policies.

 Range of Options.

 The options for disposition of this property include sale by public bid, negotiated sale, long -term ground lease, or retention by the city. No city department has identified any current or future use or need for the property. Therefore, neither a long-term lease nor retention by the city is in the best interest of the city. In 1996, Hoang Dinh of Maestro Development expressed an interest in buying the land since he holds title to adjoining parcels that could be used to provide access to the city property. While it is not beneficial for the city to offer the property only to this abutting owner, the interested party will be given notice of and pending sale and provided an opportunity to submit an offer to purchase the property. Sale by public bid is the most reasonable, fair, and equitable manner of selling this property.

 GUIDELINE C: OTHER FACTORS

 The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of the property.

 Highest and Best Use:

 This PMA is zoned SF 5000. The best use of these parcels would be for the development of 3-5 single-family residences.

 Compatibility with the physical characteristics:

 The site does hold a number of trees and several spots of moderately sloping topography. It is ideally suited for housing in a single- family neighborhood. The lack of legal access would need to be resolved through the establishment of easement rights over adjoining property or the extension or completion of the 31st Avenue South roadway between South Dawson and South Hudson Streets.

 Compatibility with surrounding uses:

 Surrounding uses of property are either single-family homes or undeveloped land. Therefore, the most appropriate use of the property is for the development of single family homes.

 Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property:

 The nearest city-owned property is PMA # 699, a 2010 SF parcel bordering the Northwest corner that is owned by SPU and identified as being storm drains and sewer. Consolidation of this PMA with the SPU property serves no conceivable public purpose. There are no other publicly owned parcels in the area.

 Timing and Term of Proposed Use:

 The City of Seattle does not propose any specific use for this property. It will be offered for sale by public bid with no conditions attached to use or development by the successful bidder.

 Appropriateness of the consideration:

 The property will be offered for sale to the highest acceptable bidder in a public bid process.

 The current assessed value of PMA No. 1616 is $113,000.

 Conditions in the real estate market:

 The real estate market in Seattle remains healthy. Interest rates have declined and real property is maintaining its value while the rate of appreciation has slowed only moderately. The demand for raw land has sustained its value.

 Known environmental factors:

 A review of property files and a site visit indicate that Phase 1 or Phase 2 environmental studies or investigations are not warranted. The property is moderately sloped in a few areas, but contains no critical areas of steep slopes or slide conditions.

 GUIDELINE D: SALE

 The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the property to non-City public entities and to members of the general public.

 Non-city public entities were notified concerning the excess nature of this property and only one, SHA, expressed an interest in developing the site into home-ownership units. However, SHA presented no specific plans for such a development and has now indicated that it no longer wants to propose involvement with this property. The interested adjoining property owner, Hoang Dinh of Maestro Development, will be provided an equal opportunity to bid as part of the bid-sale process. The public bid process is the most fair, equitable and competitive method for identifying a purchaser for the property. Notice of the public bid process will be sent to the property owners in the immediate neighborhood.

 RECOMMENDATION

 The Real Estate Services Division of the Fleets and Facilities Department recommends that PMA No. 1616 be offered for sale by public bid in accordance with procedures approved by the City Council.

 PRELIMINARY REPORT

 EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR

 PMA No. 1631

 Resolution 29799 directs the Executive is to make its recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution. Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines that are to be considered in making a recommendation. This report addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the recommendation.

 Property Management Area: PMA No. 1631 - Unused and Vacant Lane

 West of the Intersection of S. Juneau St. & 20th Ave. S.

 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

 Legal Description: Lot 2, Block 5, Christine Heights Addition to the City of Seattle, as recorded in Volume 20 of Plats, Page 64, Records of King County, Washington.

 Physical Description and Related Factors:

 This property parcel is almost perfectly rectangular in shape. It has equal dimensions of 40 feet on the East along its frontage with 20th Avenue South and also along its western boundary which fronts on a narrow platted alley that provides access to residences lying north and south of the subject property. Its northern boundary measures 129.14 feet and its southern boundary measures 128.97 feet. It contains a total lot area of .12 acre or 5160 square feet. Trees and dense brush consisting of blackberry tangles and assorted ground cover and several trees cover approximately one-half of the lot area. The land slopes evenly downward east to west at an overall 17% declination.

 Immediately West of the property across the alley lies the Maple School Ravine, a green space and natural area owned and managed by the Seattle Parks Department. A single-family residence occupies the property to the North. To the East across 20th Avenue South are three level and cleared lots which appear to have been prepared for development. To the South lies an unopened section of the platted S. Juneau Street which is primarily undeveloped but also partly used as a driveway by the owner of the property lying south of the unused right- of-way. PMA No. 1631 is located within a SF 5000 zone and is identified by the King County Assessor as Property Tax I.D. Number 157770-0215.

 GUIDELINE A: CONSISTENCY

 The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.

 PMA No. 1631 was acquired by the City of Seattle under the authority of Ordinance No. 93847, effective June 2, 1965. King County had foreclosed on the property for unpaid taxes and the City decided to purchase it in order to protect its own assessment liens and for possible future use as a right of way connecting the top of Beacon Hill with the freeway at the Albro Place interchange. According to the ordinance, the land became an asset of the Tax Property Sales Fund and could be sold at a future time should all or a portion of the property not be needed for the connector road. The deed from King County to the City of Seattle was filed and can be found under Auditor's Recording No. 5880263. The property is not bound any contracts, instruments or governmental laws or regulations.

 GUIDELINE B: COMPATIBILITY AND SUITABILITY

 The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space; in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development; as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.

 Context

 This property parcel is located within the city limits of Seattle. However it takes an attentive map-reader to find its location at the end of a labyrinth of unused rights-of-way and cut-off streets off Beacon Ave. S. Being somewhat isolated and also located outside of the boundaries of any recognized neighborhood planning area, it is not surprising that it was not identified as a site needed or desired for the implementation of community projects or the realization of community goals. It has sat vacant and unused since its acquisition in 1958 and was not incorporated into the proposed connector right-of- way between Beacon Hill and the Interstate Highway 5 because that project never materialized. Circulation of this PMA as an excess property in July 2001 engendered no interest in use or acquisition from any city department. The property has not been tabbed as a desirable location for park or open space use. It is not located within a Sound Transit station planning or proposed light rail route area. While once considered for participation in a Housing Design demonstration program, its potential as affordable housing has decreased as other sites are developed and lot values have appreciated. The property is neither favorably located nor suited for use or development in support of any known public priority reflected in adopted city policies.

 Range of Options.

 The options for disposition of this property include sale by public bid, negotiated sale, long-term ground lease, or retention by the city. No city department identified any current or future use for the property when it was circulated in July 2001. Therefore, neither a long-term lease nor retention of the property is in the city's best interests. There are no abutting owners who have expressed an interest in purchasing the property. Regardless, sale to an adjoining owner would be inconsistent with a competitive process, particularly since the parcel qualifies as a developable platted building lot. Sale by public build is the most reasonable fair and prudent method of disposition. All property owners within the immediate neighborhood will be given notice of the bid sale and an opportunity to submit an offer for the property.

 GUIDELINE C: OTHER FACTORS

 The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses,

 timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of the property.

 Highest and Best Use:

 This parcel is zoned SF 5000 - Single Family Residential with a minimum lot size of 5000 square feet. The highest and best and maximally productive use of the property site as vacant and available is single family residential development with one residence. The property has a current assessed value of $54,000.

 Compatibility with the physical characteristics:

 The site has similar topography to surrounding parcels that have been developed with single-family residences.

 Clearing of some of the vegetation that has accumulated over the years is no more than would be required for any comparable site preparation for construction of a modest residence. Legal access is available from both 20th Avenue south and the alley along the west side of the lot.

 Compatibility with surrounding uses:

 This property is located in a quiet residential area that exhibits a variety of housing styles. The area is beginning to evidence increased marketing of available and buildable single-family lots. The surrounding residential uses in this peaceful neighborhood would be supported by the development of a single family home on this site.

 Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property:

 The nearest public property to PMA No. 1631 is the Maple School Ravine. Referenced as PMA No. 1630, it is comprised of numerous parcels having a total area of 355,000 and lying to the west of the subject property.

 One such parcel lies directly across the alley from the western boundary line of PMA No. 1631. The Fleets and Facilities Department owns a 7358 SF parcel approximately two blocks to the north. It also abuts the Maple School Ravine. It will be circulated sometime in 2002. Consolidation of PMA No. 1631 with either of these city-owned properties is neither feasible nor desirable.

 Timing and Term of Proposed Use:

 The city of Seattle proposes no specific use for this property. It will be offered for sale by public bid with no conditions attached to use or development by the successful bidder.

 Appropriateness of the consideration:

 The property will be sold to the highest successful bidder through a competitive bid process.

 Conditions in the real estate market:

 The real estate market in Seattle remains healthy. Property values have not declined despite recessionary economic indicators. Declining mortgage and interest rates have bolstered the market and supported continuing demand for existing housing and building lots.

 Known environmental factors:

 Fleets and Facilities staff performed a due diligence inspection of the site. There is no evidence to suggest a need for further Phase I investigations. The site is overgrown with blackberry vines and other vegetation, indicative of nothing more than healthy growth.

 GUIDELINE D: SALE

 The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the property to non-City public entities and to members of the general public.

 Non-city public entities were notified concerning the excess nature of PMA No. 1631 in July 2001. None expressed an interest in acquiring it for their own needs. To date, no private parties have expressed an interest in buying the property. The potential for selling this property to the public in a bid sale scenario is extremely good. A public bid sale with broad notice and advertising will provide an opportunity for bidding to a wide range of potential buyers and create a competitive demand for the property. Notice of the public bid process will be sent to the property owners in the immediate neighborhood.

 RECOMMENDATION

 The Real Estate Services Division of the Fleets and Facilities Department recommends that PMA No. 1631 be offered for sale by public bid in accordance with procedures approved by the City Council.

 PRELIMINARY REPORT

 EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR

 PMA No. 1636

 Resolution 29799 directs the Executive is to make its recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution. Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines that are to be considered in making a recommendation. This report addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the recommendation.

 Property Management Area: PMA No. 1636

 Vacant parcels at 16th Avenue SW and SW Graham Street

 Seattle, Washington

 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

 Legal Description: That portion of Lot 2, Block 33, Homecroft Addition, as recorded in Volume 24 of Plats, Page 42, Records of King County, Washington, lying east of a line drawn midway between 16th Avenue SW and 17th Avenue SW.

 Physical Description and Related Factors:

 This property is rectangular in shape and lies on the West Side of 16th Avenue SW, across from South Seattle Community College. It has 184.20 feet of frontage along 16th Avenue SW and a depth of 113.75 feet along both its north and south boundary lines, for a total lot area of 20,953 square feet. The western half of the parcel is very level. The eastern side exhibits a sloping topography, climbing up to the eastern boundary along 16th SW for an elevation difference averaging 12 feet along the length of the property. The eastern border is graced by a variety of vegetation - trees, blackberries and other random groundcover. It is situated in a typical middle-class single-family neighborhood where the applicable zoning is SF 5000. Legal access is clear from 16th Avenue SW and possibly obtainable over existing driveways that stop at the southeast and northeast corners of the site. PMA No. 1636 is identified by the King County Assessor as Property Tax I.D. No. 343850-1881.

 GUIDELINE A: CONSISTENCY

 The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.

 In 1953, a King County Superior Court judgment foreclosed LID assessments for this and other property. In 1954, the property was sold to the City of Seattle at public sale. In 1956 the City Treasurer deeded it by LID Deed to the City of Seattle under recording number 4690683. In 1961 Ordinance 90731 authorized funds from the Tax Property Sales Fund to pay off the assessments. In 1990 Ordinance 115410 authorized sale of the property by competitive public bidding or by negotiated sale; however no sale occurred. The city is not bound by any instrument or contract pertaining to this property. There are no known laws or regulations to which the property is subject. Proceeds from the sale of this property are to accrue to the General Fund.

 GUIDELINE B: COMPATIBILITY AND SUITABILITY

 The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space; in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development; as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.

 Context

 PMA No. 1636 is located within the city limits of Seattle and more specifically within the boundaries of the Delridge Neighborhood Planning Area. It was not specifically identified in the neighborhood planning process as a site that was either needed or desired for the implementation of community goals. A proposal which looked at the property as a possible site for the development of 3-4 single-family houses targeted towards public housing residents as first-time homeowners never materialized. The property has not been identified as a candidate for park or open space use and is not located within a Sound Transit station planning area. It has not been noted as a site to be used as or in support of childcare facilities or in support of priorities established by any relevant city policies.

 Range of Options.

 The options for disposition of this property include sale by public bid, negotiated sale, long-term ground lease, or retention by the city. After circulation of the property in July 2001, no city department or agency identified any current or future use or need for the property. Therefore, neither a long-term lease nor retention of the property is in the city's best interest. There are no adjoining property owners who have expressed an interest in acquiring either part or all of the property. Sale by public bid is the most reasonable, fair, and competitive method of selling this property. All property owners within 300 feet of the subject property will be notified concerning the bid sale and provided an opportunity to submit offers.

 GUIDELINE C: OTHER FACTORS

 The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of the property.

 Highest and Best Use:

 This parcel is zoned Single Family Residential - SF 5000. The highest and best use of this land as vacant would be for the development of 3- 4 single-family residences. The 2001 assessed value is $71,000.

 Compatibility with the physical characteristics:

 This parcel is not only zoned but it is also physically suited for housing development. Minimal site improvements would need to be made to make it ready for development. Some of the trees would require removal and the eastern high ground would undergo some excavation. The neighborhood is a desirable residence location and it has exhibited good demand for the existing residential properties.

 Compatibility with surrounding uses:

 The surrounding uses are single family residences and the community college across 16th Avenue SW. Development of additional single- family residences that are designed and built in a manner consistent with the neighborhood character would fit well into the community.

 Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property

 The nearest public property to PMA No. 1636 is the South Seattle Community College. The college is not interested in extending its grounds across 16th Avenue SW. There are several city properties nearby, but not adjacent to PMA No. 1636. To the southeast six blocks away is the Riverview Playfield - PMA No.463 -- and 4 blocks in the same direction are the Seatran Soundway Properties - PMA No. 4004. Four blocks to the south at 17th Avenue SW and SW Holly Street lies PMA # 3793, another surplus property in line to be sold. Consolidation of this PMA with any of these properties is neither desirable nor feasible.

 Timing and Term of Proposed Use:

 The City of Seattle does not propose any specific use for this property. It will be offered for sale by public bid with no conditions attached to use or development by the successful bid

 Appropriateness of the consideration:

 The property will be sold to the highest successful bidder in accordance with the procedures as approved by the City Council. Legislation will direct the Real Estate Services Division of the Fleets and Facilities Department to accept the highest competitive offer.

 Conditions in the real estate market:

 The real estate market in Seattle remains strong. Interest rates have declined and real property is maintaining its value while the rate of appreciation has slowed only moderately. The demand for raw land has sustained value.

 Known environmental factors:

 A review of property files and a site visit indicate that Phase 1 or Phase 2 environmental studies or investigations are not warranted. The property is slightly sloped along its eastern 30 feet.

 GUIDELINE D: SALE

 The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the property to non-City public entities and to members of the general public.

 Non-city public entities were notified concerning the excess nature of this property in 1998 and only one, SHA, expressed an interest in developing the site into home-ownership units. However, SHA presented no specific plans for such a development. When contacted again in July 2001, SHA has now indicated that it no longer wants to propose involvement with this property. Members of the general public will be provided an opportunity to bid on the property as part of the sale process. The public bid procedure is the most fair, equitable and competitive method for identifying a purchaser for the property. Notice of the public bid process will be sent to the property owners in the immediate neighborhood.

 RECOMMENDATION

 The Real Estate Services Division of the Fleets and Facilities Department recommends that PMA No. 1636 be offered for sale by public bid in accordance with procedures approved by the City Council.

 PRELIMINARY REPORT EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR PMA # 3793

 Resolution 29799 directs the Executive is to make its recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution. Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines that are to be considered in making a recommendation. This report addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the recommendation.

 Property Management Area: PMA # 3793 - Vacant Lot at 17th Ave SW & SW Holly St.

 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

 Legal Description: The West half of Lot 3, Block 47, Homecroft Addition, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 24 of Plats, page 42, in the records of King County, Washington.

 Physical Description and Related Factors: This property is identified by the King County Assessor as Property Tax I.D. No. 343850-2732. This 20,953 square foot parcel is rectangular in shape, approximately 184.2 feet by 113.75 feet. It is relatively flat, with a slight slope downward to the east. It is located at the intersection of 17th Avenue SW and SW Holly Streets. 17th Avenue SW is a paved two-lane residential access street without curbs, gutters, or sidewalks. All utilities are available. It is zoned SF 5000 - Single Family Residential - and is surrounded by single family homes. There is a possibility of a small non-critical wetland on part of the site.

 GUIDELINE A: CONSISTENCY The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations. This property was acquired for general corporate purposes, under the authority of Ordinance No. 91075, by the City of Seattle in fee simple from Tom M. Schmit by Warranty Deed dated December 15, 1961. In 1991 Ordinance No. 11583 transferred full jurisdiction to DAS (now Fleets and Facilities) and the General Fund. The City is neither bound by any contract or instrument concerning this property nor is the property subject to any other governmental laws or regulations.

 GUIDELINE B: COMPATIBILITY AND SUITABILITY The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as or in support of low- income housing, in support of economic development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space; in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development; as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.

 Context This property is located within the City of Seattle limits and within the Delridge Neighborhood Planning Area. It was not specifically identified in the neighborhood plan as a site needed for the implementation of community goals. An earlier attempt by the City of Seattle to sell the property to Habitat for Humanity for the construction of four units of single-family housing was never finalized. It has not been identified as suitable for parks and open space use and is not within a Sound Transit development area.

 Range of Options Options include sale by public bid, negotiated sale, long-term ground lease, or retention by the City. No city department has identified any current of future use or need for the property. Considering its location, neither a long-term ground lease nor retention of the property is in the best interest of the City. There are presently no parties of record interested in acquiring the property. There is no specific benefit to be gained by the City from offering the property only to the abutting property owner. Therefore, sale by public bid is most reasonable and prudent manner in which to dispose of this property.

 GUIDELINE C: OTHER FACTORS The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of the property.

 Highest and Best Use The highest and best use of the property is division into four lots for residential development. With a zoning of SF 5000, this 20953 square foot lot allows division into four 5000+ SF lots with a residence on each.

 Compatibility with the physical characteristics: The site is practically level with a slight slope eastward. It is ideally suited for housing in a long established neighborhood with shopping, schools, and other amenities nearby. An Environmentally Critical Area (ECA) exception may be needed to reduce required buffer to gain sufficient lot size, depending upon wetland determination.

 Compatibility with surrounding uses: The most appropriate use of the property is for residential development. Such use would be consistent with the surrounding neighborhood.

 Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property: There is city property adjacent to the subject property. SEATRAN owns several parcels - PMA Nos. 3794 and 3795 - about two blocks south on 18th Ave. SW, and a set of parcels, - PMA No. 4004 - several blocks to the northeast. Consolidation with these parcels is neither needed nor feasible. Also, there is no other publicly-owned property in the area.

 Timing and Term of Proposed Use: The City proposes no specific use. The property will be offered for sale by public bid.

 Appropriateness of the consideration: The property will be sold to the highest successful bidder. The legislation will authorize the Fleets and Facilities Department to accept the highest competitive offer. The current assessed value of PMA No. 3793 is $ 95,000.

 Known environmental factors: A review of the files and a transaction screening at the site has been done. There was no evidence to suggest that further Phase 1 or Phase 2 investigations are needed. The existence of a possible wetland on part of the site has been documented.

 GUIDELINE D: SALE The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the property to non-City public entities and to members of the general public.

 Fleets and Facilities staff has not received any inquiries or offers to purchase this property from any private parties. Non-city public entities were notified concerning the excess nature of the property in 1998 and 2001 and none expressed an interest in acquiring it for their needs. A public bid will provide a fair and equitable process for identifying a purchaser for this property. Notice of the public bid process will be sent to property owners in the immediate neighborhood.

 RECOMMENDATION The Real Estate Services Division of the Fleets and Facilities Department recommends that PMA No. 3793 be offered for sale by public bid according to procedures approved by the City Council.

 PRELIMINARY REPORT

 EVALUATION OF REUSE & DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR

 PMA #77 Arrowsmith Property

 Resolution 29799 directs that the Executive is to make its recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution. Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines, which are to be considered in making a recommendation. This report addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the recommendation.

 Property Management Area: PMA #77 - Arrowsmith Property

 Eastside of Arrowsmith Avenue S., approx.

 150 feet south of the intersection of Arrowsmith

 and Norfolk Street South

 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

 Legal Description: Lots 4, 5 and 6, Block 32 Rainier Beach Addition, recorded in Vol. 8 of Plats, Page 11, Records of King County, WA, together with Lots 28 through 33, inclusive, Block 32, 2nd Subdivision of Rainier Beach Addition, recorded in Vol. 11 of Plats, Page 71, Records of King County, WA.

 Physical Description and Related Factors: The site is rectangular in shape, sloped, wooded, and divided by a gravel alley. Total lot area is 35,700 square feet. It consists of nine platted lots. Lots 4, 5, and 6 are each 50 by 125 foot lots with 50 feet of frontage on Rainier Avenue S. Lots 28 thru 33 are each 113 by 25 feet and front on Arrowsmith Avenue S. The property is located directly north of 9833 Rainier Ave. S., south of Rainier Beach. There are critical areas and two known slide occurrences in the area of the site. It's King County Tax Parcel Identification Number is 713030-1295.

 GUIDELINE A: CONSISTENCY

 The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.

 Ordinance 41513 was passed by the City Council on October 18, 1920 as an emergency to provide a drainage area for property to the north and south. The sum of $1,500 was appropriated from the General Fund to make the purchase. There are no reversionary rights included in the Warranty Deed conveying the property to the City.

 Guideline B: Compatibility and Suitability

 The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space; in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development; as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.

 Context.

 The property is located within the City of Seattle, but not wihin any neighborhood planning area. It is not particularly suited to meet specific City of Seattle needs. The terrain of the site does not lend itself to the construction of low-income housing or affordable housing because of the additional development costs associated with site preparation. Neither the Parks Department nor the neighborhood community has expressed interest in dedicating the property to parks or open space use. The property is not located near the Sound Transit alignment.

 Range of Options

 Options include sale by public bid, negotiated sale, long-term ground lease, or retention by the City. Given that no City department has identified any current or future use for the property, and given the location of the property, neither the long-term ground lease or retention of the property are in the best interests of the City. There are no parties of record interested in acquiring the property, and no particular benefit to the City from offering the property only to an abutting owner; therefore, sale by public bid is in the best interest of the City.

 Guideline C: Other Factors

 The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of the property.

 Highest and Best Use

 The highest and best use is as single-family housing. The 35,700 square foot site is comprised of 9 platted lots. While zoning is SF 5000, the presence of critical areas and the sloping topography would likely limit development to six single-family homes. Additional DCLU requirements could affect the ultimate development capacity of the land.

 Compatibility with the physical characteristics

 The site is sloped and access from Rainier Avenue South is limited because of the traffic thereon. There is 150 feet of frontage and open legal access off Arrowsmith Avenue South. Since vehicle access is available via the platted alley which bisects the property, the land shows good potential for housing development, particularly since views of Lake Washington are afforded. Although the terrain is steep, predominantly along Rainier and Arrowsmith Avenues, at least twenty homes have been built in immediate vicinity since 1908, and most recently in 1984.

 Compatibility with surrounding uses

 The most likely use of the property is for single-family housing. This use would be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.

 Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property

 The only other city property located in the vicinity are two SPU facilities - PMA No. 3672, Pumpstation 80, located at 3722 Rainier Ave. S. and PMA No. 3957, a sewer line at 9910 Rainier Ave. S. There are no other public properties in the immediate area.

 Timing and Term of Proposed Use

 No specific use is proposed. The property will be offered for sale by public bid, with the purchaser likely constructing single-family housing.

 Appropriateness of the consideration

 The property will be offered for sale to the highest acceptable bidder in a public bid process. The current assessed value is $137,000.

 Conditions in the real estate market

 The real estate market in Seattle remains healthy. Interest rates have declined abd real property is maintaining its value while the rate of appreciation has slowed only moderately. The demand for raw land has sustained its value.

 Known environmental factors:

 FFD performed a Transaction Screening at the site and reviewed the findings internally. Staff noted a five gallon bucket at the site and it appears that there has been some yard-waste (grass clippings and leaves) dumping at the site. Additionally, there are accumulated leaves of undetermined origin along the street edge immediately off the sidewalk on Arrowsmith Avenue South. Departmental files confirm that, with the exception of the obvious sloping terrain, there are no other known environmental factors that prevent offering this property for sale.

 Guideline D: Sale

 The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the property to non-City public entities and to members of the general public.

 This property was circulated in July, 2001 with no interest being expressed by non-city public entities. The Fleets and Facilities Departments has no filed records of any private parties expressing interest in obtaining this property. Sale by public bid will provide a fair and equitable process for identifying a purchaser for the site. Notice of the public bid process will be sent to taxpayers in the immediate neighborhood.

 RECOMMENDATION

 The Real Estate Services Division recommends that this property be offered for sale by public bid in accordance with procedures approved by the City Council.

```
