

********

**Council Bill Number: 114171**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120818**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Section 22.900B, General Provisions; Section 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Section 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Section 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; and Section 22.900F, Fees for Compliance and Other Inspections.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 10, 2002
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 13, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 13, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 6, 2002
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-DESIGN-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, FEES, PERMITS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: 119255

**Fiscal Note:**114171

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Section 22.900B, General Provisions; Section 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Section 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Section 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; and Section 22.900F, Fees for Compliance and Other Inspections.

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Section 22.900A.030.D, SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is repealed.

 Section Subsection 22.900A.060 B, SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 B. ~~Nonsufficient~~Not Sufficient Funds Fees. Whenever checks accepted prove not to be covered by sufficient funds, the person or persons responsible for payment of the fee shall be billed, payable immediately, for the remainder of the fees due and a $20.00 charge. This shall be in addition to the delinquent fees assessed in 22.900A.060 A.

 Section Subsection 22.900B.020 D, SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 D. ~~Property a~~Address Change. The fee to correct the ~~property~~ address on an application or, if applicable, on an issued permit is $26. When an address change is requested which is unrelated to an application for a permit or for an issued permit, a fee ~~at the rate of~~ one times the base fee shall be assessed.

 Section Subsection 22.900B.060 A, SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 A. According to standards promulgated by the Director, the Department ~~shall~~may assess an additional fee for the plan examination of previous designs when a subsequent redesign of a project is submitted prior to permit issuance ~~but after previous designs have been examined~~. The revision fee shall be assessed at the hourly rate not to exceed the ~~permit~~ fee that would have been charged for the original design. The total ~~permit~~ fee is the fee for the final design plus the revision fee.

 Section Subsection 22.900C.010 D, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 D. Time of Payment.

 1. The following fees are due prior to application or provision of service:

 a. Pre-application Fee. The fee for land use pre-application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

 b. Design Review Fee for Type A Land Use Reviews. One-half the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($810) shall be paid upon application for the design review pre-design process.

 c. Design Review Fee for Type B Land Use Reviews.~~:~~ One-half the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 for Type C land use review ($~~1,316~~1,949.

 2. The following fees and amounts are due at the time of application or provision of service:

 a. Minimum Land Use Review Fee. The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director may require an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

 b. Design Review Fee for Type A Land Use Reviews. The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($810) shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.

 c. Design Review Fee for Type B Land Use Reviews. The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 for Type C land use review ($~~1,316~~1,948 shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.

 3. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below:

 a. All outstanding land use fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees ~~owned~~owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 b. For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due to date plus an estimated charge for future work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. After final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

 Section Subsection 22.900C.010 G, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is repealed.

 Section Subsection 22.900C.010 H, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

~~H~~I. Refunds.

 1. Nonrefundable Fees. Fees for preapplication conferences and environmental signs are not refundable.

 2. Calculating Refunds for Land Use Fees. The amount of land use review fee that may be refunded is calculated as follows.

 a. For refunds requested before a required notice is complete, the amount eligible for refund is 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee plus 100% of the hourly deposit, if any, paid by the applicant.

 b. For refunds requested after notice is complete and for applications for which notice is not required, the amount eligible for refund is the number of hours of review time multiplied by $250, subtracted from the amount paid by the applicant. The amount refunded shall not exceed 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee.

 Section Section 22.900D.010, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.010 Development permit fees.

 A. General. The development fee shall cover the application, review and inspection process associated with new construction, additions, alterations, and repairs to existing buildings and establishment of use. The development fee shall consist of a permit fee and, where plans are reviewed, a separate plan review fee. The permit fee and plan review fee shall be determined based on valuation, except as provided below.

 B. Time of Payment of Fees. Fees collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final Department fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, provided that hourly fees may be collected earlier, as described in Section 22.900B.010 D. Any fee in excess of the final calculated fee shall be refunded pursuant to Section 22.900B.050 and 22.900D.010 K.

 If, during the initial review, the previously-collected fee is determined to be less than 90 percent of the estimated fee, the review work subsequent to the initial review will not proceed until the discrepancy is paid to the Department.

 1. Amount Due Prior to Application. Fees for building preapplication conference shall be paid prior to the conference. See ~~22.900D.010H~~22.900D.010 I for building preapplication conference fees.

 2. Amounts Due at Time of Application. The following amounts are due at the time of application.

 a. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits without plan review shall pay a fee for subject-to-field inspection (STFI) permits equal to the permit fee specified in Table D-2.

 b. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits with plan review shall pay the plan review fee plus one-half the permit fee as specified in Table D-2.

 c. For other applications, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application.

 C. Determination of Value.

 1. The Director shall determine the value of construction for which the permit is issued (the estimated current value of all labor and materials, whether actually paid or not, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems, automatic sprinkler systems, other mechanical systems, retaining walls, rockeries and any other permanent work or permanent equipment, but not including furnishings). The building valuation data from the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) as published in "Building Standards" and other valuation criteria approved by the Director will be used to determine the value of construction.

 2. ~~The gross area, used in conjunction with the ICBO building valuation and other data to determine the valuation of a building project, means the total area of all floors, measured from the exterior face, outside dimensions or exterior column line of a building, including basements, cellars and balconies, but not including unexcavated areas. Where walls and columns are omitted in the construction of a building, such as an open shed or marquee, the exterior wall of the open side or sides, for purposes of calculating gross area, is the edge of the roof, including gutters.~~3. The valuation for uncovered structures such as roof parking areas, plazas, piers, platforms, commercial decks and similar uncovered usable structures shall be computed on one-half the gross area.

 4.

 Dish or Panel Antennae. The fee for processing applications for installation of a dish or panel antenna shall be charged on the value of the foundation and supports constructed for the installation. The value of the dish or panel antenna shall not be included in the determination of value.

~~5~~3. The development fee for parks and playgrounds shall be based on the project value, including the value of improvements for structures incidental to the park or playground such as retaining walls, rockeries and restrooms, but shall not include the value of playground equipment.~~~~~~6~~4. The valuation shall be based on the highest type of construction to which a proposed structure most nearly conforms, as determined by the Director.

 D. Phased Permits

 1. When a new building project is proposed to be built in phases and the Director determines that separate development permits may be issued for portions of the project, the development fee for initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-2, except excavating permits shall be based on Section 22.900D.145. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the new building project minus the sum of the fees for the initial permits, with no credit for an shoring or excavation permit fee.

 2. In addition to the fee specified in 22.900D.010 D 1 above, ~~W~~where an applicant requests division of an already- submitted permit application with a value of $5,000,000 or less into separate applications, a~~n additional~~ fee of one times the base fee shall be charged for each separate application (including the original application which results from the division). Where the application has a value of more than $5,000,000 the additional fee shall be two times the base fee for each application.

 E. Calculation of Development Fees. The development fee for a permit shall be calculated as described in this section~~:~~. Table D-1 establishes the development fee index for value-based development fees. Except as specified in Section 22.900D.010 F below, Table D-2 establishes the permit fee and plan review fee, calculated as a percentage of the development fee index where determined by value. If two or more buildings are allowed under one permit, they shall be assessed fees as separate buildings under Table D-2. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total development fee for the permit.

 Table D-1 - CALCULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT FEE INDEX

 Total Valuation

 Development Fee Index

 $0.00 to $1,000.00

 $95.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,001.00 to

 $50,000.00

 $95.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $1.00 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,001.00 to $100,000.00

 $585.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus $0.75 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,001.00 to $250,000.00

 $960.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $5.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $250,001.00 to $500,000.00

 $1,710.00 for the first $250,000.00 plus $4.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $500,001.00 to $750,000.00

 $2,898.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $750,001.00 to $1,000,000.00

 $4,023.00 for the first $750,000.00 plus $4.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,000,001.00 to $2,000,000.00

 $5,085.00 for first $1,000,000.00 plus $4.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $2,000,001.00 to $3,000,000.00

 $9,085.00 for first $2,000,000.00 plus $3.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,000,001.00 to $4,000,000.00

 $12,835.00 for first $3,000,000.00 plus $3.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $4,000,001.00 to $5,000,000.00

 $16,335.00 for first $4,000,000.00 plus $3.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $5,000,001.00 to

 $50,000,000.00

 $19,585.00 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $2.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,000,001.00 to

 $100,000,000.00

 $143,335.00 for the first $50,000,000.00 plus $2.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,000,001.00 to

 $200,000,000.00

 $255,835.00 for the first $100,000,000.00 plus $1.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $200,000,001.00 and up

 $430,835.00 for the first $200,000,000.00 plus $0.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE

 Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D-11

 Type of Development

 Permit Fee

 Plan Review Fee

 1. Building, with or without mechanical, with or without use2,3

 100% of DFI

 100% of DFI

 2. STFI (Subject to field inspection - building and/or mechanical without plan review)

 100% of DFI

 none

 3. Reserved

 Reserved

 Reserved

 4. Mechanical permit separate from building permit3 (See also Section 22.900D.090)

 100% of DFI

 100% of DFI

 5. Blanket permit review fees:

 a. Initial tenant alterations within 3 years of first tenant permit within a building where the area of work is more than 50,000 square feet

 $1.50 per 100 square feet1

 $1.70 per 100 square feet1

 b. Initial tenant alterations after 3 years of first tenant permit, and other tenant alterations

 100% of DFI

 40% of DFI

 6. Initial tenant alterations within 18 months of first tenant permit (non-blanket permit initial tenant improvements to shell and core)4

 25% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core

 25% of DFI based on new building value of shell and core

 7. Standard plans:

 a. Establishment of standard plan, including temporary structures. (For swimming pools, see Item ~~16~~14 below.)

 100% of DFI

 100% of DFI

 b. Establishment of already-permitted plan as standard plan

 100% of DFI

 None

 c. Subsequent reviews of standard plan, other than temporary structures

 100% of DFI

 40% of DFI

 d. Subsequent reviews of standard plans for temporary structures

 See Item ~~17~~15 below

 See Item ~~17~~15 below

 8. Factory-built housing and commercial structures

 Base fee x 1; base fee x 1 for each module up to 10 modules for multistory multifamily structures

 Base Fee x 1

 Special Development Fees

 Type of Development

 Permit Fee

 Plan Review Fee

 9. Establishing use for the record:

 a. Applications with no construction

 Base fee x 1.5

 None

 b. Applications with construction

 100% of DFI

 100% of DFI

 10. Noise survey reviews

 None

 $125 per hour; 30-minute minimum

 11. Parking facilities

 a. Outside a building

 See Sec. 22.900D.060

 b. Within or on a building

 See Sec. 22.900D.010 C

 12. Renewal fees

 a. Development permits and separate mechanical permits where original plans will be changed

 $125 per hour

 $125 per hour

 b. Development permits other than separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

 Base fee x 1.5

 c. Separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

 Base fee x 1

 13. ~~Residential oil storage tanks~~

~~See Table D-8~~

~~14~~. Special inspection

 Base fee x 1

~~15~~14. Swimming pools5

 a. Unenclosed pools accessory to Group R-3 occupancy

 Base fee x 4

 b. Unenclosed pools accessory to occupancies other than Group R-3

 Base fee x 6

 c. Principal use unenclosed pools

 Base fee x 6

 d. Future construction of an unenclosed swimming pool

 Base fee x 1

 e. Initial approval of standard plan for swimming pool accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy

 Base fee x 5

 f. Subsequent review of application based on approved swimming pool standard plan

 Base fee x 1.5

~~16~~15. Temporary structures, such as commercial coaches; renewal of permits for temporary structures6

 Base fee x 2 per structure

~~17~~16. Temporary tents, off-site construction offices and similar facilities

 Base fee x 2 plus $500 refundable deposit per site7

~~18~~17. Temporary use permits:

 a. For 4 weeks or less8

 Base fee x 1.5

 b. For more than 4 weeks8

 Base fee x 2

 Notes to Table D-2:

 1. The minimum permit fee or plan review fee for value-based fees is $95.00.

 2. The minimum fee for accessory dwelling units is $180.00.

 3. When there is no separate mechanical permit, the value of mechanical equipment included in the building permit application shall be included in the project value for the building permit.

 4. This fee is applicable only to those initial tenants that reflect the use and occupancy established in the shell and core permit. The value used shall be the new construction value used in calculating value for the core and shell permit.

 5. When a swimming pool is located within an enclosed building and is included in the building plans for that building, a separate fee shall not be charged for the swimming pool. The swimming pool area will be considered as floor area of the principal occupancy of the building.

 6. This fee shall not apply to any on-site, temporary construction office where a valid building permit is in force.

 7. All costs to the City for site cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before the deposit is refunded.

 8. Master use permit fees for such temporary uses shall be charged according to Table C-1.

 F. Blanket Permits.

 1. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations within the first three years of the first tenant alteration permit shall be charged at the rate of $3.20 per 100 square feet of space to be improved within the life of the permit. A deposit based on the estimated value of the work to be completed during the life of the permit shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the amount of the fee equivalent to the floor space examined shall be deducted from the deposit per Table D-2.

 2. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover nonstructural tenant alterations in previously-occupied space, or to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations after three years of the first tenant alteration permit, is $95. A deposit based on the estimated value of the proposed work within 18 months shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the fee for the work to be done shall be calculated according to Table D-2 and deducted from the deposit.

 3. When the estimated blanket fee deposit is used up in less time than the life of the permit and work remains to be done, an additional deposit shall be paid based on the estimated floor area remaining to be improved during the remaining life of the permit. When a portion of the deposit is unused at the end of the life of the permit and work remains to be done, credit for the balance of the deposit may be transferred from the expiring permit to a new blanket permit. To minimize additional accounting costs associated with blanket permits, where more than two deposits are made during the life of the blanket permit, the minimum amount of each subsequent deposit shall be $2,000.

 G. Revisions to Issued Permits. Fees for revisions to issued permits shall be charged according to standards promulgated by the Director that approximate the additional cost of reviewing the revisions. A nonrefundable fee of one times the Base Fee shall be paid at the time the revisions are submitted.  H.

 Certificate of Occupancy. The issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for existing buildings, either where no Certificate of Occupancy has previously been issued or where a Change of Occupancy is requested, requires a building permit. When there is no construction valuation (there is no work which would require a building permit), the minimum building permit fee shall be assessed. In addition to the minimum building permit fee, where records research, plan examination or inspection is required, charges shall be assessed at the rate of $125 per hour. Where work is being done as authorized by a permit, the permanent Certificate of Occupancy fee is not assessed in addition to the building permit fee. The fee for a temporary Certificate of Occupancy shall be charged at the rate of one-half the base fee. The fee for the duplication of a Certificate of Occupancy is $16 unless records research, plan examination or inspection is required, in which case charges shall be assessed at the rate of $125 per hour.

~~H~~I. Building Preapplication Conferences.

 1. Required building preapplication conferences. When there is a requirement for a preapplication or predesign conference, such as buildings subject to the Seattle Building Code special provisions for atria (Section 402), or highrise buildings (Section 403), 35 percent of the estimated plan review fee for the structure shall be charged and paid as specified in Section 22.900D.010 B, and applied toward the development permit fee. (See Table C-1 for land use preapplication conference fees.)

 2. Other Building Preapplication Conferences. When a preapplication conference is requested by the applicant but is not required by Code, a fee equal to one and one-half times the base fee shall be paid no later than the time of the conference. Such fee is required for each meeting held on a project, and will be applied toward the future permit application fee provided:

 a. The project is identified by the proper address at the time of the preapplication conference; and

 b. The permit application is made within six months of the date of the preapplication conference.

~~I~~J. Correction Penalty Fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $250 will be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of adequate response from the applicant.

~~J~~K. Refunds.

 1. Refunds of development permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-3. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 2. Refunds shall not be given for the following fees:

 a. Demolition permits;

 b. Renewal or reestablishment of permits; and

 c. Preapplication conferences.

 Table D-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS of DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES

 I. Application Filed, Permit Not Issued.

 Stage in Review Process

 Amount of Permit Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 50% of Total Permit Fee Calculation1

 Amount of Plan Review Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 100% of Total Plan Review Fee Calculation

 A. Application filed, plans not routed

 40%

 90%

 B. Plans routed for initial review, review not complete

 20%

 80%

 C. Initial review completed, plans not approved

 0%

 70%

 D. Initial review completed, routed for first correction review, review of first corrections not completed

 0%

 60%

 E. Review of first corrections completed, plans not approved

 0%

 50%

 F. Plans routed for review of second corrections, but review not completed

 0%

 40%

 G. Review of second corrections completed, plans not approved

 0%

 30%

 H. Review of third corrections not completed

 0%

 20%

 I. Review of third corrections completed, plans not approved

 0%

 10%

 J. Application approved, permit not issued

 0%

 0%

 II. Permit Issued2

 Stage in Review Process

 Amount of Permit Fee Eligible for Refund Based on 100% of Total Permit Fee Calculation

 Amount of Plan Review Fee Eligible for Refund

 Permit issued, work not started

 25%

 0%

 Permit issued, work started

 0%

 0%

 Note to Table D-3:

 1. Fifty percent of the estimated permit fee is paid at the time the application is submitted. The amount refunded before the permit is issued is a percentage of the fifty percent.

 2. After the permit is issued, the entire permit fee has been paid. Therefore, the amount to be refunded after issuance is based on 100 percent of the permit fee.

~~K~~L. Renewals. Fees for renewal of permits shall be charged according to Table D-2. When the fee for a new permit would be less than one and one-half times the base fee, then the fee to renew the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

~~L~~M. Reestablishment. The following fee shall be charged for reestablishment of development permits:

 1. One and one-half times the base fee; plus

 2. If plan review had been required for the original permit, an additional amount of $1.50 per $1,000 of value of work that was not completed and inspected under the expired permit shall be charged; plus

 3. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at $125 per hour.

 The maximum fee for reestablishment is ten times the base fee.

 When the fee for a new permit would be less than one and one-half times the base fee, then the fee to reestablish the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 Section Subsection 22.900D.060 D, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119766, is further amended as follows:

 D. The fee for renewal or reestablishment of a permit for a parking facility is one and one-half times the base fee where there are no changes in the plans. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at $125 per hour.

 Section Section 22.900D.090, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.090 Permit fees for mechanical equipment and systems, other than boilers and pressure vessels and refrigeration systems.

 A. Mechanical permit fees for the installation, replacement or major alteration of heating equipment, incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances shall be charged as set in Table D-8. Fees shall be charged for each furnace when it is applied for without plans. No separate fee shall be charged for a furnace when it is included in plans for a mechanical air-~~handling~~moving system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 B. Mechanical permits are considered part of a building permit, with no additional fee, when mechanical plans are reviewed at the same time as structural and architectural plans for the same building project. The fees for a separate mechanical permit for installation, alteration or repair of mechanical air-~~handling~~moving systems, including ducts attached thereto, associated nonresidential heating and cooling equipment, and mechanical exhaust hoods, including ducts attached thereto, are charged per Table D-2.

 C. ~~Mechanical Permits Subject to Energy Code. The fees for Energy Code review are included in the fees in Tables D-2 and D-8.~~D. Simple Mechanical Permits. The fee for work which the Director determines qualifies for a simple mechanical permit is $650 for five permits, each having a value of $130. Each $130 permit may be applied to work with a value up to $7,000.

~~E The fee to renew a mechanical permit shall be as specified in Table D-2.~~ The fee to renew or reestablish a furnace permit is one-half the base fee.

~~F. The fee to reestablish a wood stove or furnace permit is one- half the Base Fee.~~

 Table D-8 - PERMIT FEES FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT1

 Type of Installation

 Fee

 Forced air, gravity-type, or floor furnace~~1~~, gas or oil suspended heater, heat pump, recessed wall heater or floor-mounted space heater, wall furnace, circulating heater or woodstove/fireplace insert, including ducts and burners attached thereto

 $80 per unit~~3~~2

 New gas or oil burners and newly installed used gas or oil burners~~2~~1

 $80 per unit~~3~~2

 Appliance vents Class A, B, BW or L when installed separately

 $64 per unit~~3~~2

 Mechanical air-~~handling~~moving systems

 See Table D-2

 Appliances or equipment or other work not classed in other categories, or for which no other fee is listed.

 Hourly at $125 per hour. Minimum of one-half times the base fee

 Notes to Table D-8:

 1. ~~Renewal of a furnace permit shall be charged at the rate of one-half times the base fee.~~2.

 See Table D-12 for rates for burners installed in boilers.

~~3~~2. Fees shall be charged for furnaces when they are applied for without plans. No fee shall be charged for furnaces when they are included in plans for a mechanical air-~~handling~~ moving system submitted for a mechanical permit.

~~G~~D. Refunds. Refunds of mechanical equipment permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-9.

 Table D-9 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT FEES

 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process

 Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit is issued; no work started.

 25%

 Permit is issued; work started.

 0% (No refund allowed)

 Section Section 22.900D.100, SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.100 Refrigeration equipment and systems.

 A. Fees for the installation, addition, repair, replacement and alteration of refrigeration equipment and systems shall be charged as set in Table D-10.

 B. Temporary installations of 10 days' duration or less, made for the purposes of exhibition, display or demonstration shall be charged a fee of $29 for each installation.

 Table D-10 - REFRIGERATION PERMIT FEES1

 Type or Size of System/Equipment

 Fee

 Basic fee2

 $29

 Additional installation fee per compressor

 0-5 HP

 $ 29

 6-25 HP

$ 59

 26-100 HP

$ 119

 101-500 HP

$ 156

 Over 500 HP

$ 193

 Repair and alteration (value of work)

 $0 - $1,000

 $29

 $1,001 - $5,000

 $44

$5,001-$10,000

$74

 Over $~~5,000~~10,000

 $74 plus $29/each $5,000 or fraction thereof of valuation above $10,000

 Notes to Table D-10:

 1. Where the application for permit shows cooling tonnage rather than horsepower, the fees of this table shall apply at a rate of one horsepower equals one ton of cooling capacity.

2. The basic fee applies to new installations, repairs and alterations.

C. Refunds. Refunds of refrigeration permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-11.

 Table D-11 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF REFRIGERATION FEES

~~MECHANICAL~~REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process

 Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit is issued; no work started.

 25%

 Permit is issued; work started

 0% (No refund allowed)

D. The fee to renew or reestablish a refrigeration permit is one- half the base fee.

 Section Section 22.900D.110, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.110 New installations and alterations of boilers and pressure vessels.

 A. Fees for the installation of boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged as set in Table D-12. The fee for alteration or repair of boilers and pressure vessels when an inspection is required is a minimum fee of one-half times the base fee and a fee for inspection time beyond the first one-half hour of $125 per hour.

 B. ~~Boiler Permits Subject to Energy Code. The Energy Code fee for boiler permits is included in the fees specified in this section.~~C

~~.~~ The fee to renew or reestablish a boiler permit is one-half the base fee.

 Table D-12 - INSTALLATION PERMIT FEES FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

~~Heated By Combustion Products~~

~~Electric Power~~Input (In KW)

 Type Of Installation

~~Heating--Surface (In Square Feet)~~

 Installation Fee

Heated By Combustion Products  Heating Surface (in square feet)

Electric Power  Input (in KW)

 Boilers

 0-250

 0-200

 $110

~~250~~>250-500

 201-400

$162

~~501~~>500-750

 401-600

$219

~~750~~>750-1,000

 601-800

$316

~~Over~~ > 1,000

 Over 800

$397

 Pressure vessels1

Length times diameter in square feet

 0-15

 $74

~~16~~>15-30

~~(Length times~~diameter in

 square feet)

$97

~~31~~ >30-50

$138

~~51~~ >50-100

$178

~~Over~~ > 100

$219

 Burner~~s~~2 ~~and/or automatic certification~~

 0-12,500,000 Btu/hr

 Over 12,500,000 Btu/hr

 $110 (each fuel)

 $171 (each fuel)

Automatic certification

 0-12,500,000 Btu/hr

 Over 12,500,000 Btu/hr

 $110 (each fuel)

 $171 (each fuel)

 Monitoring System

 Per Boiler

 $203

~~All types above~~

~~Renewal Fee $55~~

 Notes to Table D-12:

 1. Rating size is the product of the two greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels.

 2. When a burner is installed in conjunction with a boiler, a separate fee shall not be charged for the burner.

 Section Section 22.900D.120, SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is repealed.

 Section Section 22.900D.140, SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.140 New installations and alterations of elevators and other conveyances.

 A. Permit fees for new installations and relocations of passenger or freight elevators, automobile parking elevators, escalators, moving walks, material lifts, dumbwaiters, lifts, ~~and~~ private residence elevators and other conveyances shall be charged as set forth in Table D-13.

 B. The permit fee for alterations and repairs to existing elevators, escalators, lifts, moving walks, dumbwaiters, and other conveyances shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-13, provided that in no case shall the fee for alteration or repair exceed the fee if the same were a new installation.

 C. The fee for a temporary, 60-day operating permit is one times the base fee.

 D. The fee to renew or reestablish an elevator permit is one- half the base fee.

 Table D-13 - ~~ELEVATOR~~ PERMIT FEES FOR ELEVATORS AND OTHER CONVEYANCES1,2,3,4

 Type of Conveyance

 Fee

 New Installations and Relocations

 Hydraulic elevators

 $345 plus $30 per hoistway opening

 Cabled geared and gearless elevators

 $660 plus $50 per hoistway opening

 Residential hydraulic and cabled elevators

 $260

 Dumbwaiters, manual doors

 $125 plus $15 per hoistway opening

 Dumbwaiters, power doors

 $125 plus $35 per hoistway opening

 Escalators and moving walks

 $980 plus the following: (width in inches + run in feet + vertical rise in feet) x $3

~~Handicap~~Accessibility lifts (vertical and inclined)

 $200

 Material lifts

 $240

 Alterations and Repairs

~~Handicap~~Accessibility lifts (vertical and inclined)

 $100 plus $15 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Other elevators, escalators, walks, dumbwaiters and lifts

 $125 plus $20 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Elevator cosmetic alterations only:

 Weight differential less than or equal to 5%

 $125 plus $20 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof, to a maximum fee of $250

 Weight differential greater than 5%

 $125 plus $20 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof

 Alteration or replacement of a door opening device

 $145 per opening device

 Notes to Table D-13:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Applications and permits shall be issued accordingly. (See Seattle Building Code Section 3006.1.)

 2. Installation fees include charges for electrical equipment installed in connection with any conveyance and such equipment shall not be subject to a separate electrical permit and fee.

 3. Each of these fees includes a nonrefundable portion in the amount of one times the base fee.

 4. The fee for alteration and repair shall not exceed the fee for the same device if installed as new.

 Section Section 22.900D.145, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.145 Site review fee.

 A. The fees for plan review and inspection of the following are as provided in this section and Table D-SR:

 1. Land-disturbing activity as defined in the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Control Code SMC 22.801.130; and

 2. Drainage, including temporary drainage and erosion and sedimentation control.

 B. The minimum fees for site review are specified in Table D-SR, and shall be paid at the time specified in the Table. Hourly fees due in addition to the minimum fee will be calculated during review. Payment of hourly fees is due at the times specified in Table D-SR or may be charged in accordance with Section 22.900B.010.

 C. The charge for review time, including inspections, in excess of the time included in the minimum fee is $125 per hour.

 D. The fee for third party review as specified in the environmentally critical areas regulations, Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.09.080 C, and for shoring review is the contract cost to the Department for the review plus an amount equal to 15 percent of the contract amount for administration and review of the third party geotechnical report and professional opinion. Seventy-five percent of the estimated contract amount shall be paid prior to the contract award.

 E. Site review fees are nonrefundable.

 Table D-SR - SITE REVIEW FEE

 Type of Site Review

 Minimum Fee

 Time at Which Minimum Fee is Due

 Review Time Included in Minimum Fee

 Time at Which Hourly Fees are Due

 1. Pre-application site inspection

 $94

 Before application is submitted

 3/4 hour

 At the time of application intake

 2. Drainage and grading separate from a development permit

 $125

 At the time of application intake

 1 hour

 At the time of permit issuance

 3. Review to determine Environmentally Critical Area exemptions1

 $63

 At the time of application intake

 1/2 hour

 At the time of decision

 4. Site located in Environmentally Critically Area unless fully exempt from ECA standards

 $313

 At the time of application intake

 2-1/2 hours

 At the time of permit issuance

 5. Sites requiring either Geotechnical ~~and~~or Drainage review or both

 None-fee will be charged for each hour of review

 Not Applicable

 Not Applicable

 At the time of permit issuance

 6. Post-issuance site inspection and other review

 $125 times the minimum number of required inspections2

 At the time of permit issuance

 One hour times the minimum number of required inspections

 At the time of final inspection, issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or permit expiration

 Note to Table D-SR

 1. The fee for review of exemptions applies to all levels of exemption.

 2. When the permit is issued,~~T~~the minimum number of required inspections shall be determined according to rules promulgated by the Director ~~when the permit is issued~~. The charge for review time, including inspections, in excess of the time included in the minimum fee is $125 per hour.

 Section Section 22.900D.150, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 22.900D.150 Electrical permit fees.

 A. Permit Fees When Plans and Specifications are ~~Required~~Reviewed.

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations for which plans and specifications are ~~required under the provisions of the Seattle Electrical Code~~reviewed by DCLU shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-14.

 2. When approved by the Director to submit plans for advance plan examination, 50 percent of the estimated permit fee shall be collected at the time of the permit application and plan submittal.

 3. The Director shall determine the value of the construction, which is the value to the vendee of all labor, material, fittings, apparatus and the like, whether actually paid for or not, supplied by the permit holder and/or installed by the permit holder as a part of, or in connection with, a complete electrical system, but which does not include the cost of utilizing equipment connected to the electrical system. The Director may require verification of the stated cost of any work subject to these fees.

 When the cost of any proposed installation is unknown, an estimate of the cost shall be made and used to compute the permit fee.

 The permit fee specified in Table D-14 is due at the time of application. Upon completion of the installation, a fee adjustment may be made in favor of the City or the permit holder, if requested by either party.

 4. ~~When plans which have been examined and corrected are altered and resubmitted, hourly charges for reexamination shall be assessed at $125 per hour.~~5.

 When a duplicate set of approved plans is submitted for examination and approval at any time after a permit has been issued on the original approved plans, hourly charges for Departmental work shall be assessed.

 B. Blanket Permits for Electrical Work.

 1. A blanket permit to cover electrical work shall be charged at the rate specified in Table D-14 for the value of the work to be done within one year.

 2. When the initial deposit for one year is used up in less than one year and work remains to be done, an additional deposit shall be paid based on the fee from Table D-14 for the estimated value of work remaining to be done in that year. When a portion of the deposit remains unused at the end of one year and work remains to be done, credit for the balance of the deposit may be transferred from the expiring permit to a new blanket permit for electrical work.

 C. Permit Fees When Plans and Specifications Are Not Required.

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations, additions and alterations for which plans and specifications are not required shall be as set forth in Table D-15. The permit fee specified in Table D-15 is due at the time of application.

 2. Permit fees for temporary electrical installations shall be charged for services only at the rate set forth in Table D-15.

 D. Phased Permits.

 1. When an electrical project is proposed to be installed in phases and the Director determines that separate electrical permits may be issued for portions of the project, the permit fee for the initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-14. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the electrical installations minus the sum of the values of the initial permits.

 2. Where an applicant requests that an application for a permit be divided into separate applications subsequent to the initial submittal of a unified application, an additional fee shall be charged at the rate of one times the base fee for each separate application which results from the division.

 Table D-14 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES

 (When Plans are ~~Required~~Reviewed

 Total Valuation

 Fee

 $0.00 to $1,000.00

 $90.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,001.00 to $3,700.00

 $90.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $5.70 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,701.00 to $50,000.00

 $244.00 for the first $3,700.00 plus $2.00 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,001.00 to 100,000.00

 $1,170.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus $1.50 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,001.00 to $250,000.00

 $1,920.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $10.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $250,001.00 to $500,000.00

 $3,420.00 for the first $250,000.00 plus $9.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $500,001.00 to $750,000.00

 $5,795.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $9.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $750,001.00 to $1,000,000.00

 $8,045.00 for the first $750,000.00 plus $8.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,000,001.00 to $2,000,000.00

 $10,170.00 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $8.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $2,000,001.00 to $3,000,000.00

 $18,170.00 for the first $2,000,000.00 plus $7.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,000,001.00 to $4,000,000.00

 $25,670.00 for the first $3,000,000.00 plus $7.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $4,000,001.00 to $5,000,000.00

 $32,670.00 for the first $4,000,000.00 plus $6.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $5,000,001.00 to $50,000,000.00

 $39,170.00 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $5.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,000,001.00 to $100,000,000.00

 $286,670.00 for the first $50,000,000.00 plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,000,001.00 to $200,000,000.00

 $511,670.00 for the first $100,000,000.00 plus $3.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $200,000,001.00 and up

 $861,670.00 for the first $200,000,000.00 plus $1.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 Table D-15 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES*

 (When Plans are Not Required)

 1. Administrative Fee

 a. An administrative fee of $35.00 will be charged for items 2 through 8 and 10 in addition to the other fees specified in this table.

 b. An administrative fee of $26.00 will be charged when work is added to an existing permit and when other information is changed.

 2. Services

 Size

 Fee

 a. Services (installation, relocation and temporary installations; size based on conductor ampacity)

 1 - 125A

 126 - 200A

 201 - 300A

 301 - 400A

 401 - 500A

 501 - 599A

 $43.00

$71.00

$99.00

$142.00

$170.00

$207.00

 b. Temporary construction power for single-family residence

 Any

$43.00

 3. Feeders1

 Size

 120v only

 208v-480v

 >480v

 15-25A

 $7.00

 $7.00

 $15.00

 30-50A

$15.00

$15.00

$30.00

 60-125A

$22.50

$22.~~00~~50

$45.00

 150-225A

$30.00

$60.00

 250-400A

$73.00

$89.00

 450 & above

$110.00

$141.00

 4. Connections, Devices and Branch Circuits2

 a. Connections

 Fee

 Light outlet, switches, plugs, fixtures3, residential-type fan

 $ .90 each

 Track lighting or multi-outlet assembly

$ .90 for every 2 feet of track

 b. Devices and Branch Circuits

 Dimmer (commercial 2,000 watt or over)

 $ 8.60 each

 Non-electric furnace4

$ 7.00 each

 Dedicated appliances & utilization circuits (cord and plug or direct wired)

 (15-25A)

$ 7.00 each

 (30-50A)

$15.00 each

 Range

$15.00 each

 Water heater (220 volt)

$15.00 each

 Floodlight5

$3.20 each

 Sign

$19.00 each

 5. Transformer Installations6

 Fee

 Up to 300 VA

 $3.20

~~Up~~300 VA to 6 KVA

$7.00

~~Up~~7 KVA to 15 KVA

$22.50

~~Up~~16 KVA to 30 KVA

$30.00

~~Up~~31 KVA to 45 KVA

$43.00

~~Up~~46 KVA to 75 KVA

$71.00

~~Up~~76 KVA to 112.5 KVA

$142.00

~~Up~~113 KVA to 225 KVA

$170.00

 > 225 KVA

$207.00

 6. Motor Installations

 Fee

 Up to 1/3 HP

 $ 3.20

~~Up~~1/3 HP to 3/4 HP

$ 7.00

~~Up~~1 HP to 3 HP

$ 10.70

~~Up~~4 HP to 5 HP

$ 13.60

~~Up~~6 HP to 10 HP

$ 17.00

~~Up~~11 HP to 20 HP

$ 25.00

~~Up~~21 HP to 50 HP

$ 43.20

~~Up~~51 HP to 100 HP

$ 59.30

~~Up~~101 HP to 200 HP

$121.90

 Over 200 HP

$133.70

 7. Electric Furnaces and Heaters~~:~~

 Fee

 Up to 2 KW

 $ 3.20

~~Up~~2 KW to 5 KW

$ 7.00

~~Up~~6 KW to 15 KW

$ 9.60

~~Up~~16 KW to 30 KW

$18.90

~~Up~~31 KW to 50 KW

$40.80

$66.50

~~Up~~51 KW to 100 KW

~~Up~~101 KW to 200 KW

$162.00

 Over 200 KW

$270.00

 8. Low-voltage and Communication Systems

 Fee

 a. Low-voltage systems7-sound systems, security systems, fire alarms, nurse call, industrial controls and similar

 Requires separate permit for each system

 Control unit

 $ 2.65 each

 Device (actuating, horn, alarm, etc.)

$ .65 each

 Control systems (>100 volts) shall be based on the feeder schedule

 b. Communications systems8-voice cable, data cable, coaxial cable,  fiber optics and similar. The maximum fee is $235.

 Control unit

 $ 2.65 each

 Outlet

$ .65 each

 9. Special Events~~:~~

 a. Inspections occurring during normal business hours-$62.50 for first one-half hour; $125 per hour for additional time

 b. Inspections occurring outside normal business hours-$187.50

 10. Inspections for which no other fee is listed

 Each

 $125 per hour; minimum one-half hour

 *See Electrical Code for permit exemptions

 Notes to Table D-15:

 1. Feeders will be charged only for (a) subpanels, (b) distribution panels, and (c) branch circuits of 60 amperes or over.

 2. Fees will be charged according to either Section 4a or 4b. Section 4a will be used only when fees according to Section 4b cannot be determined.

 3. Fixtures will be charged only for replacement, reinstallation or installation separate from light outlet wiring.

 4. For furnaces where service exceeds 25 amperes, provided an additional feeder fee shall not be charged. For furnaces where service is 25 amperes or less, the furnace fee shall not apply provided a feeder fee is charged.

 5. Outdoor area lighting (parking lots, streets, etc.) The floodlight fee is charged per luminaire.

 6. The transformer fee includes the primary feeder and one secondary feeder up to and including the first panelboard or disconnect. Additional secondary panelboards or disconnecting means are charged at the appropriate feeder rate.

 7. Low-voltage systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Chapter 7 of the National Electrical Code.

 8. Communication systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Article 770 and Chapter 8 of the National Electrical Code.

 F. Renewals and Reestablishment. The fee to renew or reestablish an electrical permit is one-half times the base fee.

~~G. Reestablishment. The fee to reestablishment an electrical permit is one-half times the base fee.~~~~H~~G. Refunds. Refunds of electrical fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-16. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 Table D-16 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF ELECTRICAL FEES

 Electrical: For Plan Review or Over-the-Counter (OTC) Permits

 Stage in Review/Inspection Process

 Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit filed, plan review required but not started

 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee

 Plan review started or completed, no inspections

 100% minus the sum of the following: any accrued hourly charges for plan review

 Plan review completed/permit issued and inspection(s) made, permit not finaled

 100% minus the sum of the following: any accrued hourly charges for plan review + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made

 Advance plan review process completed but permit not issued

 100% of fee paid minus the sum of the following: any hourly charges for plan review

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review required) no inspection(s) requested

 100% minus the sum of the following: $35 + 1/2-hour charge for one inspection

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review required). Inspection(s) made, permit not finaled

 100% minus the sum of the following: $35 + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made

 Sign permit filed, plan review required, no inspections made

 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee

 Sign permit filed, plan review required, inspections made, permit not finaled

 100% minus the sum of the following: 1/2-hour processing fee + 1/2- hour charge for each inspection made

 Any permit finaled

 No refund

 Section Subsections 22.900D.160 H and I, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 H. Renewal. The fee to renew or reestablish a sign, awning or canopy permit is ~~$43~~.

~~I. Reestablishment. The fee to reestablish a sign, awning, or canopy permit is~~ one-half the base fee.

 Section Section 22.900E.020, SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 22.900E.020 Boiler and pressure vessel certificates of operation.

 The fee for certificates of operation for boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged in accordance with Table E-1. Where the inspection is performed by the City, the certificate fee includes the certificate of operation, the inspection and one reinspection, if necessary.

 Table E-1 - FEES FOR CERTIFICATES OF OPERATION FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Type of Installation

~~Heating By Combustion Products~~

~~Heated By Electricity~~

 Reinspection and Certificate Fee1

Boilers3

Heating By Combustion Products

 Heating Surface (In Square Feet)

Heated By Electricity

 Electric Power Input (In KW)

~~Boilers3~~

 0-250

 0-200

 $65

 251-500

 201-400

$122

 501-750

 401-600

$178

 751-1,000

 601-800

$275

 Over 1,000

 Over 800

$340

 Controls and limit devices for automatic boilers (Charged in addition to those fees listed above)

 Automatic boilers (input)

 0-12,500,000 Btu

 Over 12,500,000

 Annual

 $65

$81

 Monitoring systems for automatic boiler (Charged in addition to those fees listed above)

 Annual

 $162

 Unfired pressure vessels1,2,3

 Rating Size

 0-15

 16-30

 31-50

 51-100

 Over 100

 Biennial

 $37

$65

$106

$138

$203

 Domestic water heaters located in Group A, E or I Occupancy

 Biennial $25

 Notes to Table E-1:

 1. Fees for boiler and pressure vessels which are inspected by authorized insurance company inspectors are 50 percent of those set forth in Table E-1; provided, that the 50 percent rate shall not apply to the charges for controls and limit devices for automatic boilers specified in Table E-1, and further provided that no fee shall be less than the minimum.

 2. Rating size is the product of the two greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels.

 3. Fees for low-pressure hot water supply boilers installed prior to January 1, 1989, consisting of tanks whose contents are heated by electric elements shall be charged at the same rates that apply to unfired vessels of the same size.

~~4. When a burner is installed in conjunction with a boiler, a separate fee shall not be charged for the burner.~~

 Section Section 22.900E.030, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 22.900E.030 Fees for elevator certificates of inspection.

 A. Certificates of inspection for elevators will be issued upon acceptance inspection and for each subsequent annual reinspection after payment of the fee set in Table E-2.

 B. The fee for renewal of a certificate of inspection to operate any conveyance is as set in Table E-2.

 Table E-2 - FEES FOR ELEVATOR CERTIFICATES OF INSPECTION1

 Type of Conveyance

 Fee for Each Conveyance

 Hydraulic elevators

 $110

 Cable elevators2, 3

 $150 plus $11 for each hoistway opening in excess of two

 Sidewalk elevators

 $100

 Hand-powered elevators

 $100

 Dumbwaiters

 $100

 Escalators and moving walks

 $150

~~Handicap~~Accessibility lifts (vertical and inclined)

 $95

 Material lifts

 $100

 Fire emergency systems, Phase I or both Phase I and Phase II

 $50

 Notes to Table E-2:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Separate applications and permits are required for each conveyance. (See Section 3006.1, Seattle Building Code.)

 2. Elevators having a continuous hoistway wall of 100 feet or more without openings shall be charged a fee of $245 plus $11 for each hoistway opening in excess of two.

 3. The fee for roped hydraulic elevators is the same as cable elevators.

 Section Section 22.900F.020, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 120448, is further amended as follows:

 22.900F.020 Noise fees.

 A. Certain construction and land use proposals require noise survey reviews. Project review shall be charged according to Table F-2. Any hourly fees ~~owned~~owed shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision is required, hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 B. Applications for noise variances shall be charged according to Table F-2, except for applications for temporary noise variances as components of a master filming permit issued pursuant to SMC Section 15.35.010 which shall be charged as part of the single fee for the master filming permit. In addition to the amounts specified in Table F-2, applicants shall reimburse the Department for actual costs associated with review of the application.

 The fee for renewal of noise variances is the same as for new applications.

 Fees for noise variances are not refundable.

 Table F-2 - NOISE FEES

 Type

 Permit Fee

 Project Review Fee

 Temporary noise variance

 (No separate fee when issued as part of a master filming permit)

 $~~100~~150

 None

 Economic/technical variance in residential zones

 $100

 $125 per hour (2-hour deposit)

 Economic/technical variance in commercial/industrial zones

 $250

 $125 per hour (2-hour deposit)

 Noise survey reviews

 See Table D-2

 See Table D-2

 Section 21. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 22. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of _______________, 2002.

__________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 Greg Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 MAT/DCLU

 2002 Fee -v1

 4/2/02

```
