

********

**Council Bill Number: 114117**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120748**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the execution of a seven-year concession agreement with Alki Crab and Fish Company, to provide boat rentals, sports, fishing equipment and merchandise sales at the Seacrest Boathouse.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 18, 2002
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 26, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 26, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 11, 2002
   
**Committee:** Parks,Education and Libraries
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, LEASES, BOATS, BOATING, ALKI, WEST-SEATTLE, FISHING, BUSINESS-ENTERPRISES, RECREATIONAL-ACTIVITIES

**Fiscal Note:**114117

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the execution of a seven-year concession agreement with Alki Crab and Fish Company, to provide boat rentals, sports, fishing equipment and merchandise sales at the Seacrest Boathouse.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle, through its Department of Parks and Recreation, has provided fishing and boat rental services at Seacrest Park since 1972; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle has made significant capital improvements at the Seacrest Park, including construction of a new Seacrest Boathouse in 1989; and

 WHEREAS, the Seacrest Boathouse is the last remaining public boathouse in Seattle ; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle wishes these concession services to be continued in light of the popularity of these services and access to the Puget Sound for said recreational activities; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation has completed a Request For Proposals (RFP) process to solicit a qualified, experienced operator to continue providing valuable services to the public; and

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is hereby authorized to

 execute, deliver and perform for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, a seven-year Concession Agreement, substantially in its form as Exhibit "A", with the Alki Crab and Fish Company. The Concession Agreement also authorizes a three-(3) year extension term at the option of the Superintendent.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Barry Firth/ja

 Bord

 2/14/2002

 V #2

 SEACREST BOATHOUSE CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 Between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

 And

 THE ALKI CRAB AND FISH COMPANY

 THIS CONCESSION AGREEMENT, (hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement"), is entered into between The City of Seattle operating through its Department of Parks and Recreation (hereinafter referred to as the "Department") and its Superintendent, and the Alki Crab and Fish Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Concessionaire").

 PART A - SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND COVENANTS OF AGREEMENT

 A-1 GRANT OF CONCESSION

 The City hereby grants to the Concessionaire for the full term of this Agreement upon the conditions, limitations, reservations and provisions herein, the exclusive concession right and privilege to operate a year-round business to be located at the Seacrest Boathouse and Marina located at 1660 Harbor Avenue S.W., Seattle, Washington 98116. The Concessionaire shall be entitled to operate a business at said location subject to the terms of this Agreement, which shall consist of the renting of fishing boats and outboard motors, the renting of fishing tackle and related equipment; operation of a full service restaurant and seafood market and/or delicatessen food service, the operation of the transient moorage; the selling of live and frozen fish bait and related fishing supplies, merchandise, food, and water recreation related retail goods, all as shall be approved in advance by the Superintendent.

 A-2 CONCESSION PREMISES

 The Concession Premises shall include the buildings known as the "Seacrest Boathouse and Marina,", its parking lot, docks and piers. Such property shall hereafter be referred to as the "Concession Premises" or the "Premises". Concessionaire shall have the exclusive right to the use of the Seacrest Boathouse and Marina buildings, and the Concessionaire rights to the public areas of the parking lots, docks and piers, as defined by this Agreement.

 A-3 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE; TERM OF AGREEMENT

 This Agreement shall commence upon execution by the Superintendent and shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on June 30, 2008, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement or by operation of law.

 A-4 CONSIDERATION

 The Concession right and privilege granted herein for the term as specified, is given in exchange for the Concessionaire's:

 a. Making monthly payments called for under the terms of this Agreement.

 b. Providing concession equipment and services sufficient to reasonably satisfy the intent of this Agreement that Concessionaire operate a full-time, year-round concession as described above.

 c. Satisfying all other conditions and requirements imposed on the Concessionaire by this Agreement or by operation of law.

 A-5 RECORDS BOOKS AND DOCUMENTS FOR CITY ACCESS AND AUDIT

 a. The Concessionaire shall maintain at the Concession Premises a separate set of books, records, documents and other evidence reflecting all business activity conducted at the Concession Premises, including cash register tapes, credit card charge records and any other such data which in the sole opinion of the Superintendent sufficiently and properly reflect the receipt of funds by Concessionaire from all sources and applicable taxes collected and remitted. Concessionaire's records shall separately identify the sale of fishing licenses. Concessionaire's records shall also reflect all expenditures by Concessionaire in the performance of its duties under this Agreement. These records shall be subject to inspection by the City, with or without notice, and to review and audit by the Department, the City, the Office of the State Auditor, and other officials so authorized by law, rule, regulation, or contract. The Concessionaire shall ensure that this right of inspection, audit and copying is a condition of any sub-concession agreement or other arrangement under which any person or entity other than Concessionaire is permitted to carry on a business activity in, on or from the Concession Premises.

 b. Upon the request of the City, the Concessionaire shall promptly provide, at Concessionaire's expense, all data determined by the City to be reasonably necessary to enable the City to fully comply with any and every requirement of the State of Washington or the United States of America for information or reports relating to this Agreement and to the Concessionaire's use of the Concession Premises. Such data shall include, if required, a detailed breakdown of the Concessionaire's receipts and expenses.

 c. The Concessionaire shall retain all books, records, documents, cash register tapes, credit card records and other material relevant to this agreement for three (3) years after the expiration or termination of this Agreement, and make them available for inspection by persons authorized under this provision at such times and on such forms as the City may require furnished periodic reports.

 d. Concessionaire shall not commingle with the records of the Concession business permitted under this Agreement, with records of any business conducted at a location outside the Concession Premises.

 e. The Concessionaire shall enter all sales on a type of cash register that contains a tape that records and identifies the date, type of sale, and the amount of each transaction; that is equipped with a cumulative, non-alterable accounting control mechanism. Prior to commencement of business under this Agreement, Concessionaire shall submit the brand, model, serial number and all other identifying data on the cash register Concessionaire intends to use in this business, for approval by the Superintendent.

 f. Concessionaire shall not change record keeping methods or change or discontinue use of the cash register approved by the Superintendent, without the Superintendent's written authorization.

 A-6 FINANCES/PAYMENTS

 a. Monthly Percentage Payment to the City

 On or before the 10th day of each month, the Concessionaire shall remit to the City as a Concession Fee for each month in which the Concessionaire is authorized to engage in business under this Agreement, a sum equal to five (5.0%) percent of Concessionaire's Net Receipts for the preceding month. Net Receipts are defined as revenues received by Concessionaire from all sources for activities conducted on the Concession Premises pursuant to this Agreement, except revenues derived from the sale of fishing licenses, less any applicable sales taxes collected.

 b. Place of Payment

 All payments to the City shall be paid to The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, Contract and Business Resources Office, Attention: Barry Firth, Department Concessions Coordinator, P.O. Box 3443, Seattle, WA 98114. A written statement prepared by Concessionaire on forms approved by the City shall accompany each payment, reflecting receipts received, less sales taxes collected.

 A-7 OPERATION AND SERVICES

 a. Concession Services - Office/Retail Area

 The Concessionaire shall sell retail merchandise, including, but not limited to, t-shirts, sports attire, food, non-alcoholic beverages and bait and tackle. The Concessionaire shall offer the rental of fishing tackle, boats and motors from the Concession Premises.

 b. Hours of Operation

 The Concessionaire shall operate and keep the Concession Premises open to the public at least according to a schedule that has been mutually agreed upon by the Concessionaire and the Superintendent. Concessionaire shall post in writing, its hours of operation in a conspicuous place in the vicinity of the public entry to the Seacrest Marina and Boathouse building, visible from the exterior.

 c. Boat Equipment

 The Concessionaire shall provide and maintain in safe condition the following:

 (1) A minimum of Ten (10) boats available to the public for rental, each boat equipped with oars or paddles and a floatation seat cushion rated as a Personal Floatation Device by the U.S. Coast Guard.

 (2) The Concessionaire shall also have available for rental to the public, a minimum of five (5) outboard motors suitable for use on its rental boats.

 (3) The Concessionaire shall provide each occupant of each rental boat with a US Coast Guard approved Type III or better Personal Flotation Device (PFD).

 (4) The Concessionaire shall demonstrate the correct fitting and use of PFDs to each person occupying a boat rented from the Concessionaire and shall demonstrate the correct use of all equipment so rented.

 d. Response Boat

 In addition to rental boats and motors, the Concessionaire shall supply and maintain in the water and equipped for immediate use and in good operating order at all times during hours of operation, one (1) engine powered boat equipped to provide assistance to persons renting Concessionaire owned boats, which boat and motor shall be reserved exclusively for the use of Concessionaire.

 e. Other Boats

 The Concessionaire may rent sailboats and kayaks.

 f. Exclusions From Operation

 The Concessionaire shall not rent or sell any air mattresses or floating chairs, powered personal watercraft or other floatation device, without the written consent of the Superintendent.

 g. Charter Fishing Boat Services

 The Concessionaire may operate a charter boat service for recreational anglers only with the prior written approval of the Superintendent and with insurance coverage in a form acceptable to the City.

 h. Promotion/Advertisement

 The Concessionaire shall promote and advertise the facility in the commercial section of the local telephone directory in a manner subject to the prior approval of the Superintendent.

 The Concessionaire shall, at its own expense, promote and encourage seasonal rentals of boats and shall provide and install on the facility a sign that shall first be approved by the Superintendent as to its appearance and location, that shall read "Seacrest Boathouse, Boat Rentals, Fishing Supplies and Bait, a City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation Facility."

 A-8 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

 a. During the Term of this Agreement, the Concessionaire shall make improvements having costs of at least sixty thousand ($60,000.00) dollars, to the buildings and docks located at Concession Premises. Such improvements shall be approved in advance by the Department.

 b. As proof of compliance with this provision, the Concessionaire shall provide to the Department on a monthly basis, a written summary of improvements made, together with supporting documentation in a form satisfactory to the Department. This summary shall accompany the written monthly Concessionaire's revenue payment report.

 c. The Concessionaire shall keep the premises free of any liens and shall provide the City with a bond for the performance and payment of all work undertaken by Concessionaire, in the amount and value of the capital improvement to be made. In addition, during any construction work, Concessionaire shall obtain insurance in an amount acceptable to the Department, naming the City as additional insured and additional loss payee.

 A-9 ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement contains all the terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties. All items incorporated by reference are attached. No other understandings, oral or otherwise may modify the text or an attachment to this Agreement.

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 PART B - GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 B-1 DEFINITIONS

 As used throughout this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning is intended:

 a. "Concessionaire" means the party granted exclusive concessionaire rights and privileges under this Agreement.

 b. "City" means The City of Seattle and its Department of Parks and Recreation, any division, section, unit or entity of that Department and any of the officers or other officials lawfully representing the Department.

 c. "Superintendent" as used herein in regard to the making of inspections, or interpretations; the granting or acquisition of permission, consent, approval, rights, and acting on discretionary matters, etc., shall mean the City's Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or such official's designee.

 d. "Subconcessionaire" shall mean any person(s) or business entity not employed by the Concessionaire, but which assumes or exercises all or part of the Concessionaire's rights and responsibilities under this Agreement pursuant to an agreement with the Concessionaire. The terms "subconcessionaire" and "subconcessionaires" mean subconcessionaire(s) in any tier.

 B-2 ACCOUNTING MONTHS AND YEAR

 The Concessionaire shall utilize calendar year accounting year for the business operated at the Concession Premises.

 B-3 ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGES DUE TO LATE PAYMENT

 If any payment is not paid to the City within ten (10) days after the date due, the Concessionaire shall be in breach of this Agreement. In addition to the other remedies available to the City in the event of breach, the Concessionaire shall pay an administrative late charge of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) shall be added to any such late monthly payment. Provided, however, that the City's acceptance of a late payment charge shall not be in lieu of its other remedies under this Agreement.

 B-4 SECURITY DEPOSIT

 The Concessionaire shall, prior to commencing operation and for the full term of operation hereunder, deposit with The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or shall provide in a form acceptable to the City, a contract performance bond payable to The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, in the amount of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) as a security for the faithful performance of and compliance with all the terms and conditions of this Concession Agreement. In the event that the deposit of security with the City for payment of such costs, disbursements, and expenses shall not in any manner be considered as payment for any concession fees due or to become due under this Agreement, or in any manner release the Concessionaire from any concession fees to be paid, or from any of the obligations herein assumed. If all terms and conditions are fully complied with by the Concessionaire, then any security deposit shall be returned to the Concessionaire at the expiration of this Agreement.

 B-5 PRICE LIST

 The location of points of sale, methods of sale, and prices charged for commodities sold or business transacted on the Concession Premises shall at all times be subject to the supervision and approval of the Superintendent.

 A copy of the Concessionaire's current price list for each item of service, food or merchandise offered for sale or rent at the Concession Premises, on a written schedule that is conspicuously displayed in full view of the public at all times on the Concession Premises. The Concessionaire's price schedule shall be subject to prior written approval by the Department. The Concessionaire shall strictly adhere to the prices established in the Department approved price schedule.

 B-6 UTILITIES

 The Concessionaire shall pay before delinquency, all charges for water, light, heat, garbage collection, sewer, and all other utilities at the Concession Premises. If such utility services are furnished to the Concession Premises together with adjacent City property, the Concessionaire shall reimburse the City for the Concessionaire's pro rata share of any consolidated charge paid by the City. The Concessionaire shall pay all charges for utility hook-ups, connections or installations, disconnections, and service calls for any utility serving the Concession Premises. The Concessionaire shall obtain a business telephone having at least one telephone line, the telephone number for which shall be publicly displayed at the Concession Premises, and shall be the same number published in all promotional advertising and telephone listings.

 B-7 TAXES

 The Concessionaire shall pay before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments of any nature and kind whatsoever arising as an incidence of this Agreement. The Concessionaire shall pay the Washington State Leasehold Taxes due as a result of this Agreement, directly to the Department with each monthly rental payment to the Department. Washington State Leasehold Excise Tax is over and above any Concessionaire Fees paid by the Concessionaire to the Department and shall be separately listed on all monthly documentation sent by the Concessionaire to the Department.

 B-8 CUSTODIAL/GROUNDS MAINTENANCE OF CONCESSION PREMISES

 The Concessionaire shall at its own expense keep the Concession Premises in a neat, clean, safe and sanitary condition acceptable to the Superintendent.

 B-9 EQUIPMENT

 All equipment and other personal property used by the Concessionaire at the Department's Concession Premises shall remain the property of the Concessionaire under the conditions and provisions of this Agreement.

 B-10 GENERAL NON-DISCRIMINATION PROVISION (Concession Contracts, per SMC 20.44.040 A)

 The Concessionaire agrees to comply with all state and local laws prohibiting discrimination with regard to creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap.

 B-11 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (Concession Contracts, per SMC 20.44.040 B)

 A. The Concessionaire shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, creed, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Concessionaire shall take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Concessionaire shall post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices as provided by the City setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause. The Concessionaire will take affirmative action to ensure that all of its employees, agents and subcontractors adhere to these provisions; provided, nothing herein shall prevent an employer from giving preference in employment to members of his/her immediate family.

 B. The Concessionaire shall furnish to the Director of Finance (or his/her designee), upon request and on such form as may be provided therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the Concessionaire in implementing the requirements of this section, and will permit access to the Concessionaire's records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Director of Finance for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with the requirements of this section.

 C. If, upon investigation, the Director of Finance finds probable cause to believe that the Concessionaire has failed to comply with any of the requirements of this section, the Concessionaire and the Superintendent of the Department of Parks & Recreation ("Superintendent") shall be so notified in writing. The Superintendent shall give the Concessionaire an opportunity to be heard, after ten-calendar days' notice. If the Superintendent concurs in the findings of the Director of Finance, he/she may suspend or terminate the Agreement and evict the Concessionaire in accordance with law.

 D. Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be material breach of this Agreement.

 E. The foregoing provisions of this section shall be inserted in all subcontracts entered into under this Agreement.

 B-12 RECORD-KEEPING

 The Concessionaire shall maintain a complete, separate set of financial records pertaining to the Concession operated under the terms of this Agreement, during the term hereof and for at least 12 months after completion of this Agreement. In addition, the Concessionaire shall maintain written records in a form acceptable to the Department, which contain information necessary to document level of utilization of WMBEs and other businesses as subcontractors and suppliers in this Agreement and in its overall public and private business activities. The Concessionaire shall also maintain written records of all written quotes, bids, estimates, or proposals obtained by the Concessionaire for all businesses seeking to participate as subcontractors or suppliers to the Concessionaire for all goods and services obtained by Concessionaire for use in operating the Concession permitted by this Agreement. The City shall have the right to inspect and copy any or all of such records as it shall determine. If this Agreement involves federal funds, the Concessionaire shall comply with all record-keeping requirements set forth in any federal rules, regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement.

 B-13 INSURANCE

 The Concessionaire shall secure and maintain during the full term of this Agreement, at no expense to the City, insurance by one or more companies authorized to do business in the State of Washington, as follows:

 a. Fire and Extended Coverage Insurance: A policy for fire and extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief, and special extended coverage insurance in forms and with insurance companies approved by the City Attorney and City Risk Manager providing coverage of not less than the full replacement value of the Premises, which value shall be determined by an independent appraiser selected by the Concessionaire and the City.

 Any loss under such insurance shall be payable to the City, and shall be applied to the cost of rebuilding, repairing, replacing, or restoring the Premises.

 b. General Liability Insurance

 A policy for commercial General Liability insurance, primary to any other insurance, and under which:

 (1) Liability limits shall be in at least the following amount(s):

 $1,000,000 bodily injury, each occurrence, and $500,000 property damage, each occurrence, or $1,000,000 combined single limit bodily injury and property damage; provided, that in the event the Superintendent deems such insurance to be inadequate to fully protect the Concessionaire and the City, the Concessionaire shall increase said liability limits and may increase the maximum deductible, all to such amounts as the Superintendent annually shall deem reasonably adequate to provide said protection, which increase shall be completed within sixty (60) days after the date of notice that the Concessionaire's insurance is deemed to be inadequate.

 (2) Coverage shall provide against all risk liability for any injury, death, damage and/or loss of any sort sustained by any person, organization or corporation (including the Concessionaire and any of its officers, employees and agents) in connection with any act or omission upon, or use or occupancy of the Premises under this Agreement, and shall include, but need not be limited to the following types (described in insurance industry terminology):

 (a) Premises operations liability;

 (b) Blanket contractual liability;

 (c) Property damage;

 (d) Independent contractor (0 & CP);

 (e) Automobile liability for owned, leased, hired or non-owned, if there will be any use of vehicles on the Premises by or on behalf of the Concessionaire;

 (f) Products and/or completed operations; Personal injury, coverages A, B, and C, and

 (g) Fire legal liability.

 c. City Named as Additional Insured: The City shall be named as an additional insured in the following manner in all policies of insurance to be secured and maintained pursuant to this Agreement.

 "The City of Seattle is an additional insured for all coverages provided by this policy of insurance and shall be fully and completely protected by this policy for any claim, suit, injury, death, damage or loss of any sort whatsoever tangible or intangible including consequential damages sustained by any person, organization or corporation in connection with activity upon or use or occupancy of the Premises, as well as any activity performed by the principal insured under an Agreement with the City.

 "The coverage provided by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise changed in any respect without providing at least thirty (30) days prior written notice to The City of Seattle, in care of The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, Contract And Business Resources Office, P.O. Box 3443, Seattle, WA 98114."

 d. Worker's Compensation: In addition to the above coverage, the Concessionaire shall provide Worker's Compensation coverage for its employees in accordance with Washington State laws and Department of Labor and Industry rules and regulations.

 e. Evidence of Insurance: The Concessionaire shall deliver to the Superintendent, a copy of all policies required under this Agreement hereof, and all endorsements thereto or other evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the City Risk Manager that the Concessionaire has secured or renewed and is maintaining insurance as required by this Agreement, as follows:

 1. On or before the effective date of this Agreement; and

 2. Within five (5) City business days prior to the expiration or renewal date of each such policy; and

 3. Within five (5) City business days after the Concessionaire's receipt of a written request therefor.

 f. Assumption of Risk: The placement and storage of personal property on the Premises shall be the responsibility, and at the sole risk, of the Concessionaire.

 g. Adjustments of Claims: The Concessionaire shall provide for the prompt and efficient handling of all claims for bodily injury, property damage or theft arising out of the activities of the Concessionaire under this Agreement. The Concessionaire shall ensure that all such claims, whether processed by the Concessionaire or the Concessionaire's insurer, either directly or by means of an agent, will be handled by a person with a permanent office in the Seattle area.

 h. Concessionaire's Responsibility: The procuring of the policies of insurance required by this Agreement shall not be construed to limit the Concessionaire's liability hereunder nor to fulfill the Concessionaire's obligations under this Agreement. Notwithstanding said policies of insurance, the Concessionaire shall be obligated for the full and total amount of any damage, injury or loss caused by negligence of the Concessionaire, or any of its agents, officers and employees or through use or occupancy of the Concession Premises.

 i. Termination Upon Failure to Insure: Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the failure of the Concessionaire to comply with the above provisions of this section shall subject this Agreement to immediate termination at the discretion of the Superintendent without notice to any party, if it is necessary to protect the public interest.

 j. Indemnification: The Concessionaire shall indemnify and hold the City free and harmless from liability from any and all claims, demands, losses, and any death, injury or disability of any person and/or damage to any property or business occurring on or about the Concession Premises during the Concessionaire's use and occupancy thereof or arising, directly or indirectly, out of or suffered by any person by reason of or in connection with any action, error, or omission of the Concessionaire or any of its officers, employees or contractors or subconcessionaires. In the event of suit against the City, Concessionaire shall appear and defend the same, provided Concessionaire is notified in a timely manner of the suit. In the event judgment is rendered against the City, the Concessionaire shall cause the same to be satisfied within ninety (90) days after a final determination thereof, including a final determination of any appeals.

 Such indemnity shall not include any claims arising as a result of the sole negligence of the City, its employees and agents, but shall include but not be limited to any liability as may arise or occur from concurrent, contributing or joint actions or omissions of the Concessionaire and the City.

 B-14 ASSIGNMENT OF AGREEMENT

 The Concessionaire shall not assign or transfer this Agreement, in whole or in part, or otherwise convey any concession right or privilege granted hereunder or any part of the Premises unless the approval of the Superintendent is first obtained.

 B-15 STANDARDS

 The Concessionaire, its agents and employees, shall render courteous service to the public with a view of adding to the public use and enjoyment of the Concession Premises.

 The Concessionaire shall operate and conduct the facilities on the Concession Premises in a businesslike manner, and will not permit any acts or conduct on the part of the Concessionaire's employees that would be detrimental to the operation of the Concession Premises.

 B-16 CLOSURE OF CONCESSION PREMISES

 The City reserves the right to close the Concessionaire's operation or any portion thereof for the convenience of the City upon a seven (7) day notice to the Concessionaire and to close the Concession Premises or any portion thereof without notice to meet any emergency as determined by the Superintendent. In the event of any such closure, the City shall post a sign notifying the public of the impending or effective closure. In the event of such closure, the City shall reimburse the Concessionaire for any remaining interest the Concessionaire may have in the Concession Premises measured by Concessionaire's investment in approved capital improvements made by Concessionaire to the Concession Premises, less accrued amortization and depreciation as set forth in a mutually agreeable amortization schedule.

 B-17 DEMOLITION OF CONCESSION PREMISES

 The City reserves the right to terminate this Agreement in order to demolish the Concession Premises. The City shall notify the Concessionaire of such intent in writing six months in advance. In the event of such termination, the City shall reimburse the Concessionaire for any remaining interest the Concessionaire may have in the Concession Premises measured by Concessionaire's investment in approved capital improvements made by Concessionaire to the Concession Premises, less accrued amortization and depreciation as set forth in a mutually agreeable amortization schedule.

 B-18 SURRENDER OF PREMISES AND REMOVAL OF CONCESSIONAIRE'S PROPERTY

 a. Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, the Concessionaire shall surrender the Concession Premises to the City and promptly surrender and deliver to the City all keys that it may have to any and all parts of the Concession Premises.

 b. The Concession Premises shall be surrendered to the City in as good a condition as at the date of execution of this Agreement, except for the effects of reasonable wear and tear, alterations, and repairs made with concurrence of the City, or property damaged or destroyed by an insured peril where insurance proceeds have been paid to the City.

 c. The Concession Premises shall be returned free of all of the personal property of Concessionaire and in a neat, clean and in reasonable repair condition. Capital improvements made pursuant to this Agreement shall not be removed.

 d. In the event that after termination or expiration of this Agreement the Concessionaire has not removed its property and fixtures the City may, but need not, remove Concessionaire's personal property and hold it for the Concessionaire, or place the same in storage, all at the expense and risk of the Concessionaire, and Concessionaire shall reimburse the City for any expense incurred by the City in connection with such removal and storage. The City shall have the right to sell such stored property, without notice to Concessionaire, after it has been stored for a period of thirty (30) days or more, the proceeds of such sale to be applied first, to the cost of sale; second, to the payment of the charges for storage; and third, to the payment of any other amounts which may then be due from the Concessionaire to the City; the balance, if any, shall be paid to the Concessionaire.

 B-19 LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES

 The Concessionaire shall keep the Concession Premises free and clear of any liens and encumbrances of any kind. At the City's request, the Concessionaire shall furnish the City written proof of payment of any item which would or might constitute the basis for such a lien on the Concession Premises if not paid.

 B-20 ENTRY

 The City and its agents may enter the Concession Premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting or repairing the same, but this right shall impose no obligation upon the City to make inspections to ascertain the condition of the Concession Premises or to make repairs.

 B-21 NOTICES

 Unless otherwise directed in writing, notices, reports, and payments shall be delivered to the City at the following address:

 The City Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 Contract and Business Resources Office

 Attention: Barry Firth, Department Concessions Coordinator

 P.O. Box 3443

 Seattle, WA 98114

 And to the Concessionaire at the following address:

 Alki Fish & Crab Company

 Attention: Kevin Hendrickson, President

 Seacrest Boathouse

 1660 Harbor Avenue SW

 Seattle, WA 98126

 Either party may change its address for receipt of reports, notices or payments by giving the other written notice of such change.

 B-22 PHOTOGRAPHS

 Each party hereto may make photographs and motion pictures of the Concession Premises and the activity, people, displays, and exhibits thereon; provided, that in the event such material is to be used for a commercial purpose, prior to making the same the Concessionaire shall obtain the approval of the Superintendent and shall pay to the City a fee therefor in an amount agreed upon by the Concessionaire and the Superintendent in accordance with applicable provisions of the Department's then-current Fees and Charges Schedule; and prior to using the same, the Concessionaire shall obtain the necessary written releases from every individual affected.

 B-23 DEFAULT OR FAILURE OF CONSIDERATION

 The City may terminate this Agreement for cause, and take immediate possession of the Concession Premises in the event that the Concessionaire shall have failed to perform any of the obligations arising under this Agreement and such default or deficiency in performance either:

 a. Was not remedied by the Concessionaire within the time period specified in the City's notice (if any) to correct the default or deficiency or suffer termination, which period, in each instance, shall be reasonable, given the nature of the default or deficiency and the difficulty of remedying the same; or

 b. Was the subject of two written default notices from the City within the previous six (6) months; provided, that the Concessionaire shall not be in default of any requirement hereof where the Concessionaire's failure to perform in a timely manner has been caused, without fault of Concessionaire, by government delay in the issuance of any necessary government permit.

 B-24 TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE

 In addition to termination for cause and termination on expiration of the term hereof, this Agreement may be terminated by either party for convenience, by the giving of advance written notice to the other party. No such termination shall be effective earlier than thirty (60) days after the receipt of the termination notice by the receiving party. Termination under this provision shall not relieve Concessionaire for any duty or obligation owed to the City under the terms of this Agreement.

 B-25 TIME

 If the last day for the performance of any obligation under this Agreement falls upon a non-City business day, including Saturday, Sunday or official state legal holiday, the final day for performance shall be the City next business day.

 B-26 WAIVER

 Absent a specific written waiver signed by the Superintendent, the City shall not be deemed to have waived any right the City has under the terms of this Agreement or by operation of law with respect to any breach or default by Concessionaire. Such a written waiver shall be confined to its specific terms. Waiver of any obligation arising under the Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of any other provision of the Agreement or of the Concessionaire's full compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement. No waiver will be implied from the any knowledge the City may have of any breach, default, or non-compliance by Concessionaire. The City's failure to enforce any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed as waiver or consent.

 B-27 CAPTIONS

 Captions are for convenient reference only, and do not limit or amplify the language of the paragraph(s) following.

 B-28 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING

 The City's written approval shall be required for all signs and advertisements on the Concession Premises; and such approval must be obtained prior to posting of any signs. Concessionaire shall be solely responsible for obtaining any permit required under the laws of the City of Seattle, for any sign or advertising erected at the Concession Premises.

 B-29 CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

 The parties hereto reserve the right to amend this Agreement from time to time by mutual agreement in writing. No amendment hereto shall be effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties.

 B-30 APPROVALS BY THE CITY OR SUPERINTENDENT

 The granting of approval or consent by the Superintendent to any action of Concessionaire does not constitute the taking of any official action, including the granting of approval, by any other City department or official, where other department's or official's action is required by law, ordinance, resolution or rule or regulation.

 B-31 CONDITION OF PREMISES

 The City and Concessionaire acknowledge that they have jointly examined the Concession Premises. Concessionaire accepts the Concession Premises in their present condition as of the date of commencement of this Concession Agreement.

 B-32 SEVERABILITY

 Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this Agreement or any provision of any document incorporated by reference be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement which can be given effect without the invalid provision, and to this end, the remainder shall continue in full force and effect.

 B-33 SUCCESSORS IN INTEREST

 Unless otherwise provided, the terms, covenants, and conditions in this Agreement shall apply to and bind the Concessionaire and any and all heirs, successors, executors, administrators, and assigns of the Concessionaire, all of whom shall be jointly and severally liable with the signatory to this Agreement..

 B-34 NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED

 The City shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate, or joint venturer of the Concessionaire or any party associated with the Concessionaire. The Concessionaire shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the City or bind the City in any manner.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Concession Agreement to be executed by their respective representative(s):

 FOR THE CONCESSIONAIRE:

 By __________________________________

 Kevin Hendrickson, President

 Alki Crab and Fish Company

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 On this ___________ day of ___________________, 2002, before me personally appeared ____________________, to me known to be the individuals that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that the executed said instruments as their free and voluntary act for uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate first above written.

 ______________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at _____________

 My appointment expires _______________

 FOR THE CITY OF SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

 By: ______________________________________

 Sarah Welch, Director, Finance, Budget & Administrative Services

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 On this ____________________ day of ________________________, 2002, before me personally appeared Sarah Welch, to be known to be the Director, Finance, Budget & Administrative Services of The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, who executed the foregoing instrument on behalf of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate first above written.

 ______________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at ______________

 My appointment expires ______________

 23

```
