

********

**Council Bill Number: 114109**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120750**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a Fourth Amendment to the Monorail System Concession Agreement between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture to, among other things, modify maintenance requirements and create an Irrevocable Renewal Account.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 18, 2002
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 26, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 26, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 4, 2002
   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** MONORAIL-SYSTEM, SEATTLE-CENTER, LEASES, FEES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord. 117123, 118152, 118304, 119263

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a Fourth Amendment to the Monorail System Concession Agreement between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture to, among other things, modify maintenance requirements and create an Irrevocable Renewal Account.

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Fourth Amendment to the City's Monorail System Concession Agreement with Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "FOURTH AMENDMENT TO MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE MONORAIL SERVICES JOINT VENTURE," (Exhibit A) pursuant to which changes in the contractual maintenance requirements and a new Irrevocable Renewal Account are authorized.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 Greg Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Exhibit A: Fourth Amendment to Monorail System Concession Agreement

 Attachment 1 to Exhibit A: Spare Parts and Supplies Inventory

 Dunn/welborn

 Monorail Amendment

 February 21, 2002

 Version #1

 FOURTH AMENDMENT

 TO

 MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND

 SEATTLE MONORAIL SERVICES JOINT VENTURE

 This Fourth Amendment ("Fourth Amendment") to the Monorail System Concession Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into by and between The City of Seattle (herinafter referred to as "City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Seattle Center Department and the Director thereof (hereinafter referred to as "Department" and "Director," respectively), and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture, a Washington general partnership organized and existing under the laws of the Sate of Washington (hereinafter referred to as "Concessionaire") which consists of Railsafe, Inc. and WMS, Inc., each of which are corporations organized under and authorized to do business in the State of Washington.

 On or about May 2, 1994, pursuant to Ordinance 117123, the City entered into a Monorail System Concession Agreement with the Concessionaire regarding the administration, operation and maintenance of the Monorail System. Said Agreement was amended on May 10, 1996, pursuant to Ordinance 118152, on September 30, 1996, pursuant to Ordinance 118304, and again on November 23, 1998, pursuant to Ordinance 119263. The parties to the Agreement now desire to make further modifications to the Agreement.

 Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Amendment, all references herein are to the Article numbers in the Monorail System Concession Agreement Between The City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture dated May 2, 1994, as amended. All provisions of the Agreement that have not been modified by this Fourth Amendment shall remain in full force and effect.

 1. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT SUBSECTION I. J; DEFINITIONS; MAINTENANCE EXPENSES.

 Subsection I.J. of the Monorail System Concession Agreement, as amended, is amended to add Subsection I.J.6:

 6. The expenses or costs incurred in connection with the Irrevocable Renewal Account.

 2. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT SUBSECTION I. K; DEFINITIONS; MAINTENANCE EXPENSES CAP.

 Subsection I.K of the Monorail System Concession Agreement, as amended, is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

 K. Maintenance Expenses Cap means for the period June 4, 1994, through December 31, 1994, the amount of $430,000; and for January 1, 1995, through December 31, 2000, the amount of $720,000; and for each calendar year thereafter, the amount of $875,000 plus the accrual for the Irrevocable Renewal Liability account, together with the number of maintenance cost hours that are billed to the City pursuant to Subsection X.D, hereof, multiplied by One Hundred Fifteen Dollars ($115); provided, however, that the foregoing fixed amounts shall be annually increased by the percentage increase in the CPI.

 3. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT SECTION I; DEFINITIONS.

 A new Subsection I.V is added to Section I as follows:

 V. "Irrevocable Renewal Account" means the account funded by the payment of five percent (5%) of monthly ridership revenues, up to a maximum of $150,000 per year (or at an alternative amount agreed to in writing by the parties) for the purpose of leveraging or facilitating other funds or financing for capital improvements, substantial train refurbishment, or other Monorail System capital projects or major repairs as mutually agreed to by the parties and reflected in the Project and Maintenance Plan.

 4. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT SECTION I; DEFINITIONS.

 A new Subsection I.W is added to Section I as follows:

 W. "Project and Maintenance Plan" or "Six Year Plan" or "Plan" means the cooperatively prepared revolving six-year plan integrating all projects, capital improvements, and maintenance plans for the Monorail System for a given six-year period. The purpose of the Plan is to identify, plan, coordinate, and accomplish the current and future maintenance, repair, improvements, and capital projects of the Monorail System. Projects funded from the Irrevocable Renewal Account are expected to have a minimum useful life of five years and, for projects involving federal funds, a minimum useful life of ten years. Any changes to the standards of performance for maintenance activities and staffing, as contained in this Agreement, may be modified by the Plan, if and as agreed by the Director.

 5. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL CONCESSION AGREEMENT SUBSECTION V.C; PAYMENTS TO THE CITY; CITY'S SHARE OF ANY MAINTENANCE EXPENSES SAVINGS.

 Section V of the Monorail System Concession Agreement, as amended, is amended to eliminate Subsection V.C in its entirety.

 6. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT SUBSECTION V.E; PAYMENTS TO THE CITY; REQUIRED REPORTS.

 Subsection V.E of the Monorail System Concession Agreement, as amended, is amended to insert a new second sentence:

 Such statement shall include comparative data from previous months and years.

 7. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT SUBSECTION IX.B; MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS AND PLAN; SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM.

 Subsection IX.B of the Monorail System Concession Agreement, as amended, is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

 The Concessionaire shall establish and implement on or by the beginning of the Operating Period, an employee selection and monitoring program that shall include a substance abuse program that complies with state and federal regulations to assure safe operation of the Monorail System. Upon request, Concessionaire shall provide written evidence to the City of enforecement and results of testing the drivers for illegal substances (drugs) while on the job.

 8. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT SUBSECTION X.F.1.a; OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND PLAN; FARES AND FARE COLLECTION SYSTEM; ALLOWABLE FARES.

 Subsection X.F.1.a. of the Monorail System Concession Agreement, as amended, is amended to modify the requirements regarding round trip fares to read as follows:

 Round trip fares shall be no more than twice one way fares.

 9. AMENDMENT OF MONORAIL SYSTEM CONCESSION AGREEMENT SECTION XI; MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PLAN.

 Section XI of the Monorail System Concession Agreement, as amended, is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

 XI. MAINTENANCE PROGRAM AND PLAN

 A. Maintenance Philosophy The objective of the Monorail Maintenance Program and Plan is to maintain the Monorail System as a safe, reliable, maintainable, cost-effective and attractive transportation link between Seattle Center and the Seattle Downtown core.

 While industry standards for transit systems would generally provide an indication of acceptable system maintenance standards, for the Monorail System there is no single transit system that provides a fully comparable industry standard. For those portions of the Monorail System for which the parties agree there is an applicable and available industry standard, the comparable maintenance standard may be used as the basis for the Monorail Maintenance Program and Plan.

 A key measure of the effectiveness of the Monorail Maintenance Program and Plan is how well it prevents or avoids problems over both the long- and the short-term.

 The Monorail Maintenance Program and Plan is dynamic. In order to be most effective, it will be reviewed and updated regularly, evaluated on the results achieved, and modified as necessary to maintain the performance of the Monorail System.

 B. General Maintenance Responsibilities. Maintenance for all elements, components, facilities, equipment and infrastructure shall be the responsibility of the Concessionaire except as limited herein and subject to the City's obligation to pay for Maintenance Expenses in excess of the Maintenance Expense Cap as provided herein. The Concessionaire shall provide all the resources necessary to maintain the entire Monorail System, which includes the trains, guideway and support pylons, a traction power substation, train control systems, maintenance and repair equipment, and station maintenance as described in Subsection D. As applicable to each of the above, maintenance shall include, but not be limited to:

 1. Janitorial service for the entire Monorail System including all service property and service equipment as well as the Seattle Center Station platforms and the exterior ramp from the Seattle Center grounds that provide access to such platforms, and the restrooms on such platforms; provided that janitorial service shall not be a Maintenance Expense as defined in Section I.

 2. Routine inspections of trains, guideway, traction power systems, and train control systems including:

 a. Repairs - scheduled and unscheduled, minor and major, as defined in Subsection XI. F;

 b. Component changeout;

 c. Component and system element overhaul;

 d. Testing; and

 e. System safety and assurance.

 3. Adequate spare replacement parts and consumables inventory,

 including a computerized parts inventory and valuation system;

 4. Development of and adherence to an inspection schedule and reliability centered and/or preventive maintenance program, as applicable and represented in the Project and Maintenance Plan;

 5. Development and upkeep of system and component maintenance

 manuals;

 6. Development and upkeep of up-to-date system and component

 drawings; and

 7. All encompassing system maintenance record keeping and reporting.

 C. Tasks Required to Support General Maintenance Responsibilities.  1. Maintenance Staffing Capacity Plan

. The Concessionaire will prepare a maintenance staffing plan that defines the qualifications and experience of maintenance personnel; the number of maintenance personnel and shift coverage for maintenance personnel; and maintenance call-out and emergency procedures. This Maintenance Staffing Capacity Plan will be an element of the Project and Maintenance Plan and subject to approval by the Seattle Center Director.

 2. Maintenance Program. The Concessionaire shall establish programs specifying the routine, periodic, major, and emergency maintenance functions to be performed, and maintenance employees shall be kept informed of changes to these programs.

 3. Training for Multiple Tasks. The Concessionaire shall have a comprehensive training program and shall train all maintenance personnel to do as many different maintenance tasks as possible. Concessionaire shall keep detailed records of all training activities, and they will be available for inspection by the Seattle Center at any time. Such training shall provide continuity for vacation relief and shall expedite the effective handling of emergency situations and unscheduled repairs.

 4. Computer-Based Maintenance Information Reporting System. The Concessionaire shall use a computer-based maintenance information reporting system to collect and synthesize data on the Monorail System, system problems and resulting repairs. This system should make it possible to measure actual results and more readily identify existing and potential maintenance problems. The system shall support detailed analysis of maintenance schedules and practices by Concessionaire management and will provide a tool to respond to various problems, e.g., low component reliability or high maintenance costs, as they occur. At the termination of this Agreement, the hardware, software and all system data for the computer-based maintenance information reporting system shall become the property of the City.

 D. Project and Maintenance Plan. The City and the Concessionaire will cooperatively prepare a revolving six-year Project and Maintenance Plan ("Plan"). The Plan will integrate all projects and maintenance, including all categories of maintenance identified in Subsection XI. F, whether funded by the Irrevocable Renewal Account, as a Maintenance Expense, by a federal grant, or by some other funding source. The Plan's purpose is to identify, plan, coordinate, and accomplish the current and future project and maintenance needs of the Monorail System in an effective and systematic manner.

 1. Project and Maintenance Plan Overview. The Plan will be a revolving six-year plan addressing the required and anticipated project and maintenance needs of the Monorail System and their funding sources. The Plan will be prepared by the Concessionaire with input from the City and shall be mutually agreed to by both parties. The initial six-year Plan, addressing the years 2002 - 2008, will be prepared and submitted to the parties for their review no later than January 31, 2002. The first six-year Plan shall be approved in conjunction with the execution of the Fourth Amendment to the Agreement. Future plans will be prepared and submitted to the parties for review by October 15th of each calendar year thereafter. The Plan shall be in a form and level of detail agreed to by the Director. The Plan and maintenance portion of the operating budget shall be deemed to be approved unless the Seattle Center Director indicates exceptions in writing within 45 business days after receipt.

 a. First Year of Plan. Annual Approval of the Plan will constitute approval and authority for the Concessionaire to perform the maintenance and to make commitments and expenditures, subject to the legislative and other requirements of the identified fund sources, for the individual items shown on the first year of the Plan. The approved operating budget shall address the first calendar year of the Plan and be consistent with it.

 b. Second Year of Plan. The second year of the Plan is intended to be "semi-fixed" so that projects can be planned and properly sequenced. Any projects with more than one year's lead-time shall be specifically identified as such, and the approval of the plan will also constitute approval and authority to make commitments, subject to the legislative and other requirements of the identified fund sources, for future expenditures for these items. The second year items may be modified, but the intention is that they will remain fixed until and unless there is significant reason to change them.

 c. Years Three through Six of the Plan. Years three through six of the Plan will be primarily for planning purposes. It is anticipated that projects in these years may change based on circumstances or as future needs or opportunities become evident. Program items that require long lead-times shall be included to enable advance planning, coordination and proper sequencing of the Plan elements.

 2. Criteria for Projects. Criteria for the Projects proposed for inclusion in the Plan shall be evaluated in relation to each of the following criterion:

 a. Improves safety or security for riders and/or staff, and/or the public;

 b. Enhances reliability;

 c. Improves efficiency of maintenance or operations;

 d. Improves the long-term maintainability of the Monorail System;

 e. Enhances the number of riders and/or increases revenue;

 f. Improves the rider experience;

 g. Reduces the cost of operations or maintenance.

 3. Plan Contingency. Each year of the annual Six-Year Plan shall include a contingency amount of $30,000, or such other amount as is mutually agreed to by the Concessionaire and the City, from Monorail System operating funds. The contingency will be used for unplanned and/or unanticipated improvements or replacements. As such contingencies present themselves, and provided the total estimated cost for an improvement or replacement is less than $10,000, the Concessionaire is authorized to make such improvements or replacements, consistent with any requirements associated with the available funds and subject to any applicable public works requirements, and without further review or approval by the City. SMS will spend no more than the agreed upon contingency amount in the Plan for each year on such items, which will be Maintenance Expenses. The Concessionaire shall report on how contingency funds are spent and include such expenditures in regular reports on actual versus planned expenditures in the Project and Maintenance Plan.

 4.  Modifications to Maintenance Requirements. Unless modified by the Plan, the maintenance requirements in Subsection XI. F through XI. N here of shall remain in full force and effect. The Concessionaire may propose modification or elimination of required maintenance elements, their frequency, and/or the type of maintenance as part of the Plan. Any such maintenance revisions shall be clearly identified as such by the Concessionaire in the proposed Plan.

 5. Plan Approval. The Concessionaire shall prepare the annual Plan and submit it to the City for review and approval. It is the intent of the parties that the Plan shall be the result of a cooperative effort and consistent with the Monorail System Maintenance Philosophy in Subsection XI.A. At the election of either party, review of the Plan may be aided by the expertise of a mutually selected independent engineer or consultant. The cost of utilizing such expert shall be a Maintenance Expense. The Plan shall identify project improvements separately from maintenance items. In the event that mutual agreement cannot be reached on a project improvement, then the requirements of Subsection XI.F.6 and 7 of this Agreement regarding modifications and improvements shall remain in effect. In the event that mutual agreement cannot be reached on a maintenance item, then the maintenance requirements of Subsection XI. F through- XI. N of this Agreement regarding that specific maintenance item shall remain in full force and effect. Effective January 2008, and each year thereafter, the parties may mutually agree to formally modify the maintenance requirements of Subsection XI. F through- XI. N. of this Agreement to reflect the maintenance requirements established and proven to be effective in the Plan. Such modification shall take the form of a written Memorandum of Understanding approved by the City and the Concessionaire. The existence of the Plan shall in no way limit the City's ability to perform capital improvements to the Monorail System which do not use funds from the Irrevocable Renewal Account.

 6. Plan Funding. The Plan, when approved, shall clearly identify the proposed funding source for each project and maintenance item.

 E. Irrevocable Renewal Account. To provide funding or matching funds for mutually agreed upon projects of the Project and Maintenance Plan, the City and the Concessionaire agree effective January 1, 2001, to pay five percent (5%) of monthly ridership revenues, up to a maximum amount of $150,000 per year during each year of the Agreement, or such other maximum amount to which the parties may agree, into an interest-bearing account maintained by the Concessionaire. Such payments and interest will be irrevocable. It is the intent of the parties that for each year of the Agreement, the annual payment into the Irrevocable Renewal Account, plus the interest earned on the balance in the account, will equal or exceed the payment plus the amount the payments would have been increased if they had been increased by the CPI from January 1, 2001. At the end of each calendar year of this Agreement, if the total life-to-date payments into the Irrevocable Renewal Account, plus the total life-to-date interest earned, is less than what the life-to-date total payments plus the amount the payments would have been increased if they had been increased by the CPI from January 1, 2001, then in the following calendar year the payment will be increased by the difference. That increase shall be sufficient to result in the total life-to-date payment to the Irrevocable Renewal Account, plus the interest earned being equal to the total life-to-date payment to the Irrevocable Renewal Account plus the amount such payments would have been increased if they had been increased by the CPI from January 1, 2001. If the total payments into the Irrevocable Renewal Account plus interest equals or exceeds the total payments plus the amount such payments would have been increased if they had been increased by the CPI from January 1, 2001, then the contribution amount shall continue at 5% of ridership revenues, up to a maximum of $150,000 or such other maximum amount to which the parties agree.

 The monthly accrual to the Irrevocable Renewal Liability shall be recorded as a Maintenance Expense subject to the Annual Maintenance Cap. Actual expenditures made from the Irrevocable Renewal Account will not be subject to the Maintenance Cap.

 All funds paid into, and interest earned by, the Irrevocable Renewal Account shall be used for projects identified in the Project and Maintenance Plan. As projects change in the Plan these funds may be applied to new or different projects, but they will not be refundable or available for any other purpose, except in the final year of the Agreement.

 At the beginning of the final year of the Agreement, an estimate of the uncommitted and unexpended balance expected to remain in the Irrevocable Renewal Account at the end of the year, including payments and interest earnings during the year, shall be used to pay Monorail System Operating Expenses and Maintenance Expenses in the last year of the Agreement. The estimate will be included in the appropriate Project and Maintenance Plans.

 The primary purpose of the Irrevocable Renewal Account is to leverage or facilitate other funds or financing for agreed-upon projects expected to add life to the trains or monorail facilities, to modernize facilities or systems, or to demonstrably improve ridership or revenues. Intended uses of the Irrevocable Renewal Account are:

 1. To obtain grants or other matching funds or financing. Expenditures from the irrevocable renewal account may be used for matching funds for grants or other fund sources where repairs are expected to extend the life of the Monorail System by ten (10) years or more.

 2. To make improvements to either the Seattle Center or Westlake Center Stations.

 3. For substantial train refurbishment (e.g. floor replacement, carbody repair), installation or reinstallation of systems (e.g. speed control, pneumatic suspension), or replacement of obsolete systems (e.g. Westlake Center ramps, gates and signaling components).

 4. Other major Monorail System projects that are mutually agreeable to the City and the Concessionaire.

 For the above intended purposes or any other agreed-upon projects, a commitment of funds from the Irrevocable Renewal Account will be made only upon the mutual agreement of the Concessionaire and the City and as specified in the Plan.

 F. Categories of Maintenance. Categories of maintenance activity required for the Monorail System are described below. As part of the annual update of the revolving Six-Year Plan, changes in, or specifications for, maintenance tasks, their frequency, the required staffing, and schedules associated with each of the categories of maintenance may be proposed for approval by the City.

 1. Routine Maintenance. Routine maintenance encompasses those functions which must be performed frequently and are usually scheduled on a daily or weekly basis. Routine maintenance consists primarily of inspection and minor repair, adjustment, or cleaning. The inspection function is particularly important, as much of this effort is directly related to safe operation of the system (e.g., brake tests, beam inspections, other safety checks). As a result, it is mandatory that routine maintenance be performed and monitored diligently by the Concessionaire.

 2. Periodic Maintenance. Periodic maintenance includes those functions which are performed less frequently than routine maintenance and may occur on a regular or irregular basis. These periodic maintenance functions may be part of a preventive maintenance program, which includes inspections to identify conditions that could lead to breakdown or major failure, and the correction of those conditions while they are still in the incipient stage.

 3. Unscheduled Maintenance. Minor maintenance required to respond to system and component failures will be performed daily. These running repair activities cannot be scheduled precisely, but significant resources need to be dedicated to unscheduled maintenance.

 4. Major Maintenance. Major maintenance includes functions that are more time consuming and generally require the use of special equipment. Repairs in this category may be made as part of the preventive maintenance program, reliability centered program, or as the result of a major system failure. In many cases, major maintenance will involve the replacement of key components or subsystems due to wear or manufacturers' recommendations.

 5. Emergency Maintenance. Emergency maintenance repair refers to those maintenance functions which must be performed to correct conditions caused by random events such as accidents or severe weather. As such, emergency maintenance cannot be scheduled by time interval, predictable occurrence, or failure rate, but must be performed promptly in response to developing situations.

 6. Modifications and Improvements. Modifications and improvements means maintenance, repairs, modifications or improvements (including but not limited to capital improvements) which are not required to respond to system or component failures or to correct emergency conditions, but are requested by the City or which are requested by the Concessionaire, subject to the approval of the Director, and made by Concessionaire to enhance the function and operation of the Monorail System. Examples of modifications or improvements are installation of a hot body detector, resplicing of power rail joints for the entire rail, or modifications to side wheel mounts for smaller tires.

 7. Included Services for Maintenance, Modifications and Improvements: Maintenance or repair services to be provided by Concessionaire shall include the maintenance and repair set forth in Section F 1. through F. 6 above subject to:

 a. The Expenses of any modifications or improvements requested by City up to Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) in the aggregate per calendar year, and not mutually agreed to in the Project and Maintenance Plan, shall be paid for by Concessionaire and included in the computation of Maintenance Expenses. The Maintenance Expenses of any modifications or improvements in excess of the foregoing shall be paid for by City in the manner provided in this Agreement and the cost thereof shall not be included in the computation of Maintenance Expenses for purposes of computing the Maintenance Expenses Cap.

 b. The Expenses of any modifications or improvements requested by Concessionaire and approved by the City, but not mutually agreed to in the Project and Maintenance Plan, up to Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) in the aggregate per calendar year shall be paid for by Concessionaire and included in the computation of Maintenance Expenses. The Maintenance Expenses of any modifications or improvements in excess of the foregoing which have been approved by the City shall be paid for by Concessionaire and shall be included in the computation of Maintenance Expenses for purposes of computing the Maintenance Expenses Cap. No Subsection D.3 expenses will be included in the $50,000 referenced herein.

 c. If the aggregate of Maintenance Expenses in any Contract Year exceeds the Maintenance Expenses Cap, the City shall be responsible to pay for such excess Maintenance Expenses. If the City fails to promptly reimburse Concessionaire for such excess Maintenance Expenses, or fails to select one of the methods set forth below to provide for the provision and payment of such excess Maintenance Expenses, then Concessionaire's obligation to provide maintenance and repair for the Monorail System shall cease and all damages and expenses incurred thereby shall be for the City's account. In such event, such failure by the City shall, at the option of Concessionaire, constitute a default by City under this Agreement or Concessionaire may deduct such excess Maintenance Expenses from the amounts to be paid to the City pursuant to Section V.

All dollar amounts set forth in Subsection XI. F. 7 shall include labor, supplies, parts, applicable sales or use tax, and other items as set forth in the definition of Maintenance Expenses. All dollar amounts set forth above shall be increased by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index.

 At its option, the City may require the Concessionaire to provide routine, periodic, unscheduled, major, or emergency maintenance services or modifications or improvements which are the responsibility of the City or which exceed the Maintenance Expenses Cap by separate letter of agreement with Concessionaire (which shall not be included in Total Revenue or Maintenance Expenses for purposes of computing the Maintenance Expenses Cap) based on one of the following alternatives:

 d. Such improvements or maintenance shall be paid for directly by the City at the actual direct cost of parts and supplies to the Concessionaire plus an overhead charge of ten percent (10%) and at labor rates as stated below:

 Project Management $35.00 per hour

 Mechanic $33.50 per hour

 Licensed Electrician $38.50 per hour

 The wages of other Concessionaire employees shall not exceed $35.00 per hour. Subcontracted or subconcessionaire services shall be paid at cost plus fifteen percent (15%) overhead. (Above labor rates from May 1994 shall be adjusted as of January 1 of each succeeding calendar year by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index.) These rates include administrative, project management and other incidental expenses associated with providing services.

 e. By agreement with Concessionaire for a specified scope of work for a not-to-exceed price which includes all Maintenance Expenses including overhead.

 f. Should the City wish to hire Concessionaire to oversee work by others who are hired and paid directly by the City, Concessionaire would be paid fifteen percent (15%) of the contract amount for project management and coordination or the hourly rates set forth in (a) above.

 G. Spare Parts and Supplies. An inventory of City-owned spare parts and supplies was transferred to the Concessionaire at the initiation of service under this Agreement at no cost to Concessionaire. The inventory of spare parts and supplies originally had an estimated value of $300,000. It has now been determined by the parties that that valuation included items that were obsolete or not useful and had no value to the Monorail System. The Concessionaire has returned these obsolete or not useful items to the City. Without these items the estimated adjusted value of the inventory originally transferred was $208,199 as shown in Attachment 1. The value of the inventory at the end of this Agreement shall be $208,199. All system records, including any software, parts, and supplies shall become the property of the City at the termination of this Agreement. If the value of the ending inventory is less than $208,199, the Concessionaire will pay the City one half the difference. If the value of the ending inventory is greater than $208,199 the City will pay the Concessionaire one half the difference.

 1. Itemized inventory records of Spare Parts and Supplies in excess of $500 per item. The Concessionaire will maintain itemized inventory records of all Monorail System Spare Parts and Supplies in excess of $500 per item. Spare Parts and Supplies are charged to maintenance expense as they are purchased. All spare parts and supplies shall become the property of the City at the termination of this Agreement.

 2. Minimum Train Spare Parts. To assure maximum train availability and to accommodate the long lead times required to receive parts, an ample supply of spare parts must be acquired, stored, and replenished as necessary. The actual inventory of spare parts shall include, at minimum:

 a. Glazing, seating, and flooring;

 b. Articulation joint components;

 c. Electrical and mechanical components for

 propulsion, braking, doors, lights, air comfort, and other auxiliary systems;

 d. Wheels and tires;

 e. Power supplies;

 f. Batteries; and

 g. Current collectors.

 H. Train Maintenance Tasks. Four types of inspection for maintenance, repair, and overhaul work will be required for the trains: routine, periodic, unscheduled, and major maintenance. The actual maintenance tasks shall emphasize exchange of system components, rather than repair of components on the trains, to assure maximum availability of trains for Revenue Service. Components removed from the trains shall be tested, serviced, repaired, adjusted, and rebuilt as appropriate.

 The specific cycles of vehicle maintenance work to be accomplished must be determined based on the past history of the system and based on the Concessionaire's experience maintaining the trains. It is anticipated that four different levels of periodic maintenance will be performed. Levels B, C, D and E will initially be based on multiples of a 3750 mile cycle. After this Agreement, as amended by it's Fourth Amendment, has been approved, the 3750 mile multiples may be amended by the City by mutual agreement with the Concessionaire to reflect the Concessionaire's experience. This Agreement, as amended through its Fourth Amendment, removes from the periodic maintenance requirements Level A, which previously was part of this Agreement and was based on multiples of 1250 miles. The following subsections define the levels of periodic maintenance, inspection and repair tasks for the trains required under this Agreement, as amended.

 1. Maintenance, Inspection and Repair ("MIR").

 a. MIR Level B. This level of maintenance shall be performed initially on a 3750 mile cycle. The types of inspections, maintenance, and repairs to be performed under Level B include but are not limited to:

 i. Maintenance items, which prior to the Fourth Amendment to its Agreement were MIR Level A, include but are not limited to:

 (a). General inspection of train interior, exterior, roof, and under floor for signs of damage or deterioration;

 (b). Inspection of brake shoes for wear and damage;

 (c). Inspection of brake actuators and linkages for leakage and integrity;

 (d). Blow down of car's underside/traction motors;

 (e). Inspection of all safety-related items, including but not limited to lights, fire extinguishers, operator's cab, first aid kit, windshield washers and wipers;

 (f). Functional check of safety-related systems, including but not limited to:

 (1) Door control/traction power interlocks,

 (2) No-motion circuits,

 (3) Brake control systems,

 (4) Check of cab annunciators (audio and visual),

 (5) Inspection of heating and ventilation equipment,

 (6) Inspection of traction motor brushes,

 (7) Inspection of current collector shoes,

 (8) Inspection of brake resistors,

 (9) Inspection of tires for wear, flats, and alignment,

 (10) Inspection of doors and sensitive edges,

 (11) Lubrication, minor adjustments, filter changes,

 (12) Check of all fluid levels,

 (13) Interior wash (seats, windows, and floors),

 (14) Check and adjust leveling valves,

 (15) Test drive train,

 (16) Add oil to compressor and change air filter of compressor;

 (g). Inspection and adjustment of the

 master controller; and

 (h). Inspection of the suspension.

 ii. Inspection, lubrication, and adjustment of air compressor;

 iii. Inspection of pressure limiting valve/air governor;

 iv. Inspection, adjustment, and lubrication of door operators;

 v. Inspection and servicing of alternating current (AC) power supply; and

 vi. Lubrication, adjustment, testing, and any other maintenance required by the car manufacturer and component suppliers.

 Minor maintenance problems identified may dictate on-car repair or adjustment, while major problems will dictate component change out.

 b. MIR Level C. The second level of maintenance shall be performed initially on a 7500 mile cycle. The types of inspections, maintenance, and repairs to be performed under Level C will include but are not limited to:

 i. MIR Level B, as listed above, and

 ii. Heavy interior cleaning, including washing of all interior surfaces (walls, ceilings, windows, floors, seats, doors) and cleaning of light fixture lenses;

 iii. Inspection of the propulsion control electronics, including testing and adjustment of inputs and outputs;

 iv. Bearing plates have been replaced with Teflon plates and are not recommended to lubricate;

 v. Adjust turn buckles; and

 vi. Change compressor oil.

 As with Level B, this level of maintenance assumes that minor deficiencies are corrected on the train, and components are changed out for off-train maintenance.

 c. MIR Level D. Level D maintenance shall be performed initially on a 15,000 mile cycle and adjusted if necessary after the first cycle. The types of inspections, maintenance, and repairs that shall be performed under Level D include but are not limited to:

 i. MIR Level C, as listed above, and

 ii. Inspection of the traction motor commutator, bearings and other components;

 iii. Hi-pot test;

 iv. Change of oil and inspection of gear boxes;

 v. Inspection and servicing of coupling;

 vi. Inspection and servicing of carbody connections;

 vii. Inspection, servicing, and adjustment of articulations;

 viii. Inspection and servicing of wheel bearings;

 ix. Correction of any minor discrepancies found on the train or major discrepancies by component change-out as described above;

 x. Lubricate side wheel bearings;

 xi. Change desiccant; and

 xii. Test drive trains.

 d. MIR Level E. Level E maintenance shall be performed initially on a 54,000 mile cycle from the date of the last cycle. The types of inspections, maintenance, repairs and overhaul typically performed at Level E will include but are not limited to:

 i. MIR Level D, as listed above, and

 ii. Motor overhaul;

 iii. Gearbox overhaul;

 iv. AC power supply overhaul;

 v. Propulsion control unit overhaul;

 vi. Door operator overhaul;

 vii. Brake actuator rebuild;

 viii. Air compressor overhaul; and

 ix. HV system overhaul.

 2. Daily Maintenance and Inspection. In addition to the periodic maintenance tasks described in the paragraphs above, routine maintenance shall also be performed daily on the train or trains scheduled to be placed in service. These activities shall include but are not limited to:

 a. Energize 700 volt power;

 b. Energize 32 volt power;

 c. Check load and side tires (twice daily);

 d. Check desiccant;

 e. Drain air/water separators;

 f. Check collector carbons and shunts;

 g. Daily check and weekly change tach card;

 h. Daily check and weekly set tach clock;

 i. Test drive;

 j. Test emergencies;

 k. Pre-service "walk-around" inspections for a visual check of the carbody (station platform level) and running gear (lower level maintenance shop);

 l. Functional and safety checks;

 m. Correction of minor functional or safety-related problems identified by the daily inspections;

 n. Running repairs (minor repairs performed between runs);

 o. Interior and exterior car cleaning (including graffiti removal);

 p. Pre-service cleaning of train(s) to be used in service; and

 q. Plug-in AC and download fare collection data.

 I. Way and Structures Maintenance Tasks. The primary goal of maintenance-of-way activities is to keep the beam safe to handle the intended traffic. Safety inspections are the backbone of a sound maintenance-of-way program.

 1. Inspections. The beam must be inspected at least once every five thousand (5,000) train rail miles by a trained inspector. A number of safety-related inspections must be made. The Concessionaire shall specify the inspection types and suggested frequency as part of the Six Year Plan.

 2. Routine Maintenance. Routine maintenance of way and structures includes minor repairs and periodic safety inspections. These activities are performed on a regular and on-going basis. The tasks in this category include but are not limited to:

 a. Visual beam inspections;

 b. Minor repairs to structures and beam; and

 c. Retorquing up to 10% of bolts annually.

 The routine maintenance will be performed on a scheduled basis.

 3. Periodic Maintenance. Periodic maintenance includes replacement or rehabilitation of all replaceable components at the end of their life cycles, as well as any work that can be planned well in advance. Tasks in this category include but are not limited to:

 a. Beam surfacing;

 b. Painting of structures up to 8 feet;

 c. Replacement of beam expansion joints; and

 d. Guideway markings for operations, safety and maintenance.

 Typically, periodic maintenance work will require specialized machinery (such as the "motorized track" maintenance platform) and crews of individuals having specialized crafts. The Concessionaire shall schedule and supervise the work. Work may be performed by the Concessionaire's staff or by a subconcessionaire.

 4. Emergency Maintenance. Emergency maintenance includes all unscheduled work necessary to ensure system safety and/or preserve the integrity of ways and structures. Generally, emergency maintenance activities must be performed in response to safety-related problems discovered during inspections, or as a result of accidents or severe weather. The tasks in this category include but are not limited to:

 a. Emergency beam inspection;

 b. Replacement or major repair of beam sections or support structure;

 c. Temporary repair of structural damage; and

 d. Replacement of beam bolts.

 Emergency maintenance activities are characterized by the unscheduled nature of their occurrence, the need for quick response, and the widely varying severity of the damage encountered. The Concessionaire shall respond to emergency situations in a timely fashion. In addition, outside contractors should be available in "on- call" status to provide additional personnel and specialized equipment (e.g., service trucks, heavy equipment, lighting units, etc.) that may be needed to respond to major incidents.

 All Maintenance Expenses related to maintenance and repairs of the beam/guideway system shall be included in Maintenance Expenses.

 5. Subconcessionaire Activities. Periodic maintenance work performed using specialized machinery and/or large production crews can be subconcessioned. Whether the Concessionaire chooses to perform the work with its staff or with a subconcessionaire, the work shall be the responsibility of the Concessionaire. Way and structures maintenance that could be subconcessioned includes but is not limited to:

 a. Annual inspections of beams and structures;

 b. Heavy maintenance-of-way programs (beam surfacing);

 c. Beam-related accident response assistance and emergency repairs; and

 d. Structure painting.

 J. Traction Electrification System. This subsection describes the requirements for maintenance of the Monorail System traction electrification system (TES).

 1. Background Information. Maintenance of the TES is divided between periodic (planned) maintenance and inspection and performance of repairs as needed to restore the system after a failure, accidental disruption, or natural disturbance. The TES maintenance crew can be combined with the communications and signal maintenance activities administratively, so that a larger pool of maintenance personnel is available for major or emergency work on either system. In addition, operator training shall include recognition of electrification system defects, particularly improper power system operation or performance. Beam inspectors also should be able to identify electrification and power system defects visually, with emphasis on breaks or damage to the conductor rails, bonds, expansion joints, splices, and support brackets. These two groups, combined with an efficient defect reporting system, provide the first line of TES inspection. The general TES maintenance tasks and spare parts include but are not limited to the following:

 2. Substation Maintenance. A visual inspection of the Westlake Center Substation shall be performed weekly during the Operating Period and shall include general housekeeping as required. The interior of each substation shall be inspected thoroughly at six- month intervals during the Operating Period, including but not limited to checks of the following:

 a. Control power batteries for cleanliness, electrolyte level and state of charge;

 b. Battery charger;

 c. Rectifier fuses; and

 d. Annunciators.

 On an annual basis during the Operating Period, a functional check shall be performed on all devices, switches and breakers. The annual inspections shall also include but are not limited to:

 a. Cleaning of all devices, buses, breakers, switches, fuse holders, contacts, terminals, relays and annunciators;

 b. Inspection, dressing and adjustment (replacement if necessary) of contact tips;

 c. Cleaning of transformers and rectifiers;

 d. Cleaning of batteries and battery racks;

 e. Calibration of all meters and instruments; and

 f. All terminals checked for tightness.

 Major substation internal failures or abnormal operating conditions should cause the substation to be taken off-line automatically and to be locked out. The cause of such situations shall be investigated and any failures repaired before the unit is reset and put back on-line.

 3. Power Rail Maintenance. Primary visual inspection of the power rails shall be made by the beam inspector. To supplement this, a thorough visual inspection should be made by a qualified employee or electrician at least once every five thousand (5,000) train rail miles.

 A detailed inspection shall be performed annually and shall include but not be limited to:

 a. Checking the integrity and tightness of all mounting hardware and fittings;

 b. Cleaning of insulators;

 c. Checking insulators for damage and replacement as necessary;

 d. Checking the integrity and continuity of expansion joints and bonding straps;

 e. Checking tightness of butt splices; and

 f. Checking of midpoint anchor clamps.

 Power rail wear should be checked annually, particularly at points of unusual stress. These include splices, sections on curves, locations where the distance from beam surface to contact surface changes rapidly, and unavoidable hard spots where arcing occurs from contact shoe bounce. Because wear will be significantly greater in these areas, short sections of new power rail will eventually have to be installed.

 4. TES Spare Parts. Spare parts needed for the distribution system shall include but not be limited to brackets, hardware, fittings, power rail, insulators, feeder wire, bonding cable, expansion joints, midpoint anchor clamps, and rail butt splices.

 Spare parts needed for TES substations shall include but not be limited to circuit breakers, circuit breaker contacts, switches, diodes, instruments, relays, timers, fuses, annunciator lights, wiring, batteries, and chargers.

 Material which can be procured readily from commercial vendors (such as cable, switches, relays and lights) need not be inventoried in large quantities, so long as immediate emergency requirements can be met.

 K. Communications Systems. This subsection describes the requirements for maintenance of the communication system that is used for Monorail System operations.

 1. Background Information. An effective communication system shall be maintained since it is essential to the safe and economic operation of the Monorail System under normal and emergency conditions.

 2. Communications Maintenance Tasks. Primary maintenance activities shall be related to testing of systems and repairing of defective units. The services required for each communication system include but are not limited to:

 a. Telephone System. No regular inspections of this system will be required because each unit will experience daily use. Failures and maintenance problems identified shall be handled on an immediate as-needed basis, generally by replacing a defective unit with a spare and returning the defective unit to the manufacturer, vendor, or servicing agent for repair.

 b. Public Address (PA) System. Each speaker should be checked for physical condition of components and by audible testing monthly. The normal procedure shall be to replace a defective unit with a spare and return the defective unit to the shop, manufacturer, or servicing agent for repair.

 c. Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) System. The Concessionaire shall be required to maintain and repair CCTV equipment.

 d. Intrusion Alarms. Intrusion alarms at the cash counting facility at the Seattle Center Station shall be maintained and repaired by the Concessionaire.

 3. Communications Spare Parts. The Concessionaire shall stock adequate spare parts to assure continuous operation of all communication systems

 L. Train Control Systems. This subsection describes the requirements for maintenance of the Monorail System train control systems.

 1. Train Control Maintenance Tasks. The Concessionaire shall be responsible for maintenance, and repair of the train control signals and gate/ramp systems. The train signals are located on the Westlake Center end of the system within approximately the last one- tenth of a mile. The gates and ramps are located on the Westlake Center Station platform. The signals indicate train occupancy of the gauntlet track area and position of the passenger boarding ramps at the Westlake Center Station. Warning, rather than protection, is provided by each of these systems. Equipment for operation and control of these two systems is located in the control room at the north end of the Westlake Center Station and in the basement area equipment room at Westlake Center.

 The Concessionaire shall be required to perform two types of inspection, maintenance and repair for these systems: periodic and unscheduled. Periodic maintenance shall include several intervals and types of maintenance. Unscheduled repair and maintenance shall include any failures in the systems. Unscheduled repairs and maintenance shall dictate immediate response by the Concessionaire in order to restore operations in a safe and timely manner. Periodic maintenance shall occur at the intervals identified below:

 a. Daily Maintenance. The following tasks to be performed daily shall include but not be limited to:

 i. Functional test of all gates, ramps, and signals prior to initiation of passenger service;

 ii. Functional test of all safety devices, annunciators, switches, and the interlock; and

 iii. Replacement or repair as necessary to assure safe, reliable operation.

 b. Monthly Maintenance. The following tasks to be performed monthly shall include but not be limited to:

 i. Check condition of sensitive edges, tubing, and rubber lip seals for the gates;

 ii. Inspect and clean interior of gate enclosures;

 iii. Inspect integrity of the gate linear actuators and the wave switches;

 iv. Inspect glass and frames of gates for damage; and

 v. Clean and inspect ramp operating mechanisms for cracked welds, failed parts, and damage.

 c. Quarterly Maintenance. The following tasks to be performed quarterly shall include but not be limited to:

 i. Cleaning of cabinets, relays, annunciators, and signal heads; and

 ii. Cleaning, lubrication and adjustment of gate and ramp operating mechanisms and bearings.

 d. Semi-annual Maintenance. The following tasks to be performed at six-month intervals shall include but not be limited to:

 i. An extensive cleaning and lubrication of the ramp operating mechanisms;

 ii. Relamping of signals; and

 iii. Clean and check integrity and function of detectors.

 e. Annual Maintenance. The following tasks to be performed annually shall include but not be limited to: an extensive cleaning and lubrication of the ramp operating mechanisms.

 2. Train Control Spare Parts. The Concessionaire shall be required to stock adequate spare parts to assure continuous operation of the gate, ramp, and signal systems.

 M. Service Vehicles. The Concessionaire shall be responsible for providing a service vehicle at its own expense, but the cost thereof shall be a Maintenance Expense.

 N. Maintenance of Stations, Shop, Monorail System Annex and Storage Areas, Signage.

 1. Seattle Center Station, Annex and Storage Areas. All Seattle Center Station, Shop, and Monorail System Annex maintenance shall be the responsibility of the City except as noted below. Repairs to existing systems and structures shall be the responsibility of the City. Maintenance of the fare collection system, all equipment, fixtures, and tools associated with Monorail System operation shall be the responsibility of the Concessionaire, and the cost thereof shall be a Maintenance Expense. This includes mechanical, structural, electrical, and plumbing work. Janitorial maintenance and relamping of light fixtures shall be the responsibility of the Concessionaire for the Seattle Center Station, shop, Monorail System Annex, and Center House storage area as well as the other portions of the Monorail System. Examples of equipment and fixtures, which are the responsibility of the Concessionaires, are the two maintenance vehicles used for guideway repairs, the portable work stands, shelving for parts storage, the air compressor, the lathe and the joist/boom to lift the maintenance vehicles.

 2. Signage. Maintenance and repairs to the Westlake Center sign on Fifth Avenue shall be the responsibility of the City. Interior signage for the Westlake Center Fifth Avenue sign and all operational, directional, and informational signage at the Westlake Center and Seattle Center Stations shall be the responsibility of the Concessionaire, shall meet Seattle Center Signage Standards, and shall be a Maintenance Expense.

 3. Westlake Center Station. The City's responsibilities for the Westlake Center Operating and Easement Agreement shall be assigned to the Concessionaire except as specifically limited herein. The Concessionaire shall pay monthly to Westlake Center the amount of the lease fee as specified in the Westlake Center Operating and Easement Agreement. Proof of payment shall be sent to the Project Manager at the City's request.

 The Concessionaire shall administer the Westlake Center Operating and Easement Agreement on behalf of the City and shall notify Westlake Center Associates, in writing, of any deficiencies in the services it is required to provide. The Concessionaire also shall notify the Project Manager in writing regarding any such deficiencies.

 Westlake Center Station maintenance, including the elevator and exterior access way, but excluding the ramps, gates, equipment kiosk room, station services room, substation and ramp protection system signals control room, fare collection equipment in the cashiering booth, and all signage, shall be the responsibility of Westlake Center and the Concessionaire as outlined in the Westlake Center Operating and Easement Agreement. Relamping is the responsibility of Westlake Center Associates. Security and janitorial services for the station platform and exterior access way shall be the responsibility of the Concessionaire. The City has a month-to-month agreement with Westlake Center to provide security and janitorial services for the Westlake Center Station. The Seattle Center will continue its contract with Westlake Center through the end of July 1994. A pro- rata share of the June and the entire July invoice shall be reimbursed to the City. The Concessionaire may elect to negotiate with Westlake Center for services or provide these services in another manner.

 4. Maintenance Standards for City Services. Seattle Center will provide maintenance services consistent with standards provided to its other public facilities such as Center House, which include public space, office space, and storage space. The Concessionaire shall be responsible for identifying all repairs required to the Monorail System and notifying the Director in writing of any repairs which it believes are the City's responsibility.

 O. Costs and Expenses to be Maintenance Expenses. All costs and expenses of routine maintenance, periodic maintenance, unscheduled maintenance, major maintenance, emergency maintenance, modifications, improvements capital improvements, major repairs, and all other repairs, maintenance and improvements made or to be made and paid for by Concessionaire pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be Maintenance Expenses as defined in Section V and responsibility for performance or payment shall be governed by Subsection XI. F. Accruals to the Irrevocable Renewal Liability account shall be Maintenance Expenses.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fourth Amendment to the Monorail System Concession Agreement between the City of Seattle and Seattle Monorail Services Joint Venture to be executed by having their authorized representative(s) affix their signatures in the spaces below:

 SEATTLE MONORAIL SERVICES JOINT VENTURE, a Washington general partnership

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By ______________________________

 By ______________________________

 Dean Nelson,

 Virginia Anderson, Director

 Concessionaire's Representative

 Seattle Center Department

 ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______day of ______________________________, 20____, before me personally appeared

 _________________________________, to me known to be the person(s) described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the same as a free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written.

 ____________________________________________

 Signature

 ____________________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of _____________________________, 20____, before me personally appeared

 ________________________________ to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and, under oath, stated that she was authorized by ordinance to execute said instrument.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written.

 ____________________________________________

 Signature

 ____________________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at

 My appointment expires:

 EXHIBIT A

 MonorailAmendExhibitA.doc

```
