

********

**Council Bill Number: 114126**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120767**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Strategic Planning Office; authorizing the execution of contracts with the State of Washington Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development for the receipt of growth management funds; increasing an expenditure allowance in the 2002 Budget of the Executive Department's Strategic Planning Office; and making a reimbursable appropriation from the General Subfund; all by three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 8, 2002
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin and Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 15, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 15, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 18, 2002
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** STRATEGIC-PLANNING-OFFICE, GRANTS, WASHINGTON-STATE, LAND-USE-PLANNING, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, GMA, PLANNING, COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT, SOUTH-LAKE-UNION

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Strategic Planning Office; authorizing the execution of contracts with the State of Washington Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development for the receipt of growth management funds; increasing an expenditure allowance in the 2002 Budget of the Executive Department's Strategic Planning Office; and making a reimbursable appropriation from the General Subfund; all by three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, on July 25, 1994, The City of Seattle adopted its Comprehensive Plan in accordance with the Growth Management Act (RCW Ch. 36.70A); and

 WHEREAS, the Growth Management Act (GMA) requires that all jurisdictions planning under the provisions of the Act complete a comprehensive review and evaluation of their comprehensive plans and development regulations, and revise the same, if needed, by September 1, 2002; and

 WHEREAS, the State Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development (CTED) has allocated approximately $6 million for the 2002-2003 biennium for grants to local governments to update comprehensive plans and development regulations; and

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle has submitted an application for CTED growth management update funds for assistance in developing an alternate method of assessing the transportation impact and mitigation from private development in the City's most congested urban areas, using the University District and South Lake Union as pilot neighborhoods; and

 WHEREAS, CTED has awarded $68,250 to The City of Seattle in state growth management update funds for the transportation mitigation analysis and development of alternative methods for assessing the transportation impact of private development in congested urban areas; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a funding agreement with the State of Washington Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development (CTED) substantially in the form of Attachment A to accept funds from CTED to develop an alternate method to assess the transportation impact and mitigation of private development projects in the City's most congested areas, using the University District and South Lake Union as pilot areas. The funds, when received, are hereby accepted and shall be deposited in the General Subfund as reimbursement for the appropriation authorized in Section 2 below.

 Section 2. Contingent upon execution of the agreement identified in Section 1 above, and to pay for the work to be undertaken under the agreement authorized in Section 1 hereof, the expenditure allowance for the following Line of Business in the 2002 budget of the Executive Department is increased by Sixty-eight Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($68,250) as follows:

 Fund Line of Business Amount

 General Subfund Strategic Planning (X8M) $68,250

 from the unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund. The General Subfund shall be reimbursed by funds received from State CTED pursuant to the agreement authorized in Section 1, hereof. The appropriation of the above funds in this ordinance shall carry forward from year to year unless expressly abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. The foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which no appropriation has been made due to causes that could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the adoption of the 2002 Budget; Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4s) vote of all of the members of the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ______.

 Section 4. The foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which no appropriation has been made due to causes that could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the adoption of the 2002 Budget; Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4s) vote of all of the members of the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachment A: Intergovernmental Agreement: Washington State department of

 Community, Trade and Economic Development

 author/ef/gbd

 A:\2002GMA$Ord.doc

 3/4/02

 V #3

 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT

 WASHINGTON STATE

 DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY, TRADE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

 CONTRACT NUMBER: s02-63000-151

 This AGREEMENT, entered into by and between the City of Seattle (hereinafter referred to as the GRANTEE) and the Washington State Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development (hereinafter referred to as the DEPARTMENT), WITNESSES THAT:

 WHEREAS, the DEPARTMENT has the statutory authority under RCW 43.330.050(5) to cooperate with and provide assistance to local governments and local agencies serving the communities of the state for the purpose of aiding orderly, productive, and coordinated development of the state; and

 WHEREAS, the DEPARTMENT also has the responsibility to administer programs and projects assigned to the DEPARTMENT by the Governor or the Washington State Legislature; and

 WHEREAS, the DEPARTMENT has the statutory responsibility under RCW 36.70A.190(1) to establish a program of financial assistance and incentives to counties, cities, and towns to encourage and facilitate the adoption and implementation of comprehensive plans and development regulations throughout the state; and

 WHEREAS, the DEPARTMENT desires to engage the GRANTEE to perform certain tasks as hereinafter specified.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of covenants, conditions, performances, and promises hereinafter contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 1. FUNDING

 The total funds to be disbursed to the GRANTEE, for the agreement period shall not exceed sixty-eight thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($68,250).

 2. AGREEMENT PERIOD

 The effective date of this AGREEMENT shall be July 1, 2001. The termination date shall be June 30, 2003.

 3. SERVICE PROVISIONS

 Funds provided to the GRANTEE under this AGREEMENT shall be used solely for activities undertaken to fulfill the mandates required by the Growth Management Act to implement the GRANTEE'S growth management strategy as described in ATTACHMENT: SCOPE OF WORK, which, by this reference, is made a part of this AGREEMENT.

 4.

 DISBURSEMENT/REIMBURSEMENT PROVISIONS

 The GRANTEE shall submit an invoice voucher (Form A-19) to the DEPARTMENT upon signing this AGREEMENT for an amount equal to no more than twenty-three thousand eight hundred eighty-seven dollars ($23,887). No later than June 30, 2002, and upon completion of that portion of the scope of work to that date, the GRANTEE shall submit an invoice voucher to the DEPARTMENT for an amount equal to no more than ten thousand two hundred thirty-eight dollars ($10,238).

 On or after July 1, 2002, and upon completion of that portion of the scope of work to that date, the GRANTEE shall submit an invoice voucher to the DEPARTMENT for an amount equal to no more than twenty- three thousand eight hundred eighty-seven dollars ($23,887). Upon completion of the entire scope of work, no earlier than July 1, 2002, and no later than the expiration of this AGREEMENT, the GRANTEE shall submit an invoice voucher to the DEPARTMENT for an amount equal to no more than ten thousand two hundred thirty-eight dollars ($10,238). Any funds apportioned to be distributed by the terms of this AGREEMENT and not requested by the GRANTEE, or, if requested and not approved for distribution by the DEPARTMENT, shall be forfeited by the GRANTEE.

 5. NONASSIGNABILITY

 Neither this agreement, nor any claim arising under this agreement shall be transferred or assigned by the GRANTEE. PROVIDED that, in order to establish a review and evaluation program pursuant to RCW 36.70A.215, the GRANTEE may consult, coordinate, and contract with the cities and towns within the county serviced by this AGREEMENT and may contract for the personal services of consultants.

 6. RECORDS AND DOCUMENTS

 The GRANTEE shall maintain books, records, documents and other evidence of accounting procedures and practices, which sufficiently and properly reflect all direct and indirect costs of any nature expended in the performance of this contract. These records shall be subject at all reasonable times to inspection, review, or audit by personnel duly authorized by law, rule, regulation, or contract. The GRANTEE will retain all books, records, documents, and other materials relevant to this AGREEMENT for six years from the date of final payment, and make them available for inspection by persons authorized under this provision.

 7. RIGHT OF INSPECTION

 The GRANTEE shall provide right of access to its facilities to the DEPARTMENT, or any of its officers, or to any other authorized agent or official of the state of Washington or the federal government at all reasonable times, in order to monitor and evaluate performance, compliance, and/or quality assurance under this AGREEMENT.

 8. NONDISCRIMINATION.

 In the performance of this AGREEMENT, the GRANTEE shall comply with all federal and state nondiscrimination laws, including, but not limited to chapter 49.60 RCW, Washington's Law Against Discrimination, and 42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., the Americans with Disabilities Act.

 In the event of the GRANTEE noncompliance or refusal to comply with any nondiscrimination law, regulation, or policy, this AGREEMENT may be rescinded, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, and the GRANTEE may be declared ineligible for further AGREEMENTS with the DEPARTMENT. The GRANTEE shall, however, be given a reasonable time in which to cure this noncompliance. Any dispute may be resolved in accordance with the DISPUTES procedure set forth here in.

 9. GRANTEE NOT EMPLOYEE OF THE DEPARTMENT

 The GRANTEE and his/her employees or agents performing under this AGREEMENT are not employees or agents of the DEPARTMENT. The GRANTEE will not hold himself/herself out as nor claim to be an office or employee of the DEPARTMENT or of the state of Washington by reason thereof, nor will the GRANTEE make any claim of right, privilege or benefit which would accrue to an employee under Chapter 41.06 RCW or Chapter 28B.16 RCW.

 10. AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS

 The DEPARTMENT and the GRANTEE may, from time to time, request changes to this AGREEMENT. Any such changes that are mutually agreed upon by the DEPARTMENT and the GRANTEE shall be incorporated herein by written amendment to this AGREEMENT. It is mutually agreed and understood that no alteration or variation of the terms of this AGREEMENT shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by the parties hereto, and that any oral understanding or agreements not incorporated herein, shall not be binding.

 AGREEMENT amendments shall not be made which result in an extension of the CONTRACT period beyond June 30, 2003.

 11. DISPUTES

 Except as otherwise specifically provided in this AGREEMENT, when a bona fide dispute arises between the parties and it cannot be resolved through discussion and negotiation, either party may request a dispute hearing. The parties shall select a dispute resolution team to resolve the dispute. The team shall consist of a representative appointed by the DEPARTMENT, a representative appointed by the GRANTEE and a third party mutually agreed by both parties. The team shall attempt, by majority vote, to resolve the dispute. The parties agree that this dispute process shall precede any action in a judicial or quasi-judicial tribunal.

 12. TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT

 If, through any cause, the GRANTEE shall fail to fulfill in a timely and proper manner its obligations under this AGREEMENT, or if the GRANTEE shall violate any of its covenants, agreements or stipulations of this AGREEMENT, the DEPARTMENT shall thereupon have the right to terminate this AGREEMENT and withhold the remaining allocation if such default or violation is not corrected within twenty (20) days after written notice describing such default or violation is received by the GRANTEE's representative.

 Notwithstanding any provisions of this AGREEMENT, either party may terminate this AGREEMENT by providing written notice of such termination, specifying the effective date thereof, at least thirty (30) days prior to such date. Reimbursement for services performed by the GRANTEE, and not otherwise paid for by the DEPARTMENT prior to the effective date of such termination, shall be as the DEPARTMENT reasonably determines.

 In the event funding from the state, federal, or other sources is withdrawn, reduced, or limited in any way after the effective date of this AGREEMENT and prior to normal completion, the DEPARTMENT may unilaterally reduce the scope of work and budget or terminate this AGREEMENT.

 15. SPECIAL PROVISION

 The DEPARTMENT'S failure to insist upon the strict performance of any provision of this AGREEMENT or to exercise any right based upon breach thereof or the acceptance of any performance during such breach shall not constitute a waiver of any right under this AGREEMENT.

 16. HOLD HARMLESS

 It is understood and agreed that this AGREEMENT is solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and gives no right to any other party. No joint venture or partnership is formed as a result of this AGREEMENT. Each party hereto agrees to be responsible and assumes liability for its own negligent acts or omissions, or those of its officers, agents, or employees to the fullest extent required by law, and agrees to save, indemnify, defend, and hold the other party harmless from any such liability. In the case of negligence of both the DEPARTMENT and the GRANTEE, any damages allowed shall be levied in proportion to the percentage of negligence attributable to each party, and each party shall have the right to seek contribution from the other party in proportion to the percentage of negligence attributable to the other party.

 This indemnification clause shall also apply to any and all causes of action arising out of the performance of work activities under this AGREEMENT by a consultant through a personal services contract with the GRANTEE as permitted by paragraph 5 herein. Each contract between the GRANTEE and such consultant for services or activities utilizing funds provided in whole or in part by this AGREEMENT shall include a provision that the DEPARTMENT and the state of Washington are not liable for damages or claims from damages arising from any such consultant's performance.

 17. GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE

 The AGREEMENT shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the laws of the State of Washington hereof shall govern the validity and performance. Venue of any suit between the parties arising out of this AGREEMENT shall be the superior court of Thurston County, Washington.

 18. SEVERABILITY

 In the event any term or condition of this AGREEMENT or application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other terms, conditions, and applications of this AGREEMENT which can be given effect without the invalid term, condition, or application. To this end the terms and conditions of this AGREEMENT are declared severable.

 19. REDUCTION IN FUNDS

 The DEPARTMENT may unilaterally terminate all or part of this AGREEMENT, or may reduce its scope of work or budget under this AGREEMENT, if there is a reduction of funds by the source of those funds, and if such funds are the basis for this AGREEMENT.

 20. RECAPTURE OF FUNDS

 In the event that the GRANTEE fails to expend state funds in accordance with state law or the provisions of this AGREEMENT, the DEPARTMENT reserves the right to recapture state funds in an amount equivalent to the extent of noncompliance.

 Such right of recapture shall exist for a period not to exceed six (6) years following termination of the AGREEMENT. Repayment by the GRANTEE of state funds under this recapture provision shall occur within thirty (30) days after a final determination (after all appeals) by the appropriate CITY official or a judicial authority that such funds must be repaid, whichever is earlier. In the event that the DEPARTMENT is required to institute legal proceedings to enforce the recapture provision and the DEPARTMENT is the prevailing party, the DEPARTMENT shall be entitled to its cost thereof, including reasonable attorney's fees. If the CITY prevails, the CITY shall be entitled to its costs therefor, including reasonable attorneys' fees.

 21. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF STATE FUNDING

 A. The GRANTEE shall provide all project-related press releases to the DEPARTMENT. Press releases shall identify the DEPARTMENT as a project financier.

 B. Publication such as reports and pamphlets which are developed totally or in part with funds provided under this Agreement shall give credit to the funding source by including the following: "Funds made available through the Washington State Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development."

 22. STATE USE OF MATERIALS PRODUCED PURSUANT TO AGREEMENT

 The DEPARTMENT may duplicate, use, and disclose in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever, all materials prepared under this Agreement.

 23. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This AGREEMENT including referenced exhibits represents all the terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties. No other understandings or representations, oral or otherwise, regarding the subject matter of this AGREEMENT shall be deemed to exist or to bind any of the parties within.

 24. ADMINISTRATION

 A. The DEPARTMENT'S representative shall be

 Ike Nwankwo, (360) 725-3056

 B. The GRANTEE'S representative shall be

 Kevin O'Neill, (206) 684-8376

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the DEPARTMENT and the GRANTEE have executed this AGREEMENT as of the date and year written below:

 DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY, TRADE THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

 By: By:

 Steve Wells, Director MaryJean Ryan

 Local Government Division Title: Director, Strategic Planning Office

 Date: Date:

 Federal Tax Identification Number

 Approved as to Form 91-6001275

 _Melissa Burke-Cain

 Assistant Attorney General

 November 30, 2001

 Date

 ATTACHMENT: SCOPE OF WORK

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 CONTRACT s02-63000-151

 The GRANTEE is responsible for the preparation of all contract deliverables set forth below. The process and product shall be substantially consistent with the GRANTEE's grant application submitted to the Department for this round of funding and with the requirements of the Growth Management Act. Deliverables will be provided to the Department in electronic format wherever possible. At the Department's or the GRANTEE's request, deliverables may be provided in paper format. All draft ordinances and resolutions developed by the GRANTEE in the completion of this AGREEMENT shall be submitted to the DEPARTMENT at least sixty day prior to adoption. All ordinances and resolutions adopted by the GRANTEE in the completion of this AGREEMENT shall be submitted to the DEPARTMENT per RCW 36.70A.106.

 Project Title: Areawide Transportation Mitigation Analysis

 Project Description: The City will be reviewing its method for determining the transportation impact and mitigation of development activity in the City's most congested urban areas. These are areas where the City's comprehensive plan directs substantial amounts of future growth. The project will focus on two areas, the University District and South Lake Union, as pilot areas. There are subarea transportation analyses that are being undertaken in both of these neighborhoods, and this project will be done in conjunction with, and support, both of these studies. However, the goal is to develop a revised mitigation system that could be applied to other urban centers and villages within the City. The methodology could also potentially be used for other urban centers in the region. The overall objectives of the project are to:

 Create a new methodology for characterizing transportation system performance and assessing impacts of development projects

 * Better integrate environmental review of individual projects with comprehensive plan policies about the appropriate locations for growth to occur

 Link development projects to transportation improvements identified in neighborhood plans or by other studies

 Increase predictability for development projects

 Provide for more expedited environmental review

 Increase overall mobility in urban centers by identifying system-wide improvements to which developers can contribute

 Expand types of mitigation used to improve transportation mobility

 A focus of the effort will be to develop a mitigation system that is multi-modal, and takes into consideration not only single-occupant vehicle trips but also pedestrians, transit, bicycles, and transportation demand management.

 Milestones:

 The project is divided into several subtasks with milestones. The milestones for key points in the project are listed as follows:

 1. Develop detailed work plan. City staff and consultants have been working over the past several months to develop a work plan for the project. This has involved meetings with staff from several City departments (Strategic Planning Office, Seatran, Department of Design, Construction and Land Use, and the Law Department), City department directors, and representatives from the Mayor's office and City Council. The work plan was completed and endorsed in October, 2001.

 2. Prepare mitigation methodologies. The City's consultant will prepare a draft mitigation methodology for several categories of land use for different modes of transportation (automobile, pedestrian, bicycle, transit). The methodology will be calibrated to be appropriate for the urban areas being analyzed. The methodology will take into account Growth Management Act requirements pertaining to impact fees and concurrency, and also statutory requirements pertaining to the Washington State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA). The work being undertaken as part of this task will also be assessed in conjunction with transportation analyses being undertaken in the two pilot neighborhoods, the University District and South Lake Union. These analyses include identification of transportation mitigation strategies specific to these areas and lists of projects that could be included as part of the City's Capital Improvement Program. This task is expected to be completed in May, 2002.

 3. Prepare economic and competitive analysis. This task will include preparation of a comparison chart of transportation mitigation amounts and staff resources used by other jurisdictions in the region, and a comparison of how the City's existing transportation assessment system would compare to an alternative, more systematic areawide approach. This task will also involve developing criteria and definitions for what types of projects might be exempt from mitigation (for example, low income housing, per the Growth Management Act). The task is expected to be completed by May, 2002.

 4. Draft ordinances and comprehensive plan analysis. The results of the work described above will be assessed by City decision makers. Based on this analysis, work will proceed on drafting amendments to the City's regulatory process, and potentially amendments to the City's comprehensive plan. Drafts of these amendments to the City's plan and development regulations are expected to be completed by August, 2002.

 5. Final ordinances and implementation guidelines. Draft ordinances will be reviewed by City staff, the public, and the City Council. After adoption, implementation guidelines will be developed for use by City staff who are involved in the development review process (primarily in DCLU and Seatran). It is expected that ordinances would be adopted and implementation guidelines would be produced by December, 2002.

 In addition to the discreet tasks noted above, the work program includes public involvement throughout the project, including meetings with neighborhood stakeholders in both pilot neighborhoods and members of the development community.

 As noted by the milestone dates for each task, the City anticipates that most work would be completed within the first fiscal year or early in the second fiscal year. We expect the project to be completed by late 2002 or early 2003.

 Deliverables: Deliverables are listed below, and relate to the tasks described above.

 1. Detailed work plan for the project.

 2. Report outlining mitigation methodology, mitigation rates for land uses for different modes, and assessment of statutory requirements to proceed on adoption of mitigation strategy.

 3. Report outlining the results of the economic and competitive analysis. stematic areawide approach. This task will also involve developing criteria and definitions for what types of projects might be exempt from mitigation (for example, low income housing, per the Growth Management Act). The task is expected to be completed by May, 2002.

 4. Draft ordinances and comprehensive plan analysis. The results of the work described above will be assessed by City decision makers. Based on this analysis, work will proceed on drafting amendments to the City's regulatory process, and potentially amendments to the City's comprehensive plan. Drafts of these amendments to the City's plan and development regulations are expected to be completed by August, 2002.

 5. Final ordinances and implementation guidelines. Draft ordinances will be reviewed by City staff, the public, and the City Council. After adoption, implementation guidelines will be developed for use by City staff who are involved in the development review process (primarily in DCLU and Seatran). It is expected that ordinances would be adopted and implementation guidelines would be produced by December, 2002.

 In addition to the discreet tasks noted above, the work program includes public involvement throughout the project, including meetings with neighborhood stakeholders in both pilot neighborhoods and members of the development community.

 As noted by the milestone dates for each task, the City anticipates that most work would be completed within the first fiscal year or early in the second fiscal year. We expect the project to be completed by late 2002 or early 2003.

 Deliverables: Deliverables are listed below, and relate to the tasks described above.

 1. Detailed work plan for the project.

 2. Report outlining mitigation methodology, mitigation rates for land uses for different modes, and assessment of statutory requirements to proceed on adoption of mitigation strategy.

 3. Report outlining the results of the economic and competitive analysis.

 4. Draft ordinances amending the City's development regulations (and potentially identifying amendments to the City's comprehensive plan).

 5. Final ordinances and implementation guidelines.

 Resources:

 As outlined in the City's grant application, the budget for the transportation mitigation analysis is outlined as follows:

 Fiscal Year One (July 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002)

 Salaries/ Benefits

 $129,750 (1.5 FTEs)

 Contracts

 $80,000

 Goods and Services

 Travel

 Other (explain)

 TOTAL

 $209,750

 Fiscal Year Two (July 1, 2002 to June 30, 2003)

 Salaries/ Benefits

 $43,252 (0.5 FTE)

 Contracts

 $35,000

 Goods and Services

 Travel

 Other (explain)

 TOTAL

 $78,252

 Status Reports: The City will provide the Office of Community Development a brief status report on or about March 15, 2002 indicating progress-to-date and describing how the FY 2002 work items will be completed by June 15, 2002. The City expects that the project will be completed by fall, 2002; however, if not, we will also prepare a report on or about January 15, 2003 to outline status of the project

 Close-out-Report: The City will complete a brief report (500 words or less) describing project accomplishments when project as specified in the scope of work is completed (no later than June 1, 2003).

 s02-63000-151

 Page 6 of 6

 Attachment A

```
