

********

**Council Bill Number: 114136**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit"); authorizing execution of a "Fourth Supplement to MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation (April 20, 1998) between Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit) and The City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project," abrogating six positions (5.5 FTE) in the Strategic Planning Office; and adding two positions in the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; and accepting funds from Sound Transit.

**Status:** Failed April 22, 2002
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Pageler)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 1, 2002
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, STRATEGIC-PLANNING-OFFICE, DEPARTMENT-OF-DESIGN-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, MASS-TRANSIT, INTERGOVERNMENTAL-RELATIONS, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, CITY-EMPLOYEES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord. 118927, 119514, 120120; Related: CB 114154

**Fiscal Note:**114136

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit"); authorizing execution of a "Fourth Supplement to MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation (April 20, 1998) between Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit) and The City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project," abrogating six positions (5.5 FTE) in the Strategic Planning Office; and adding two positions in the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; and accepting funds from Sound Transit.

 WHEREAS, on April 20, 1998, pursuant to Ordinance 118927, the City executed a Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation with Sound Transit regarding Light Rail Development ("MOA"); and

 WHEREAS, on October 25, 1999, pursuant to Ordinance 119514, the City executed an agreement with Sound Transit entitled "First Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement For Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project" ("First Supplement"); and

 WHEREAS, in recognition of Sound Transit's request to continue City staff involvement with respect to not only the design process but also the commencement of construction activities for the Central Link Project, Ordinance 120120, passed on October 9, 2000, authorized the Director of the Strategic Planning Office to execute an agreement with Sound Transit entitled "Second Supplement to the Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project" ("Second Supplement"); and

 WHEREAS, due to changes in Sound Transit's budget and schedule, Sound Transit did not execute the Second Supplement authorized by Ordinance 120120; and

 WHEREAS, in response to Sound Transit's request for continued City support for the Central Link Project in exchange for Sound Transit's reimbursement of expenses incurred by the City in connection with such work, Ordinance 120363 was passed on May 14, 2001, authorizing execution of the "Third Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement For Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project"; and

 WHEREAS, Sound Transit has again requested City staff involvement in the design process and commencement of construction activities for the Central Link Project and has agreed to reimburse the City for its expenses incurred in connection with such work, all as contemplated in the document attached hereto labeled "Fourth Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement For Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Project" ("Fourth Supplement"); Now, Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Director of the Strategic Planning Office and recommended by the Mayor, the Director of Seattle Transportation is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with Sound Transit substantially in the form of the document attached hereto and entitled "Fourth Supplement to MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation (April 20, 1998) between Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit) and The City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project," pursuant to which Sound Transit agrees to reimburse the City for services to be provided by the City to support the completion of design and construction of the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project.

 Section 2. Funds received from Sound Transit pursuant to the agreement authorized by Section 1 hereof shall be deposited in the General Subfund.

 Section 3. To reflect a reduction in the scope of work associated with the agreement authorized by Section 1 hereof, the following positions, created in Ordinances 119767, 119993, and 120120, are abrogated in the Strategic Planning Office as follows:

 1 FTE Strategic Advisor Two, Exempt, pocket #00026874

 1 FTE Strategic Advisor One, Exempt, pocket #00026873

 1 FTE Strategic Advisor One, Exempt, pocket #10001398

 1 FTE Strategic Advisor One, Exempt, pocket #10001400

 .5 FTE Strategic Advisor One, Exempt, pocket #00026112

 * 1 FTE Administrative Specialist Two, pocket #00026875

 Section 4. To provide personnel resources to handle the anticipated work associated with the agreement authorized by Section 1 hereof, the following positions are created in the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use:

 1 FTE Land Use Plans Examiner

 1 FTE Permit Process Leader

 Section 5. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its passage and approval, if approved by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _____________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachment:

 Fourth Supplement to MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation (April 20, 1998) between Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit) and The City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project

 Carla Main/MSL

 114136 v2.doc

 v.2 3/29/02

 Exhibit 2

 SCOPE OF WORK

 FOURTH SUPPLEMENT

 To the April 20, 1998 MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation between Sound Transit and The City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project

 March 15, 2002

 Introduction

 This scope of work describes City tasks and deliverables necessary to facilitate final design and implementation of Sound Transit's Project during the time period of April through December 2002. Under this Fourth Supplement, the City agrees to provide expedited design review, construction assistance, design and construction services to meet the Project schedule summarized in Exhibit 1 the major milestones summarized in Exhibit 2 and under the Deliverables for each City department listed in this Exhibit 2.

 Organization. The scope is organized around the three major areas of Public Works, Public Safety, and Business and Community Assistance and Program Management. The first sections address activities for the initial Link light rail line from Convention Place to South 154th bordering the cities of Tukwila and SeaTac. The last page lists activities for North Link.

 Budget Estimate Assumptions. City departments and offices have used the following assumptions in estimating the effort required to provide the services requested by Sound Transit and the costs to be incurred by the City and reimbursed by Sound Transit under this Fourth Supplement.

 a) Unless otherwise stated, these estimates are for work to be performed in direct support of the Project.

 b) Unless otherwise stated, these estimates are for work within the City's geographic limits. Sound Transit shall endeavor to notify Seattle Public Utilities and City Light of any activity relating to or affecting any City facility or service south of the City's southern legal boundary.

 c) The City's estimates are based on the parties adhering to the definitions of 30%-, 60%-, and 90%-Complete Submittal as outlined in the Fourth Supplement.

 PUBLIC WORKS

 Public Works services will be provided by City departments including Seattle City Light, Seattle Public Utilities, Parks & Recreation Department, Seattle Transportation, and Department of Design, Construction, and Land Use.

 Seattle City Light ("City Light")

 Scope of Work:

 City Light will provide the following primary support services: planning and design for City Light relocations, design support for Link systems requirements, and construction of specific City Light facilities as a result of Link Project impacts. City Light will manage the planning and design of electrical transmission and distribution system relocations along the Link light rail alignment; design temporary and permanent electric service connections for Sound Transit facilities; provide expedited plan reviews and construction assistance; and construct capital projects as described below.

 Assumptions:

 To support City Light design, Sound Transit will provide surveyed locations and elevations of existing City Light structures, including profiles of each circuit bottom phase; other structures such as buildings, wire crossings, roads, or light poles in the right-of-way; and topography of the right-of-way showing ground surface elevation. Sound Transit will also provide soils investigation suitable for transmission pole design and copies of Link light rail design documents.

 Along the Martin Luther King Jr. Way corridor, the scope assumes overhead to overhead electrical utility relocation.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Overall

 Completion of designs for utility facilities for various segments of the Project. Provide procurement assistance. Provide project management through a single point of contact. Coordinate design schedules among City Light's three service centers, power stations, and systems planning office, various City departments, and Sound Transit to efficiently and safely design and construct necessary improvements in support of the Project.

 Segment 500, Downtown Seattle Transit Tunnel

 Design

 Complete preliminary engineering for revised medium-voltage feeders at International District Station. Coordinate changes to tunnel electrical service equipment with Sound Transit Systems Engineering team.

 600, Demolition Operations & Maintenance Facility

 Construction

 Disconnect power at buildings to be demolished.

 Provide Service Representative liaison to notify City Light customers about scheduled outages due to Sound Transit construction.

 Procurement Contract P 650, Steel Poles

 Construction assistance

 Provide procurement assistance, including review and approval of shop drawings, technical support to resolve bidding and construction questions, and inspection of steel poles, the acceptance or rejection of which shall be in the discretion of City Light.

 Segment 700, E-3 Busway

 Design

 Complete 100% design of the E-3 Busway transmission 230kV ductbank and vault infrastructure.

 Complete 100% design of electrical distribution relocation for the Operations & Maintenance Facility.

 Complete 100% design of the electrical distribution relocation for South Forest Street elevated structure.

 Coordinate City Light pole bus clearance design along E-3 Busway with Sound Transit and King County Metro.

 Complete 100% design of permanent electric service connections for Sound Transit low-voltage services. Complete 100% design of temporary services for construction activities in the area of the E-3 Busway, South Forest Street, and Airport Way. Coordinate with Sound Transit Systems Engineering regarding service design.

 Construction assistance

 Execute easement agreements with Sound Transit for 230kV ductbank and 230kV aerial line adjacent to the E3 Busway and the 230kV aerial line along the north side of South Forest Street between 8th and Airport Way.

 Assist Sound Transit to establish cost of City Light authorized betterments to aerial 230kV relocation and for 230kVductbank.

 Provide technical support to Sound Transit to resolve bidding and construction questions for 230kV pole relocation and 230kV ductbank construction.

 Construction

 Relocate utility poles on South Forest Street.

 Start construction of the line relocation along Airport Way South in preparation for relocation of 26kV from proposed Operations & Maintenance Facility site.

 Inspect and identify any corrections needed for approval of Sound Transit Civil Facilities Contractor's installation of steel pole at South Stevens and Airport Way and the two bases at Hines St.

 Segment 710, Beacon Hill Tunnel

 Design

 Complete 60% design for relocation of City Light facilities crossing I-5 at South Forest Street and additional circuit along South Stevens street and I-5 that serves Beacon Hill.

 Complete preliminary design of temporary electric service connections for Sound Transit tunnel boring machine (TBM) at West Portal to construct Beacon Hill Tunnel.

 Complete preliminary design and provide information to Sound Transit design teams for service locations to Beacon Hill Station and new traffic signal controller. Coordinate with Sound Transit Systems Engineering regarding service design.

 Segment 720, 730, 740, Martin Luther King Jr. Way South: Beacon Hill East Portal to Boeing Access Road

 Design

 Complete -90% design for electrical and pole distribution overhead to overhead permanent relocations along Martin Luther King Jr. Way South and adjacent/intersecting streets.

 Participate in Urban Design group to coordinate electrical relocation issues.

 Complete preliminary design for Contract 730 and provide information to Sound Transit design teams for service locations to various light rail facilities including traction power substations, passenger stations, and other amenities, new traffic signal controllers, and streetlights. Coordinate with Sound Transit Systems Engineering regarding service design.

 Segment 755, Boeing Access Road to South 154th

 (Note: Contract 755 is a design contract. The segment is broken into two construction contracts, Contracts 750 and 760.)

 Design

 Complete 30% design of electrical distribution system relocations along the Project route from Boeing Access Road to South 154th Street in Tukwila. Specific items include: relocation of overhead to underground distribution line at Boeing Access Road; modification of distribution lines at South 112th Street; and relocation of overhead to overhead distribution line on East Marginal Way.

 Develop preliminary construction cost estimate for required City Light relocations and identify critical procurement milestones.

 * Complete 90%-Complete Submittal of transmission line at South 112th Street for pole procurement.

 Complete preliminary design and provide information to Sound Transit design teams for service locations to various light rail facilities including traction power substations, passenger stations, and other amenities, new traffic signal controllers, and streetlights. Coordinate with Sound Transit Systems Engineering regarding service design.

 Deliverables:

 1. Completion of design for the following:

 - 100% design of E-3 Busway transmission 230kV ductbank and electrical infrastructure for contract 700.

 - 100% design of electrical distribution relocation for Operations & Maintenance Facility onto Airport Way for Contract 700.

 - 100% design of the electrical distribution relocation for South Forest Street elevated structure for Contract 700.

 - 60% design for relocation of City Light facilities crossing I-5 at South Forest Street and additional circuit along South Stevens Street and I-5 for Contract 710.

 - 100% design for electrical and pole distribution overhead-to- overhead permanent relocation along M. L. King Jr. Way South for Contracts 720, 730 and 740.

 - 30% design of electrical transmission and distribution relocations along light rail route from Boeing Access Road to South 154th Street in Tukwila for Contract 755.

 - 90% design of transmission line at South 112th Street for Contract 755.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1

 2. Design review comments identifying electrical service locations for Contracts 500, 700, 710, 730, and 755. Drawings explaining details of service connections as required.

 May (700 & 755)

 June (730)

 July (710)

 Sept. (500)

 3. Transmittal to Seattle City Council ready-for-approval agreements regarding Sound Transit acquisition of easements for 230kV ductbank and 230kv aerial line adjacent to the E3 Busway and aerial line along South Forest Street.

 May 2002

 4. Approval of materials for Contract P650, procurement of steel poles, and for inspection of steel pole installation at Stevens and Airport Way for Contract 700.

 30 days following delivery

 5. Relocation of poles on South Forest Street for Contract 700

 Aug. 2002

 6. Installation of temporary poles along Airport Way South (25% completion).

 Dec. 2002

 Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU")

 Scope of Work:

 SPU will provide expedited plan reviews for utility infrastructure including water, sewer and drainage systems and assist Sound Transit and its consultants with specific utility design, construction and service coordination issues.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Overall

 Provide timely review of Sound Transit design submittals. Provide project management through a single point of contact. Coordinate design review and construction assistance among SPU's Water Operations, Water Quality, Customer Service, and Water Supply divisions, manage resolution of issues, and serve as liaison to Sound Transit.

 Water Operations and Design

 Design review

 Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740, and 60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755 In Exhibit 1 for water operations.

 Construction assistance

 Schedule SPU crews for water decommissioning as needed for Contract 600.

 Review Sound Transit contractor submittals as needed for Contract 700 to ensure compliance with City of Seattle Standard Plans and Specifications.

 Drainage and Wastewater Operations and Design

 Design review

 Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740, and 60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755 (per attached schedule) for drainage and wastewater operations design and grading within City right-of-way.

 Construction assistance

 Review Sound Transit contractor submittals for construction erosion, sediment control, and wastewater disposal plans and other submittals as needed for Contracts 600 and 700 to ensure compliance with City of Seattle Standard Plans and Specifications.

 Perform additional tasks as needed as result of value engineering sewer study for M. L. King Jr. Way South.

 Conduct CCTV inspections to identify SPU betterment locations for repairs and rehabilitation of drainage and wastewater facilities. Coordinate identification and negotiation of betterments with Sound Transit. The City of Seattle will pay the costs of betterments including such additional costs of design and engineering and preliminary coordination with ST.

 Mitigation

 Provide design support services for Chief Sealth trail, including drainage design, survey work, and development of contract specifications and estimates.

 Real Estate Services

 Construction assistance

 Develop agreement for Sound Transit permanent aerial and column easement and temporary construction easement on SPU Water Operations property for Contract 710 and acquisition of SPU parcel at Hanford and Eighth Avenue for Contract 810.

 Provide information to Seattle Transportation about water, sewer and drainage to facilitate street vacation for Project Operations & Maintenance Facility. This task will be completed at no cost to Sound Transit.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Timely and complete SPU comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 and 60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755 (per attached schedule), fully integrated and consistent with comments from other City departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1

 2. Timely and complete SPU comments to Seattle Transportation for approval of Sound Transit contractor submittals for construction erosion, sediment control, and stormwater disposal plans and other submittals as needed for Contracts 600 and 700.

 30 days following transmittal

 3. Transmittal to Sound Transit special inspection CCTV tape of drainage facilities and summary report.

 30 days following completion of inspection work

 4. Completion of survey, 60%-Complete Submittal regarding drainage, and plan specifications and estimate for Chief Sealth bike trail.

 Dec. 2002

 5. Transmittal to Seattle City Council ready-for-approval agreement regarding Sound Transit permanent aerial and column easement and temporary construction easement on SPU Water Operations property for Contract 710 and acquisition of SPU parcel at Hanford and Eighth Avenue for Contract 810.

 Sept. 2002

 Parks and Recreation

 Scope of Work:

 Parks and Recreation will provide expedited plan review and coordination to identify and resolve Parks related issues associated with final design of the Project in the vicinity of the McClellan Station area, Beacon Hill Tunnel, and Martin Luther King Jr. Way South.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Provide timely review of Sound Transit design submittals. Work with Sound Transit to coordinate with all Project activities affecting Seattle parks properties, facilities, and programs.

 Design review

 Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contract 710 to evaluate possible effects to Parks property (e.g. the East Duwamish Greenbelt that may be used to construct the west portal of the Beacon Hill Tunnel). Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contract 720 to assess effects to Parks property including portions of the Cheasty Greenbelt above the east portal of the Beacon Hill Tunnel and lower Cheasty Boulevard to be developed in the existing South Winthrop Street right-of-way. Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 730 and 740 to evaluate possible issues indirectly affecting Parks properties near M. L. King Jr. Way South light rail corridor.

 Construction assistance

 Coordinate with property owners regarding Cheasty Boulevard improvements that Sound Transit is designing and constructing for Parks.

 Develop agreement for permanent subsurface easements for Beacon Hill Tunnel and temporary construction easement for cut-and-cover portion of the Beacon Hill Tunnel East Portal.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Timely and complete Parks comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for relevant portions of Contracts 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule), fully integrated and consistent with comments from other City departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1

 2. Transmittal to Seattle City Council ready-for-approval agreements with Sound Transit for permanent subsurface easements for Beacon Hill Tunnel and temporary construction easement for cut-and-cover portion of Beacon Hill Tunnel East Portal.

 Sept. 2002

 3. Resolution of access issues with property owners on Cheasty Boulevard.

 Sept. 2002

 Seattle Transportation

 Scope of Work:

 Seattle Transportation is responsible for Citywide coordination of Sound Transit design review, construction, and permitting including managing citywide review of contract packages, and providing on-site construction and permit coordination for work within City right-of-way related to Contracts 600 and 700.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Project management

 * Provide project management for Citywide coordination of Sound Transit design, Seattle Transportation permitting, and construction work. Provide single point of contact to Sound Transit for resolution of concurrence letters, Case Management Group, project commitment memo, project construction permit and scope issues; coordinate notification of private utilities about relocation; and provide ongoing support to ensure that the City has done whatever it reasonably can to help Sound Transit become permit-ready.

 * Provide project management and single point of contact for Seattle Transportation's coordination of Sound Transit design, permitting and construction activity. Facilitate resolution of issues, manage Seattle Transportation staff activity, prepare progress reports, coordinate preparation of department scope and budget proposals and support Sound Transit as otherwise requested.

 Design review & support

 Provide timely resolution of City issues and full integration of City comments on all Sound Transit design submittals.

 Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) for compliance with City codes. Review small portion of 60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755 pertaining to quarter mile section within City right-of- way and truck clearance issues associated with Boeing Access Road (per attached schedule).

 Coordinate Citywide design review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 and 60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755 (per attached schedule). This includes coordinating pre-submittal reviews, disseminating contract packages to City reviewers, facilitating reviews to meet Sound Transit schedule requirements, collating and tracking all City review comments, identifying and resolving conflicting City comments, and preparing and delivering one set of internally consistent City comments to Sound Transit within timeframes specified in this Supplement.

 Provide confirmation review of 100%-Complete Submittal for Contracts 500 and 810 to check that City comments on 90%-Complete Submittal have been incorporated.

 Participate in M. L. King Jr. Way Urban Design Task Force meetings to resolve urban design issues and provide letters of concurrence as needed.

 Prepare for and participate in meetings with Sound Transit staff as requested to resolve design and permitting issues. Provide necessary follow-up activity for resolution of issues. Work with Sound Transit to effectively document agreement on resolution of issues.

 Review and comment on technical memos, reports or plan sheets as requested by Sound Transit.

 Manage the City design team working on the Chief Sealth Trail Design and coordinate design activity with Sound Transit.

 Construction assistance

 Finalize project construction permit for Contract 700.

 Review light rail construction traffic control plans for Contracts 600, 700, and 810 to assure compliance with City codes and ordinances.

 Develop agreement for transfer of certain Sound Transit real property and street improvements along M. L. King Jr. Way South to the City.

 Staff Case Management Group in conjunction with DCLU and Sound Transit to review site-specific development issues of impacted property owners and expedite responses or permits as needed.

 Provide construction support as needed for Contracts 600 and 700. Coordinate City review of contractor submittals and resolution of issues as they arise.

 Mitigation

 Prepare 30%- and 60%-Complete Submittals for a mutually agreed upon portion of the Chief Sealth bike trail serving Rainier Valley to coordinate with Sound Transit light rail design in that vicinity.

 Coordinate with Sound Transit as they lead negotiations with property owners on the west side of M. L. King Jr. Way South between South Trenton and South Henderson Streets to acquire additional right-of-way needed for the Project. The City will have lead responsibility for acquisition of right-of-way needed for the bike trail. The parties may choose to conduct joint appraisals; however, each party will be responsible for their share of the appraisal fee and each party shall be responsible for the proportionate share of the acquisition cost of the property that each needs.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Timely resolution of City issues as they arise during design phases for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, 740, and 755 and signed letters of concurrence as needed.

 As required

 2. Timely, fully integrated and consistent City comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 and 60%-Complete Submittal for Contract 755 (per attached schedule).

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1;

 35 days, 45 days if more than one plan package

 3. Approval of 100%-Complete Submittal for Contracts 500 and 810.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1

 4. Signed letters of concurrence on resolution of urban design issues as needed through participation in M. L. King Jr. Way Urban Design Task Force.

 As required

 5. Issuance of project construction permit for Contract 700.

 April 2002

 6. Approval of light rail construction traffic control plans for Contracts 600 and 700.

 As required during construction

 7. Transmittal to Seattle City Council ready-for-approval agreement for transfer of Sound Transit real property and street improvements along M. L. King Jr. Way South to the City of Seattle.

 June 2002

 8. Timely resolution of impacted property owner issues and expedited permits as needed through participation in Case Management Group.

 Ongoing assistance, monthly reports

 9. 30%- and 60%-Complete Submittals for a portion of the Chief Sealth bike trail serving Rainier Valley as mutually agreed upon between Sound Transit and the City.

 30% Sept 2002 60% Dec. 2002

 10. Timely resolution of City issues as they arise at construction sites for Contracts 600 and 700.

 Ongoing assistance

 Department of Design, Construction and Land Use ("DCLU")

 Scope of Work:

 DCLU is responsible for conducting plan and design review; issuing land use, building, electrical, and noise-related permits that are critical to construction of the Project; and performing inspections during construction. DCLU will provide coordination services and expedited review to facilitate issuance of permits need by Sound Transit as well help impacted businesses obtain permits for relocation or changes at existing locations due to the Project.

 Assumptions:

 Sound Transit will pay the standard permitting fees which will not exceed the hourly rate set in the DCLU Fee Ordinance, except with respect to facilities not in the right-of-way such as the Operations & Maintenance Facility (for which a value-based permit fee shall be charged, based on the square foot values set forth in the most current Building Standards publication or as otherwise noted in the Permitting Manual). Sound Transit shall pay fees for other types of permits according to the DCLU Fee Ordinance, including but not limited to the following. The fees for these permits are not a part of the funding described in this agreement. In all cases, services will be paid for either though DCLU fee ordinance or pursuant to this agreement, but not both.

 - Certain building permits -such as connections from stations to existing buildings, commercial tenants within the stations, and shoring of adjacent existing buildings

 - Electrical permits

 - Land use permits

 - Noise-related permits

 DCLU Staff Assignment

 The parties will work together to develop a concurrency memo covering designated staff assignments in connection with the Project. This concurrency memo will become part of the Permitting Manual.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Expedited Permit Processing

 DCLU staff responsible for permits and approvals for the Project will work with Sound Transit to identify ways of expediting the permit process for the Project. Regarding the Master Use Permit processes, at a minimum, DCLU will endeavor to meet the following timeliness goals:

 Determine whether MUP applications are complete within two weeks of Sound Transit submitting the MUP applications;

 Notify Sound Transit promptly of the need for changes or additional information, and maintain regular communication with Sound Transit staff, during the permit process; and

 Issue a MUP decision within four months after the City required public comment period has expired.

 Project management

 Participate in joint City/Sound Transit committees to coordinate construction efforts, including Fire Life Safety Committee, Utilities and Construction Committee, and Permit Management Work Group.

 Design review

 Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals with Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) for compliance with all applicable current City codes including but not limited to: Uniform Building and Mechanical Codes, Land Use Code, ADA requirements, site drainage, grading, environmental, critical areas, energy codes, and Seattle Design Guidelines for Link Light Rail. Advise Seattle Transportation on structural and geotechnical issues as needed.

 Staff Seattle Light Rail Review Panel (LRRP) to provide timely and streamlined review of architecture and urban design drawings, including landscape architecture and art for 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals with Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule). Provide consolidated comments on behalf of three City commissions: Design, Planning, and Arts.

 Serve on the M. L. King Jr. Way Urban Design Task Force, participate in meetings, help facilitate creative and cost effective resolution of urban design issues, and provide letters of concurrence as needed.

 Construction assistance

 Work with Sound Transit to develop a Permitting Manual, to be jointly approved by the Sound Transit and City designated representatives, to help Sound Transit and City staff clarify and apply the permit process, identify which permits are necessary under various circumstances, and describe what is required for permit application submittals. Hold training session for Sound Transit line segment managers and City staff to explain permit process and procedures and review contents of Permitting Manual.

 Provide coordinated review of all Sound Transit land use permit applications. Facilitate resolution of permit issues with other City departments as needed. Assist Sound Transit with permit submittals to ensure applications are complete and issuance of permits is expedited.

 Provide business and community assistance through the Case Management Group and respond to impacted property owners who directly contact the DCLU office. Staff Case Management Group in conjunction with Seattle Transportation and Sound Transit to review site-specific development issues of impacted property owners. Provide expedited responses and permits as needed for impacted property owners staying and those relocating within the neighborhood or to another site within the City.

 Facilitate resolution of noise issues or other construction related issues that may arise with start of construction on Contracts 600 and 710.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Timely and complete DCLU comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule), fully integrated and consistent with comments from other City departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1

 2. Timely and responsive LRRP comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittal for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 to be integrated with City comments when possible, included as separate comments with Citywide response. Meeting notes and actions from LRRP meetings and special reports as needed.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1, Meeting notes 30 days following LLRP meetings

 3. Signed letters of concurrence on resolution of urban design issues as needed through participation in M. L. King Jr. Way Urban Design Task Force.

 As required

 4. Development of Permitting Manual and training session held for Sound Transit line segment managers and City staff to explain permit process and procedures.

 April 2002

 5. Timely publication of decisions for the following estimated permits, pending completion of submittals from Sound Transit:

 - 7 master use permits and 2 building demolition permits for Contract 600. (Sound Transit's Notice to Proceed is scheduled to be issued in May 2002.)

 - 1 to 2 master use permits and 1 project construction permit for Contract 700. (Sound Transit's Notice to Proceed is scheduled to be issued in November 2002.)

 - Substantial progress toward 1 master use permit, 1 building permit, and 1 electrical permit for Contract 810 consistent with schedule in Exhibit 1. (Sound Transit's Notice to Proceed is scheduled to be issued in March 2003.)

 In time for:

 Contract 600

 Contract 700

 Contract 810

 6. Timely resolution of issues of persons or entities impacted by the Project and expedited permits as needed through participation in the Case Management Group and responses to persons or entities impacted by the Project who directly contact the DCLU office.

 Ongoing assistance, Monthly reports

 PUBLIC SAFETY

 Public Safety services will be provided by the City's Fire and Police Departments.

 Seattle Fire Department

 Scope of Work:

 The Seattle Fire Department will review Sound Transit plans, participate in Fire Life Safety Committee, and prepare a Beacon Hill Tunnel construction rescue proposal to support the design and construction of a safe Link light rail system that meets Seattle Fire Code requirements.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Design review

 Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals with Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) and 100%-Complete Submittal with Contract 810 for compliance with Seattle Fire Code and related Building Code requirements. Provide written concurrence on design submittals where such concurrence is appropriate.

 Construction assistance

 Perform technical reviews of fire protection system design and shop drawings with Contracts 700 and 810 for conformance with nationally recognized standards, equipment listings, and sound engineering principles.

 Complete tunnel construction rescue proposal for Sound Transit consideration for Beacon Hill Tunnel and Station so that it will comply with applicable Washington State and City code requirements.

 Assist with developing water pressure and hydraulic information, including conducting hydrant flow tests for Contracts 700, 710, 720 and 810 as needed and if approval is warranted, approve plans for placement of fire hydrants and stand-pipes.

 Participate in development of national standards related to fire protection and life safety of light rail through the NFPA 130 Technical Committee on Fixed Guideway Transit Systems.

 Review specialty reports as needed for impacts on fire safety and suppression.

 Participate on Fire Life Safety Committee and other Sound Transit coordination meetings as needed.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Timely and complete comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 and 100%-Complete Submittal for Contract 810 (per attached schedule), fully integrated and consistent with comment from other City departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1

 2. Approval of fire protection system design and shop drawings with Contracts 700 and 810 for conformance with nationally recognized standards, equipment listings, and sound engineering principles.

 As required

 3. Tunnel Construction Rescue proposal for Sound Transit consideration for Beacon Hill Tunnel and Station.

 June 2002

 4. Approval of plans for placement of fire hydrants and stand-pipes for contracts 710, 720 and 810.

 May (810), Oct. (710), Nov. (720)

 5. Progress reports about key issues and/or opportunities to influence national standards through participation in NFPA 130 Technical Committee on Fixed Guideway Transit Systems.

 As part of Monthly reports

 6. Signed letters of concurrence as needed regarding resolution of issues.

 As required

 Seattle Police Department

 Scope of Work:

 The Seattle Police Department will review Sound Transit plans, participate in Fire Life Safety Committee, and advise Sound Transit's development of security plans during construction and for operations. Seattle Police will also provide worksite traffic control at construction intersections.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Design review

 Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittal for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) for impact upon vehicular and pedestrian traffic flow. Provide written concurrence on design submittal where such concurrence is appropriate.

 Construction assistance

 Timely Review of Project construction worksite traffic control plans for Contracts 600, 700, and 810 to determine compliance with City codes and ordinances and if such compliance is evident, approve such plans.

 Participate on Fire Life Safety Committee and other Sound Transit coordination meetings as needed.

 Assist Sound Transit in planning and preparing for Sound Transit's law enforcement needs with Project construction and future operation of services.

 Provide police traffic control to assure safety at Airport Way and Lander intersection for construction under Contracts 600 and 700 as needed.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Timely and complete comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule), fully integrated and consistent with comment from other City departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1

 2. Review, and where appropriate, approval, in conjunction with Seattle Transportation, of Project construction worksite traffic control plans for Contracts 600 and 700.

 60 days after NTP for contracts

 3. Signed letters of concurrence as needed regarding resolution of issues.

 As required

 4. Provision of police traffic control to assure safety at Airport Way and Lander intersection for construction under Contracts 600 and 700 as needed.

 As required

 BUSINESS AND COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

 The Strategic Planning Office, Office of Economic Development, and other City administrative units, as needed, shall coordinate closely with Sound Transit to manage Citywide activities to support Project final design and implementation, administer financial and reporting details of this Supplement, and provide business and community assistance.

 Strategic Planning Office (SPO)

 Scope of Work:

 SPO will manage all City efforts conducted under this Supplement, coordinate resolution of Project policy issues, manage monthly report and financing, and provide technical assistance (e.g., traffic modeling) as needed.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Timely Review of 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule) for consistency with City adopted station area planning policy.

 Coordinate with Sound Transit staff to resolve strategic planning issues, such as pedestrian and bicycle improvements and mitigation measures to facilitate final design and implementation of the Project.

 Manage resolution of policy issues to ensure that the City has done whatever it reasonably can to help Sound Transit become permit-ready. Provide liaison with Mayor's Office to facilitate decision-making and expedite resolution of such policy issues.

 Track, in coordination with Seattle Transportation, City/Sound Transit mitigation commitments and resolution of issues through Project agreements and letters of concurrence. Provide weekly written status reports to show progress toward issuance of Project construction permits.

 Manage City budget and administer monthly reporting, quarterly invoicing, and other financial accounting responsibilities for City activities related to this Supplement.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Timely and complete comments on 60%- and 90%-Complete Submittals for Contracts 500, 710, 720, 730, and 740 (per attached schedule), fully integrated and consistent with comments from other City departments as coordinated by Seattle Transportation.

 Per schedule in Exhibit 1

 2. Timely resolution of Project strategic planning and policy issues as needed.

 As required.

 3. Weekly status reports of progress on mitigation commitments and resolution of Project issues

 Weekly reports

 4. Timely monthly reports of City reimbursable tasks and quarterly invoices related to this Supplement.

 Monthly reports, Quarterly invoices

 Office of Economic Development ("OED")

 Scope of Work:

 OED will work with Sound Transit to implement a business assistance program that helps those businesses that will be displaced or otherwise impacted by construction of Sound Transit's Project. The goals of the business assistance program are (i) to aid displaced businesses in successfully relocating within the City of Seattle and (ii) to help impacted (but non-dislocated) businesses in remaining viable during construction.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Overall

 Work with Sound Transit staff to devise effective strategies for assisting impacted businesses that complement Sound Transit's property acquisition and relocation program and construction impacts mitigation program.

 Coordinate delivery of OED business assistance services with Sound Transit's acquisition and relocation staff, its construction impacts mitigation staff, DCLU's expedited permitting staff, the Community Development Fund (CDF) staff, and King County Business Relocation Task Force.

 Resources and program development

 Identify potential non-Sound Transit resources available for impacted businesses. Develop and maintain a manual for businesses describing available resources for funding and technical assistance, including step-by-step instructions for accessing funding, application criteria, contact names, and timing for submission.

 Plan and execute training session to inform Sound Transit real estate and other project management staff about other funding and technical assistance resources available for impacted businesses.

 Convene meetings with small business assistance organizations, banks, and CDF staff to share information about impacted businesses, discuss how to maximize the use of City of Seattle, Sound Transit, and community resources for impacted businesses, identify appropriate resources, and coordinate delivery of services.

 Technical assistance for relocated businesses

 Plan and execute introductory business assistance workshop(s) for impacted businesses, with four to five topical business assistance workshops that build on introductory workshop.

 - The format of the introductory workshop will include an update from Sound Transit staff about the Project, information about the CDF and other non-Sound Transit resources available as described in the Manual, and an overview of what financial details businesses will need to access community resources. Provide business owners with an opportunity to meet with community resources staff.

 - Topical workshops may include Creating and Maintaining Financial Statements, Business Planning When Relocating, Marketing to Succeed After Relocating, and Successful Loan Application Preparation.

 - The timing of the topical workshop(s) will follow Sound Transit's notification to impacted property owners. One to two introductory workshops will be held in Spring/Summer 2002.

 - OED will organize, promote, and prepare materials for the workshops and coordinate participation of the community resource providers.

 Provide personalized technical assistance to impacted businesses that contact OED, refer them to the appropriate resources, and follow up requests for information.

 - An estimated 5 businesses on Beacon Hill and 65 businesses in the Rainier Valley will need to relocate

 - An estimated 200 or more businesses in the Rainier Valley may be impacted by construction and may seek assistance for those impacts.

 - One-on-one technical assistance will include help to identify and access appropriate community resources, prepare financial statements, assess eligibility and apply for Community Development Fund products, and develop business plans in light of potential temporary reduced revenue and/or increased operating costs with relocation. Services provided shall be culturally sensitive and individually tailored to address the needs of each impacted business owner.

 - Sound Transit staff will initiate contact with impacted businesses and refer interested businesses to OED.

 Community Development Fund Technical Assistance

 - Assist businesses to assess eligibility for CDF financial products.

 - Assist businesses to develop and assemble required documentation to apply to the CDF. This information could include business plan elements, projected financial statements, personal financial statements, personal tax returns, business financial statements, business tax returns, and information regarding current and future leases.

 - Assist businesses with completion of application packet and communication with CDF staff/credit committee.

 - The CDF will reimburse Sound Transit for 1.0 FTE to provide these services.

 Relocation site identification and development

 In assisting Sound Transit's efforts to help displaced businesses successfully relocate, OED shall:

 - Follow-up Sound Transit initial interviews with businesses to identify business needs and preferences for relocation that will inform developers if opportunity exists.

 - Work with interested businesses to identify business needs and preferences for co-location options.

 - Help interested businesses prepare for discussions with developers by educating them about what information they need and about the process of working with developers.

 - Support Sound Transit's efforts to connect groups of interested businesses such as VABDOSS with developers, as needed. Sound Transit will take the lead on identifying potential replacement sites and interested developers.

 - Identify appropriate resources to help finance development projects to accommodate groups of relocated businesses.

 - Perform the above services with groups such as the Vietnamese American Business Development of Southeast Seattle (VABDOSS) to identify and help address collective needs of business groups.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Development and maintenance of a manual for impacted businesses about non-Sound Transit resources for funding and technical assistance. Information will be user-friendly, easily translated into other languages, and readily integrated into Sound Transit's business relocation resource guide.

 April 2002, ongoing maintenance

 2. Training session held to inform Sound Transit staff about other funding and technical assistance resources available for impacted businesses.

 April 2002

 3. Quarterly meetings with small business assistance organizations, banks, CDF staff, and other stakeholders held to identify "best use" of community resources for impacted businesses and improve coordination of services.

 April, July, Oct. 2002

 4. One to two introductory business assistance workshops held to inform impacted businesses about resources available and provide basic financial statement training.

 April, June 2002

 5. Four to five topical business assistance workshops held to help impacted businesses with Creating and Maintaining Financial Statements, Business Planning When Relocating, Marketing to Succeed After Relocating, and Successful Loan Application Preparation.

 To be determined between May - Oct. 2002

 6. Provision of quality one-on-one technical assistance to impacted businesses. Documentation regarding the number of impacted businesses served and monthly reports to Sound Transit.

 Ongoing assistance, Monthly reports

 7. Documentation of relocation assistance provided, including information gathered from business and VABDOSS interviews about needs and preferences for relocation; notes from meetings and/or materials developed to help interested businesses prepare for discussions with developers; and identification of appropriate resources for financing development projects to accommodate groups of relocated businesses.

 Ongoing assistance, Monthly reports

 8. Timely resolution of impacted property owner issues as needed through participation in the Case Management Group and responses to impacted property owners who directly contact OED.

 Ongoing assistance, Monthly reports

 NORTH LINK

 Scope of Work:

 City departments, including City Light, SPU, Parks, Seattle Transportation, DCLU, Police, Fire, as well as the Strategic Planning Office, will provide a technical review of North Link light rail route and station alternatives and respond to requests for information to support development of the North Link Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS).

 Assumptions:

 Activities such as review of Environmental Impact Statements (EIS) and provision of technical information that the City normally performs for and delivers to other government and private entities at no cost will not be reimbursable tasks under this Supplement.

 In order to be reimbursed for North Link tasks and deliverables, City departments will need to get written pre-authorization from Sound Transit. A $50,000 reserve for Sound Transit requested North Link activities will be managed by the Strategic Planning Office through the Finance General program.

 Tasks and Activities:

 Develop 2015 and 2030 growth factors, using its EMME/2 traffic model, for traffic analysis in the North Link Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement. Growth factors will be required for all intersections selected by Sound Transit and the City for LOS analysis.

 Provide a technical review of the North Link light rail route and station alternatives through participation in one half-day session. Produce a summary report that identifies potential City impact concerns and coordination issues with the North Link alternatives under study.

 Respond to requests for information to support the development of the North Link SEIS and conceptual design of route and station alternatives as requested by Sound Transit.

 Schedule and Deliverables:

 1. Traffic analysis 2015 and 2030 growth factors for the North Link Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement.

 April 2002

 2. Summary report from North Link technical review session.

 April 2002

 3. Provision of technical support as requested by Sound Transit.

 As required

 Budget:

 Traffic analysis

 not to exceed $5,000

 Technical review

 not to exceed $10,000

 Other technical support

 not to exceed $35,000

 TOTAL

 $50,000

 10

 Exhibit 2 - Scope of Work, Fourth Supplement to the MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation between Sound Transit and the City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project 24

 Exhibit 2 - Scope of Work, Fourth Supplement to the MOA for Intergovernmental Cooperation between Sound Transit and the City of Seattle for the Central Link Light Rail Project 2

```
