

********

**Council Bill Number: 114238**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120867**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into agreements, including an escrow agreement, for further environmental remediation of Puget Park and related property known as the Hudson Street Cement Kiln Dust Site (henceforward "Site"); authorizing the Superintendent to accept a gift of certain real property from John M. McFarland for open space, parks and recreation purposes, and accepting a revised street easement for Puget Way SW.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 29, 2002
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Conlin)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 6, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 5, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 8, 2002
   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** PARKS, DELRIDGE, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 118739

**Fiscal Note:**114238

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into agreements, including an escrow agreement, for further environmental remediation of Puget Park and related property known as the Hudson Street Cement Kiln Dust Site (henceforward "Site"); authorizing the Superintendent to accept a gift of certain real property from John M. McFarland for open space, parks and recreation purposes, and accepting a revised street easement for Puget Way SW.

 WHEREAS, on September 29, 1997 the City Council adopted Ordinance 118739 authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to proceed with necessary measures to clean up cement kiln dust (CKD) in the vicinity of Puget Park (the same area that is now known as the Site), including authorizing the Superintendent to enter into agreements with others to carry out the work, and authorizing a $170,000 reimbursable appropriation from the Emergency Subfund; and

 WHEREAS, a judgment was entered on December 1, 1997 against the City of Seattle and others (Holnam, Inc., John M. McFarland, and John Yates, collectively, "Defendants") in Kurtis R. and Pamela Mayer v. The City of Seattle et al. in the King County Superior Court (Cause No. 95-2-04006-3), which in part holds the Defendants responsible under the State Model Toxics Control Act for the costs of remediation of CKD at the Site and for some of the plaintiffs' costs and attorneys' fees; and

 WHEREAS, the Defendants have entered into the Hudson Street CKD Site Settlement Agreement (henceforth "Settlement Agreement"), effective December 15, 1998, to, among other things, allocate the costs of the plaintiffs' judgment and the investigation and cleanup, if any, of the Site; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation, pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, is responsible for managing the investigation and cleanup at the Site, and anticipates the need to enter into further agreements with others to complete the work; and

 WHEREAS, the investigation and cleanup is proceeding in two phases, the first having been completed, and the second phase anticipated to be conducted over the next four to five years; and

 WHEREAS, the City, John M. McFarland, John Yates and Holnam Inc. now known as "Holcim, Inc," (henceforward "Parties"), to the Settlement Agreement are entering into the Hudson Street CKD Site Escrow Agreement (henceforth, "Escrow Agreement") establishing an escrow account to receive amounts due for past cleanup activities as well as to collect and disburse amounts that will be required to pay future cleanup costs; and

 WHEREAS, the City already has overpaid its allocated share of both phase one and anticipated phase two cleanup costs, and is due a refund from the escrow account in the approximate amount of $72,924; and

 WHEREAS, the City has received the sum of $107,458.31 as a contribution to site cleanup costs from insurance proceeds on behalf of defendant John Yates; and

 WHEREAS, one of the provisions of the Settlement Agreement is that the City of Seattle accept a gift of real estate, described in Section 3, from defendant John M. McFarland; and

 WHEREAS, John M. McFarland and Margaret McFarland executed a Revised Street Easement on the 24th day of March, 2000, King County Recording Number 20000515000766, granting to the City of Seattle for street purposes certain real property interests in accordance with the Stipulation and Partial Final Judgment entered on December 1, 1997 in the case of John M. McFarland, et ux. v. Halterman, et al, King County Superior Court Cause No. 88-2-00788-8; and

 WHEREAS, the Puget Park Environmental Remediation Project (K73127), Puget Park Program (K72127) was included in the Department of Parks and Recreation's 2002-2007 Capital Improvement Program adopted by Council;

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his authorized representative is hereby authorized for and on behalf of the City to enter into such additional agreements as are necessary to carry out further investigation and clean up of CKD at the Site, including long-term maintenance of remedial measures. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his authorized representative is hereby authorized for and on behalf of the City to enter into the Escrow Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A and such additional agreements as are necessary to administer funds contributed by the Parties and carry out work in accordance with the Settlement Agreement included as part of Exhibit A.

 Section 2. The City is authorized to accept and to transfer into the escrow account to be used for cleanup expenses, the sum of $107,458.31 received from insurance proceeds on behalf of one of the other Defendants (John Yates), and currently held in the clearing fund.

 Section 3. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, but effective upon execution by all Parties of the Escrow Agreement, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to accept on behalf of the City of Seattle the gift of real property parcels, legally described as follows:

 That portion of Block 10, Supplemental Plat of Goodspeed Addition to West Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 21, in King County, Washington;

 AND that portion of the South Half of the Reserve, Goodspeed Addition to West Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 3 of Plats, page 59, in King County, Washington, lying north and northeasterly of the centerline of Old County Road;

 AND that portion of 16th Avenue Southwest lying south of the south line of Southwest Edmunds Street and north of the south line of Block 10, Supplemental Plat of Goodspeed Addition to West Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 21, in King County, Washington, awarded by and described in Stipulation and Partial Final Judgment entered December 1, 1997 under King County Superior Court Cause No. 88-2-00788-8;

 EXCEPT that portion of said South Half of the Reserve lying westerly of the southerly extension of the easterly margin of 16th Avenue Southwest;

 AND EXCEPT that portion of said South Half of the Reserve and said Block 10 lying easterly and northeasterly of the westerly boundary of Puget Way Southwest as established by and described in Stipulation and Partial Final Judgment entered December 1, 1997 under King County Superior Court Cause No. 88-2-00788-8, and revised by instrument dated March 24, 2000, recorded May 15, 2000, under King County Recording Number 20000515000766.

 Section 4. The Revised Street Easement executed by John McFarland and Margaret McFarland on the 24th day of March, 2000, King County Recording Number 20000515000766, granting to the City of Seattle for street purposes the property in Seattle, King County, Washington, described in Exhibit B and attached hereto, is hereby accepted, and the real property interest conveyed by the easement is placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 5. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council this ______ day of ____________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ______ day of _____________, 2002.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit A: Hudson Street CKD Site Escrow Agreement

 Exhibit B: Revised Street Easement

 Browne

 06/21/02

 PUGET PK ord

 (Ver. #1 )

 HUDSON STREET CKD SITE

 ESCROW AGREEMENT

 BACKGROUND: The City of Seattle, John M. McFarland, Holnam, Inc., and John H. Yates (parties) have agreed to share certain costs in accordance with the Hudson Street CKD Site Settlement Agreement ("Agreement") a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A. The procedures for sharing these costs are outlined in this Hudson Street CKD Site Escrow Agreement ("Escrow Agreement").

 PURPOSE: The purpose of this Escrow Agreement is to establish an account for collecting and managing the funds to perform future Work under the Agreement and to detail the role and responsibilities of the Escrow agent ("Escrow"). This Escrow Agreement applies to funds that may be collected, and Work performed, after the date of this Escrow Agreement, and does not otherwise alter the parties' respective obligations under the Agreement regarding reimbursement and reallocation of past costs.

 ESCROW: Susan Kraght, CPA, Kraght Snell, P. S.,

 BANK LOCATION: Washington Mutual Bank, Silverdale Bank, P. O. Box 448, Silverdale, WA 98383

 ESCROW ACCOUNT NUMBER: To be established upon first payment received from one party subject to this Agreement.

 WIRE INSTRUCTIONS: After the first payment is submitted, future payments may be submitted by wire. Wire instructions will be sent to all parties after the escrow account is established.

 FUNDING THE ESCROW ACCOUNT: The City of Seattle, consistent with its obligation under the Agreement to manage the remedial work at the Hudson Street Site, may prepare a proposed written contract or contracts for work to be performed together with firm, fixed price costs by a qualified contractor or consultant. The cost of this work shall be set out in a lump sum if the work is to be performed within 3 months. If the work is to be performed over the course of more than three months, the proposed contract shall set out quarterly installments for the work to be performed in each quarter. Holnam and McFarland shall have 15 days to review and approve in writing any proposed contractor or consultant. Holnam and McFarland shall have 15 days to review and approve in writing any proposed contract for work to be performed and any written fixed price contract. Holnam and McFarland shall not unreasonably withhold their approvals. The parties shall deliver their written notices as set forth below.

 Upon Holnam's and McFarland's approval in writing of a proposed contract, the City shall sign the proposed contract as the contracting party ("Contract"). The City shall deposit a copy of each Contract with the Escrow.

 From the date of the City's execution of a Contract, the parties to this Escrow Agreement shall have 30 days in which to deposit their respective shares of either the total amount of the Contract or its first quarterly installment. Thereafter, each party shall pay its share of any further quarterly installment for a Contract no later than 30 days after the first date of the quarters specified in the Contract. Authorization to proceed with work shall not be given by the Escrow Agent until all parties' shares have been paid into the Account for that Contract or quarterly installment.

 Each party shall wire its payments into the Escrow Account per the instructions stated herein, or otherwise mail or deliver a check or other form of payment such that the funds are immediately available on the due date. Due amounts not paid within 30 days will accrue interest at 1% per month. Accrued interest income (less income tax due) will be a credit against amounts due. The basis for allocating interest income to each party will be average daily balance. Initial remittance will be in accordance with these Escrow Instructions.

 The parties anticipate that Holnam may make payments into the Escrow Account in settlement of certain obligations to some or all of the other parties under the Agreement. Escrow shall also accept these funds and hold them pursuant to this Escrow Agreement for the benefit of the designated party and apply them toward the respective obligations of each of those parties to pay for properly invoiced work as stated herein. In the event that any of these funds remain in the Account upon termination, they shall be paid to the designated party on whose behalf they were held.

 Upon the Seattle City Council's passage of an ordinance accepting the transfer of certain parcels adjacent to Puget Park and owned by John M. McFarland legally described in Exhibit B hereto, Holnam shall deposit into the Escrow Account within thirty (30) days the amount it is obligated to reimburse to the City and to McFarland for past costs under the parties' Agreement (Exhibit A).

 Upon the execution of this Escrow Agreement by all the parties, the City shall deposit into the Escrow Account John Yates' payment of $107,458.31.

 As provided in the Agreement, the City shall receive a credit of up to $10,000 per year, and not to exceed $40,000 total, for the administrative costs related to its management of the remedial work at the Hudson Street Site. The City shall provide documents from the City's financial management system to support this administrative cost credit to the Escrow, and for the review and approval of Holnam and McFarland. Such approval of the City's management costs shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Escrow shall make payments to the City out of the Escrow for the City's above administrative costs only as set forth in the following section.

 PAYMENTS FROM THE ESCROW ACCOUNT: The Escrow shall make any payment due under a Contract only pursuant to the instructions in this Escrow Agreement as set forth below:

 1. Escrow shall only pay amounts the City properly submits for administrative costs, or a contractor or consultant properly invoices under a Contract and only pursuant to the terms set forth in the Contract (e.g., monthly billings, net 30 days, etc.); and

 2. Escrow shall only pay amounts the City properly submits for administrative costs, or due a contractor or consultant, upon the review and approval in writing by the City, Holnam, and McFarland. The City, Holnam, and McFarland shall not unreasonably withhold their approvals. The City, Holnam, and McFarland shall have the opportunity to review a contractor's or consultant's work to ensure it was performed properly and that the work invoiced was actually performed. The refusal to approve an invoice for a contractor's or consultant's failure to perform its work properly or failure to perform the work invoiced is not unreasonable. The City, Holnam, and McFarland shall deliver to each other, and the Escrow, their written approvals in the manner set forth below. As provided above, Holnam and McFarland shall have the opportunity to review and approve the City's administrative costs which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Holnam and McFarland shall deliver to each other and the City and the Escrow their written approvals in the manner set forth below.

 NOTICES AND APPROVALS: All notices or approvals shall be delivered in person, by first class mail, by email, or by telefax, to the addresses set forth below:

 Holnam Inc.

 c/o William H. Chapman and

 John C. Bjorkman

 Preston Gates & Ellis LLP

 5000 701 5th Ave.

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Business: (206) 623-7580

 Fax: (206) 623-7022

 Email: billc@prestongates.com

 johnb@prestongates.com

 John H. McFarland

 c/oMr. John Lenker

 Mikkelborg, Broz, Wells & Fryer

 1001 Fourth Ave., Ste. 3600

 Seattle, WA 98154-1115

 Business: (206) 623-5890

 Fax: (206) 623-0965

 Email: jelenker@mbwf.com

 City of Seattle

 Colleen Browne

 Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Avenue, Third Floor

 Seattle, WA 98134-1336

 Phone: (206) 684-4155 (Office)

 Fax: (206) 233-3949

 Escrow: Susan Kraght, CPA,

 Kraght Snell, P. S

 16082 Pearson Point Road, NE

 Poulsbo, WA 98370

 Phone and fax: (360) 697-7086

 e-mail: skraght@aol.com

 John Yates

 c/o Greg Turner

 Lee, Smart, Cook Martin & Patterson

 1800 One Convention Place

 701 Pike Street

 Seattle, WA 98101

 Phone: (206) 624-7990

 Fax: (206) 624-5944

 ESCROW FEES: The Escrow is authorized to charge the Escrow Account only for the services, and only at the rates and amounts, stated in Exhibit C hereto.

 The parties shall make deposits to the Escrow Account to cover the escrow fees and costs estimated to be necessary to service a Contract. From time to time, but not more than quarterly, Escrow may provide a detailed notice to all parties itemizing additional amounts necessary to service a Contract.

 Three parties to this Escrow Agreement may together demand and obtain a change in the Escrow. Those parties shall together select a New Escrow whereupon all the obligations of the Escrow under this Escrow Agreement shall be transferred to the New Escrow. Upon designation of a New Escrow, Susan Kraght and Kraght Snell may withhold no more than $500 to cover any outstanding fees and costs and shall thereafter promptly transfer the Escrow Account pursuant to the written instructions of the three parties designating the New Escrow.

 TAX RETURN: The Escrow will prepare and file any required tax return. Any tax due will be paid out of the Escrow Account according to the parties' shares in the Agreement.

 OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS: This Escrow Agreement shall be interpreted to be consistent with the Agreement. Where there is a conflict, the terms of the Agreement shall control. Except with respect to the Agreement, this Escrow Agreement constitutes the full and complete agreement of the parties. There are no other agreements, oral or written, existing between the parties covering the matters the subject of this Escrow Agreement. All earlier drafts or negotiations are superceded by this Escrow Agreement and/or are merged herein. Venue for any dispute under this Escrow Agreement shall be in King County Superior Court.

 This Escrow Agreement is solely for the benefit of the parties signing below. There are no third party beneficiates, either intended or unintended, including but not limited to, any contractor or consultant.

 By entering into this Escrow Agreement, no party admits to any liability or fault of any kind whatsoever except as specifically set forth in this Escrow Agreement.

 No party may terminate this Escrow Agreement while an approved Contract is pending and there is work that remains to be performed under that approved Contract. Otherwise, this Escrow Agreement may be terminated 30 days after a party delivers written notice of termination to all other parties and the Escrow. The withdrawal of one party automatically terminates the Escrow Agreement for all parties. The Escrow shall retain all funds on deposit in the Escrow Account at the time a notice of termination is delivered and shall use those funds to pay (1) any properly approved invoices that may be due or may become due after termination becomes effective (for example, due to a delay in issuance of a final invoice for a Contract); and (2) the final present value of any operation and maintenance expense as set forth in paragraph 7 and 8 of the Agreement (PV O&M). After payment of all properly approved invoices that are due or that become due, and the PV O&M, the Escrow shall pay any remaining funds to the parties according to their shares as set forth in the Agreement.

 DATED this ___ day of ______________, 2001.

 City of Seattle Holnam, Inc.

 By ____________________ By __________________________

 its _____________________ its ___________________________

 John McFarland John Yates dba Duwamish

 Excavating and Trucking Company

 ____________________ _________________________

 Exhibit C

 Escrow Fees

 Preparation of quarterly deposit requests and escrow account reconciliation

 Receipt and recognition of Escrow deposits from all parties

 Distribution to all parties and payment of monthly contractor invoices

 Distribution to all parties and payment of administrative costs

 Preparation and distribution to all parties of annual tax return

 Escrow account settlement upon termination

 $60 per hour not to exceed $6,000 per year

 Direct expenses at cost for postage and telephone

 K:\31227\00003\JCB\JCB_A21KX

 HUDSON STREET CKD SITE

 ESCROW AGREEMENT

 PAGE - 6 -

```
