

********

**Council Bill Number: 114268**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120903**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the purchase of certain real property located in the Ballard neighborhood of Seattle, King County, Washington through the execution of an assignment of a purchase and sales agreement from the Cascade Land Conservancy with a portion of the purchase price being contributed by the Cascade Land Conservancy and from other non-City sources.

**Status:** Adopted
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 3, 2002
   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Nicastro, Pageler, Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 10, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 9, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 5, 2002
   
**Committee:** Water and Health
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, BALLARD, DRAINAGE, SALMON-BAY, FISH, CONSERVATION, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION

**Fiscal Note:**114268

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _______________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the purchase of certain real property located in the Ballard neighborhood of Seattle, King County, Washington through the execution of an assignment of a purchase and sales agreement from the Cascade Land Conservancy with a portion of the purchase price being contributed by the Cascade Land Conservancy and from other non-City sources.

 WHEREAS, Cascade Land Conservancy, a Washington nonprofit corporation (the "Conservancy"), has the right under a Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement dated June 10, 2002 (the "Purchase Agreement"), attached hereto as Attachment A, to purchase a certain parcel of land located in the Ballard neighborhood of Seattle, King County, Washington (as defined in the Purchase Agreement, the "Property") for $536,500; and

 WHEREAS, the Conservancy is willing to transfer its rights and obligations under the Purchase Agreement to the City and has arranged for the contribution of $236,500 toward the purchase of the Property;

 WHEREAS, the City finds that the Property is valuable for salmon habitat protection and drainage purposes and desires to preserve it as such; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council appropriated $335,000 from the drainage and wastewater fund for the purpose of contributing to the purchase of the Property by Seattle Public Utilities; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to execute the "Assignment of Real Estate Purchase and Sales Agreement," attached hereto as Exhibit B, and incorporated herein this reference, under which the Conservancy assigns to the City the Conservancy's rights and obligations under the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Property. This authorization is contingent upon availability of the non-City funds in the amount of $236,500 being available in escrow to apply to apply to the purchase price of Property.

 Section 2. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to purchase the Property in accordance with the Purchase Agreement and contingent upon the availability of non-City funds in the amount of $236,500 being available in escrow to apply to apply to the purchase price of Property, and to accept a statutory warranty deed with respect to the Property. When purchased, the Property shall be placed under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 3. Any act pursuant to and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2002.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________________

 Gregory Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2002.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 List of Attachments

 Attachment A: Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Attachment B: Assignment of Real Estate Purchase and Sales Agreement

 Ron Perkerewicz/FE:

 Salmon Bay

 06/13/02

 Salmonbay.doc

 (Ver. 2)

 PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 This PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into by and between CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Buyer"), and Seaview Properties NW, LLC, a Washington Limited Liability Company ("Seller"), as of the date appearing in the last paragraph of this Agreement ("Effective Date").

 RECITALS

 A. Seller owns certain real property in Seattle, King County, Washington, more particularly described on Exhibit A attached.

 B. Buyer desires to purchase the Property, as hereinafter defined, because of its conservation values. Buyer is exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended from time to time, the "Code") and is included in the "Cumulative List of Organizations" described in Section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code published by the Internal Revenue Service. Buyer is not a private foundation within the meaning of Section 509(a) of the Code.

 C. Seller acknowledges that upon acquisition of the Property, Buyer shall be free to use and dispose of the Property in any manner Buyer deems appropriate and that Buyer may sell the Property for any price Buyer deems appropriate to any subsequent buyer.

 D. Seller desires to sell the Property (as defined in Section 1) to Buyer, and Buyer desires to purchase the Property from Seller on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

 E. Buyer intends to assign this Agreement to the City of Seattle before or at closing.

 Intending to be legally bound, for good and valuable consideration, including the mutual covenants and promises of the parties, the adequacy and receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

 1. Property. The "Property" subject to this Agreement consists of all of the following:

 (a) That certain real property consisting of 6,305.51 square feet, more or less, with a street address of 3419 NW 54th Street located in Seattle, Washington and more particularly described in Exhibit A attached (the "Land").

 (b) Any rights, privileges and easements appurtenant to the Land, including minerals, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances on the Land, development rights, air rights, water, water rights and water stock relating to the Land, and any easements, rights-of-way and other appurtenances used in connection with the beneficial use and enjoyment of the Land (collectively, the "Appurtenances") that are not specifically excepted in Exhibit B (Permitted Special Exceptions).

 2. Purchase. Seller shall sell and convey the Property to Buyer, and Buyer shall purchase the Property from Seller, on the terms, covenants and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Purchaser acknowledges that prior to Closing, Purchaser shall have inspected the Property. Purchaser will be purchasing the Property in its present physical condition, "As Is," except for the express covenants, representations and warranties and indemnities contained in this Agreement. As of the Effective Date, Purchaser agrees that Seller has made no representations or warranties or agreements of any kind or nature regarding the Property, except for the express warranties contained in this Agreement.

 3. Purchase Price.

 3.1. Amount. The purchase price ("Purchase Price") for the Property shall be Five Hundred Thirty-Six Thousand Five Hundred and no/100 Dollars ($536,500.00).

 3.2. Payment. Buyer shall pay Seller the Purchase Price at Closing.

 3.3 Earnest Money. Upon execution of this Agreement, Buyer will execute a promissory note in favor of Seller (the "Note") in the amount of Ten Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($10,000.00), due on delivery of Buyer's notice that the contingencies described in Sections 4.3 and 6 have been satisfied or removed, and deposit the Note in escrow with Chicago Title Insurance Company (the "Escrow Holder") to be held by the Escrow Holder as earnest money. The funds deposited in payment of the Note (the "Deposit") shall be applied to the Purchase Price at Closing. Escrow Holder shall place the Deposit in an interest bearing money market-type account. Interest shall be for Buyer's benefit. The Note or Deposit (plus interest), as applicable, shall be refunded to Buyer unless all of Buyer's conditions precedent (as provided in section 5.1) are satisfied. IN THE EVENT BUYER FAILS, WITHOUT LEGAL EXCUSE, TO COMPLETE THE PURCHASE OF THE PROPERTY, THE DEPOSIT, PLUS ANY INTEREST EARNED THEREON, SHALL BE FORFEITED TO SELLER AS LIQUIDATED DAMAGES AS THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY AVAILABLE TO SELLER. Buyer and Seller agree that the liquidated damages represent a reasonable sum considering all of the circumstances existing on the date of this Agreement and represent a reasonable estimate of the losses that Seller will incur if Buyer fails to purchase the Property after all conditions precedent to Buyer's performance have been completely satisfied in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion.

 4. Title.

 4.1. Condition of Title. Title shall be insurable by a 1970 (with 1984 revisions) ALTA Owner's Extended Coverage Policy in the amount of the Purchase Price, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions. Seller shall satisfy all requirements of the Title Company in connection with issuance of its title policy (the "Title Policy") in accordance with the Commitment.

 4.2. Title Insurance Commitment. Buyer has obtained a current title insurance commitment issued by Chicago Title Insurance Company (the "Title Company"), showing marketable title to the Property to be vested in Seller and committing to insure such title in Buyer by the issuance of a 1970 (with 1984 revisions) ALTA Owner's Extended Coverage Policy of title insurance in the amount of the Purchase Price. The commitment (or one or more updates thereto) (collectively, the "Commitment") shall also commit the Title Company to issue with such policy endorsements as required by Buyer.

 4.3. Review of Title. Buyer shall have until the end of the Contingency Period (as defined in Section 6) to notify Seller in writing of any objection Buyer in its sole discretion may have to any exceptions shown on the Commitment. General taxes due after Closing and those exceptions disclosed in the Commitment that Buyer does not disapprove, and those exceptions listed on Exhibit B constitute permitted exceptions ("Permitted Exceptions"). Seller, at its sole cost and expense, shall remove all exceptions other than Permitted Exceptions. Seller shall immediately notify Buyer of any liens, leases, encumbrances, easements, restrictions, conditions, covenants, rights-of-way and other matters affecting title to the Real Property that are created and which may appear of record or be revealed by survey or otherwise after the date of the Commitment but before the Closing (collectively, "Intervening Exceptions"). Intervening Exceptions shall be subject to Buyer's approval and Buyer shall have ten (10) Business Days after notice in writing of any Intervening Exception, together with a description thereof and a copy of the instrument creating or evidencing the Intervening Exception, if any, to either accept it (whereupon the Intervening Exception shall be a Permitted Exception) or submit written objection. Seller will promptly remove all Intervening Exceptions that do not become Permitted Exceptions.

 5. Conditions Precedent.

 5.1. Conditions to Purchase. Buyer's obligations with respect to purchase of the Property and the Closing are subject to fulfillment of the conditions precedent ("Buyer's Conditions Precedent") described below, or waiver thereof by Buyer, not later than the Closing Date, or such other date as is specified in Section 6.4. "Buyer's Conditions Precedent" are not to be construed as additional representations and warranties of the Seller and shall be extinguished at closing.

 (a) Title Policy. All requirements set forth in the Commitment (including any update) shall have been satisfied or waived by the Title Company and the Title Company shall be prepared to issue the Title Policy as described in Section 4.

 (b) Moratorium. No reassessment, reclassification, rezoning or other change in judicial or administrative decision or proceedings (including amendments and modifications of any of the foregoing) pending or proposed to be imposed by any governmental or quasi-governmental authority or any public or private utility having jurisdiction over the Property shall have occurred.

 (c) Zoning; Survey. There are no existing violations of zoning ordinances or other laws, ordinances or restrictions applicable to the Property; there are no encroachments upon the Property; and there are no other matters of survey that, in Buyer's sole discretion after examination of a survey of the Property, would affect Buyer's intended uses and purposes.

 (d) No Notices. Seller has not received actual notice from any governmental authority that existing uses of the Property are not in full compliance with all applicable zoning laws (and applicable variances) and any other local, municipal, regional, state or federal requirements or that the improvements on the Property do not comply with all applicable building, safety, health, zoning, environmental, subdivision and other laws, ordinances and regulations.

 (e) No Actions or Proceedings. There is no action, proceeding or investigation whether in the nature of eminent domain or otherwise, pending or threatened, with respect to the title, ownership, maintenance, use or operation of the Property.

 (f) No Environmental Violations. The Property is not in violation of any federal, state or local law, ordinance or regulation relating to industrial hygiene or to the environmental conditions on, under, above or about the Property, including but not limited to soil and groundwater conditions.

 (g) Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Seller. As of closing, Seller shall have performed each and every agreement to be performed by Seller under this Agreement, and Seller's representations and warranties in this Agreement shall be true and correct as of the Closing.

 (h) No Adverse Changes. As of the Closing, there shall have been no adverse change in the physical condition of the Property from the date of this Agreement.

 (i) Seller's Deliveries. Seller shall have delivered each of the items described in Section 6.1 to Buyer and in Section 8.1 to Escrow Holder.

 (j) Investigation. Buyer shall have notified Seller that the condition stated in Section 6.4 has been satisfied or waived within the time period required therein.

 (k) No Seller Bankruptcy. If at any time prior to Closing, (i) there shall be filed against or by Seller a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or a petition seeking to effect any plan or other arrangement with creditors or seeking the appointment of a receiver and the same is not discharged or dismissed before Closing; (ii) a receiver or liquidator is appointed for all or substantially all of Seller's property; (iii) Seller makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or takes any other similar action for the benefit or protection of creditors, then Buyer shall have the right in its sole and absolute discretion and in addition to all other remedies available to Buyer pursuant to this Agreement or at law or in equity to cancel and terminate this Agreement after which the Note or Deposit shall be returned to Buyer and neither party shall have any further rights or obligations under this Agreement.

 (l) Existing Leases. Buyer is aware of the home and moorage leases attached as Exhibit D to this Agreement, and understands that the house lease expires on June 30, 2002, and that the moorage lease is on a month-to-month basis and may be terminated by Tenant on 30 days notice. Buyer desires to retain existing lease on moorage under these terms.

 (m) Environmental Assessment. Buyer has received Seller's Level I Environmental Site Assessment and intends demolition of the buildings on the property and therefore waives receiving Form 17 Real Property Transfer Disclosure Statement.

 (n) Financing. Buyer shall have secured financing for the Property in an amount sufficient to pay the Purchase Price in full on Closing and otherwise on terms and conditions acceptable to Buyer in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion.

 (o) Authority of Assignee to Purchase. As of Closing, the Seattle City Council, by ordinance, has authorized the purchase of the Property subject to this Agreement.

 5.2. Benefit of Buyer. The Buyer's Conditions Precedent are solely for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived only in writing by Buyer. Buyer shall at all times have the right to waive any condition. The waiver by Buyer of any condition in any specific circumstances shall not be a waiver of such condition with respect to any other circumstances or a waiver of any other condition and shall not relieve Seller of any liability or obligation with respect to any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement of Seller, unless the waiver expressly so provides.

 5.3. Termination. If any one or more of Buyer's Conditions Precedent 5.1(a) - 5.1(m) is not timely fulfilled or is not waived by Buyer, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller and Escrow Holder shall, if Buyer so instructs, return to the parties all funds and documents deposited by them, respectively, into Escrow. If this Agreement is terminated because Buyer's Conditions Precedent 5.1(n)-(o) are not fulfilled, the Deposit, including interest, shall be forfeited to Seller, as its sole and exclusive remedy.

 6. Investigation of the Property.

 6.1. Seller's Initial Deliveries. Within seven (7) days after the Effective Date, Seller shall, at its sole expense, deliver to Buyer copies of the materials listed on Exhibit C.

 6.2. Entry. Without limiting any other rights of Buyer under this Agreement, as of the Effective Date, Buyer, Buyer's agents and employees, as well as the agents and employees of the intended Assignee, Seattle Public Utilities, shall have the right to conduct soils, engineering, environmental and other tests at the Property at Buyer's sole expense. Seller agrees to cooperate with any such investigations, inspections, or studies made by or at Buyer's direction. The exercise by Buyer of any of the preceding rights or any other act of Buyer shall not negate any representation, warranty or covenant of Seller, or modify any of Buyer's rights or Seller's obligations in the event of any breach by Seller of any of its representations, warranties or covenants under this Agreement. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from any and all damages, expense, liens or claims (including attorneys' fees) arising from Buyer's negligence in exercise of its rights hereunder or failure to pay third parties; and the provisions of this indemnity shall survive termination of this Agreement. Buyer will return property to good condition and repair any damage immediately after tests are completed.

 6.3. Environmental Assessment. Buyer may obtain such environmental assessments of the Property as Buyer deems appropriate. Buyer will provide Seller with copies of all test data and reports from tests carried out on the Property. Buyer makes no representation of or warranty regarding the accuracy or suitability of such data.

 6.4. Period for Investigation. Closing of this transaction is conditioned on Buyer's satisfaction with the Property, the suitability of the Property for Buyer's intended uses and the feasibility of this transaction in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion. Buyer shall have until July 15, 2002 to conduct its investigation (the "Contingency Period"). If Buyer fails to notify Seller and the Title Company in writing that this condition is satisfied or waived prior to 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on the final day of the Contingency Period, then this Agreement shall be deemed terminated, and both Seller and Buyer shall be released and discharged from all further obligations under this Agreement. The Deposit, plus interest, shall be delivered to Seller and, except as provided in Section 6.2, neither party shall be subject to a claim by the other for damages of any kind with respect to this Agreement or Buyer's attempt to purchase the Property.

 7. Seller's Obligations. Before the Closing Seller shall, at its sole expense:

 7.1. Promptly notify Buyer upon learning of any fact or event that would make any of the representations or warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement (including, without limitation, Buyer's Conditions Precedent and the representations and warranties set forth in Section 12 hereof) untrue or misleading in any material respect or that would cause Seller to be in violation of any of its covenants or other obligations hereunder.

 7.2. Notify Buyer promptly upon receiving notice of a claim or pending litigation affecting the Property, or notice of any event, transaction, or occurrence before Closing that would materially adversely affect the Property or any part thereof.

 7.3. Not convey, mortgage, grant a deed of trust, or contract to do the foregoing or otherwise allow or consent to convey, abandon, relinquish, cloud or encumber title to the Property or any interest therein or part thereof without Buyer's consent.

 7.4. Maintain the Property in its existing condition and repair, and otherwise operate the Property and maintain its business records in the same manner as before the making of this Agreement, the same as though Seller were retaining the Property.

 7.5. Maintain all casualty, liability and hazard insurance currently in force with respect to the Property through the Closing without diminution in coverage.

 7.6. Remedy any violations of law or municipal ordinances or regulations of any federal, state, local or other governmental departments.

 7.7. Take no action that might adversely affect title to the Property.

 8. Deliveries to Escrow Holder.

 8.1. By Seller. Seller shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Escrow Holder on or prior to the Closing Date the following items, the delivery of each of which shall be a condition to the performance by Buyer of its obligations under this Agreement:

 (a) Deed. A statutory warranty deed, in form and substance satisfactory to Buyer and its counsel, duly executed and acknowledged by Seller (the "Deed"), conveying to Buyer or its designee indefeasible good and marketable fee simple title to the Property, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, restrictions and easements, except only the Permitted Exceptions.

 (b) FIRPTA Affidavit. A certificate in form and substance acceptable to Buyer and its counsel, duly executed by Seller, evidencing that Seller is exempt from the withholding requirements of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code.

 (c) ALTA Affidavits. Any affidavits, certifications or instruments, including any lien affidavits or mechanic's lien indemnifications, duly executed and acknowledged by Seller, as reasonably may be required by the Title Company in order to issue the Title Policy.

 (d) Title Insurance Policy. The Title Insurance Policy in conformance with Section 4.

 (e) Closing Certificates. A certificate of Seller dated as of the Closing Date certifying that all of Seller's representations and warranties remain true as of the Closing Date, or if not, specifying the respect in which any representation or warranty is no longer true.

 (f) Certificates of Authority. Such certificates as are necessary or required by Buyer or the Title Company to evidence the authority of Seller and its signatories to execute the instruments to be executed by Seller in connection with this transaction, and evidence that the execution of such instruments is the official act and deed of Seller.

 (g) Excise Tax Affidavit. A real estate excise tax affidavit signed by Seller or its agent.

 8.2. Buyer. Buyer shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Escrow Holder on or before the Closing Date cash by federal funds, wire transfer or cashier's check in the amount necessary to pay the balance of the Purchase Price and Buyer's share of closing costs and prorations.

 9. Close of Escrow.

 9.1. Time. The close of escrow (the "Closing") shall occur no later than August 16, 2002, at the offices of Escrow Holder. When the Title Company is in a position to issue the Title Policy and all documents and funds have been deposited with Escrow Holder, Escrow Holder shall immediately close escrow as provided for below. The failure of either Seller or Buyer to be in position to close by the Closing Date shall constitute a default by such party.

 9.2. Procedure. Escrow Holder shall close Escrow as follows:

 (a) Obtain the release of the Property from any liens described in the Commitment except the Permitted Exceptions;

 (b) Pay applicable real estate transfer excise taxes and record the Deed;

 (c) Complete the prorations;

 (d) Issue and deliver the Title Policy to Buyer;

 (e) Deliver any other documents deposited by Seller into Escrow to Buyer;

 (f) Deliver the Purchase Price less Seller's closing costs, the Deposit (plus interest) and prorations to Seller; and

 (g) Forward to Buyer and Seller, in duplicate, a separate accounting of all funds received and disbursed for each party and copies of all executed and recorded or filed documents deposited into Escrow, with such recording and filing date endorsed thereon.

 9.3. Incorporation of Escrow Instructions. This Agreement shall serve as escrow instructions, and an executed copy of this Agreement shall be deposited by Buyer with Escrow Holder following its execution. The parties may execute additional escrow instructions provided that such additional escrow instructions shall not change the terms of this Agreement.

 9.4. Closing Costs and Prorations.

 (a) Closing Costs. Buyer and Seller shall each pay their own attorneys' fees. Buyer shall pay the cost of recording the Deed, all escrow fees, all real estate transfer excise taxes, the title insurance premium, up to Nine Hundred Forty-Five and no/100 ($945.00) for outstanding property tax, and Twenty-one Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($21,000.00) of Seller's real estate commission. If required by Buyer, Buyer shall pay the additional premium charged by the Title Company for extended coverage and the Endorsements and the cost of the survey.

 (b) Prorations. Above the Nine Hundred Forty-Five and no/100 ($945.00) in property tax paid for by Buyer, Seller shall be responsible for paying real property taxes, general assessments, utilities and operating expenses relating to the Property through the Closing Date. Any special assessments against the Property in existence as of the Closing Date shall be paid in full by Seller. All expenses of the Property, including but not limited to, real property taxes, rents, utility charges, amounts payable under Contracts, annual permits and other expenses normal to ownership, use, operation and maintenance of the Property shall be prorated as of 12:01 a.m. on the Closing Date.

 (c) Rents. Prepaid rents shall be credited to Buyer. Installments of fixed and minimum rent will be prorated based on collections as of 12:01 a.m. on the Closing Date. Any rents collected by Buyer after the Closing Date shall be applied to rentals accruing after the Closing Date and then to any rents due for any period prior to the Closing Date.

 9.5. Possession. Possession of the Property shall be delivered to Buyer upon Closing.

 9.6. Deliveries Outside of Escrow. On the Closing Date Seller shall deliver to Buyer outside of Escrow the items identified in Exhibit D (Deliveries Outside of Escrow).

 10. Brokerage Commission. Buyer warrants to Seller that its sole contact with Seller and with the Property regarding this transaction has been directly with the Seller's Listing Brokers, and has not involved any other broker. Seller and Buyer further warrant to each other that, except for Seller's Listing Brokers, no broker or finder can properly claim a right to a commission or finder's fee based upon contacts between the claimant and that party with respect to the other party or the Property. Seller will pay a commission to Seller's Listing Brokers in accordance with commission agreements with Lake and Company and with Windermere Real Estate Wall Street, Incorporated. Seller hereby assigns to Listing Brokers, as applicable, a portion of their funds in escrow equal to such commission(s) and irrevocably instruct the Closing Agent to disburse the commission directly to Listing Brokers. Buyer will pay Twenty-one Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($21,000.00) of the Seller's commission fee directly. Buyer has no further obligation or liability with respect to Seller's Listing Brokers. In any action by Listing Brokers to enforce this paragraph, the prevailing party is entitled to court costs and reasonable attorney's fees. Except as expressly provided herein, each party shall indemnify, defend and hold the other party harmless from and against any loss, cost or expense, including, but not limited to, attorneys' fees and court costs, resulting from any claim for a fee or commission by any broker or finder in connection with the Property and this Agreement resulting from the indemnifying party's actions.

 11. Seller to Make Tax-Deferred Exchange. Seller intends to complete this transaction as part of a section 1031 tax-deferred exchange. Buyer agrees to cooperate with Seller in documenting exchange provided that Buyer incurs no additional expense or liability thereby.

 12. Casualty or Condemnation.

 12.1. If there is a condemnation of all or part of the Property initiated before Closing, Seller shall promptly notify Buyer and Buyer shall have the option for ten (10) days following the date the notice is received (a) to proceed with the Closing, in which event all condemnation proceeds already received by Seller by the Closing shall be paid to Buyer and the right to receive such proceeds not yet received by Seller shall be assigned to Buyer at the Closing, or (b) to terminate this Agreement. Unless this Agreement is terminated, Seller shall take no action with respect to any condemnation proceeding without the prior written consent of Buyer.

 12.2. Before Closing, the entire risk of loss or damage by casualty to the Property however caused shall be borne and assumed by Seller. If any casualty costing $5,000.00 or more to repair has occurred to the Property before Closing, Buyer at its election may terminate this Agreement or proceed to close. In the latter case, Seller shall assign to Buyer all insurance proceeds attributable to the Property casualty. If there is a casualty to the Property costing less than $5,000.00 to repair, there will be no termination of this Agreement, such damage shall be repaired by the Seller, and if not so repaired before Closing, then the remaining cost of repair shall be withheld from the Purchase Price and paid over to Seller upon Seller's completion of the repairs to Buyer's reasonable satisfaction.

 13. Representations, Warranties and Covenants.

 13.1. Seller's Representations, Warranties and Covenants. In addition to the representations, warranties and covenants contained elsewhere in this Agreement, Seller as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date, to the best of Seller's knowledge, makes the following representations, warranties and covenants:

 (a) Title. Seller is the sole owner of the Property. At Closing, Buyer will acquire the entire fee simple estate and right, title and interest in and to the Property, free and clear of all recorded or unrecorded liens, encumbrances, covenants, restrictions, reservations, easements, options, tenancies, leases, encroachments, claims or other matters affecting title or possession of the Property, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions.

 (b) Agreements to Transfer or Encumber. Seller has not committed nor obligated itself in any manner whatsoever to sell, lease or encumber the Property or any interest therein to any party other than Buyer.

 (c) Compliance with Law. To the best of Seller's knowledge the Property complies in all material respects (both as to condition and use) with all applicable statutes, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations of any governmental authority having jurisdiction over the Property (including those related to zoning, building, subdivision, and engineering), including all conditions contained in any certificate of occupancy covering any of the Real Property. Seller has obtained all required permits or authorizations for such occupancy. Seller has no knowledge of any facts that might give rise to any violation of the foregoing matters.

 (d) Bankruptcy, Etc. No bankruptcy, insolvency, rearrangement or similar action involving Seller or the Property, whether voluntary or involuntary, is pending, threatened, by a third party, or contemplated by Seller.

 (e) Litigation. There is no pending or to Seller's best knowledge threatened judicial, municipal or administrative proceedings with respect to Seller, this transaction or in any manner affecting the Property or any portion thereof or in which Seller is or will be a party by reason of Seller's ownership of the Property or any portion thereof.

 (f) Notices. Seller has not received any notices from any insurance companies, governmental agencies or from any other parties with respect to any violations or other matters concerning the Property.

 (g) Taxes and Assessments. Other than amounts disclosed by the Commitment, to the best of Seller's knowledge, no other property taxes have been or will be assessed against the Property for the current tax year, and there are no general or special assessments or charges that have been levied, assessed or imposed on or against the Property.

 (h) Tax Returns. Seller has filed all local, state and federal tax forms that are required to be filed by Seller, has paid all taxes due and payable by Seller to date and will pay all such taxes that become due and payable by Seller prior to the Closing.

 (i) Underground Storage Tanks. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there are no cisterns, wells, subterranean storage or underground storage tanks on the Property and underground storage tanks have not been removed from the Property.

 (j) Violation of Property Restrictions. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Property and the current use, occupation and condition thereof do not violate any applicable deed restrictions or other covenants, restrictions or agreements (including, without limitation, any of the Permitted Exceptions), site plan approvals, zoning or urban redevelopment plans applicable to the Land or Real Property.

 (k) Subdivision. The conveyance of the Property will not constitute a violation of any subdivision ordinance.

 (l) Tax Valuation/Assessment. Seller has no knowledge and has received no notice of any proceedings pending for the correction of the assessed valuation of Real Property or any other pending or threatened special assessments affecting the Real Property.

 (m) Good Standing and Due Authority. Seller is a Limited Liability Company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing in the state of Washington. Seller has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligation hereunder and the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been, and the documents contemplated hereby will be, duly executed and delivered by Seller and constitute the Seller's legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms. The consummation by Seller of the sale of the Property is not in violation of or in conflict with nor does it constitute a default under any term or provision of the LLC Agreement of Seller, or any of the terms of any agreement or instrument to which Seller is or may be bound, or of any provision of any applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any governmental authority or of any provision of any applicable order, judgment or decree of any court, arbitrator or governmental authority.

 (n) No Omissions. All representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement, and all information contained in any certificate furnished by Seller to Purchaser in connection with this transaction, are free from any untrue statement of material fact and do not omit to state any material facts necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading. The copies of any documents furnished to Buyer in connection with this transaction are true and complete copies of the documents they purport to be and to the best of Seller's knowledge contain no untrue statement of material fact and do not omit to state any material facts necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading.

 (o) Leases, Service Contracts or Other Contracts. No leases, service contracts or other contracts are in place regarding or related to the Property except those listed in Exhibit D.

 (p) Mechanic's Liens. No labor, material or services have been furnished in, on or about the Property or any part thereof as a result of which any mechanics', laborer's or materialmen's liens or claims might arise.

 (q) Assumption of Liabilities. Buyer, by virtue of the purchase of the Property, will not be required to satisfy any obligation of Seller arising prior to the Closing Date. Other than such obligations so expressly assumed by Buyer or any liens or other obligations with respect to the Property which result from any action or activities by or on behalf of Buyer after the Closing Date, Seller, after the date of Closing, will pay and discharge any and all liabilities of each and every kind arising out of or by virtue of the possession, ownership or use of the Property prior to the Closing Date, and shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer harmless therefrom.

 (r) Provide Further Information. From the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, Seller will notify Buyer of each event of which Seller becomes aware affecting the Property or any part thereof immediately upon learning of the occurrence of such event.

 13.2. Effect of Buyer's Inspections. The effect of the representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement shall not be diminished or deemed to be waived by any inspections, tests or investigations made by Buyer or its agents.

 13.3 Buyer's Representation. Buyer represents and warrants that as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date, Buyer is a Washington nonprofit corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing in the state of Washington. Buyer has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligation under this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. This Agreement has been, and the documents contemplated by this Agreement will be, duly executed and delivered by Buyer and constitute the Buyer's legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against Buyer in accordance with its terms. The consummation by Buyer of the purchase of the Property is not in violation of or in conflict with nor does it constitute a default under any term or provision of the bylaws of Buyer, or any of the terms of any agreement or instrument to which Buyer is or may be bound, or of any provision of any applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any governmental authority or of any provision of any applicable order, judgment or decree of any court, arbitrator or governmental authority.

 14. Environmental Compliance. In addition to and without limiting Sections 12 and 17, Seller warrants, represents, covenants and agrees:

 14.1. Hazardous Substances. Seller has not used, generated, manufactured, produced, stored, released, discharged or disposed of on, under, above or about the Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property) or transported to or from the Property, any Hazardous Substance or allowed any other person or entity to do so. Seller has no knowledge nor has Seller observed any questionable practice or conduct indicating that any Hazardous Substance has been used, generated, manufactured, produced, stored, released, discharged or disposed of on, under or above Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property) or transported to or from the Property by any entity, firm or person, or from any source whatsoever.

 14.2. Pre-closing Covenant. Seller will not use, generate, manufacture, produce, store, release, discharge or dispose of on, under, above or about the Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property), or transport to or from the Property, any Hazardous Substance or authorize any other person or entity to do so, prior to the closing.

 14.3. Environmental Indemnity. Seller shall protect, indemnify, hold harmless and defend Buyer and its directors, officers, contractors, employees, agents, parents, subsidiaries, successors and assigns from and against any and all loss, damage, cost, expense or liability (including attorneys' fees and costs) directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to a breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in this Section 14 including, without limitation, (a) all consequential damages, and (b) the costs of any required or necessary repairs, cleanup or detoxification of the Property and the preparation and implementation of any closure, remedial or other required plans. This indemnity does not apply to actions of Buyer, its agents or independent contractors.

 14.4. Definitions. The term "Hazardous Substance" includes without limitation (a) those substances included within the definitions of "hazardous substances", "hazardous materials", "toxic substances", "hazardous wastes" or "solid waste" in any Environmental Law; (b) petroleum products and petroleum byproducts; (c) polychlorinated biphenyls; and (d) chlorinated solvents. The term "Environmental Law" includes any federal, state, municipal or local law, statute, ordinance, regulation, order or rule pertaining to health, industrial hygiene, environmental conditions or hazardous substances.

 15. Indemnification.

 15.1. Seller's Indemnity. Seller shall pay, protect, defend, indemnify and hold Buyer and its successors and assigns harmless from and against any and all loss, liability, damage and expense suffered or incurred by reason of (a) the breach of any representation, warranty or agreement of Seller set forth in this Agreement, (b) the failure of Seller to perform any obligation required by this Agreement to be performed by Seller, (c) the ownership, maintenance, and/or operation of the Property by Seller prior to the Closing, not in conformance with this Agreement, or (d) any injuries to persons or property from any cause occasioned in whole or in part by any acts or omissions of the Seller, its representatives, employees, contractor or suppliers that occurred before Closing. Seller shall defend any claim covered by this indemnity using counsel reasonably acceptable to Buyer.

 15.2. Buyer's Indemnity. Buyer shall pay, protect, defend, indemnify and hold Seller and its successors and assigns harmless from and against any and all loss, liability, damage and expense suffered or incurred by reason of the ownership, maintenance, and/or operation of the Property after Closing by Buyer.

 16. Survival. The covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall survive the Closing unimpaired and shall not merge into the Deed and the recordation thereof.

 17. Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire integrated agreement of the parties, including all of the covenants and conditions between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, and supersedes all prior correspondence, agreements and understandings, both verbal and written. No addition or modification of any term or provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless set forth in writing and signed by Seller and Buyer. The parties do not intend to confer any benefit under this Agreement to any person, firm or corporation other than the parties.

 18. Default; Remedies

 18.1. Specific Performance. This Agreement pertains to the conveyance of real property, the unique nature of which is hereby acknowledged by the parties. Consequently, if Seller breaches or defaults under this Agreement or any of the representations, warranties, terms, covenants, conditions or provisions hereof, Buyer shall have, in addition to a claim for damages for such breach or default, and in addition and without prejudice to any other right or remedy available under this Agreement or at law or in equity, the right (a) to specific performance of this Agreement; or (b) to terminate this Agreement upon written notice without liability to Seller.

 18.2. Attorneys' Fees. If either party brings an action or other proceeding against the other party to enforce any of the terms, covenants or conditions hereof or any instrument executed pursuant to this Agreement, or by reason of any breach or default hereunder or thereunder, the party prevailing in any such action or proceeding shall be paid all costs and reasonable attorneys' fees by the other party, and in the event any judgment is obtained by the prevailing party all such costs and attorneys' fees shall be included in the judgment.

 19. Notices. All written notices required to be given pursuant to the terms hereof shall be either delivered personally or deposited in the United States mail, certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid and addressed to the addresses listed below with copies to the parties listed after such address:

 SELLER:

 Seaview Properties NW, LLC

c/o Art Van der Wel

 Windermere Real Estate/Wall Street, Inc.

 3214 West McGraw St., Suite 102

 Seattle, WA 98199

 BUYER:

 Cascade Land Conservancy

 615 Second Avenue, Suite 525

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Attn: Michelle Connor

 King County Area Manager

 with a copy to:

 Preston Gates & Ellis LLP

 701 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5000

 Seattle, WA 98104-7078

 Attn: Konrad Liegel

 ESCROW:

 Chicago Title Insurance Company

 701 Fifth Avenue, #1800

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Attn: Scott Smouse

 Escrow #: 001015429-SS

 The foregoing addresses may be changed by written notice to the other party as provided herein. Mailed notice properly given shall be deemed received two (2) days after deposit in the mail. Facsimile transmission of any signed original document or notice, and retransmission of any signed facsimile transmission, shall be the same as delivery of an original. At the request of either party, or the Escrow Holder, the parties will confirm facsimile transmitted signatures by signing an original document.

 20. Partial Invalidity. If any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby; and each such term and provision of this Agreement shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.

 21. Waivers. No waiver of any breach of any covenant or provision in this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach thereof, or of any other covenant or provision in this Agreement. No extension of time for performance of any obligation or act shall be deemed an extension of the time for performance of any other obligation or act.

 22. Construction. Captions are solely for the convenience of the parties and are not a part of this Agreement. This Agreement shall not be construed as if it had been prepared by one of the parties, but rather as if both parties had prepared it. If the date on which Buyer or Seller is required to take any action under the terms of this Agreement is not a business day, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding business day.

 23. Time. Time is of the essence of every provision of this Agreement.

 24. Force Majeure. Performance by Seller or Buyer of their obligations under this Agreement shall be extended by the period of delay caused by force majeure. Force majeure is war, natural catastrophe, strikes, walkouts or other labor industrial disturbance, order of any government, court or regulatory body having jurisdiction, shortages, blockade, embargo, riot, civil disorder, or any similar cause beyond the reasonable control of the party who is obligated to render performance (but excluding financial inability to perform, however caused).

 25. Successors/Assigns. The terms, conditions and covenants contained in this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties hereto. Seller acknowledges that Buyer may assign its interest in this Agreement and any of the documents described herein to the City of Seattle.

 26. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of Washington.

 27. Term Extension. This Agreement and any dates specied herein may be extended by Buyer for up to sixty (60) days by written notification and in consideration of the sum of One Hundred Fifty and NO/100 Dollars ($150.00) per day payable by Buyer.

 28. Term of Offer. Until fully and properly executed by Seller, this Agreement constitutes an offer by Buyer to purchase the Property on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement. This Agreement and Buyer's offer to purchase the Property will expire, terminate and be of no further force and effect if this Agreement is not fully and properly executed by Seller and received by Buyer on or before five (5) p.m. on June 7, 2002.

 29. Date. This Agreement is made ________________, ____.

 SELLER:

 __________________________,

 a ____________ _____________

 By: ________________________

 Name: ________________________

 Title: ________________________

 BUYER:

 CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY,

 a Washington nonprofit corporation

 By: ________________________

 Name: ________________________

 Title: ________________________

 Date: May 28, 2002

 Exhibit List

 Exhibit A Legal Description

 Exhibit B Permitted Exceptions

 Exhibit C Seller's Disclosure Documentation

 Exhibit D Seller's Deliveries Outside of Escrow

 Exhibit A

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 PARCEL A:

 THAT PORTION OF PARCEL A DESCRIBED AS LOT 9, BLOCK 14, BALLARD TIDE LANDS, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, ACCORDING TO SURVEY THEREOF AS SHOWN BY THE OFFICIAL PLAT OF SAME ON FILE IN THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC LANDS AT OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON;

 AND

 THAT PORTION OF RESERVE NO. 4 OF BRYGGER'S SECOND HOME ADDITION TO THE CITY OF BALLARD, WASHINGTON, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF, RECORDED IN VOLUME 10 OF PLATS, PAGE 94, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, THAT LIES BETWEEN THE NORTHERLY BOUNDARY OF SAID LOT 9, BLOCK 14 OF SAID PLAT OF BALLARD TIDE LANDS AND THE SOUTHERLY BOUNDARY LINE OF THE RIGHT OF WAY OF THE GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY THROUGH GOVERNMENT LOT 3 IN SECTION 10, TOWNSHIP 25 NORTH, RANGE 3 EAST, WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON AND BETWEEN THE WESTERLY BOUNDARY LINE PRODUCED NORTH OF SAID LOT 9, BLOCK 14, OF SAID PLAT OF BALLARD TIDE LANDS AND THE EASTERLY BOUNDARY LINE PRODUCED NORTH OF SAID LOT 9, BLOCK 14, OF SAID PLAT OF BALLARD TIDE LANDS

 PARCEL B:

 LOTS 1 AND 2, BLOCK 13, BALLARD TIDE LANDS, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, ACCORDING TO SURVEY THEREOF AS SHOWN BY THE OFFICIAL PLAT OF SAME ON FILE IN THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC LANDS AT OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON.

 PARCEL C:

 ALL THAT PORTION OF RESERVE NO. 4, BRYGGER'S SECOND HOME ADDITION TO THE CITY OF BALLARD, WASH., ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF, RECORDED IN VOLUME 10 OF PLATS, PAGE 94, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, THAT LIES EASTERLY OF A LINE DRAWN PARALLEL WITH AND DISTANT 32 FEET EASTERLY OF THE CENTERLINE OF THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY AS SAID CENTERLINE IS DESCRIBED IN DEED DATED NOVEMBER 22, 1910, RECORDED JANUARY 25, 1911 IN VOLUME 775 OF DEEDS, PAGE 331 UNDER RECORDING NUMBER 728090; SOUTH OF THE SOUTHERLY BOUNDARY OF THE RIGHT OF WAY OF THE GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY CONTIGUOUS TO AND ADJOINING NORTHWEST 54TH STREET (FORMERLY SEAVIEW AVENUE); WEST OF THE EASTERLY BOUNDARY LINE OF LOT 8, BLOCK 14, BALLARD TIDE LANDS, PRODUCED NORTH; AND NORTH OF THE NORTHERLY BOUNDARY LINE OF SAID LOT 8, BLOCK 14.

 PARCEL D:

 AN IRREGULAR PIECE OF LAND IN LOT 8, BLOCK 14, BALLARD TIDE LANDS, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, ACCORDING TO SURVEY THEREOF AS SHOWN BY THE OFFICIAL PLAT OF SAME ON FILE IN THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC LANDS AT OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 BEGINNING AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 8;

 THENCE SOUTH ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT, A DISTANCE OF 12.25 FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT;

 THENCE NORTH 61 degrees 26'37" WEST ALONG THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID LOT, A DISTANCE OF 53.295 FEET TO A POINT THAT IS 32 FEET DISTANT EASTERLY, MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES, FROM THE CENTERLINE OF THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY AS SAID CENTERLINE IS DESCRIBED IN DEED DATED NOVEMBER 22, 1910, RECORDED JANUARY 25, 1911 IN VOLUME 775 OF DEEDS, PAGE 331 UNDER RECORDING NUMBER 728090;

 THENCE NORTH 2 degrees 5' WEST ALONG A LINE THAT IS PARALLEL WITH AND 32 FEET DISTANT EASTERLY, MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES, FROM SAID CENTERLINE OF THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY, A DISTANCE OF 13.52 FEET TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF SAID LOT 8;

 THENCE SOUTH 60 degrees 30' EAST ALONG SAID NORTH LINE OF LOT 8 A DISTANCE OF 54.33 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Exhibit B

 PERMITTED SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS

 Buyer accepts title to the Seaview Property, as described by Chicago Title Insurance Company's Title Commitment Order No. 001015429, dated September 26, 2001, subject to the following:

 * permitted special exceptions: no 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 14, 15, 16.

 * Encroachment of buildings on Washington Department of Natural Resource tideland as shown on Delta Surveying Survey Job no. 96-2021 dated February 13, 1997 page 1 of 2.

 Delta Surveying

 15317 Meridian East, Suite H

 Puyallup, WA 98373

 Stephen E. Wendover

 Professional Land Surveyor

 Exhibit C

 SELLER'S DISCLOSURE DOCUMENTATION

 Seller's Phase 1 Environmental Assessment

 Exhibit D

 SELLER'S DELIVERIES OUTSIDE OF ESCROW

 1. Rental agreement for house dated June 11, 1998

 2. Boat storage moorage agreement dated September 9, 1998

 ??

 (..continued)

 F:\TLC\2002\Projects\Salmon Bay Natural Area\PSA phased 060502.doc - 16-

 B-2

 D-1

 D-1

 C-1

 ASSIGNMENT OF

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 WHEREAS, Cascade Land Conservancy, a Washington nonprofit corporation, has the right to purchase a certain parcel of land (the "Property") owned by Seaview Properties NW, LLC, under a Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement entered into on June 10, 2002 (the "Purchase and Sale Agreement"), attached hereto as Attachment A and incorporated herein by this reference; and

 WHEREAS, the Property consists of the Property as defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement;

 WHEREAS, Cascade Land Conservancy has deposited a promissory note for the sum of Ten Thousand and No/dollars ($10,000.00) into an escrow account in accordance with the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and has incurred substantial transactional expenses during the negotiation of the Purchase and Sale Agreement;

 WHEREAS, the Property possesses ecological values important to Cascade Land Conservancy and the citizens of King County; and

 WHEREAS, Cascade Land Conservancy and Seattle Public Utilities, a Department of the City of Seattle, desire that the Property be preserved in perpetuity for drainage purposes;

 NOW, THEREFORE, Cascade Land Conservancy ("Assignor"), does hereby assign, transfer and set over to Seattle Public Utilities, a Department of the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("Assignee"), the said Purchase and Sale Agreement, and Assignee agrees to accept such assignment, under the following terms and conditions:

 1. Assignee shall assume all of Assignor's rights, duties, and obligations under said Purchase and Sale Agreement and agrees to fulfill the terms and conditions of said Purchase and Sale Agreement.

 2. Upon closing, Assignee shall pay an assignment fee to the Assignor of Eighteen Thousand Nine Hundred and NO/Dollars ($18,900.00) upon closing. In addition, Assignee shall reimburse Cascade Land Conservancy for its earnest money deposit of Ten Thousand and NO/Dollars ($10,000.00).

 3. Assignor shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Assignee from and against any and all liabilities, losses, costs, damages, and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) arising out of or related to a breach or default by Assignor under the Purchase and Sale Agreement accruing or arising before the date of this Agreement. Assignee shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Assignor from and against any and all liabilities, losses, costs, damages, and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) arising out of or related to a breach or default by Assignee under the Purchase and Sale Agreement accruing or arising after the date of this Agreement.

 4. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington. In the event of default under this Agreement by any party to this Agreement, the non-defaulting party shall be entitled, in addition to all other remedies, to seek monetary damages and specific performance of the defaulting party's obligations hereunder. In the event of litigation between the parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the prevailing party, in addition to all other rights and remedies, shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys' fees, costs and litigation-related expenses from the non-prevailing party.

 DATED this ____ day of _________, 2002.

 Signed in Counterparts.

 ASSIGNOR:

 CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY

 By:__________________________

 Its:__________________________

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that __________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he signed this instrument, on oath stated he was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as the __________ of CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL this ___ day of ________, 2002.

 ____________________________________ Printed Name________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at ________________

 My Commission Expires:_______________

 ASSIGNEE:

 Seattle Public Utilities, a department of the City of Seattle, WASHINGTON

 By:___________________________

 Its:___________________________

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _____________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that he/she signed this instrument, on oath stated he/she was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as ___________________ of Seattle Public Utilities, a Department of the City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL this ___ day of ________, 2002.

 ____________________________________ Printed Name________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at ________________

 My Commission Expires:_______________

 Attachment A

 Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement

 (see attached)

 A:\B, PSA Assignment 061102.doc.doc Page 1

```
