

********

**Council Bill Number: 114256**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120882**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to a Combined Training Facility; approving the acquisition of certain real property located on the 9400 block of Myers Way SW; authorizing the Promissory Note; approving the Deed of Trust; and accepting the Statutory Warranty Deed.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 12, 2002
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Compton)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 20, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 19, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 29, 2002
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, FACILITIES, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, FIRE-DEPARTMENT, SOUTH-PARK, HIGHLAND-PARK, JOB-TRAINING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120787

**Fiscal Note:**114256

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to a Combined Training Facility; approving the acquisition of certain real property located on the 9400 block of Myers Way SW; authorizing the Promissory Note; approving the Deed of Trust; and accepting the Statutory Warranty Deed.

 WHEREAS, the Combined Training Facility project was established through the 2001 Budget adopted through Ordinance 120165; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120787 authorized the condemnation of land and other property rights on the Nintendo of America, Inc. site on the 9400 block of Myers Way SW for development and operation of a Combined Training Campus; and

 WHEREAS, the City and Nintendo of America, Inc. have negotiated a voluntary purchase agreement for the 51 acre site for $14.9 million dollars; and

 WHEREAS, the City intends to resell a significant portion of the property for private development to offset total project costs and to spur economic development in the Highpoint neighborhood; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The purchase of certain real property located in the 9400 block of Myers Way SW is approved in accordance with the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and related documents, attached as Exhibit 1.

 Section 2. The Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department ("Director") is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of the City, to execute a Promissory Note, in the form attached as Exhibit B.

 Section 3. The Director is authorized, for and on behalf of the City, to execute a Deed of Trust, in the form attached as Exhibit C.

 Section 4. The Director is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of the City, to accept a Statutory Warranty Deed for the above described real property, which property, when received, shall be placed under the jurisdiction of the Fleets and Facilities Department.

 Section 5. Any acts made consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2002.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2002.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2002.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment:

 Exhibit 1 - Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Exhibit B - Promissory Note

 Exhibit C - Deed of Trust

 Joan Rosenstock/hjh

 Combined Training Facilities.doc

 7/10/02

 version #3

 EXHIBIT 1

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 THIS REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is dated for reference purposes July 1, 2002, between NINTENDO OF AMERICA INC., a Washington corporation ("Seller"), having its principal offices at 4820 150th Avenue NE, Redmond, WA 98052, and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a first class city of the State of Washington ("Purchaser"), having an address at The City of Seattle, Fleets and Facilities Department, Real Estate Services Division, 618 Second Avenue, 14th Floor, Seattle, WA 98104 (individually "Party" and collectively "Parties" to this Agreement).

 RECITALS:

 A. Seller owns approximately 51 acres of real property located on the 9400 block of Myers Way S., Seattle, WA, which is legally described in the attached Exhibit A (the "Property"). The Property is composed of 15 individual tax lots.

 B. The Purchaser desires to acquire the Property, having determined that it meets the Purchaser's criteria for the location of a Combined Training Campus for the Seattle Fire Department and Seattle Public Utilities.

 C. Seller is selling the Property to Purchaser under threat of the imminent exercise of eminent domain by Purchaser, and in lieu of such exercise of Purchaser's power of eminent domain. As such, the Parties intend that the transaction qualify for the exemption from the real estate excise tax as set forth in WAC 458-61-420(c).

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the undertakings contained in this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

 1. SALE OF PROPERTY. Pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, Purchaser shall purchase from Seller the Property described in Exhibit A, subject to:

 a. All taxes, assessments apportioned between the Parties to the date of Closing, restrictions, easements, licenses, permits, agreements and other matters affecting the Property;

 b. All applicable zoning rules, restrictions, regulations, resolutions and ordinances and building restrictions and governmental regulations now or hereafter in effect;

 c. The right of the public in any street or highway forming a boundary of the Property; and

 d. Any claims of adverse possession, encroachment and/or prescriptive easement, whether or not known to or disclosed by Seller. Seller represents that the personnel in its real estate department do not have actual knowledge of any claims of adverse possession, encroachment and/or prescriptive easement affecting the Property. Buyer acknowledges that the Property is unimproved, and that Seller has not investigated boundary line issues, has limited experience with the Property and is under no obligation to Buyer to make any inquiry or investigation of any sort into boundary line issues.

 2. PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE. The purchase price for the Property is FOURTEEN MILLION NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($14,900,000.00), and shall be paid as follows:

 a. Earnest Money. Within ten (10) days of execution hereof by John Franklin on behalf of Purchaser and W. Bruce Meyer on behalf of Seller, Purchaser shall deliver to Escrow Agent the sum of TWO MILLION FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($2,500,000.00) (the "Earnest Money Deposit"), to be held in an interest bearing account for the benefit of Purchaser, together with a copy of this Agreement. The Earnest Money Deposit shall become non-refundable upon the latter of the removal or expiration of all contingencies which would entitle a Party to avoid its obligation to close this transaction; provided, however that in the event that the transaction fails to close through fault of Seller the Earnest Money Deposit shall at Purchaser's option be refundable to Purchaser. Escrow Agent shall deliver the Earnest Money Deposit to Seller upon Closing, as defined in this Agreement

 b. Balance. At Closing, Purchaser shall deliver to Escrow Agent a fully executed and enforceable Promissory Note in the sum of TWELVE MILLION FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($12,400,000.00) in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, and shall execute and deliver to Seller a Deed of Trust, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, securing the payment of the balance of the purchase price.

 3. VESTING OF TITLE.

 a. Deed. At Closing, Seller shall deliver to Escrow Agent a fully executed and enforceable Statutory Warranty Deed (the "Deed"). The Deed shall not be subject to any exceptions other than (a) the Permitted Exceptions and (b) any claims of adverse possession, encroachment and/or prescriptive easement, whether or not known to or disclosed by Seller. The Deed shall state that the transfer of title from Seller to Purchaser is made under threat of the exercise of eminent domain.

 b. No Restrictions on Development or Resale. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be interpreted to restrict Purchaser's right to apply for lot boundary adjustments, subdivision or other development permits or making any other application deemed reasonably necessary to that end by Purchaser, or to enter into agreements to sell, lease or convey any portion of the Property; provided the same are prospective in nature and are not concluded until the balance of the purchase price is paid by Purchaser, and prior to closing Seller agrees to reasonably cooperate and give its written consent to Purchaser's application for such adjustments or permits, provided the same is done without cost or prejudice to Seller.

 c. Permits At Closing, Seller shall also deliver to Purchaser, duly endorsed for transfer, every permit of every type in Seller's possession or under its control, affecting any right or entitlement on or in the Property, including but not limited to any surface mining permit, to the extent such permit(s) are transferable according to their terms, and provided, however, that upon failure of Purchaser to make any payment required under the terms of the Promissory Note, said permits shall be returned to Seller duly endorsed for transfer, and further provided that after Closing but prior to payment of the balance of the Purchase Price, Purchaser shall give Seller written notice of any intent to utilize any such permit. Purchaser's obligations set forth in this Paragraph 3.c. shall survive Closing.

 4. TITLE; INVESTIGATION, STUDY AND SURVEY; REPAIR & INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATION.

 a. "Marketable Title" to be Provided by Seller. Seller shall furnish Purchaser with marketable title to the Property. "Marketable title" shall mean title insurable by Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc. (the "Title Company") at its standard rates, without exception except as approved or deemed approved by Purchaser in accordance with this Paragraph. Upon execution of this Agreement, Purchaser shall order a title insurance commitment for the issuance of a standard coverage Owner's Policy of Title Insurance covering the Property (the "Title Commitment"). Seller shall pay the title insurance expense.

 b. Purchaser's Right to Except Title Conditions. Upon receipt of the Title Commitment, Purchaser shall deliver a copy to Seller, and Purchaser shall have fourteen (14) days from the date of receipt by Purchaser to notify Seller in writing of Purchaser's objection to any exception in the Title Commitment, other than monetary liens and encumbrances, which shall be paid in full out of Seller's funds or removed by Seller at or before Closing whether or not objected to by Purchaser. Any exception disclosed in the Title Commitment to which Purchaser does not, within that fourteen (14) day time period, assert a written objection shall be deemed to be a "Permitted Exception." Seller shall thereafter have fourteen (14) days after receipt of Purchaser's written notice of objection to remove any exceptions to which Purchaser has given written objection or to obtain Purchaser's written agreement to waive Purchaser's objection. If Seller does not within that fourteen (14) day time period, correct or otherwise address title exceptions to which Purchaser has objected Purchaser may notify Seller in writing that it elects to (i) waive such uncured objections and accept title to the Property subject such uncured objections (each of which shall then be deemed a Permitted Exception) without an adjustment to the Purchase Price; or (ii) terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller and Escrow Agent, in which event this Agreement shall terminate, the Earnest Money Deposit and all interest earned thereon shall be refunded to Purchaser, and neither Party shall have any further rights, duties or obligations under this Agreement. If Purchaser does not waive uncured objections or terminate this Agreement within ten (10) days of Seller's fourteen (14) day period following initial notice from Purchaser, then Purchaser's right to object to said exceptions shall terminate and all such exceptions shall be deemed to be Permitted Exceptions.

 c. License Granted for Entry onto Property for Inspection, Study and Survey Purposes. Seller grants to Purchaser a license to enter the Property for the purpose of completing an inspection, environmental, soil and drainage study and to conduct a land survey of the Property at Purchaser's expense. The license granted in this Paragraph 4.c. shall automatically terminate on the date of Closing or the date this Agreement is terminated, whichever is earlier.

 d. Survey. Seller has in its possession a copy of a boundary survey prepared at Seller's request by a licensed surveyor. Within seven (7) days of the execution of this Agreement, Seller shall deliver a copy of said boundary survey to Purchaser. Purchaser shall have fourteen (14) days from the receipt of said survey to object to any condition disclosed in said survey, which objection will be treated in the same manner as set forth in Paragraph 4.b. of this Agreement. Escrow Agent is instructed and authorized by the Parties to correct or substitute the legal description derived from that boundary survey for the one contained on Exhibit A to this Agreement.

 e. Purchaser's Property Repair and Indemnification Obligation. If Purchaser does not purchase the Property, Purchaser covenants and agrees to repair any damage to the Property or any condition created on the Property by the activities of Purchaser, its contractors or agents. Purchaser agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Seller for any costs, loss, damage or expense (including the expense of legal counsel incurred without or without litigation or on appeal) incurred in any way related to Purchaser's entry on the Property prior to the date of Closing, including but not limited to any mechanic's or materialman's liens placed on the Property related to Purchaser's inspection, study, survey of, or other work on the Property. This repair and indemnification obligation shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

 5. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PURCHASER. Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to and agrees with Seller as follows:

 a. Purchaser is a municipal corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington and has the legal power, right and authority to enter into this Agreement and the instruments and documents that are to be executed by the Purchaser and are referenced herein, and to consummate the transaction contemplated hereby;

 b. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Purchaser; constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of Purchaser, and is enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with its terms;

 c. Purchaser has threatened to exercise its power of eminent domain to obtain the Property from Seller, and this Agreement and the transaction contemplated herein is entered into under the threat of, and in lieu of, exercise of eminent domain by Purchaser;

 d. The person or persons signatory to this Agreement and any document executed pursuant hereto on behalf of the Purchaser has full power and authority to bind Purchaser; and

 e. Purchaser shall not interfere with the physical condition or potential use of the Property prior to Date of Closing except as set forth herein.

 6. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF SELLER. Seller hereby represents and warrants to and agrees with Purchaser as follows:

 a. Seller has the full right and authority to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the sale, transfer, and assignments contemplated herein;

 b. The person or persons signatory to this Agreement and any document executed pursuant hereto on behalf of the Seller has full power and authority to bind Seller;

 c. Seller is a duly organized and existing Washington Corporation;

 d. Seller is not a foreign corporation, foreign partnership, foreign trust or foreign estate or individual, and Purchaser is not required to withhold tax pursuant to 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code;

 e. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Seller, constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller and is enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms;

 f. Except for such matters as are shown in the Title Commitment, Seller is the sole owner of the Property and no other person, corporation or entity has any right, title or interest to the Property;

 g. Seller has obtained all consents, approvals, authorizations, and orders as are required to permit Seller to execute and deliver this Agreement, and to consummate the transaction contemplated hereby;

 h. Seller has not created, or permitted the creation of, any mortgage, lease, rental agreement, option, easement, right, encumbrance, covenant, condition, restriction, security interest, or lien of any kind or nature, recorded or unrecorded, including but not limited to any architect's, engineer's, landscape architect's, mechanic's or materialman's lien, affecting or against the Property or any part thereof, that is not shown on the Title Commitment, disclosed in writing to Purchaser prior to Closing, and which will not be satisfied, discharged or terminated prior to Closing; and

 i. Seller has not, as of the date of Closing, received any notice of any pending litigation, bankruptcy or other proceeding affecting the Property, in whole or in part, other than the notice(s) disclosed to Purchaser, in writing, by Seller.

 7. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO PERFORMANCE OF AGREEMENT BY PURCHASER. Purchaser shall be obligated to complete this transaction only upon satisfaction or waiver of each of the following conditions:

 a. Seller is able to convey marketable title to the Property subject only to Permitted Exceptions as required by Paragraph 4.b. of this Agreement, and the Title Company is able to issue the Purchaser a Policy of title insurance in an amount equal to the Purchase Price with only the Permitted Exceptions as special exceptions thereto;

 b. The representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date of Closing;

 c. Seller shall, at Purchaser's expense, reasonably cooperate and promptly execute documents reasonably necessary for Purchaser to secure lot line adjustments, short plats, subdivision, street vacation, variances, permits or orders. Purchaser shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from any costs, expenses or liability resulting from preparation of and recordation of such documents;

 d. Within fourteen (14) days of the date of this Agreement, Seller shall provide Purchaser with a copy of every report in its possession or control relating to environmental condition(s) on the Property. Except as otherwise limited by applicable law, Purchaser shall keep strictly confidential any environmental information relating to the Property. Purchaser shall disclose such information only to (1) those of its agents or contractors who require the information for business purposes relating to the investigation, analysis or development of the Property, provided that those agents or contractors (a) shall be informed of the confidential nature of the information, and (b) shall agree in advance in writing to be bound by the confidentiality requirements set forth herein; and (2) those persons requesting pursuant to RCW Ch. 42.17 information that is not exempt from public disclosure;

 e. Within fourteen (14) days of the date of this Agreement, Seller shall have provided to Purchaser a complete copy of each of the following to the extent they are in Seller's possession, custody or control: soils reports; structural reports; surveys; information relating to any proposal or commitment by Seller to alter existing improvements or structures or construct additional improvements or structures, or to dedicate any portion of the Property to any governmental entity; and every drawing of the Property showing any easement, encumbrance or encroachment by any other person or entity for the benefit of the Seller's adjacent property any other property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller need not provide any copies of Seller's internal memoranda or valuations;

 f. On or before the Closing Date, Purchaser shall have authorized this purchase by ordinance and such ordinance shall have become effective; and

 g. Seller shall reasonably cooperate with the Purchaser during the Purchaser's investigation and survey of the Property, and shall provide such information about the Property as the Purchaser shall reasonably require.

 8. SATISFACTION OF CONDITIONS. Purchaser shall use its best efforts to obtain satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Paragraph 7 prior to the deadline described below.

 a. Termination of Agreement. If the conditions set forth in Paragraph 7 have not been either satisfied or waived by Purchaser by the required date, then either Purchaser or Seller may terminate this Agreement by written notice to the other Party within five (5) days after the period provided for satisfaction of the condition or October 1, 2002, whichever is earlier, whereupon this Agreement shall terminate and neither Party shall have any further liability to the other or rights under this Agreement. If such termination notice is not given within such five (5)-day period, the Parties shall be conclusively deemed to have elected to have waived said conditions precedent.

 b. Earnest Money. Upon Purchaser having waived or Seller having cured any defect in title or survey as set forth under Paragraph 4 of this Agreement, and upon the ordinance approving this purchase having taken effect as set forth in Paragraph 7.f. of this Agreement, and Seller having otherwise performed all of its obligations under this Agreement (except for Seller's continuing obligations set forth in Paragraphs 7.c. and 7.g.), the Earnest Money Deposit described in Paragraph 2 shall become non-refundable, and if Purchaser thereafter terminates this Agreement or fails to perform Purchaser's closing obligations by the Closing Date, Escrow Agent shall pay the Earnest Money Deposit to Seller and this Agreement shall terminate; provided, however, that if the transaction fails to close by the Closing Date through the fault of Seller, the Earnest Money Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser and this Agreement shall terminate.

 9. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO PERFORMANCE OF AGREEMENT BY SELLER. Seller shall be obligated to complete the transaction only upon the satisfaction or waiver of each of the following conditions:

 a. Purchaser shall have complied with all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, without limitation, payment to the Escrow Agent of the Purchase Price, in the form and as adjusted as provided in this Agreement;

 b. Purchaser shall have executed and delivered a Real Estate Excise Tax Affidavit to Escrow Agent claiming an exemption from the real estate excise tax based on WAC 458-61-420(c) based on Purchaser's threat of the exercise of Purchaser's power of eminent domain.

 c. The representations and warranties made by Purchaser in this Agreement are true on and as of the date of Closing with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the date of Closing; and

 d. Purchaser shall order and deliver to Seller a title insurance commitment for the issuance of an ALTA extended coverage Lender's Policy of Title Insurance covering the Deed of Trust, and the Title Insurance Company shall issue such policy to Seller at Closing. Purchaser shall pay the cost of such policy, except that Seller shall pay any additional cost for an extended coverage lender's policy in excess of the cost of a standard coverage lender's policy;

 e. Seller's Board of Directors and Seller's parent company's Board of Directors shall have authorized the sale of the Property by resolution and such resolution shall have become effective; and in the event either of said Boards of Directors does not authorize the sale of the Property prior to the Closing Date this Agreement shall terminate and the Earnest Money shall be refunded to Buyer.

 10. LIABILITY OF SELLER. Any and all claims arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be enforceable as against Seller, only against the Property or the proceeds of the sale thereof. No partner, officer, director, shareholder, trustee, employee, investment manager, advisor or agent of Seller (and no officer, director, shareholder, trustee, employee, investment manager, advisor or agent of such person) shall have any personal liability arising out of or in connection with this Agreement.

 11. ESTABLISHMENT OF ESCROW AND CLOSING.

 a. Establishment of Escrow. Purchaser shall open an escrow account with Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc. (the "Escrow Agent") by delivering a copy of this Agreement together with the Earnest Money as set forth in Paragraph 2.

 b. Escrow Instructions. The provisions of this Agreement shall constitute the joint instructions of the Parties to the Escrow Agent; provided, however, that the Parties shall execute such additional instructions as requested by the Escrow Agent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

 c. Date of Closing. The closing of the sale and purchase of the Property (the "Closing") shall occur on September 30, 2002 or October 1, 2002 at Seller's option, or earlier if mutually agreed in writing by the Parties (the "date of Closing" or the "Closing Date").

 d. Purchaser's Closing Obligations and Instruments. At Closing, Purchaser shall deliver all of the funds and documents required of Purchaser under the terms of this Agreement.

 e. Seller's Closing Obligations and Instruments. At Closing, Seller shall deliver all of the funds and documents required of Seller under the terms of this Agreement and a fully executed Certificate of Non- Foreign Status.

 f. Escrow Agent's Obligations. At Closing, following receipt of sufficient funds and documents necessary to close this transaction from the Parties, the Escrow Agent shall pay the closing costs and all recording fees from the appropriate fund source, and shall record the Deed, then the Deed of Trust, and after recording, shall deliver to Seller the Purchaser's Promissory Note.

 g. Proration and Expenses. Real property taxes, assessments, Surface Water Management charges, Conservation Service Charges, and utility charges constituting liens against the Property, all for the year of Closing, shall be prorated as of the date of Closing. Seller shall pay any documentary transfer tax, real estate excise tax, or other similar tax lien in accordance with the requirements of lawful authority. Purchaser shall pay the cost of recording the Deed. Seller shall pay the premium for the issuance of the Title Commitment and the standard coverage title policy to be issued to Purchaser at Closing. All other recording and closing costs (including the escrow fee but excluding attorneys' and brokers' fees, costs and expenses associated therewith) shall be shared equally by the Parties. Each Party shall pay the attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses incurred by such Party with respect to the negotiation of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein.

 12. POSSESSION. The Purchaser shall be entitled to exclusive possession of the Property upon recording of the Deed and delivery of Seller's proceeds to Seller.

 13. DEFAULT. If either Party to this Agreement shall fail or refuse to perform or satisfy a material obligation under this Agreement, that Party shall be in default and the non-defaulting Party may elect from the following remedies.

 a. Purchaser's Remedies. In the event the Seller defaults in any material obligations under this Agreement, the Purchaser, at the Purchaser's option, may (1) specifically enforce this Agreement; or (2) recover damages from Seller and rescind this Agreement.

 b. Seller's Remedies. In the event the Purchaser defaults in any of its material obligations under this Agreement, Seller, at its option, and as its sole remedy, retain the Earnest Money Deposit as liquidated damages.

 14. CONDITION OF PROPERTY. The Property shall be delivered to Purchaser at Closing in substantially the same physical condition as of the date hereof, excepting ordinary wear and tear.

 15. LIMITATION OF WARRANTIES. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY INVESTIGATION OF THE PROPERTY, PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT IS PURCHASING THE PROPERTY IN ITS "AS IS", "WHERE IS" AND "WITH ALL FAULTS" CONDITION AS OF THE CLOSING DATE AND THAT NEITHER SELLER NOR ANY OF ITS EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS HAS MADE ANY EXPRESS WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER REGARDING THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND/OR HAZARDOUS WASTE ON THE PROPERTY, OR ITS SUITABILITY FOR THE INTENDED USE AND NONE SHALL BE IMPLIED BY LAW. THE PARTIES INTEND THAT, AFTER WAIVER OF PURCHASER'S CONTINGENCY SET FORTH IN PARAGRAPH 7.d., THE RISK OF AND LIABILITY FOR UNKNOWN ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES OR HAZARDOUS WASTE ON THE PROPERTY IS ALLOCATED TO PURCHASER. THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE LIMITATION OF WARRANTIES AND DISCLAIMERS SET FORTH HEREIN HAVE BEEN SPECIFICALLY NEGOTIATED BY THE PARTIES WITH THE ADVICE OF COUNSEL.

 16. RISK OF LOSS. Risk of loss or damage to the Property by fire or other casualty, from the date of this Agreement through the date of Closing, shall be on the Seller, and thereafter shall be on the Purchaser.

 17. CONDEMNATION. If, prior to the date of Closing, all or any part of the Property is taken by condemnation by a superior governmental authority, the Purchaser may elect to cancel this Agreement by giving Seller notice to that effect, whereupon the Escrow Agent shall return the Earnest Money Deposit and all interest earned thereon to the Purchaser and both Parties shall be relieved and released from any liability hereunder to the other. Alternatively, the Purchaser may elect to take title to the Property in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement without reduction of the Purchase Price and shall be entitled to receive from the condemning authority any condemnation award or benefit. If Purchaser purchases the Property and complies with all of the terms of this Agreement, Seller assigns to Purchaser all of its right, title and interest in and to any condemnation award or benefit, if any, that may be owing to the owner of the Property as a result of the condemnation or taking of, or damage or change to the Property. The foregoing notwithstanding, Seller does not assign to Purchaser the proceeds from any insurance policy maintained by Seller with regard to the Property and retains any and all such proceeds.

 18. BROKERS; INDEMNIFICATION BY PURCHASER. Purchaser and Seller represent and warrant to and agree with each other that no person or entity is entitled to be paid a fee or commission in connection with the transfer of the Property by Seller to Purchaser. If any individual or entity shall assert a claim to a finder's fee or commission as a broker or a finder for the transfer of the Property, then the Party that is alleged to have retained such individual or entity shall defend, indemnify and hold the other Party harmless from and against any such claim and all costs, expenses, liabilities and damages incurred in connection with such claim or any action or proceeding brought thereon. This indemnification obligation shall survive the Closing and the termination of this Agreement.

 19. ASSIGNMENT; BINDING EFFECT. No consent shall be required for an assignment of the Seller's interests in this Agreement to a parent, subsidiary, affiliate or corporate successor of Seller by merger, consolidation, reorganization or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of such Party. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon each Party and its assigns and successors.

 20. NOTICES. All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person or sent by private overnight carrier or by registered or certified mail through the U.S. Postal Service with postage prepaid as follows:

 (a) If to Seller, to: W. Bruce Meyer

 Nintendo of America Inc.

 4820 150th Avenue NE

 Redmond, WA 98052

 (b) If to Purchaser, to: Attn: Joan Rosenstock

 The City of Seattle, Fleets and Facilities Dept.

 Real Estate Services Division

 14th Floor, Alaska Building

 618 Second Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104

 with copy to: William McGillin, Assistant City Attorney

 The City of Seattle, Law Department

 10th Floor, Municipal Building

 600 Fourth Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104

 or to such other address as shall be furnished in writing with ten (10) days prior written notice by either Party to the other. Notices shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt, as evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment of receipt, or the private overnight carrier's receipt, and in the event of attempted delivery during normal business hours at the proper address by an agent of a Party or by private overnight carrier or the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, shall be deemed to have been given upon attempted delivery, as evidenced by an affidavit of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such delivery was refused.

 21. GOVERNING LAW. The law of the State of Washington shall govern this Agreement.

 22. TIME OF THE ESSENCE; CALCULATION OF TIME PERIODS.

 a. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and of all acts required to be done and performed by either and both of the Parties hereto, including but not limited to the proper delivery of all documents, and the tender of all amounts of money, required by the terms hereof to be delivered or paid, respectively. Any extension of time granted for performance of any obligation to this Agreement shall not be considered an extension of time for the performance of any other obligation under this Agreement.

 b. Time Periods. Unless otherwise specified, in computing any period of time described in this Agreement, the day of the act or event after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included and the last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless such last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. The final day of any such period shall be deemed to end at 5:00 p.m., Pacific time.

 23. SURVIVAL. Paragraph 13 and the representations and warranties of the Parties contained in this Agreement shall survive indefinitely the Closing, will not be merged into the Deed and other documents delivered at Closing, and shall continue in full force and effect through and after the Closing Date.

 24. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and, if so, only when counterparts are delivered to the Escrow Agent, with the signatures of each and every one of the Parties constituting the Purchaser and Seller, shall it be deemed a binding Agreement. It is understood, agreed and acknowledged that if both Purchaser and Seller have not executed a counterpart of this Agreement and deposited signed copies, accompanied by the Earnest Money Deposit with the Escrow Agent as provided for in Paragraphs 2 and 9, this Agreement shall be of no force and effect.

 25. WAIVER. Any waiver under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default shall not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. No writing other than a document signed by the Purchaser's Fleets and Facilities Department Director, specifically so stating that it is a waiver shall constitute a waiver by Purchaser of any particular breach or default by Seller, nor shall such a writing waive Seller's failure to fully comply with any other term or condition of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge that any officer or employee of Purchaser may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance.

 26. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement, including Exhibits A, B and C attached hereto (which by this reference are incorporated herein), represents the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the Property and any and all agreements, oral or written, entered into prior to the date hereof are revoked and superceded by this Agreement.

 27. MODIFICATIONS. This Agreement may not be changed, modified or rescinded except in writing signed by both Parties and any attempt at oral modification of this Agreement shall be of no effect.

 28. NEGOTIATED UNDERSTANDING. The Parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any Party on the basis of such Party's draftsmanship thereof.

 29. FURTHER INSTRUMENTS AND ACTION. Each Party hereto shall, promptly upon the request of the other or Escrow Agent, have executed, acknowledged and delivered to the other, any and all further instruments and shall take all such further action as is reasonably requested or appropriate to evidence or give effect to the provisions of this Agreement or to satisfy Escrow Agent's requirements.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seller and Purchaser have caused this Agreement to be executed by officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written, which shall be the date that the last of Seller and Purchaser shall have executed this Agreement.

 NINTENDO OF AMERICA INC. THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 ("Seller") ("Purchaser")

 By: By:

 W. Bruce Meyer John Franklin, Director

 Director of Real Estate & Facilities Fleets and Facilities Department

 Date: Date:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgment for The City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ________________ day of_________________________, 2002, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared John Franklin, to me known to be the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department of The City of Seattle, who executed the foregoing agreement, and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said agreement.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above in this certificate.

 (Signature) (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at ___________________________ My appointment expires _______________________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgment by Nintendo of America Inc.)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______________ day of_________________________, 2002, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared W. Bruce Meyer, to me known to be the Director of Real Estate & Facilities of Nintendo of America Inc., who executed the foregoing document, and acknowledged the same to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute such document for and on behalf of said corporation.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year written above in this certificate.

 (Signature) (Printed or typed name of Notary Public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at ___________________________ My appointment expires _______________________.

 EXHIBIT A

 Fifteen real property tax parcels situate 940 block Myers Way S., Seattle, King County, Washington:

 052304-9012-01 062304-9250-01

 052304-9013-00 312404-9024-04

 062304-9053-00 322404-9082-02

 062304-9054-09 052304-9024-07

 062304-9147-08 052304-9052-02

 062304-9148-07 062304-9001-03

 062304-9246-08 322404-9083-01

 645330-0110-00

 Metes and Bounds Description:

 A portion of the southeast quarter of the of the southeast quarter of Section 31 and the southwest quarter of Section 32, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington;

 ALSO,

 A portion of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 6, and the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 5, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington;

 Beginning at the corner common to said Sections 31, 32, 6, and 5; thence north 88( 23' 50" west, along the north line of said Section 6, for 654.11 feet;

 Thence south 05( 28' 00" west for 30.07 feet to a point being the northeasterly corner of the land conveyed to the Housing Authority of the County of King, recorded under recording number 4413217;

 Thence south 05 degrees 44' 05" east, along said east line for 794.75 feet;

 Thence south 01 degrees 30' 25" east, along said east line for 378.91 feet to the north line of SW 100th Street;

 Thence south 89 degrees 44' 08" east, along said north line for 686.29 feet to the east line of said Section 6;

 Thence north 05 degrees 44' 05" west, along the east line for 186.07 feet;

 Thence south 88 degrees 38' 48" east for 95.00 feet;

 Thence north 89 degrees 33' 05" east for 94.68 feet;

 Thence north 05 degrees 44' 05" west for 87.52 feet to the southerly line of Parcel "B" conveyed under Recording Number 8002200456;

 Thence south 64 degrees 57' 53" east along said southerly line for 37.12 feet;

 Thence north 75 degrees 47' 11" east along said southerly line for 537.72 feet;

 Thence north 23 degrees 10' 47" east, for 6.66 feet to the westerly margin of Myers Way S.;

 Thence north 34 degrees 26' 27" west, for 47.54 feet along said westerly margin, to the beginning of a curve to the right, having a radius of 1,000.37 feet;

 Thence northerly along said 1,000.37 foot radius curve through a central angle of 18 degrees 56' 12", an arc distance of 330.63 feet along said westerly margin to a point 43.83 feet distant southwesterly when measured at right angles from the R-line survey of secondary State Highway Number 1-K (Myers Way S.), as condemned for state highway under proceedings had in King County Superior Court Cause Number 670900, at Highway Engineers Station R 0+50;

 Thence south 71 degrees 42' 58" west for 1.17 feet to a point 45.00 feet distant southwesterly when measured at right angles from the aforementioned Highway Engineers Station 0+50;

 Thence north 47 degrees 05' 41" west, for 114.13 feet, along the westerly margin of said Secondary Highway Number 1-K, to a point 100.00 feet distant southwesterly when measured at right angles from the R-line at Highway Engineers Station R 1+50;

 Thence north 18 degrees 17' 02" west 1,284.34 feet to the north line of Parcel "C", conveyed under Recording Number 8002200456;

 Thence north 88 degrees 38' 49" west, for 168.73 feet along said northerly line to a point on the west line of said Section 32;

 Thence south 01 degrees 06' 49" west for 209.46 feet, along said west line to the southeast corner of that property conveyed to the Municipality of Metropolitan Seattle by deed recorded under King County Recording Number 7611010750;

 Thence north 88 degrees 23' 50" west, for 590.63 feet along the south line of said deed to Metro, to the easterly margin of Second Avenue SW, said point lying on a curve, concave to the southeast, having a radius of 300.00 feet, the radial bearing at said point is north 61 degrees 20' 49" west;

 Thence southerly along said 300.00 foot radius curve, through a central angle of 27 degrees 35' 54", an arc distance of 144.50 feet to a point of tangency with the east margin of said Second Avenue SW;

 Thence south 01 degrees 03' 17" west for 468.58 feet, along said east margin, to the north margin of Southwest Roxbury Street;

 Thence south 88 degrees 23' 50" east, for 624.14 feet, along said north margin, to the east line of Section 31;

 Thence south 01 degrees 06' 49" west for 30.00 feet, along said east line, to the point of beginning;

 EXCEPT that portion condemned by the City of Seattle for Transmission Line Right-of-Way under proceedings had under King County Superior Court Cause Number 553110;

 Together with Parcel "B" of Short Subdivision Number 78-212 of the City of Seattle recorded under King County Recording Number 7901020608: and revision recorded under Recording Number 8107020401;

 Being a portion of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 31, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH those portions of Government Lot 5 of said Section 5, lying westerly of the westerly margin of S.R. 509, as condemned under proceedings had in King County Superior Court Cause Number 670900 and lying easterly of Myers Way S., and lying northerly of SW 100th Street;

 EXCEPT that portion condemned by the City of Seattle for Transmission Line Right-of-Way under proceedings had in King County Superior Court Cause Number 553110;

 AND EXCEPT that portion thereof lying within City of Seattle Short Plat No. 9302695 as recorded under Recording Number 9312300858;

 All situate in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington.

 EXHIBIT B

 Promissory Note

 PROMISSORY NOTE

 _______________________________

 $12,400,000.00 ______________________, 2002

 Seattle, Washington

 1. PROMISE TO PAY. For value received, The City of Seattle, a first class city of the State of Washington ("Borrower"), promises to pay in lawful money of the United States to Nintendo of America Inc., a Washington corporation ("Lender"), or order, at 4820 - 150th Avenue NE, Redmond, Washington 98052, or at such other place as the holder hereof from time to time may designate in writing, the principal sum of TWELVE MILLION FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($12,400,000.00), without interest.

 2. PAYMENT. The entire unpaid principal balance shall be due and payable on the earlier of (a) June 30, 2003 or (b) Borrower's transfer or sale of any interest in the real property located on the 9400 block of Myers Way S., Seattle, Washington, legally described in the Deed of Trust of even date herewith (the "Deed of Trust"), unless Borrower has obtained Lender's prior written consent to such transfer or sale.

 3. BORROWER'S RIGHT TO PREPAY. Borrower has the right to make payments of principal at any time before it is due, without paying any prepayment charge. A partial prepayment shall not change the date on which final payment is due.

 4. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BORROWER. Borrower hereby represents and warrants to Lender as follows:

 4.1 Borrower is a municipal corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington and has the legal power, right and authority to enter into this Note and the Deed of Trust;

 4.2 The debt obligation set forth in this Note is an authorized exercise of Borrower's borrowing power and Borrower has adopted all necessary ordinances and resolutions, including but not limited to Seattle City Ordinance No. ___________________, and performed all acts necessary to approve and authorize execution of this Note and the assumption of the debt obligation represented hereby;

 4.3 This Note and the Deed of Trust has been duly executed and delivered by Borrower;

 4.4 This Note and the Deed of Trust constitute the legal, valid and binding obligation of Borrower and is enforceable against Borrower in accordance with its terms; and

 4.5 The person or persons signatory to this Note and the Deed of Trust executed concurrently herewith on behalf of the Borrower has full power and authority to bind Borrower.

 5. BORROWER'S DEFAULT.

 5.1 Representations and Warranties. Borrower shall be in default if any of the representations or warranties of Borrower set forth in Section 4 are not true and accurate as of the date of execution hereof or become untrue or inaccurate at any time hereafter. If Borrower defaults on the representations and warranties, Lender may send Borrower a written notice demanding that Borrower pay immediately the full amount of the unpaid principal balance within thirty (30) days of the notice.

 5.2 Overdue Payment; Late Charge. If Borrower does not pay the full amount of the principal due hereunder within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date it is due, Borrower is in default. Further, if Lender has not received the full amount of the principal due hereunder within fifteen (15) calendar days after it is due, Borrower shall pay a late charge equal to five percent (5.00%) of the overdue payment. Payments shall be applied first to late charges, then to accrued interest, and the remainder to principal.

 5.3 Default Interest. As long as this Note is in default, then, without prior notice, this Note shall bear interest at the rate of twelve percent (12.00%) per annum.

 5.4 Advances for Taxes and Insurance. If Lender advances any amounts for taxes and insurance pursuant to the terms of the Deed of Trust, and if Borrower does not reimburse Lender for those amounts within ten (10) days of written notice of the advance, then those advances shall be added to the principal owing under the Note and shall bear interest at the default rate.

 5.5 No Waiver. Should the Borrower be in default, and Lender chooses not to demand immediate payment, that choice does not waive Lender's right to pursue any legal or equitable remedy available to it by law or under the terms of the Deed of Trust executed concurrently herewith should the Borrower be in default at another time.

 6. NOTICES. All notices required by this Note shall be personally delivered or mailed by first class mail to Borrower at the address given below, or to a different address if Lender is notified in writing, or to Lender at the address for payments set forth above, Attention: W. Bruce Meyer.

 7. WAIVERS. Borrower hereby waives the right of presentment and notice of dishonor.

 8. SECURITY. This Note is given for a loan in the above amounts referred to and is secured by a Deed of Trust dated as of the same date and executed concurrently herewith on property described therein. Lender retains the right to proceed against Borrower to collect this Note, foreclose the Deed of Trust, to seek a deficiency judgment against Borrower, and to take any other actions allowed under equity or law.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower has executed this Note on the day and year first above written.

 BORROWER:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:

 Its:

 Address:

 The City of Seattle, Fleets and Facilities Dept.

 Real Estate Services Division

 Attn: Joan Rosenstock

 14th Floor, Alaska Building

 618 Second Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104

 with copy to:

 William McGillin, Assistant City Attorney

 The City of Seattle, Law Department

 10th Floor, Municipal Building

 600 Fourth Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104

 EXHIBIT C

 Deed of Trust

 After recording return to:

 W. Bruce Meyer

 Nintendo of America Inc.

 4820 - 150th Avenue NE

 Redmond, Washington 98052

 DOCUMENT TITLE

 Deed Of Trust

 REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENTS ASSIGNED/ RELEASED

 N/A

 GRANTOR

 City of Seattle

 GRANTEE

 Nintendo of America, Inc.

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION (Additional legal description on Exhibit A)

 Portion of the southeast quarter of the of the southeast quarter of Section 31 and the southwest quarter of Section 32, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M.; and a portion of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 6, and the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 5, Township 23 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington

 ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NOS.

 052304-9012-01; 062304-9250-01; 052304-9013-00; 312404-9024-04; 062304-9053-00; 322404-9082-02; 062304-9054-09; 052304-9024-07; 062304-9147-08; 052304-9052-02; 062304-9148-07; 062304-9001-03; 062304-9246-08; 322404-9083-01; 645330-0110-00

 DEED OF TRUST

 THIS DEED OF TRUST, made this ____ day of _________________, 2002, between the City of Seattle, a first class city of the State of Washington, as GRANTOR, whose address is Fleets and Facilities Department, Real Estate Services Division, 14th Floor, Alaska Building, 618 Second Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104, with a copy to City of Seattle Law Department, 10th Floor, Municipal Building, 600 Fourth Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104; and First American Title Insurance Company as TRUSTEE, whose address is 2101 Fourth Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98121; and Nintendo of America Inc., a Washington corporation, as BENEFICIARY, whose address is 4820 - 150th Avenue NE, Redmond, Washington 98052 Attn: W. Bruce Meyers, Director of Real Estate and Facilities.

 WITNESSETH:

 Grantor hereby bargains, sells, and conveys to Trustee in Trust, with power of sale, the following described real property in King County, Washington:

 See Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.

 which real property is not used principally for agricultural or farming purposes, together with all the tenements, hereditaments, and appurtenances now or hereafter thereunto belonging or in any wise appertaining, and the rents, issues and profits thereof.

 This Deed is for the purpose of securing performance of each agreement of Grantor herein contained, and payment of the sum of Twelve Million Four Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($12,400,000.00), without interest, in accordance with the terms of a promissory note of even date herewith, payable to Beneficiary or order, and made by Grantor, and all renewals, modifications and extensions thereof, and also such further sums as may be advanced or loaned by Beneficiary to Grantor, or any of their successors or assigns, together with interest thereon at such rate as shall be agreed upon.

 To protect the security of this Deed of Trust, Grantor covenants and agrees:

 1. To keep the property in good condition and repair; to permit no waste thereof; to complete any building, structure or improvement being built, or about to be built thereon; to restore promptly any building, structure or improvement thereon which may be damaged or destroyed; and to comply with all laws, ordinances, regulations, covenants, conditions and restrictions affecting the property.

 2. To pay before delinquent all lawful taxes and assessments upon the property; to keep the property free and clear of all other charges, liens, or encumbrances impairing the security of this Deed of Trust.

 3. To keep all buildings now or hereafter erected on the property described herein continuously insured against loss by fire or other hazards in an amount not less than the total debt secured by this Deed of Trust. All policies shall be held by the Beneficiary, and be in such companies as the Beneficiary may approve and have loss payable first to the Beneficiary, as its interest may appear, and then to the Grantor. The amount collected under any insurance policy may be applied upon any indebtedness hereby secured in such order as the Beneficiary shall determine. Such application by the Beneficiary shall not cause discontinuance of any proceedings to foreclose this Deed of Trust. In the event of foreclosure, all rights of the Grantor in insurance policies then in force shall pass to the purchaser at the foreclosure sale.

 4. To defend any action or proceeding purporting to affect the security hereof or the rights or powers of Beneficiary or Trustee, and to pay all costs and expenses, including cost of title search and attorney's fees in a reasonable amount, in any such action or proceeding, and in any suit brought by Beneficiary to foreclose this Deed of Trust.

 5. To pay all costs, fees and expenses in connection with this Deed of Trust, including the expenses of the Trustee incurred in enforcing the obligation secured hereby and Trustee's and attorney's fees actually incurred, as provided by statute.

 6. Should Grantor fail to pay when due any taxes, assessments, insurance premiums, liens, encumbrances, or other charges against the property hereinabove described, Beneficiary may pay the same, and the amount so paid, with interest at the rate set forth in the note secured hereby, shall be added to and become a part of the debt secured in this Deed of Trust.

 IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED THAT:

 1. In the event any portion of the property is taken or damaged in an eminent domain proceeding, the entire amount of the award or such portion as may be necessary to fully satisfy the obligation secured hereby, shall be paid to Beneficiary to be applied to said obligation.

 2. By accepting payment of any sum secured hereby after its due date, Beneficiary does not waive its right to require prompt payment when due of all other sums so secured or to declare default for failure to so pay.

 3. The Trustee shall reconvey all or any part of the property covered by this Deed of Trust to the person entitled thereto, on written request of the Grantor and the Beneficiary, or upon satisfaction of the obligation secured and written request for reconveyance made by the Beneficiary or the person entitled thereto.

 4. Upon default by Grantor in the payment of any indebtedness secured hereby or in the performance of any agreement contained herein, all sums secured hereby shall immediately become due and payable at the option of the Beneficiary. In such event and upon written request of Beneficiary, Trustee shall sell the trust property, in accordance with the Deed of Trust Act of the State of Washington, at public auction to the highest bidder. Any person except Trustee may bid at Trustee's sale. Trustee shall apply the proceeds of the sale as follows: (1) to the expense of the sale, including a reasonable Trustee's fee and attorney's fee; (2) to the obligation secured by this Deed of Trust; (3) the surplus, if any, shall be distributed to the persons entitled thereto.

 5. Trustee shall deliver to the purchaser at the sale its deed, without warranty, which shall convey to the purchaser the interest in the property which Grantor had or had the power to convey at the time of his execution of this Deed of Trust, and such as he may have acquired thereafter. Trustee's deed shall recite the facts showing that the sale was conducted in compliance with all the requirements of law and of this Deed of Trust, which recital shall be prima facie evidence of such compliance and conclusive evidence thereof in favor of bona fide purchaser and encumbrancers for value.

 6. The power of sale conferred by this Deed of Trust and by the Deed of Trust Act of the State of Washington is not an exclusive remedy; Beneficiary may cause this Deed of Trust to be foreclosed as a mortgage.

 7. In the event of the death, incapacity, disability, or resignation of Trustee, Beneficiary may appoint, in writing, a successor trustee, and upon the recording of such appointment in the mortgage records of the county in which this Deed of Trust is recorded, the successor trustee shall be vested with all powers of the original trustee. The trustee is not obligated to notify any party hereto of pending sale under any other Deed of Trust or of any action or proceeding in which Grantor, Trustee, or Beneficiary shall be a party, unless such action or proceeding is brought by the Trustee.

 8. This Deed of Trust applies to, inures to the benefit of, and is binding not only on the parties hereto, but on their heirs, devisees, legatees, administrators, executors, and assigns. The term "Beneficiary" shall mean the holder and owner of the note secured hereby, whether or not named as Beneficiary herein.

 9. If all or any part of the property or any interest in it is sold or transferred (or a beneficial or equity interest in Grantor is sold or transferred and Grantor is not a natural person) without Beneficiary's prior written consent, Beneficiary may, at Beneficiary's sole option, require immediate payment in full of all sums secured by this Deed of Trust. If Beneficiary exercises this option, Beneficiary shall give Grantor notice of acceleration. This notice shall provide a period of not less than thirty days from the date the notice is delivered or mailed within which Grantor must pay all sums secured by this Deed of Trust. If Grantor fails to pay these sums prior to expiration of the thirty-day period, Beneficiary may invoke any remedies permitted by this Deed of Trust without further notice or demand on Grantor. The thirty-day notice of acceleration may be given concurrently with or as part of a Notice of Default.

 GRANTOR:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a first class city of the State of Washington

 By

 Its

 REQUEST FOR FULL RECONVEYANCE

 Do not record. To be used only when note has been paid.

 _______________________________________________________________

 TO: TRUSTEE

 The undersigned is the legal owner and holder of the note and all other indebtedness secured by the within Deed of Trust. Said note, together with all other indebtedness secured by said Deed of Trust, has been fully paid and satisfied; and you are hereby requested and directed, on payment to you of any sums owing to you under the terms of said Deed of Trust, to cancel said note above-mentioned, and all other evidences of indebtedness secured by said Deed of Trust delivered to you herewith, together with the said Deed of Trust, and to reconvey, without warranty, to the parties designated by the terms of said Deed of Trust, all the estate now held by you thereunder.

 Dated _______________________.

 Page 4 of 27

 07/24/02

 Real Estate Purchase

 and Sale Agreement

 Page 17 of 17

 07/24/02

 Real Estate Purchase

 and Sale Agreement

 EXHIBIT A

 Page 21 of 21

 07/24/02

 Real Estate Purchase

 and Sale Agreement

 EXHIBIT B

 Page 27 of 27

 07/24/02

 Real Estate Purchase

 and Sale Agreement

 EXHIBIT C

```
