

********

**Council Bill Number: 114210**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120878**
********

 AN ORDINANCE directing the Department of Neighborhoods and the Chief of Police to request that the Washington State Liquor Control Board recognize and impose restrictions on sales of alcohol in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 12, 2002
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Compton)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 20, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 19, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 17, 2002
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** ALCOHOL-ABUSE, PIONEER-SQUARE, ALCOHOLIC-BEVERAGE-CONTROL

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120067

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE directing the Department of Neighborhoods and the Chief of Police to request that the Washington State Liquor Control Board recognize and impose restrictions on sales of alcohol in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area.

 WHEREAS, the King County Board of Health has declared by resolution that chronic public inebriation is a public health problem of the highest order; and

 WHEREAS, over the past several years the Chronic Public Inebriate Systems Solution Committee, a community-based partnership representing local neighborhood associations, the business community, health care and human service providers, citizen advocates and Seattle and King County governments has developed a comprehensive strategy to reduce chronic public inebriation, including expanded and improved access to treatment, housing, case management, and vocational development as well as law enforcement; and

 WHEREAS, an important element in the plan to reduce chronic public inebriation is to restrict the availability of alcohol sold to chronic public inebriates in areas where such sales threaten both the public's health, safety and welfare and that of the chronic public inebriates; and

 WHEREAS, Section 314-12-215 of the Washington Administrative Code ("WAC") provides that as a condition precedent to the City requesting that the Washington State Liquor Control Board enact additional restrictions on off-premises alcohol sales within an area of the City adversely affected by chronic public inebriation or illegal activity associated with alcohol sales or consumption, an ordinance must designate such an area as an Alcohol Impact Area; and

 WHEREAS, WAC 314-12-215 also provides that efforts to implement voluntary agreements with liquor licensees to reduce such sales within an alcohol impact area must be attempted for at least six months before seeking additional regulatory restrictions from the State Liquor Control Board; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance No. 120067 created the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area and directed the Department of Neighborhoods and the Seattle Police Department to report to the council on the success or failure of voluntary efforts to address chronic public inebriation in that area; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Neighborhoods and the Seattle Police Department have submitted the reports required by Ordinance No. 120067

 Now therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Findings.

 The Council finds that:

 A. Chronic public inebriation and illegal activity associated with alcohol sales and consumption within the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area, as demonstrated by relevant crime statistics, police reports, emergency response data, detox reports, sanitation reports, public health records, and other information contained in Attachment A, continue to contribute to the deterioration of the general quality of life within the area and threatens the welfare, health, peace and safety of the area's visitors and occupants.

 B. Pioneer Square residents, business owners and community organizations, including the Pioneer Square Community Association have continued to appeal to the City for relief from the adverse effects of chronic public inebriation and illegal activity associated with alcohol sales and consumption in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area and have requested that the Council enact an ordinance authorizing the City to request the Washington State Liquor Board to impose restrictions on alcohol sales in the area.

 C. Over the past several years the City and community groups have sought to reduce the problems associated with chronic public inebriation in Pioneer Square by, among other things, seeking voluntary changes in the business practices of liquor licensees in order to reduce alcohol sales to chronic inebriates.

 D. Ordinance 120067, adopted in August 2000 by the City Council, created the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area and directed that voluntary efforts to reduce the impacts of chronic public inebriation be attempted. Both prior to and after adoption of Ordinance 120067 all off-premises liquor licensees in the area were notified of the problems of chronic public inebriation in the area and were requested to agree to certain business practices designed to reduce chronic public inebriation and improve the public health and safety in the area. These business practices included product restrictions, limitations on container sizes and limitations on hours of off- premises alcohol sales.

 E. Despite the best efforts by the City and community groups over a period of more than a year since the passage of Ordinance No. 120067, the attempts to obtain voluntary restrictions on off-premises sales of alcohol in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area have failed. Of the five convenience markets with off-premises liquor licenses at the time Ordinance 120067 was enacted, only one readily signed a Good Neighbor Agreement restricting alcohol sales. Two of the markets agreed to comply with the Good Neighbor Agreement only after many months of work by the community and only after they were urged to do so by their landlords. Another of the markets signed the agreement but never complied with its voluntary restrictions on alcohol sales. And, one of the markets refused entirely to sign or comply with the agreement. Thus, all alcohol products and hours of sale have continued to be available in the area despite more than a year of effort by the community and city representatives since the passage of Ordinance 120067. The failure of voluntary efforts to address the problems of chronic public inebriation indicates that restrictions on the sales of alcohol by off-premises liquor licensees should be imposed by the Washington State Liquor Control Board.

 Section 2. Request to Washington State Liquor Control Board

 The Department of Neighborhoods and the Chief of Police shall request the Washington State Liquor Control Board to recognize the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area created by Ordinance No. 120067 and to impose restrictions, as outlined in Attachment B, on the sales of alcohol in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area, which are designed to reduce chronic public inebriation in the area, including but not limited to product restrictions, limitations on container sizes and limitations on hours of off-premises alcohol sales.

 Section 3. No further mandatory AIA designations shall occur in the City unless and until a review of the Pioneer Square AIA which determines the effectiveness of the AIA policy has been completed. This review shall happen no sooner than 9 months after the date on which the State Liquor Control Board recognizes the Pioneer Square AIA and imposes restrictions on the sales of alcohol products.

 The AIA policy will be deemed successful if (a) there is a meaningful reduction in CPI-related crime and public safety activities, as measured by statistics including: MIR 176, MIR 330, MIR 162, Emergency Service Patrol Transports, Seattle Fire Department Alcohol Incidents, and (b) other appropriate data that confirm the purchase and public consumption of alcoholic products in the Pioneer Square area by CPI's has been meaningfully reduced. The Seattle Police Department in collaboration with other City and County agencies and Council staff shall gather and analyze the data collected to determine if these conditions have been satisfied. This review may be done in conjunction with the State Liquor Control Board which will be conducting a study regarding the effectiveness of the AIA policy in the spring or summer of 2003. The report shall be provided to the City Council Water and Health Committee. This required review shall not preclude any other interested neighborhood from beginning to embark on efforts to obtain a mandatory AIA designation from the City. State administrative rules do require that formal voluntary efforts to achieve compliance with proposed restrictions be pursued for a minimum of six months prior to seeking mandatory designation.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2002. _____________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2002. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2002. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachments Attachment A - PSAIA Final report Attachment B -Requested restrictions August 7, 2002 (Ver. 2 ) t Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area Main Report Department of Neighborhoods and Seattle Police Department

 July 2002

 Purpose of Report

 In August 2000, the City Council created the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area (PSAIA). A copy of the ordinance establishing the PSAIA is attached (Appendix A). The PSAIA is roughly a 32 square block area, defined as:

 That area bounded by South King Street on the South, Alaskan Way on the West, Columbia Street on the North and Fourth Avenue on the East, including in all instances both sides of each boundary street.

 As part of such legislation the Council required the Department of Neighborhoods (DON) and the Seattle Police Department (SPD) to complete a final report, including certain specified statistical measures to evaluate the success or failure of voluntary efforts to address chronic public inebriation in the PSAIA.

 Background

 The Chronic Public Inebriate Systems Solutions Committee convened by King County Executive Ron Sims in 1996 began a comprehensive collaborative strategy to provide practical solutions to the persistent problems for individuals, families, and the community which characterize chronic public inebriation. This comprehensive strategy includes improvements in treatment, housing and employment counseling as well as decreased availability of alcohol products shown to contribute to problems of chronic public inebriation. Since 1997 the Chronic Public Inebriate (CPI) Systems Solutions Committee and others with support from Pioneer Square and other neighborhoods have achieved many goals, including the following:

 * Implementation of a joint City/County housing plan for special populations

 * Opening of the 60-bed Dutch Shisler Sobering Center in 1998

 * Establishment of the Crisis Triage Unit at Harborview Medical Center in 1998

 * Creation of systems integration activities between mental health and chemical dependency services

 * Adoption of legislation to support involuntary hospitalization for chemically dependent people

 * Support of the creation of a mental health Crisis Intervention Team (CIT) with the Seattle Police Department

 * Establishment of an employment training component at Cedar Hill Treatment Center

 * Expansion of the Emergency Services Patrol and sobering services in 1999 and in 2000

 * The creation of 924 units of recovery and pre-recovery housing in King County. More than 187 additional units are scheduled for development by 2004.

 In 1998, after holding public hearings, the King County Board of Health by resolution declared chronic public inebriety to be a public health problem of the highest order. The Health Board requested that the Washington State Liquor Control Board enact rules to reduce the availability of alcohol products to persons with chronic public inebriety within alcohol impact zones (Appendix B).

 In February 2000, the Crisis and Engagement Section of the Mental Health, Chemical Abuse and Dependency Services Division (Department of Community and Human Services of King County) commissioned a survey to evaluate treatment and case management services provided to the CPI population. They recommended some changes in services to the CPI but concluded "CPI clients in King County are being served effectively in the existing service array" (Appendix C).

 Although we've made some improvements on the treatment side, the problems associated with chronic public inebriation and its impact on community resources continue to be significant. For example, page 10 of the survey in Appendix C shows that many of the high users of the Dutch Shisler Sobering Center have more than 100 separate visits per year. Statistical information regarding resource use gathered by King County Public Health and set forth in Appendix D includes data that the top twenty users of Harborview Emergency Services in the year 2000, mostly related to alcoholism, had a total of 587 emergency room visits at a cost of $1,318,255.

 Pursuant to the Washington Administrative Code (WAC) 314-12-215, the Washington State Liquor Control Board (Liquor Control Board) is authorized to impose restrictions on off-premises alcohol sales within an "Alcohol Impact Areas" (AIA) - neighborhoods that are severely impacted by chronic public inebriation. The regulations require that a local jurisdiction establish the AIA by ordinance and make reasonable efforts to implement voluntary agreements to promote business practices that reduce chronic public inebriation. Such voluntary efforts must be attempted for a period of at least six months before the Board is requested to impose restrictions in the AIA. A copy of the Board's rules is attached as Appendix E.

 Efforts to Obtain Voluntary Participation From Merchants

 Leaders within the Pioneer Square community had been complaining for some time about the negative impacts of chronic public inebriation, including public urination and defecation, littering, aggressive panhandling and other behaviors, which affected the health and vibrancy of the area.

 Earlier efforts (beginning in 1997) at obtaining voluntary cooperation from Pioneer Square off-premises licensees to restrict alcohol sales to chronic public inebriates were not successful. Energized by the State Control Liquor Board's adoption of the alcohol impact area rule, the Pioneer Square community believed the time was ripe to deal with the continuing impacts of chronic public inebriation.

 In early 2000, a workgroup was formed to begin the process of initiating an AIA in the Pioneer Square neighborhood as a companion to treatment strategies. Participants included Pioneer Square community representatives, city staff from Neighborhoods, Police and Law, and staff and consultants from King County. On April 3, 2000, letters were sent to each of the neighborhood's off-premise licensees informing them of the proposal to initiate a voluntary Good Neighbor Agreement (GNA) project in the neighborhood and inviting them to an informational meeting. The meeting was held on April 13, 2000 in the Klondike Museum's auditorium. The meeting was hosted by Councilmember Jan Drago and facilitated by Gary Johnson from DON. Representatives from the WSLCB joined project committee members in providing an overview of the proposal. A draft list of prohibited products was distributed to licensees in attendance. A number of licensees voiced concerns about one or more of the proposed provisions of the GNA. A lengthy discussion followed. During the next several weeks and months, the project involved discussions with the off-licensees about neighborhood livability and social and public resource costs issues surrounding the selling of low-cost/high alcohol content products, sales of large containers and single cans of alcohol and hours of alcohol sales.

 Good Neighbor Agreement

 An example of the GNA is attached (Appendix F). Specifically, the GNA provided the following limitations on off-premises alcohol sales:

 * Elimination of off-premises sales of alcohol between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. and between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.

 * Elimination of specific low-cost/high alcohol content wine, beer and malt products.

 * Elimination of single container sales of beer and malt products in containers 16 ounces and smaller.

 * Elimination of beer and malt products in containers larger than 22 ounces.

 The limitations identified in the GNA were deigned to alleviate the impacts of chronic public inebriation. Early morning sales of alcohol to chronic public inebriates began the cycle of negative impacts before the community was barely awake. Control of single can sales and large containers of alcoholic products reduces the problems associated with chronic public inebriation because it removes the short panhandling time necessary to obtain enough money to purchase such products. Also, because detection of violations of the drinking in public ordinance results in confiscation of alcohol, the risk of confiscation of a six-pack deters such public consumption by chronic public inebriates.

 The workgroup also felt that restriction of low-cost, high alcohol content products was necessary because they are products that contribute significantly to the problems of chronic public inebriation. The King County Public Health Department has specifically found that chronic public inebriates "disproportionately consume certain selected alcohol products typified by low cost, high alcohol by volume and large container size." Moreover, that body also found that "a review of the medical and scientific literature indicates a significant correlation between reducing alcohol availability and reducing the negative public health and safety consequences of chronic public inebriety, and that the restriction of low-cost, high alcohol content products on a geographic basis will likely result in a significant reduction in the public consumption of alcohol by persons with chronic public inebriety and the related negative public health and safety consequences of chronic public inebriety. (Appendix B)

 Council Action

 Project committee members briefed the Council's Finance, Budget, and Economic Development Committee on April 19, 2000. The group outlined the scope of the project, discussed the April 13th meeting with licensees and received good feedback from Council committee members. On May 2, 2000, the Council held a public hearing on a proposed ordinance to establish the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area and set specific boundaries within the Pioneer Square neighborhood. DON hosted a public forum on June 15, 2000 for Pioneer Square community members and licensees to discuss issues related to the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area.

 The Council established the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area by ordinance on August 21, 2000. The ordinance required DON and SPD to provide two quarterly project reports and this final report to the Council's Budget and Economic Development Committee on the voluntary efforts to address chronic public inebriation in the Pioneer Square area. The quarterly reports were presented to the committee in November 2000 and May 2001.

 Voluntary compliance effort

 After the ordinance was adopted, representatives of DON, SPD and community members continued frequent visits to licensees to provide information about the PSAIA and to encourage licensees to sign the GNA. As Appendix S shows, licensees such as the Grand Central Restaurant and Deli, the Grand Central Wine Merchants and Al Boccalino Ristorante (which were not perceived as part of the problem) readily signed the GNA. Other off-premises licenses, including the Double Header Tavern and the Pioneer Square Saloon, were also not perceived by the community as associated with chronic public inebriation.

 However, at the time the ordinance was enacted, only one of the five convenience stores in the area had signed the agreement. Klondike Sam's Deli Grocery was very cooperative, signed early and hosted meetings between the community representatives and other off-premises licensees. Unfortunately, Klondike Sam's went out of business in mid 2000 (their decision to close had nothing to do with signing the GNA). The other convenience stores [Campbell Fuller, Saveway Market, Jean's Deli and Peter's Market (later know as Song's Market and then the Metropole)] all initially refused to sign. From the beginning, community and city representatives heard complaints from these four stores that until everyone signed creating a "level playing field," there was strong disincentive to signing. The "catch 22" of the level playing field argument in a voluntary program proved exceptionally difficult.

 After several months of unsuccessful attempts to get any of these four markets to sign the GNA, Pioneer Square community members ultimately hit upon a strategy of approaching landlords of the convenience stores about making compliance with the GNA a lease condition. Peter's Market, (which changed to Song's Market during the project) signed the GNA in August 2000, after a new building owner made signing the GNA a lease condition. The Seattle Housing Authority (SHA) was approached next and they agreed to make the GNA a lease condition for Jean's Deli. Although Jean's Deli never signed the GNA, it has generally complied with the agreement pursuant to their required lease condition. Recently, SHA refused to renew Jean's Deli's lease. Jean's Deli has negotiated a new lease with Samis Properties, Inc. and will shortly move its store to the corner of 3rd Avenue and James Street. Significantly, its lease with Samis does not permit the sale of alcoholic beverages.

 One of the neighborhood's worst offenders, in terms of the impacts upon the neighborhood, was the Campbell Fuller Deli. During most of the last year, Campbell Fuller Deli refused to sign the GNA or otherwise agree to its terms. Campbell Fuller's refusal to sign the agreement was constantly pointed to by the Korean American-owned convenience stores that also refused to sign the GNA. The building that housed Campbell Fuller was finally sold to new owners who insisted that the GNA be signed as a condition of a continuing lease. Campbell Fuller signed the GNA at that point but never complied with its provisions. Consequently, the new building owners responded to community pleas and forced Campbell Fuller's to close at the end of June 2001.

 The Saveway Grocery remains the last holdout-refusing to sign the GNA or comply with its terms. During the Mardi Gras riot in February, as many as eighty customers were observed lined up outside the Saveway's door as they sold a steady supply of alcohol to the throngs involved in the riot. The community was furious at what was perceived as irresponsible behavior on the part of a neighborhood business. The WSLCB cited the Saveway for sales to minors that night. The community's efforts to get Saveway to enter into a GNA have been continually rebuffed.

 The regular visits to licensees met with mixed results. While frequent contacts were generally cordial, licensees expressed concern over pressure from the community to sign the GNA and raised the "level playing field" argument. The community was frustrated by the licensees' failure to sign the agreement. Months of effort by community members and city representatives to obtain voluntary cooperation from the off-premises licensees resulted in no progress. Only the innovative strategy of obtaining assistance from the merchants' landlords resulted in getting cooperation from two of the markets. Of the other two markets, Campbell-Fullers refused to cooperate as described above and was closed only by redevelopment of the property. And, as noted, Saveway refused entirely to cooperate with voluntary efforts.

 Adjacent Neighborhoods

 Beginning in 1998 neighborhoods initiated efforts to encourage voluntary cooperation from off-premises licensees to address the impacts of chronic public inebriation. The GNA used in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area has been used as a model in the International District, the Downtown Core, Belltown, the Denny Triangle, and on Capitol Hill. Similar to Pioneer Square, the results have been mixed. Some licensees have signed and complied. Others have signed and not complied or refused to participate at all.

 Similar to the landlord strategy devised by the community in Pioneer Square, the Low Income Housing Institute (LIHI) required compliance with a GNA as a lease condition for their tenant, JC Grocery. LIHI operates the "Urban Rest Stop" hygiene center in their building adjacent to the convenience store and noticed a marked difference in problems in the Rest Stop on Saturdays when the grocery store is open and Sundays, when it is closed. LIHI lowered the rent for the store as a mechanism to soften the loss of income from alcohol sales restrictions. In many areas, such as Capitol Hill, use of the landlord strategy will likely be impractical because of the large number of off-premises licensees.

 There is a perception on Capitol Hill that the CPI problem there has been exacerbated by the Pioneer Square AIA. Since the Pioneer Square AIA has only obtained the limited voluntary compliance outlined above and has never achieved the cooperation of all of the off-premises markets, all alcohol products and hours of sale have remained available in Pioneer Square. Capitol Hill licensees were also approached and asked about 2002 level of sales to CPIs. Stores owner responded with two answers, " I don't sell to CPIs " or "I don't know." An inquiry was made to William Schrader Agent in Charge for King County, Washington State Liquor Control Board, regarding licensing and sales in the Capitol Hill Community since 2000. Mr. Schrader indicates that there has been no major increase in the number of off-premise licensees in that community. He also stated that licensees' alcohol sales data are proprietary information and not available to the public.

 While it is unclear whether the Pioneer Square AIA has had any real effect on the situation on Capitol Hill or in other neighborhoods, the data collected and set forth below indicates that criminal activity and use of police and emergency resources related to chronic public inebriation appear to have increased from 1998 through 2001 in several neighborhoods, including Pioneer Square. This may be in part due to increased street engagement and support services including the addition of a second vehicle as well as continued efforts to improve the staff's skills in engaging some of our community's most troubled populations.

 The possibility that State Liquor Board regulation in the PSAIA will result in displacement of problems to other neighborhoods will be closely monitored by the Department of Neighborhoods. The Department is prepared to assist surrounding neighborhoods in future efforts to initiate voluntary compliance efforts possibly leading to a second, larger Alcohol Impact Area project.

 Partnerships

 KAGRO - Several of the off-premises licensees are Korean American owned convenience stores. The committee worked hard to sensitively address cultural and language issues. Good working relations were established with the Korean American Grocers' Association of Washington State (KAGRO). KAGRO's past president, Rocky Kim, became an important link to the Korean American licensees in Pioneer Square. Regular meetings with Mr. Kim provided a mechanism by which storeowners could communicate their concerns with aspects of the Alcohol Impact Area. For example, based upon comments from the merchants, the low-cost/high alcohol content restricted product list was scaled back over time. Discussion led to agreement by all sides of the importance of focusing on specific products, which were seen as problems, and the final list was much smaller than earlier iterations. Mr. Kim's tragic death was a severe blow to continued communication with KAGRO. KAGRO lost a strong leader and a skilled and effective mediator. KAGRO has not had the same cohesion since Mr. Kim's passing and communication with Korean American licensees have suffered.

 Alcohol Industry - Representatives of the alcohol industry been long- time partners in the Chronic Public Inebriation Systems Solutions Committee and have participated in work sessions regarding voluntary efforts in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area during the last year.

 Tacoma - The City of Tacoma designated an Alcohol Impact Area that encompassed the Hilltop and downtown neighborhoods. On December 12, 2001, the Liquor Control Board recognized Tacoma's AIA. A copy of the Board's Resolution recognizing the Tacoma AIA is attached hereto as Appendix G. The Board found that the list of low-cost/high alcohol content wine, beer, and malt alcohol products presented by Tacoma was reasonably linked to the problems associated with chronic public inebriation and banned sale of such products commencing on March 1, 2002. The list presented by Tacoma contains the same low-cost/high alcohol content products that were identified in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area. These product lists are set forth in Appendix H.

 In addition to banning specific alcohol products, the Board provided that the City of Tacoma may request that additional alcohol products may be added to the list of restricted products if Tacoma finds that additional products are reasonably linked to chronic public inebriation.

 In February of this year, Tacoma will initiate the Greater Tacoma Community Partnership, a formal collaboration with representatives of the alcohol industry to explore opportunities for promoting comprehensive strategies addressing chronic public inebriation and securing resources. Historically the alcohol industry has dedicated some resources to alcohol education and prevention programs but has not supported other alcohol related issues including housing, treatment and employment opportunities. If this collaboration is successful, it could be replicated in Seattle/King County.

 Economic Development

 Development of an economic assistance package to help convenience stores shift their business plan to capture demographic changes in the Pioneer Square neighborhood and move away from dependence on alcohol sales was explored with support from Councilmember Jan Drago. Mary Jean Ryan, former director at the Office of Economic Development, expressed a willingness to commit some OED resources. Anheuser-Busch also offered to explore possible commitment of private financial resources towards an economic development strategy.

 WSLCB board member Vera Ing attempted to facilitate participation from KAGRO members in the development of an economic strategy and collaboration to accompany the AIA. This effort ended when KAGRO representatives indicated that they were not interested in economic partnerships at this time but instead intended to focus on preventing implementation of AIAs.

 Data

 The ordinance establishing the PSAIA requires that the final report "include relevant crime statistics, police reports, emergency medical response data, detoxification reports, sanitation reports, public health records and other information which document the success or failure of efforts to address chronic public inebriation." Pursuant to the ordinance, statistics were gathered by the Seattle Police Department and the Seattle Fire Department for the Pioneer Square AIA and the following neighborhoods: Queen Anne, Belltown, Downtown Core, International District and Capitol Hill.

 At the time the ordinance was adopted, it was hoped that the enactment of the ordinance would spur voluntary cooperation from the off- premises licensees in the PSAIA and as a result a "before" and "after" data comparison would reveal the success or failure of the voluntary efforts. Unfortunately, as set forth above, voluntary cooperation was generally not forthcoming from the off-premises licensees. While such a "before" and "after" data analysis is skewered because of the lack of cooperation, that same lack of cooperation reveals that voluntary product restrictions by off-premises licensees, even when prompted by massive community effort, is unlikely to meet with success.

 In general, the data shows that criminal activity and police and emergency response resource use associated with chronic public inebriation is a problem not just in Pioneer Square but also in other downtown areas. However, given that the Pioneer Square AIA area is the smallest of the neighborhoods for which data was gathered (about 32 square blocks), it indicates that Pioneer Square continues to face disproportionate problems associated with chronic public inebriation. The relative size of the Pioneer Square AIA area and the other comparison neighborhoods is as follows:

 Total City Area 83.95 square miles

 Pioneer Square AIA area- 1.11 square miles Commercial Core - 1.2 square miles International District- 1.2 square miles Capitol Hill- 1.6 square miles Belltown- 1.4 square miles Lower Queen Anne- 1.5 square miles

 As Appendix K shows, Pioneer Square accounted for 22% of the "drinking in public" citations issued by SPD in 1998 citywide, 17% in 1999, 19% in 2000, and 14% in 2001 yet Pioneer Square represents only .01% of the total area of the city. These percentages were the highest of any neighborhood in the city during 1998, 1999 and 2000. While the numbers declined slightly in 2001, Pioneer Square still had 14% of all "drinking in public citations citywide. The slight decline may indicate some success in the AIA project thus far, given that there is now only one market that does not comply with the GNA. However, given the fact that PSAIA represents only .01% of the total area of the city yet still had 14% of all "drinking in public" citations shows that chronic public inebriation is a problem in the PSAIA.

 SPD reports that 68% of "park exclusion" citations citywide involve alcohol-related infractions. Pioneer Square had the highest numbers in each of the four years studied (53% in 1998, 31% in 1999, 31% in 2000 and 21% in 2001). (Appendix K).

 The data collected for the various neighborhoods indicate that criminal activity and police and emergency response resource use associated with chronic public inebriation has increased citywide over the data collection period-1998-2001. For example, the pickups by the Emergency Service Patrol (ESP) vans totaled 8292 in 1998, 13402 in 1999, 18808 in 2000 and 22233 in 2001 citywide. Factors contributing to this increase in resource use may include an additional ESP van put into service in late 1999, more aggressive pickup procedures and expansion of the geographical catchment area (See Appendix D). While the data continues to support the need for restrictions on the availability of alcohol to chronic public inebriates in the PSAIA, it also may support future alcohol impact areas in other neighborhoods.

 While many public health and safety issues have a direct link with seasonality, the data indicates that CPI pickups in Seattle remain relatively constant throughout each year. (Appendix K)

 Data gathered by the Seattle Police Department and the Seattle Fire Department is set forth in Appendices J though M as follows:

 Appendix J contains a map and descriptions of the geographical boundaries of the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area and the Queen Anne, Belltown, Downtown Core, International District and Capital Hill neighborhoods for which statistics were gathered by the Seattle Police Department and the Seattle Fire Department.

 Appendix K provides relevant statistical information gathered by SPD Crime Analysis Officer Christine Robbin and by Peter Di Turi, GIS analyst at the Seattle Fire Department.

 * The SPD statistics were compiled from Calls for Service (CFS) and Officer On-Views. CFS includes all calls that are called into 911 from the community. On-views include all incidents that officers see and resolve prior to a 911 call. The statistics are pulled by the Miscellaneous Incident Reports (MIR) clearance code that the officer used to clear the call or view the on-view incident.

 * The ESP Transport statistics show the number of transports made by the Emergency Services Patrol (ESP).

 * The SFD ethyl alcohol statistics show the number of incidents in which alcohol was involved in which Engine Units, Aid Units and Medic One Units responded.

 As noted above, information gathered by the King County Health Department is set forth in Appendices C and D.

 Recommendation

 It is the joint recommendation of community representatives, Department of Neighborhoods, and the Seattle Police Department that the Seattle City Council take actions to request that the Liquor Control Board impose mandatory product and hour of sale restrictions in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area. Specifically, we recommend that the City request that the Washington State Liquor Board recognize the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area and enact the following restrictions on off-premises alcohol sales.

 1. Prohibit off-premises alcohol sales between 6:00 A.M and 9:00 A.M.

 2. Prohibit off-premises sales of single cans of beer and malt products in containers 22 ounces or less.

 3. Prohibit off-premises sales of beer and malt products in containers greater than 24 ounces.

 4. Prohibit sales of certain low-cost, high alcohol content wine and beer products.

 We recommend this for the following reasons:

 Low-cost, high alcohol content products contribute significantly to the problems associated with chronic public inebriation: The King County Public Health Department has specifically found that chronic public inebriates "disproportionately consume certain selected alcohol products typified by low cost, high alcohol by volume and large container size." Moreover, that body also found that "a review of the medical and scientific literature indicates a significant correlation between reducing alcohol availability and reducing the negative public health and safety consequences of chronic public inebriety, and that the restriction of low-cost, high alcohol content products on a geographic basis will likely result in a significant reduction in the public consumption of alcohol by persons with chronic public inebriety and the related negative public health and safety consequences of chronic public inebriety (See Appendix B).

 In its recent resolution recognizing an alcohol impact area in the City of Tacoma, the Washington State Liquor Board held that it was established that the specifically listed low-cost, high alcohol content products listed below were "reasonably linked to the problems associated with chronic public inebriation (See Appendix G)

 In addition, Pioneer Square community residents and business representatives confirm that such low-cost, high alcohol content products likewise are associated with the problems of chronic public inebriation in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area (See photos and letters from community members in Appendices P. and Q.).

 Because of the dynamic nature of the liquor industry that constantly submits new alcohol products for approval, a static list of restricted low-cost, high alcohol content products would soon be outdated and be of little value in the fight against chronic public inebriation. To effectively respond to such problems, the list of low-cost, high alcohol content products to be restricted must be also be dynamic. Therefore, the City of Seattle should request that the Liquor Board prohibit off premises sales of all low-cost, high alcohol content products which the Board has already found to be reasonably linked to these problems and other similar low-cost, high alcohol products (determined by the low cost, high alcohol content formula set forth in Appendix H) which the Board determines are available on the market now or in the future, exempting products which are shown not to be associated with chronic public inebriate behavior.

 A good faith voluntary effort was not successful and CPI favored products are still readily available in Pioneer Square AIA: The attempts to obtain voluntary cooperation of the off-premises licensees in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area demonstrates why the Washington State Liquor Control Board acted to provide a mechanism for mandatory restrictions to support neighborhoods and municipalities working on this serious issue. With one exception, licensees in Pioneer Square only signed and complied with voluntary efforts when it became a condition of their lease, a requirement that can change depending on property ownership. Neighborhood stakeholders do not want to be in the position of having to plead with landlords every time a building is old or a new licensee opens is doors. As noted, one of the markets, the Saveway Market, continues to refuse to participate or comply with the community's Good Neighbor Agreement. As the photographs in Appendix P. indicate, they are the only licensee now in Pioneer Square who cater to CPIs with early morning sales and sales of single containers and high alcohol/low cost products. Consequently, all problem products remain readily available. During the voluntary compliance period, we heard repeatedly from the licensees that they want a level playing field - either the same restrictions for all or no restrictions for anyone. Much resentment has been engendered in those markets who were forced into compliance by their landlords that a competitive advantage has been handed to the Saveway Market because of Saveway's refusal to comply.

 Early morning sales of alcohol to chronic public inebriates is contributing to the deterioration of the general quality of life within the Pioneer Square AIA: Although the Good Neighbor Agreement asked that off-premise licensees within the AIA boundary eliminate off-premise sales of alcohol between the hours of 12:00am-2:00am and 6:00am-9:00am, we've heard from community members that early morning sales was the key problem. As some of the letters in Appendix (?) indicate, early morning sales of alcohol to chronic public inebriates began the cycle of negative impacts before the community was awake. Crews from Cleanscapes and the Metropolitan Improvement District (MID) routinely picked up litter from alcohol sales to chronic public inebriates. Cleanscapes and Parks Department crews regularly are required to hose down alleys to clean up urine, feces and filth left by chronic public inebriates. We have not heard from community members that late-night alcohol sales to chronic public inebriates is a significant problem associated with chronic public inebriation. SPD officers have confirmed this (see letters in Appendix Q). Therefore, a general restriction on all late-night alcohol sales is not requested at this time.

 Elimination of single can sales and large containers of alcoholic products reduces the problems associated with chronic public inebriation: The elimination of single can sales removes the short panhandling time necessary to obtain enough money to purchase such products. Also, because detection of violations of the drinking in public ordinance results in confiscation of alcohol, the risk of confiscation of a six-pack deters such public consumption by chronic public inebriates.

 Police, fire, and emergency response data indicate that there is a pervasive pattern of public intoxication and/or public consumption of alcohol in the PSAIA: Although the data shows that criminal activity and police and emergency response resource use associated with chronic public inebriation is a problem not just in Pioneer Square but also in other downtown areas, it indicates that Pioneer Square continues to face problems associated with chronic public inebriation. For example, Pioneer Square accounted for 22% of the "drinking in public" citations issued by SPD in 1998 citywide, 17% in 1999, 19% in 2000, and 14% in 2001 yet they only represent .01% of the city.

 The data and other information contained in the report strongly indicate that the Pioneer Square neighborhood has a significant problem with chronic public inebriation. We recommend that the Liquor Control Board act to impose mandatory product and hour of sale restrictions in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area.

 Appendices

 A. City of Seattle Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area Ordinance B. King County Board of Health Resolution C. CPI services survey commissioned by the Crisis and Engagement Section of the Mental Health, Chemical Abuse And Dependency Services Division Department of Community and Human Services of King County to evaluate services provided to the CPI population by the Emergency Services Patrol (ESP), the DSSSC and the Reach Case Management Project D. Resource use statistics from King County Public Health E. State Liquor Control Board Rules F. Good Neighbor Agreement G. State Liquor Control Board Resolution recognizing Tacoma AIA H. Low-cost/high alcohol content alcohol product lists I. Letters from Pioneer Square Community representatives J. Map and descriptions of geographical boundaries of the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area and the Queen Anne, Belltown, Downtown Core, International District and Capital Hill neighborhoods K. Data gathered by the Seattle Police Department and Seattle Fire Department L. Public Health Data M. Financial Impact Data N. Public Meeting Notification Documents O. Media Coverage of Industry Response to Tacoma AIA P. Photographic Evidence Q. Statements From Individuals R. Pioneer Square Neighborhood Plan Excerpt S. Licensees and Volunteer Effort Outcomes ta ATTACHMENT B - REQUESTED RESTRICTIONS

 The City of Seattle will request that the Washington State Liquor Board recognize the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area and enact the following restrictions on off-premises alcohol sales.

 1. Prohibit off-premises alcohol sales between 6:00 A.M and 9:00 A.M.

 2. Prohibit off-premises sales of single cans, bottles or other containers of beer and malt products.

 3. Prohibit sales of certain low-cost, high alcohol content wine and beer products.

 Restriction of low-cost, high alcohol content products is necessary because they are products that contribute significantly to the problems of chronic public inebriation. The King County Public Health Department has specifically found that chronic public inebriates "disproportionately consume certain selected alcohol products typified by low cost, high alcohol by volume and large container size." Moreover, that body also found that "a review of the medical and scientific literature indicates a significant correlation between reducing alcohol availability and reducing the negative public health and safety consequences of chronic public inebriety, and that the restriction of low-cost, high alcohol content products on a geographic basis will likely result in a significant reduction in the public consumption of alcohol by persons with chronic public inebriety and the related negative public health and safety consequences of chronic public inebriety. See, Appendix B.

 In its recent resolution recognizing an alcohol impact area in the City of Tacoma, the Washington State Liquor Board held that it was established that the specifically listed low-cost, high alcohol content products listed below were "reasonably linked to the problems associated with chronic public inebriation. See, Appendix G.

 Experience of Pioneer Square community residents and business representatives confirms that such low-cost, high alcohol content products likewise are associated with the problems of chronic public inebriation in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area.

 Because of the dynamic nature of the liquor industry which constantly submits new alcohol products for approval, a static list of restricted low-cost, high alcohol content products would soon be outdated and of little value in the fight against chronic public inebriation. To effectively respond to such problems, the list of low-cost, high alcohol content products to be restricted must be also be dynamic. Therefore, the City of Seattle will request that the Liquor Board prohibit off premises sales of all low-cost, high alcohol content products which the Board has already found to be reasonably linked to these problems and other similar low-cost, high alcohol products (determined by the low cost, high alcohol content formula set forth below) which the Board determines are available on the market now or in the future, exempting products which are shown not to be associated with chronic public inebriate behavior.

 The City of Seattle will request that off premises sales of the following low-cost, high alcohol content products be prohibited in the Pioneer Square Alcohol Impact Area.

 1. Beer and Malt Products

 All beer and malt products which have an alcohol content greater than 5.7% and a cost of $.04 or less per wholesale ounce, including all products which are available now or are introduced to the market in the future or are products on the list below. Subject to verification by the Washington State Liquor Control Board, it is believed that all container sizes of the following products fall within these alcohol content and price parameters and/or are otherwise identified as products of choice of chronic public inebriates:

 Bull Ice Busch Ice Colt 45 Ice Colt 45 Malt Liquor Hamm's Ice Brewed Ale Hamm's Ice Brewed Beer Hurricane Ice Malt Liquor Keystone Ice King Cobra Malt Liquor Lucky Ice Ale Premium Lucky Ice Beer Magnum Malt Liquor Mickey's Iced Brewed Ale Miller High Life Ice Milwaukee Best Ice Milwaukee Best Premium Ice Beer Old Milwaukee Ice Olde English 800 Olympia Ice Pabst Ice Rainier Ale Red Bull Malt Liquor Schmidt's Ice Special 800 Reserve St. Ide's Liquor and Special Brews Steel Reserve

 2. Wine Products

 All wine products in all container sizes less than 3 liters which have an alcohol content 13% or greater and a cost of $.10 or less per wholesale ounce, including all products which are available now or are introduced to the market in the future or are on the list below. Subject to verification by the Washington State Liquor Control Board, it is believed that all container sizes and flavors of the following products fall within these size, alcohol content and price parameters and/or are otherwise identified as products of choice of chronic public inebriates:

 Cisco Gino's Premium Blend MD 20/20 Night Train Express Richard's Wild Irish Rose Thunderbird V2 08/12/02 ta

```
