

********

**Council Bill Number: 114233**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120864**
********

 AN ORDINANCE providing for the defeasance of the claim or lien of all or a portion of the City's outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1994 (Taxable); creating a defeasance account; authorizing the execution of a defeasance trust agreement and any addenda thereto; providing for and authorizing the purchase of certain obligations and for the use and application of the money derived from those investments; authorizing the call for redemption prior to their maturities of those defeased bonds; reducing appropriations for various capital projects; transferring those amounts for deposit in a special account in the Bond Fund; and appropriating amounts from that account to carry out the defeasance.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 22, 2002
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 31, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 31, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 8, 2002
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget, Business and Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS, FINANCE, ACCOUNTING

**References/Related Documents:** related: Ord 117050; Res 28895

**Fiscal Note:**114233

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE providing for the defeasance of the claim or lien of all or a portion of the City's outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1994 (Taxable); creating a defeasance account; authorizing the execution of a defeasance trust agreement and any addenda thereto; providing for and authorizing the purchase of certain obligations and for the use and application of the money derived from those investments; authorizing the call for redemption prior to their maturities of those defeased bonds; reducing appropriations for various capital projects; transferring those amounts for deposit in a special account in the Bond Fund; and appropriating amounts from that account to carry out the defeasance.

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 117050, passed by the City Council on February 14, 1994, and Resolution 28895, adopted by the City Council on March 17, 1994 (collectively, the "1994 Bond Legislation"), The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), heretofore issued its $73,400,000 par value Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1994 (Taxable) (the "1994 Bonds"), dated March 1, 1994, and by that 1994 Bond Legislation reserved the right to redeem the 1994 Bonds prior to their maturity on October 1, 2004, at a price of 102% of par plus accrued interest to the date fixed for redemption; and

 WHEREAS, there is presently outstanding $61,070,000 of 1994 Bonds maturing on October 1 of each of the years 2002 through 2004, inclusive, and in the years 2009 and 2014, and bearing interest at various rates from 6.89% to 7.68% per annum; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to the 1994 Bond Legislation, the City reserved the right to use money available from any lawful source to pay when due the principal of and interest on the 1994 Bonds, or any portion thereof included in a defeasance plan; and

 WHEREAS, the City has determined that to reduce costs of the City during a period of economic downtown and reduced tax revenues, it is in the best interest of the City and its taxpayers to budget funds of the City from time to time to provide for the defeasance of all or a portion of the outstanding 1994 Bonds by placing in escrow amounts that, if invested in direct obligations of the United States of America, will be sufficient to provide the funds required to pay principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 1994 Bonds selected for defeasance when due or when optionally redeemed, thereby effecting a savings in debt service to the City; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth:

 "Addendum" means an Addendum to the Defeasance Trust Agreement between the City and the Defeasance Trustee substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A to the Defeasance Trust Agreement.

 "Bond Fund" means the City's Bond Interest and Redemption Fund, previously created and established and to be used for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 1994 Bonds.

 "City" means The City of Seattle, Washington, a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 "City Council" means the City Council of the City, as duly and regularly constituted from time to time.

 "Defeasance Account" means the Key Arena Defeasance Account of that name created pursuant to Section 2 of this ordinance.

 "Defeased Bonds" means those 1994 Bonds identified by the Director of Finance in Schedule A to the Defeasance Trust Agreement and in Schedule A to any Addendum, which maturities or portions thereof shall be selected by the Director Finance (and randomly within a maturity) in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof.

 "Defeasance Plan" means:

 (a) the placement with the Defeasance Trustee of money of the City, as budgeted and available from time to time, that will be sufficient to acquire the Escrow Obligations and provide any required beginning cash balance;

 (b) the payment of the principal of and interest on the Defeased Bonds when due up to and including October 1, 2004, and on October 1, 2004, to call, pay and redeem all of the then-outstanding Defeased Bonds at a price of 102% of par; and

 (c) the payment of the costs of carrying out the foregoing elements of the Defeasance Plan.

 "Defeasance Trust Agreement" means a Defeasance Trust Agreement between the City and the Defeasance Trustee substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and by this reference incorporated herein.

 "Defeasance Trustee" means the defeasance trustee hereafter selected by the Director of Finance, and any successor thereto, as defeasance trustee under the Defeasance Trust Agreement.

 "Director of Finance" means the director of the Department of Finance of the City, and any successor to substantially the same duties.

 "Escrow Obligations" means Government Obligations purchased to accomplish the defeasance of the Defeased Bonds as authorized by this ordinance.

 "Government Obligations" means noncallable direct obligations of the United States of America.

 "1994 Bonds" means the City's outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1994 (Taxable), dated March 1, 1994.

 Section 2. Defeasance Account. There is hereby authorized to be created in the Bond Fund, a special account to be designated the "Key Arena Defeasance Account," which account shall be maintained for the sole purpose of implementing the Defeasance Plan. The City Council hereby authorizes and directs the Director of Finance to transfer to the Defeasance Account all amounts so specified, from time to time, by the City Council for the defeasance of the 1994 Bonds. Amounts on deposit in the Defeasance Account shall be appropriated and used to carry out the Defeasance Plan.

 The City may, from time to time, transfer, or cause to be transferred, from the Defeasance Account any money not thereafter required for the purposes of carrying out the Defeasance Plan.

 Section 3. Defeasance of Defeased Bonds.

 (a) Appointment of Defeasance Trustee. The Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a Defeasance Trustee.

 (b) Acquisition of Escrow Obligations. A sufficient amount of money on deposit in the Defeasance Account shall be deposited, from time to time, with the Defeasance Trustee and used to discharge the obligations of the City relating to the Defeased Bonds under the 1994 Bond Legislation by providing for the payment of the amounts required to be paid by the Defeasance Plan. To the extent practicable, such obligations shall be discharged fully by the Defeasance Trustee's simultaneous purchase of the Escrow Obligations, bearing such interest and maturing as to principal and interest in such amounts and at such times so as to provide, together with a beginning cash balance, if necessary, for the payment of the amount required to be paid by the Defeasance Plan. The initial Escrow Obligations shall be listed and more particularly described in Schedule B attached to the Defeasance Trust Agreement between the City and the Defeasance Trustee, and any subsequent Escrow Obligations shall be described in Schedule B to an Addendum to the Defeasance Trust Agreement. The City shall deliver to the Defeasance Trustee with the Defeasance Trust Agreement and each Addendum a verification by a nationally recognized independent certified public accounting firm acceptable to the Defeasance Trustee confirming that the payments of principal of and interest on the Escrow Obligations, if paid when due, and any other money held by the Defeasance Trustee will be sufficient to carry out the Defeasance Plan. Such Escrow Obligations are subject to substitution as set forth below.

 (c) Substitution of Escrow Obligations. After the purchase of the Escrow Obligations by the Defeasance Trustee, the City reserves the right to substitute therefor cash or Substitute Obligations subject to the conditions that such money or securities held by the Defeasance Trustee shall be sufficient to carry out the Defeasance Plan and that the City obtain, at its expense, a verification by a nationally recognized independent certified public accounting firm acceptable to the Defeasance Trustee confirming that the payments of principal of and interest on the substitute securities, if paid when due, and any other money held by the Defeasance Trustee will be sufficient to carry out the Defeasance Plan. Any surplus money resulting from the sale, transfer, other disposition, or redemption of the Escrow Obligations and the substitutions therefor shall be released from the trust estate and transferred to the City to be used for any lawful City purpose.

 (d) Administration of Defeasance Plan. The Defeasance Trustee is authorized and directed to purchase the Escrow Obligations (or substitute obligations) and to make the payments required to be made by the Defeasance Plan from the Escrow Obligations (or substitute obligations) and money deposited with the Defeasance Trustee pursuant to this ordinance. All Escrow Obligations (or substitute obligations) and the money deposited with the Defeasance Trustee and any income therefrom shall be held irrevocably, invested and applied in accordance with the provisions of the 1994 Bond Legislation, this resolution and the Defeasance Trust Agreement. All necessary and proper fees, compensation, and expenses of the Defeasance Trustee for costs incidental to the setting up of the escrow to accomplish the defeasance of the Defeasance Bonds, including verification fees, bond counsel's fees, and other related expenses, shall be paid by the City.

 (e) Authorization for Defeasance Trust Agreement and Addenda. The Director of Finance is authorized and directed to enter into the Defeasance Trust Agreement with the Defeasance Trustee setting forth the duties, obligations and responsibilities of the Defeasance Trustee in connection with the carrying out of the Defeasance Plan as provided herein and stating that the provisions for payment of the fees, compensation and expenses of the Defeasance Trustee set forth therein are satisfactory to it. Prior to executing the Defeasance Trust Agreement, the Director of Finance is authorized to make such changes therein that do not change the substance and purpose thereof.

 The Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to enter into one or more Addenda to the Defeasance Trustee Agreement with the Defeasance Trustee when, based on budgeted amounts and/or interest earnings, he determines that there is sufficient money on deposit in the Defeasance Account to invest in Escrow Obligations sufficient, together with a beginning cash balance, if necessary, to defease additional 1994 Bonds. The Director of Finance is authorized to identify those additional Defeased Bonds and to obtain, at City expense, a verification from an independent nationally recognized certified public accounting firm acceptable to the Defeasance Trustee confirming that the payment of principal of and interest on those additional Escrow Obligations, if paid when due, and any other money held by the Defeasance Trustee for that purpose, will be sufficient to carry out the new portion of the Defeasance Plan.

 Section 4. Findings and Determinations Concerning Defeasance Plan . The City Council finds and determines that it is in the best interest of the City and its taxpayers that the City carry out the Defeasance Plan provided for in this ordinance and hereby ratifies and approves the Defeasance Plan.

 Section 5. Call for Redemption of the Defeased Bonds. The City calls for redemption on October 1, 2004, all of the then-outstanding Defeased Bonds at a price of 102% of par plus accrued interest. Such call for redemption shall be irrevocable after the establishment of a sufficient escrow provided by the Defeasance Agreement.

 Section 6. Budget Reduction/Fund Transfer/Appropriation.

 A. Capital project appropriations from the indicated funds, subfunds, and subaccounts for the indicated departments and projects listed below are reduced as follows:

 Fund Department Capital Improvement Amount Program Project/Program

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Fleets and Charles Street ($1,822,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Facilities Improvements Phase I (A51679)

 Municipal Civic Center Fleets and Civic Center Master ($3,250,000) Fund Facilities Plan - Key Tower Base (A34200-2)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Fleets and Fire Station ($466,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Facilities Renovations (A15542)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Fleets and Police Building ($285,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Facilities Renovations (A51638)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Parks and Ballfields/Athletic ($1,125,000) Unrestricted Subaccount Recreation Courts/ Play Areas (00164) (K72445)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Parks and Building Roofing ($1,000,000) Unrestricted Subaccount Recreation Systems (K72443) (00164)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Parks and Aquarium Redevelopment ($530,000) Unrestricted Subaccount Recreation (K72465) (00164)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Center House ($140,000) Unrestricted Subaccount Center Improvements (S9113) (00164)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Center House ($315,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Center Improvements (S9113)

 1999 Seattle Seattle Fisher Pavilion ($900,000) Center/Community Centers Center (S9705) Fund, Seattle Center Subfund (33830)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Kreielsheimer Site ($150,000) Unrestricted Subaccount Center Development (S9906) (00164)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Open Space Restoration ($300,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Center and Repair (S9704)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Open Space Restoration ($175,000) Unrestricted Subaccount Center and Repair (S9704) (00164)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Roof/Structural Repair ($200,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Center and Replacement (S9701)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Theater Improvements ($230,000) Unrestricted Subaccount Center (S9604) (00164)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Theater Improvements ($900,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Center (S9604)

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Broadview Library ($181,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Public Renovation (BLBRO1) Library

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Columbia Library ($2,348,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Public Renovation (BLCOL1) Library

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle Southwest Library ($199,000) REET I Subaccount (00163) Public Renovation (BLSWT) Library

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Seattle 12th Avenue ($727,000) Unrestricted Subaccount Transportation Development Project (00164) (TC 366030)

 Total ($15,243,000)

 B. The appropriation from the indicated fund for the indicated department is reduced as follows:

 Fund Department Line of Business Amount

 Information Technology DOIT Technology Infrastructure ($1,500,000) Fund (50430) (D3300)

 C. The transfer of nine hundred thousand dollars ($900,000) from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund Unrestricted Subaccount (00164) to the 1999 Seattle Center/Community Centers Fund, Seattle Center Subfund (33820) as authorized by Ordinance 119811 is hereby reversed.

 D. The following amounts are hereby transferred from the funds, subfunds, and subaccounts shown below into the Defeasance Account:

 Fund Subaccount Amount Transferred

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund South Lake Union $13,759,000 transferred (00167) Property out Proceeds

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund REET I $7,016,000 transferred (00163) out

 Cumulative Reserve Subfund Unrestricted $4,977,000 transferred (00164) out

 Information Technology Fund N/A $1,500,000 transferred (50430) out

 Municipal Civic Center Fund N/A $3,250,000 transferred out

 Total $30,502,000 transferred out

 E. The amount of $30,502,000 is appropriated from the Defeasance Account to be used consistent with this ordinance to carry out the Defeasance Plan.

 Section 7. General Authorization. The Mayor and the Director of Finance and each of the other appropriate officers of the City are each authorized and directed to do everything as in their judgment may be necessary, appropriate, or desirable in order to carry out the terms and provisions of, and complete the transactions contemplated by, this ordinance.

 Section 8. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, such offending provision shall, if feasible, be deemed to be modified to be within the limits of enforceability or validity. However, if the offending provision cannot be so modified, it shall be null and void with respect to the particular person or circumstance, and all other provisions of this ordinance in all other respects, and the offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 9. Ratification of Prior Acts. Any action taken consistent with the authority but prior to the effective date of this ordinance, including, if applicable, but not limited to issuing requests for proposals for escrow services, executing engagement letters for escrow services based on responses to such requests, executing contracts or other documents, making fund transfers, and paying warrants, is ratified, approved, and confirmed.

 Section 10. Headings. The section headings in this ordinance are used for convenience only and shall not constitute a substantive portion of this ordinance.

 Section 11. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2002.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2002.

 _________________________________

 Gregory Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2002.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

Attachments

Exhibit 1 - Defeasance Trust Agreement

 Schedule A - Initial Defeasance Bonds

 Schedule B - Escrow Obligations

 Exhibit A - Addendum No. ___

 Schedule A - Defeased Bonds

 Schedule B - Escrow Obligations

 Exhibit B - Form of Notice of Defeasance

 Exhibit C - Form of Notice of Redemption

 Hugh Spitzer

 Ordinance Seattle Defeasance.DOC

 June 27, 2002

 version 5

 - 1 -

 50330481.04

```
