

********

**Council Bill Number: 114329**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120956**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of the Department of Finance to execute a long-term agreement with the Yakima County Board of Commissioners for the provision of jail services for prisoners convicted of misdemeanor crimes and sentenced to a period of incarceration under the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 28, 2002
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 30, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 29, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 16, 2002
   
**Committee:** Police, Fire, Courts and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, CORRECTIONAL-SYSTEM, CORRECTIONAL-FACILITIES, PRISONERS, CRIMINAL-JUSTICE, PENAL-FACILITIES, JAIL

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CB 114326, Ord 120826, 120825

**Fiscal Note:**114329

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Director of the Department of Finance to execute a long-term agreement with the Yakima County Board of Commissioners for the provision of jail services for prisoners convicted of misdemeanor crimes and sentenced to a period of incarceration under the Seattle Municipal Code.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle ("City") pays for the confinement of individuals who are convicted of committing misdemeanor crimes under the Seattle Municipal Code; and

 WHEREAS, King County, which is currently the City's sole long-term provider of jail services, has proposed a new jail contract that reduces the number of beds available to misdemeanants over the next ten years and eliminates those beds entirely as of 2013; and

 WHEREAS, the Yakima County Department of Corrections and Security ("Yakima County") has agreed to build sufficient jail capacity to house misdemeanants from outside its jurisdiction, and has guaranteed a minimum of 440 beds to the King County cities that are parties to this interlocal agreement; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle has sent inmates to the Yakima County jail under a short-term agreement for jail services since July, 2002; and

 WHEREAS, a contract with Yakima County for jail services will not be a substitute for the City's continued investments in improving and expanding programs that offer alternatives to incarceration and alternative sentencing programs, including electronic home monitoring, work crew, community service, probation services and "problem solving" court calendars, such as the Mental Health Court and the Driving While License Suspended calendar; and

 WHEREAS, City Council Ordinance 120826, passed on June 17, 2002, directed the Executive to work to address any problems that arise during the pilot program and will incorporate program improvements into any future long-term agreements with Yakima County; and

 WHEREAS, the Executive has worked with partners in Yakima County, the Seattle Municipal Court, Law Department, Police Department, City- contracted public defense agencies, local social service agencies, and Seattle inmates, to address and correct problems;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Finance is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a long-term agreement and its addendum substantially in the form attached hereto with the Yakima County Board of County Commissioners for the provision of misdemeanant jail services entitled "INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN YAKIMA COUNTY, WASHINGTON AND THE CITIES OF ALGONA, AUBURN, TOWN OF BEAUX ARTS VILLAGE, BELLEVUE, BLACK DIAMOND, BOTHELL, BURIEN, CARNATION, CLYDE HILL, COVINGTON, DES MOINES, DUVALL, FEDERAL WAY, ISSAQUAH, KENMORE, KIRKLAND, LAKE FOREST PARK, MAPLE VALLEY, MEDINA, MERCER ISLAND, NEWCASTLE, NORMANDY PARK, NORTH BEND, PACIFIC, REDMOND, RENTON, SAMMAMISH, SEATAC, SEATTLE, SHORELINE, SKYKOMISH, SNOQUALMIE, TUKWILA" (Attachment 1) and its Addendum (Attachment 2); provided, however, that no City of Seattle inmate shall be housed by Yakima County in Yakima County jail facilities pursuant to such agreement and addendum prior to conviction and sentencing unless such prisoner is a medical and/or psychiatric inmate who cannot be housed by King County in King County jail facilities

 because of jail capacity restrictions set forth in the Interlocal Agreement between King County and the City of Seattle for Jail Services.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2002. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2002. ___________________________________ Greg Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20____. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Interlocal agreement between Yakima County, Washington and the Cities of Algona, Auburn, Town of Beaux Arts Village, Bellevue, Black Diamond, Bothell, Burien, Carnation, Clyde Hill, Covington, Des Moines, Duvall, Federal Way, Issaquah, Kenmore, Kirkland, Lake Forest Park, Maple Valley, Medina, Mercer Island, Newcastle, Normandy Park, North Bend, Pacific, Redmond, Renton, Sammamish, Seatac, Seattle, Shoreline, Skykomish, Snoqualmie, Tukwila, Woodinville and Town of Yarrow Point, Washington, for the Housing of Inmates by Yakima County Department of Corrections and Security.

 Attachment 2: ADDENDUM to Interlocal agreement between Yakima County, Washington and the Cities of Algona, Auburn, Town of Beaux Arts Village, Bellevue, Black Diamond, Bothell, Burien, Carnation, Clyde Hill, Covington, Des Moines, Duvall, Federal Way, Issaquah, Kenmore, Kirkland, Lake Forest Park, Maple Valley, Medina, Mercer Island, Newcastle, Normandy Park, North Bend, Pacific, Redmond, Renton, Sammamish, Seatac, Seattle, Shoreline, Skykomish, Snoqualmie, Tukwila, Woodinville and Town of Yarrow Point, Washington, for the Housing of Inmates by Yakima County Department of Corrections and Security.

 September 18, 2002 Version #2 t

 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN YAKIMA COUNTY, WASHINGTON

 AND THE CITIES OF ALGONA, AUBURN, TOWN OF BEAUX ARTS VILLAGE, BELLEVUE, BLACK DIAMOND, BOTHELL, BURIEN, CARNATION, CLYDE HILL, COVINGTON, DES MOINES, DUVALL, FEDERAL WAY, ISSAQUAH, KENMORE, KIRKLAND, LAKE FOREST PARK, MAPLE VALLEY, MEDINA, MERCER ISLAND, NEWCASTLE, NORMANDY PARK, NORTH BEND, PACIFIC, REDMOND, RENTON, SAMMAMISH, SEATAC, SEATTLE, SHORELINE, SKYKOMISH, SNOQUALMIE, TUKWILA, WOODINVILLE AND TOWN OF YARROW POINT, WASHINGTON, FOR THE HOUSING OF INMATES BY YAKIMA COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND SECURITY

 THIS INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and entered into on this ___ day of , 2002 by and between the Cities of Algona, Auburn, Town of Beaux Arts Village, Bellevue, Black Diamond, Bothell, Burien, Carnation, Clyde Hill, Covington, Des Moines, Duvall, Federal Way, Issaquah, Kenmore, Kirkland, Lake Forest Park, Maple Valley, Medina, Mercer Island, Newcastle, Normandy Park, North Bend, Pacific, Redmond, Renton, Sammamish, SeaTac, Seattle, Shoreline, Skykomish, Snoqualmie, Tukwila, Woodinville and Town of Yarrow Point, Washington ("Cities"), and Yakima County, Washington ("Yakima County").

 A. Yakima County and the Cities are each authorized by law to operate a jail.

 B. The governing bodies of each of the parties have determined to enter into this Agreement as authorized by the Interlocal Cooperation Act (Chapter 39.34 RCW) and the City and County Jails Act (Chapter 70.48 RCW, as amended).

 C. The Cities wish to designate Yakima County's correctional facilities as a place of confinement for the incarceration of one or more inmates lawfully committed to the Cities' custody.

 D. Yakima County and the Cities have determined that long-term correctional services contracting is a responsible intergovernmental opportunity that resolves serious economic and public safety hardships for all parties.

 E. Yakima County intends to construct and professionally operate additional jail bed capacity, in part to meet its obligations created by this Agreement.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above and foregoing recitals, the payments to be made, the mutual promises and covenants herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows:

 1. DEFINITIONS

 (a) Average Daily Population ("ADP") means that number of City Inmates confined in Yakima County correctional facilities for a year, divided by 365.

 (b) Care means custody, care and treatment including basic, emergency, essential and/or major medical and dental care, food, lodging and personal items, as further described in Section 6 of this Agreement

 (c) City Inmate means a person confined by any City for the violation of state or municipal law and delivered by any City's Police Department to the custody of Yakima County.

 (d) Custody means the point in time any City Inmate is either (i) booked into any Yakima County jail facilities or (ii) has been released by a City to the Care of Yakima County, including without limitation, the point at which Yakima County or its agents have taken physical possession of such City Inmate for transportation to any Yakima County jail facilities as described in Section 6(c), whichever occurs first and continues until the City Inmate is released from Yakima County jail facilities.

 (e) Daily fee means that fee charged for the daily Care of City Inmates.

 (f) Jail Day means the time period between 12:00:01 a.m. until 12:00 midnight.

 (g) Minimum Bed Commitment means the bed commitment made by the Cities to maintain an ADP in Yakima county jail facilities equal to 150 City Inmates from the effective date of this Agreement until June 30, 2003 and equal to 440 City Inmates from July 1, 2003 until the termination of this Agreement.

 2. EFFECTIVE DATE

 (a) Execution of Agreement. Yakima County expects to authorize the construction and equipping of new correctional facilities to be located in Yakima County ("New Jail Facility"). The obligations of Yakima County and the Cities and the initial effective date of this Agreement shall commence only when this Agreement has been executed by a sufficient number of Cities to represent 90% of the 440 Minimum Bed Commitment. The Cities have estimated each City's respective jail population as set forth on the signature page. These estimates shall in no way obligate each City individually to deliver these estimated populations, but are provided solely for the purpose of setting an effective date to this Agreement and committing the Cities to collectively provide the Minimum Bed Commitment. In the event this Agreement is not fully executed on or before September 1, 2002 by a sufficient number of Cities as described above, this Agreement shall be null and void and no party to this Agreement shall be subject to liability of any kind arising out of this Agreement.

 (b) Permits and Financing. Yakima County is exercising best efforts to obtain the necessary permits and financing for the siting and construction of the New Jail Facility. The obligations of Yakima County and the effective date of this Agreement are conditioned upon Yakima County obtaining the necessary building permits and the issuance of bonds for the financing of the New Jail Facility no later than December 31, 2002. In the event that Yakima County is unable for any reason to obtain such permits or issue such bonds on or before December 31, 2002, this Agreement shall be null and void and no party to this Agreement shall be subject to liability of any kind arising out of this Agreement.

 (c) Completion of New Jail Facility. Following the commencement of construction, Yakima County agrees to exercise due diligence to complete the New Jail Facility, the occupancy date, following the shakedown period, is currently estimated by Yakima County to be July 1, 2003. Upon receipt of a full or temporary certificate of occupancy for the New Jail Facility, and upon completion of the required "shakedown period," Yakima County agrees to accept City Inmates pursuant to this Agreement.

 (d) Effective Date. If Yakima County is successful in obtaining execution of this Agreement as described in subsection (a), and in obtaining the necessary permits and financing as described in subsection (b), then the date the New Jail Facility is completed and ready for occupancy described in subsection (c) shall constitute the effective date ("Effective Date") of this Agreement.

 3. DURATION

 The term of this Agreement shall commence upon the Effective Date and shall end at 11:59 p.m. on December 31, 2009, subject to earlier termination as provided by Section 4 of this Agreement. This Agreement may be renewed for any successive period by written addendum under terms and conditions acceptable to all of the parties.

 4. TERMINATION

 (a) Mutual Consent. This Agreement may be terminated by mutual consent between Yakima County and any City; provided, however, that the ADP attributable to that City in the prior calendar year shall reduce the total Minimum Bed Commitment; and, provided further, however, that this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect as between Yakima County and all remaining non-terminating Cities.

 (b) For Cause. This Agreement may be terminated by any party for cause. "Cause" shall mean any material violation of the terms of this Agreement or any material breach of a party's obligation under the terms of this Agreement; provided, however, that such termination shall be effective only as between a party committing such breach and the party alleging such breach. If the termination for cause is a result of Yakima County's actions, the Minimum Bed Commitment shall be reduced by an amount equal to the ADP attributable to that City in the prior calendar year.

 (c) Notice of Termination. No termination shall be effective until written notice of intent to terminate this Agreement stating with reasonable specificity the basis for the termination and identifying the sections of the Agreement that have been violated is mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to all the parties to this Agreement ("Notice of Termination"). The termination shall not be effective for one (1) year following mailing of the Notice of Termination. The termination of this Agreement between Yakima County and a City, whether by mutual consent or for cause, shall not affect the rights or obligations of Yakima County or any remaining City under this Agreement except for reducing the Minimum Bed Commitment pursuant to subsection (a).

 (d) Compensation for Services Rendered. In the event of termination of this Agreement, the departing City shall compensate Yakima County at the rate set forth in Section 7 up to the effective date of the termination of this Agreement as between Yakima County and the departing City.

 5. MAILING ADDRESSES

 All notices, reports, and correspondence to the respective parties of this Agreement shall be sent to the following:

 Yakima County: Yakima County Dept. of Corrections and Security 128 N. Second Street Yakima, WA 98901 Contact Person: Kenneth A. Ray, Director

 City of ________: City of _________________ Police Department _______________, WA 98 Contact Person: __________________________

 6. AGREEMENT TO TRANSPORT AND HOUSE CITY INMATES

 (a) Care of City Inmates. Yakima County shall maintain its correctional facilities, including the New Jail Facility, to Care for and house City Inmates and such other prisoners allowed by law. Yakima County shall manage, maintain and operate its jails in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. Yakima County shall confine City Inmates; provide all necessary basic, emergency and/or major medical, psychiatric, dental and hospital services and supplies; provide for the City Inmates' physical and subsistence needs; provide programs and/or treatment consistent with the City Inmates' individual needs; provide for reasonable and satisfactory video and on-site visitation for attorneys, spouses, family and friends of City Inmates; adequately supervise City Inmates; maintain proper discipline and control; and make certain that City Inmates receive no special privileges and that the sentence and orders of the committing court are faithfully  executed. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to require Yakima County, or any of its agents, to provide treatment, facilities or programs for any City Inmates which it does not provide for its own comparable inmates; provided, however, that Yakima County shall continuously provide inmate interpretative services which meet or exceed those interpretive services available at the King County Jail; and provided further, however, that Yakima County shall not eliminate, modify or reduce any mental health, treatment, therapy or rehabilitation facilities or programs available to Yakima County Jail inmates as of the date of the execution of this Agreement without the prior agreement of the Cities. Yakima County shall have the discretion to assign City Inmates to its various correctional facilities, including the New Jail Facility, as deemed appropriate according to its standard operating procedures and policies. Except as provided in Section 12, it is expressly understood that Yakima County shall not be authorized to transfer custody of any City Inmate confined pursuant to this Agreement to any party other than the applicable City, or to release any City Inmate from custody without written authorization from the committing court. Yakima County shall provide or arrange for such medical, psychiatric and dental services at the expense of Yakima County in consideration for the daily fee. Whenever Yakima County identifies a City Inmate's need for special medical care that cannot be provided by the correctional facility medical staff, Yakima County shall obtain medical services commensurate with those provided to other inmates of Yakima County. Upon request by the City, Yakima County shall provide the City with verbal or written information pertaining to any medical, psychiatric or dental services provided to City Inmates.

 (b) Minimum Bed Guarantee. From and after the Effective Date of the Agreement and continuing until June 30, 2003, Yakima County guarantees a minimum of 150 daily jail beds for City Inmates. Commencing July 1, 2003 and continuing until this Agreement is terminated, Yakima County guarantees a minimum of 440 daily jail beds for City Inmates. If King County, Washington refuses to accept City Inmates prior to July 1, 2003, Yakima County will use best efforts to accept additional City Inmates by contracting with Benton County, Okanogan County and/or Chelan County, Washington for additional jail capacity for City Inmates. If Yakima County has jail bed capacity in excess of this minimum guarantee, Yakima County will accept additional City Inmates if requested by the Cities. Prior to constructing new jail capacity beyond the Jail Facility, Yakima will contact the Cities and offer to reduce the Minimum Bed Commitment. If any City voluntarily agrees to such a reduction, the Minimum Bed Commitment shall be reduced by the amount of beds the City agrees to return to Yakima for its use.

 (c) Transports. Yakima County agrees to transport all City Inmates to and from the Yakima County Department of Corrections and Security. Yakima County agrees to pick up City Inmates at the Renton City Jail, 1055 S. Grady Way, Renton, WA, the King County Correctional Facility, 500 5th Avenue, Seattle, WA , the Issaquah Jail, 130 E Sunset Way, Issaquah, WA, the Fife Jail, 3737 Pacific Highway East, Fife, WA, the Auburn Jail, 25 W. Main Street, Auburn, WA and the Regional Justice Center, 401 4th Avenue N., Kent, WA, and/or such other locations in King County as designated by the Cities. The cost of Care of City Inmates as set forth in Section 7 shall cover a minimum of one (1) roundtrip transport every day, seven days a week and Yakima County commits to transport as many City Inmates as are available for such transport. If any City requests additional transports, the cost shall be agreed upon between Yakima County and the requesting City.

 7. COMPENSATION

 (a) Daily Fee. In consideration of Yakima County's commitment to provide Care for City Inmates, the Cities agree to pay Yakima County a daily fee for the housing and Care of each City Inmate, including all medical, psychiatric and dental costs. Yakima County shall not charge a booking fee or any other fees in connection with the Care of City Inmates. The following daily fee includes a $10 medical/dental fee per bed per day and increases at a rate of 5% per annum:

 YEAR DAILY FEE PER CITY INMATE (bed maintenance + medical/dental fee) 2002 $56.00 2003 $58.80 2004 $61.74 2005 $64.83 2006 $68.07 2007 $71.47 2008 $75.05 2009 $78.80

 (b) Minimum Bed Commitment Fee. The Cities agree to maintain the Minimum Bed Commitment, adjusted for any reductions due to termination by mutual consent set forth in Section 4(a), after the effective date of this Agreement and until the termination of this Agreement. The ADP of City Inmates shall be reconciled on an annual basis. During the first quarter of each year, Yakima County shall calculate the ADP of all City Inmates during the prior calendar year. In the event this annual ADP falls below the Minimum Bed Commitment, then the Cities shall be charged for the difference between the actual ADP and the Minimum Bed Commitment. The Cities shall be billed for this amount consistent with Section 7(c).

 (c) Billing and Payment. Yakima County shall provide each of the Cities with individual monthly statements itemizing the names of each City Inmate who is receiving Care from Yakima County, the case or citation number, and the number of days of Care, including the date and time booked into the Yakima County jail facilities and the date and time released from the Yakima County jail facilities. Yakima County shall pro-rate the Daily Fee of any City Inmate that has multiple charges among the Cities by dividing the Daily Fee pro-rata among those Cities with such multiple charges. Each Cities' individual monthly statement shall also include a statement showing the number of bed days used by all other Cities. Yakima County agrees to provide said statement for each month on or about the 10th day of the following month. Payment shall be due to Yakima County within sixty (60) days from the date the statement is received. Payments not received by the 60th day shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until payment is received. Any billing for failure to meet the Minimum Bed Commitment shall be delivered to each of the Cities during the first quarter of each year and shall include a reconciliation of all the Cities usage and each Cities ADP during the prior calendar year. By separate contract, the Cities have agreed on the division of this bill among the Cities.

 8. RIGHT OF INSPECTION

 The Cities shall have the right to inspect, at all reasonable times, all Yakima County jail facilities in which City Inmates are confined in order to determine if such jail facilities maintain standards of confinement acceptable to the Cities and that such inmates therein are treated on a nondiscriminatory basis in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local requirements.

 9. INMATE ACCOUNTS

 Yakima County shall establish and maintain an account for each City Inmate and shall credit to such account any additional personal funds received on account of such City Inmate ("Inmate Funds") and shall make disbursements for the City Inmate's personal needs, debiting such account in accurate amounts. Yakima County shall maintain a satisfactory procedure to accept and deposit additional funds from family members and friends into individual City Inmate accounts. Such procedure shall include the acceptance of cashier's and government checks and cash by Yakima County on behalf of City Inmates. Disbursements shall be made in limited amounts as are reasonably necessary for personal maintenance. Yakima County shall be accountable to the City for such Inmate Funds. At the earlier of the termination of this Agreement, the City Inmate's death, release from incarceration or return to either the City or indefinite release to the court, the Inmate's Funds shall be transferred to the City. Upon request of the City, the Yakima County Department of Corrections and Security will transfer all or any portion of Inmate Funds that may be reimbursed to a City Inmate to the City in the form of a check in the name of the City Inmate eligible for said reimbursement.

 10. DISCIPLINE

 Yakima County shall have physical control over and power to execute disciplinary authority over all City Inmates. However, nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize the imposition of a type of discipline prohibited by state or federal law or the imposition of a type of discipline that would not be imposed on a comparable Yakima County inmate.

 11. RECORDS AND REPORTS

 (a) Before or at the time of delivery of each City Inmate, the City shall forward to Yakima County a copy of all records of the City Inmate pertaining to his/her present incarceration at the Renton City Jail, the King County Correctional Facility and/or the Regional Justice Center. If additional information is requested by Yakima County regarding a particular City Inmate, the parties shall mutually cooperate to provide any additional information.

 (b) Yakima County shall keep all necessary and pertinent records concerning City Inmates in the manner mutually agreed upon by the parties hereto. During confinement in the Yakima County jail, the City Inmate shall, upon request, be entitled to receive and be furnished with copies of any report or record associated with said City Inmate's incarceration.

 12. REMOVAL FROM THE YAKIMA COUNTY JAIL

 Except for City Inmates eligible for correctional work details and under the direct supervision of a correction officer, a City Inmate shall not be removed from the Yakima County jail by any person without written authorization from the City or by order of any court having jurisdiction. Yakima County agrees that no early releases or alternatives to incarceration, including furloughs, passes, home detention, or work release shall be granted to any City Inmate housed pursuant to this Agreement without written authorization by the committing court. This section shall not apply to an emergency necessitating the immediate removal of the City Inmate for medical, dental, psychiatric treatment or other catastrophic condition presenting an imminent danger to the safety of the City Inmate or to other inmates or personnel of Yakima County. In the event of any such emergency removal, Yakima County shall inform the City of the whereabouts of the City Inmate at the earliest practicable time and shall exercise all reasonable care for the safe keeping and custody of such City Inmate.

 13. ESCAPES

 In the event any City Inmate shall escape from Yakima County's custody, Yakima County will use all reasonable means to recapture the City Inmate. The escape shall be reported promptly to the City. Yakima County shall have the primary responsibility for and authority to direct the pursuit and retaking of the City Inmate or any other inmates within its own territory. Any cost in connection therewith shall be chargeable to and borne by Yakima County; however, Yakima County shall not be required to expend unreasonable amounts to pursue and return inmates from other states or other countries.

 14. DEATH OF A CITY INMATE

 (a) In the event of the death of a City Inmate, the Yakima County Coroner shall be notified promptly. The City shall receive copies of any records made at or in connection with such notification. Yakima County will investigate any death within its facility and will allow the City to join in the investigation. The City shall have the right to obtain copies of any police investigation report pertaining to the death of a City Inmate in the Yakima County jail facility.

 (b) Yakima County shall promptly notify the City of the death of a City inmate, furnish information as requested by a City and, subject to the authority of the Yakima County Coroner, follow the instructions of the City with regard to the disposition of the body. The City shall provide written instructions regarding the disposition of the body within three business days of receipt by the City of notice of such death. The City shall pay all expenses necessary for the preparation and shipment of the body. With the City's consent, Yakima County may arrange for burial and all matters related or incidental thereto and the City shall pay all such expenses. The provisions of this section shall govern only the relations between or among the parties hereto and shall not affect the liability of any other person for the disposition of the deceased or for any expenses connected therewith.

 (c) The City shall receive a certified copy of the death certificate for any City Inmate who has died while in Yakima County custody.

 15. RETAKING OF INMATES

 In event the confinement of any City Inmate is terminated for any reason by either party, retaking of City Inmates shall be coordinated in the same manner and at the same rates as if this Agreement had not been terminated, or in a manner as agreed in writing by the parties.

 16. HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION

 (a) The City shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Yakima County, its officers, agents and employees, from and against any and all claims, costs, judgments or damages, including attorney's fees, arising out of or resulting from the negligent acts or omissions, tortious actions, or civil rights violations under State or Federal law of the City, its officers, agents and employees in connection with the confinement of any City Inmate by Yakima County.

 (b) Yakima County shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, agents and employees, from and against any and all claims, costs, judgments or damages, including attorney's fees and costs, arising out of the negligent acts or omissions, tortious actions, or civil rights violations under State or Federal law of Yakima County, its officers, agents and employees in connection with the Care, Custody or confinement of any City Inmate by Yakima County. As part of its obligations, Yakima County shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, agents and employees, from and against any and all claims of any kind whatsoever related to the transportation of City Inmates in the Custody of Yakima County.

 (c) Yakima County and the Cities hereby waive, as to each other only, their immunity from suit under industrial insurance, Title 51 RCW. This waiver of immunity was mutually negotiated by the parties hereto.

 (d) The provisions of this Section 16 shall survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 17. INSURANCE

 (a) Each party agrees to provide the other with evidence of insurance coverage, in the form of a certificate of insurance from a solvent insurance provider and/or a letter confirming coverage from a solvent insurance pool, which is sufficient to address the insurance and indemnification obligations set forth in this Agreement;

 (b) Each party shall obtain and maintain throughout the term of this Agreement coverage in minimum liability limits of one million dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000) in the aggregate for its liability exposures, including comprehensive general liability, errors and omissions, auto liability and police professional liability. The insurance policy shall provide coverage on an occurrence basis.

 (c) The coverage evidenced in Section 17(b) may not be sufficient to cover all liability losses and related claim settlement expenses. Evidence of these limits of coverage does not relieve Yakima County from liability for losses and settlement expenses greater than these limits.

 18. RIGHT TO REFUSE INMATES

 (a) Yakima County shall have the right to refuse to accept any City Inmate beyond the Minimum Bed Commitment when, in the opinion of Yakima County, the Yakima County jails' inmate population is at or so near capacity that there is a substantial risk that the operational capacity limits of the jail facilities might be reached.

 (b) Except as provided for in subsection (a), and notwithstanding any classification criteria or other policies or procedures in existence or hereinafter adopted by Yakima County seemingly to the contrary, Yakima County shall have the right to refuse to accept a City Inmate, or to return a City Inmate to a City, only if, in the reasonable judgment of Yakima County, such City Inmate has a current illness or injury which may adversely affect the operations of the Yakima County jail, presents a substantial risk of escape, or presents a substantial risk of injury to other persons or property. If a City Inmate is being returned to the City pursuant to this subsection (b), the cost of transport shall be paid by the City unless the transport can be made by Yakima County within the terms set forth in Section 6(c) of this Agreement.

 19. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR

 In providing services under this Agreement, Yakima County is an independent contractor and neither it nor its officers, agents or employees are employees of the Cities or any City for any purpose, including responsibility for any federal or state tax, industrial insurance or Social Security liability. Neither shall the provision of services under this Agreement give rise to any claim of career service or civil service rights, which may accrue, to an employee of the Cities or any City under any applicable law, rule or regulation. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to create an interest in or give a benefit to third persons not signing as a party to this Agreement.

 20. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 This Agreement contains all of the agreements of the parties with respect to any matter covered or mentioned in this Agreement. No provision of this Agreement may be amended or modified except by written agreement signed by all of the parties. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties' successors in interest and assigns; provided, however, that Yakima County shall not delegate its duties pertaining to City Inmate Care without the written consent of the applicable City, which consent shall not be withheld unreasonably. Any provision that is declared invalid or illegal shall in no way affect or invalidate any other provision. In the event either party defaults on the performance of any terms of this Agreement or either party places the enforcement of this Agreement in the hands of an attorney, or files a lawsuit, the prevailing party shall be entitled to an award of all its attorney fees, costs and expenses. Failure of any party to declare any breach or default immediately upon the occurrence thereof, or delay in taking any action in connection with, shall not waive such breach or default. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and each and all of its provisions in which performance is a factor. Yakima represents and assures the Cities that no other King, Pierce or Snohomish County or city located within such county will receive more favored treatment under a contract with Yakima covering the Care of any inmates. The laws of the state of Washington shall govern this Agreement. Any action, suit, or judicial or administrative proceeding for the enforcement of this Agreement shall be brought and tried in the Superior Court for the State of Washington in Thurston County. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts. Upon Effective Date, this Agreement modifies, supersedes and replaces any and all contractual provisions, promises, or covenants contained in any previous agreement between any City and Yakima County.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the above and foregoing Agreement has been executed in duplicate by the parties hereto and made effective on the day and year first above written:

 BOARD OF YAKIMA COUNTY ATTEST: COMMISSIONERS By: Carla Rodriquez, Clerk of the Board of James M. Lewis, Chairman Yakima County Commissioners

 By: Approved as to Form: Jesse S. Palacious, Commissioner

 By: Ronald S. Zirkle Ronald F. Gamache, Commissioner Chief Deputy Prosecuting Attorney For Yakima County

 CITY OF ALGONA, WA Approved as to Form: By: Glenn Wilson, Mayor George Kelley, Algona City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF AUBURN, WA Approved as to Form: By: Peter B. Lewis, Mayor Daniel B. Heid, Auburn City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 TOWN OF BEAUX ARTS VILLAGE, WA Approved as to Form: By: Charles R. Lowry, Mayor Wayne Stewart, Town Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF BELLEVUE, WA Approved as to Form: By: Steve Sarkozy, City Manager Richard L. Andrews, Bellevue City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND, WA Approved as to Form: By: Howard Botts, Mayor Loren D. Combs, City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF BOTHELL, WA Approved as to Form: By: Jim Thompson, City Manager Michael E. Weight, Bothell City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF BURIEN, WA Approved as to Form: By: Gary P. Long, City Manager Lisa Marshall, Burien City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF CARNATION, WA Approved as to Form: By: Woody Edvalson, City Manager Phil A. Olbrechts, Carnation City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF CLYDE HILL, WA Approved as to Form: By: George S. Martin, Mayor Clyde Hill City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF COVINGTON, WA Approved as to Form: By: Andrew D. Dempsey, City Manager Duncan C. Wilson, Covington City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF DES MOINES, WA Approved as to Form: By Tony Piasecki, City Manager Des Moines City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF DUVALL, WA Approved as to Form: By: Becky Nixon, Mayor Bruce Disend, Duvall City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF FEDERAL WAY, WA Approved as to Form: By: By: Bob C. Sterbank, Federal Way David H. Moseley, City Manager City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF ISSAQUAH, WA Approved as to Form: By: By: Ava Frisinger, Mayor Wayne D. Tanaka, Issaquah Estimated ADP: City Attorney

 CITY OF KENMORE, WA Approved as to Form: By: Stephen L. Anderson, City Manager Michael R. Kenyon, Kenmore City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF KIRKLAND, WA Approved as to Form: By: David H. Ramsay, City Manager Gail Gorud, Kirkland City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF LAKE FOREST PARK, WA Approved as to Form: By: David R. Hutchinson, Mayor Michael P. Ruark, Lake Forest Park Estimated ADP: City Attorney

 CITY OF MAPLE VALLEY, WA Approved as to Form: By: John F. Starbard, City Manager Lisa Marshall, Maple Valley City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF MEDINA Approved as to Form: By: Douglas J. Schulze, City Manager Kirk R. Wines, Medina City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF MERCER ISLAND, WA Approved as to Form: By: Richard M. Conrad, City Manager Londi K. Lindell, Mercer Island City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF NEWCASTLE, WA Approved as to Form: Andrew J. Takata, City Manager Dawn Findlay, Newcastle City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF NORMANDY PARK, WA Approved as to Form: By: Merlin MacReynold, City Manager Susan Rae Sampson, Normandy Park Estimated ADP: City Attorney

 CITY OF NORTH BEND, WA Approved as to Form: By: Joan Simpson, Mayor Michael R. Kenyon, North Bend City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF PACIFIC, WA Approved as to Form: By: Howard Erickson, Mayor Bruce Disend, Pacific City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF REDMOND, WA Approved as to Form: By: Rosemarie Ives, Mayor James E. Haney, Redmond City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF RENTON, WA Approved as to Form: By: Jesse Tanner, Mayor Lawrence J. Warren, Renton City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 CITY OF SAMMAMISH, WA Approved as to Form: By Ben Yazici, City Manager Bruce Disend, Sammamish City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF SEATAC, WA Approved as to Form: By: Jay Holman, Acting City Manager Robert L. McAdams, SeaTac City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF SEATTLE, WA Approved as to Form: By: Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor Thomas A. Carr, Seattle City Attorney Estimated ADP:155-175

 CITY OF SHORELINE, WA Approved as to Form: By: Steven Burkett, City Manager Ian Sievers, Shoreline City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF SKYKOMISH, WA Approved as to Form: By: Skip Mackner, Mayor Jeffrey Ganson, Skykomish City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF SNOQUALMIE, WA Approved as to Form: By: Randy Fuzzy Fletcher, Mayor Pat Anderson, Snoqualmie City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF TUKWILA, WA Approved as to Form: By: Steve Mullet, Mayor Robert F. Noe, City Attorney Estimated ADP:

 CITY OF WOODINVILLE, WA Approved as to Form: By: Pete Rose, City Manager Wayne D. Tanaka, Woodinville City Estimated ADP: Attorney

 TOWN OF YARROW POINT, WA Approved as to Form: By: Jeanne R. Berry, Mayor Wayne Stewart, Yarrow Point Town Estimated ADP: Attorney STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF ____________ )

 On this day personally appeared before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, ____________________________, to me known to be the City Manager/Mayor of the City/Town of __________________________, a Washington municipal corporation, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 Given under my hand and official seal this _____ day of _______________, 2002. (notary signature) (typed/printed name of notary) Notary Public in and for the State of Washington My commission expires: ta ADDENDUM TO INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN YAKIMA COUNTY, WASHINGTON AND THE CITIES OF ALGONA, AUBURN, TOWN OF BEAUX ARTS VILLAGE, BELLEVUE, BLACK DIAMOND, BOTHELL, BURIEN, CARNATION, CLYDE HILL, COVINGTON, DES MOINES, DUVALL, FEDERAL WAY, ISSAQUAH, KENMORE, KIRKLAND, LAKE FOREST PARK, MAPLE VALLEY, MEDINA, MERCER ISLAND, NEWCASTLE, NORMANDY PARK, NORTH BEND, PACIFIC, REDMOND, RENTON, SAMMAMISH, SEATAC, SEATTLE, SHORELINE, SKYKOMISH, SNOQUALMIE, TUKWILA, WOODINVILLE AND TOWN OF YARROW POINT, WASHINGTON, FOR THE HOUSING OF INMATES BY YAKIMA COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND SECURITY

 THIS ADDENDUM TO THE INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR THE HOUSING OF INMATES BY YAKIMA COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND SECURITY ("Agreement") is made and entered into on this ___ day of , 2002 by and between the Cities of Algona, Auburn, Town of Beaux Arts Village, Bellevue, Black Diamond, Bothell, Burien, Carnation, Clyde Hill, Covington, Des Moines, Duvall, Federal Way, Issaquah, Kenmore, Kirkland, Lake Forest Park, Maple Valley, Medina, Mercer Island, Newcastle, Normandy Park, North Bend, Pacific, Redmond, Renton, Sammamish, SeaTac, Seattle, Shoreline, Skykomish, Snoqualmie, Tukwila, Woodinville and Town of Yarrow Point, Washington ("Cities"), and Yakima County, Washington ("Yakima County").

 WHEREAS Yakima County and the cities named above intend to enter into a long term agreement ("the Agreement") for housing of city inmates by Yakima County; and

 WHEREAS numerous cities have signed the Agreement; and

 WHEREAS certain provisions of the Agreement require modification before final execution and the parties have determined that the most efficient method of making such modifications is for this addendum to be executed contemporaneously with Yakima County signing the Agreement.

 THEREFORE, the provisions of the Interlocal Agreement between Yakima County, Washington and the cities named above for housing of inmates are amended as follows:

 Section 1. Section 1(g) of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

 (g) Minimum Bed Commitment means the bed commitment made by the Cities to maintain an ADP in Yakima county jail facilities equal to 150 City Inmates from the effective date of this Agreement until September 30, 2003 and equal to 440 City Inmates from October 1, 2003 until the termination of this Agreement.

 Section 2. Section 2 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

 (a) Effective Date - Execution of Agreement. Yakima County expects to authorize the construction and equipping of new correctional facilities to be located in Yakima County ("New Jail Facility"). The effective date of this Agreement and the obligations of Yakima County and the Cities shall commence only when this Agreement has been executed by a sufficient number of Cities to represent 90% of the 440 Minimum Bed Commitment. The Cities have estimated each City's respective jail population as set forth on the signature page. These estimates shall in no way obligate each City individually to deliver these estimated populations, but are provided solely for the purpose of setting an effective date to this Agreement and committing the Cities to collectively provide the 440 Minimum Bed Commitment. In the event this Agreement is not fully executed on or before November 1, 2002 by a sufficient number of Cities as described above, this Agreement shall be null and void and no party to this Agreement shall be subject to liability of any kind arising out of this Agreement.

 (b) Permits and Financing. Yakima County is exercising best efforts to obtain the necessary permits and financing for the siting and construction of the New Jail Facility. The obligation of Yakima County to provide the Minimum Bed Commitment in excess of 150 beds is conditioned upon Yakima County issuing bonds for the financing of the New Jail Facility no later than December 31, 2002 and obtaining the necessary building permits.. In the event that Yakima County is unable for any reason to issue such bonds on or before December 31, 2002 or obtain such permits, Yakima County may elect to terminate this Agreement, this Agreement shall be null and void and no party to this Agreement shall be subject to liability of any kind arising out of this Agreement.

 (c) Completion of New Jail Facility. Following the commencement of construction, Yakima County agrees to exercise due diligence to complete the New Jail Facility, the occupancy date, following the shakedown period, is currently estimated by Yakima County to be July 1, 2004. Upon receipt of a full or temporary certificate of occupancy for the New Jail Facility, and upon completion of the required "shakedown period," Yakima County agrees to accept City Inmates pursuant to this Agreement in the New Jail Facility.

 .

 Section 3. Section 3 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

 The term of this Agreement shall commence upon the Effective Date and shall end at 11:59 p.m. on December 31, 2010, subject to earlier termination as provided by Section 4 of this Agreement. This Agreement may be renewed for any successive period by written addendum under terms and conditions acceptable to all of the parties.

 Section 4. Section 6(b) of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

 (b) Minimum Bed Guarantee. From and after the Effective Date of the Agreement and continuing until September 30, 2003, Yakima County guarantees a minimum of 150 daily jail beds for City Inmates. Commencing October 1, 2003 and continuing until this Agreement is terminated, Yakima County guarantees a minimum of 440 daily jail beds for City Inmates. If King County, Washington refuses to accept City Inmates prior to October 1, 2003, Yakima County will use best efforts to accept additional City Inmates by contracting for additional jail capacity for City Inmates. If Yakima County has jail bed capacity in excess of this minimum guarantee, Yakima County will accept additional City Inmates if requested by the Cities. Prior to constructing new jail capacity beyond the Jail Facility, Yakima will contact the Cities and offer to reduce the Minimum Bed Commitment. If any City voluntarily agrees to such a reduction, the Minimum Bed Commitment shall be reduced by the amount of beds the City agrees to return to Yakima for its use.

 Section 5 Section 6 of the Agreement is herby amended by adding the following subsection (d):

 (d) Yakima County shall provide the Cities' Inmates with confidential telephone or in person access to their attorneys during their period of incarceration at the Yakima County Jail at no cost to the inmate. Each City shall reimburse Yakima County or cause Yakima County to be reimbursed for the cost of that City's Inmates' long distance telephone calls within 30 days of receipt of invoice from the County. By separate mutual agreement, the County and a City may provide video conference capabilities for the City's Inmates' communication with the inmates' attorneys, families or other persons or agencies.

 Section 6 Subsection 7(a) of the Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to provide as follows:

 (a) Daily Fee. In consideration of Yakima County's commitment to provide Care for City Inmates, the Cities agree to pay Yakima County a daily fee for the housing and Care of each City Inmate, including all medical, psychiatric and dental costs. Yakima County shall not charge a booking fee or any other fees in connection with the Care of City Inmates. The following daily fee, which shall increase at a rate of 5% per annum as shown, includes a per inmate per day (i) bed maintenance fee and (ii) Medical Payment:

 YEAR

 DAILY FEE PER CITY INMATE

 (bed maintenance fee + $5 Medical Payment)

 2002

 $ 56.00

 2003

 $ 58.80

 2004

 $ 61.74

 2005

 $ 64.83

 2006

 $ 68.07

 2007

 $ 71.47

 2008

 $ 75.05

 2009

 $ 78.80

 2010

 $ 82.74

 Yakima County shall pay for all medical, psychiatric, and dental costs of the Cities' Inmates in exchange for the payment by the Cities of an amount equal to $5 per day per inmate ("Medical Payment"). Medical Payments shall be made from a designated fund maintained by Yakima County. Such fund shall consist of deposits made by each City in an amount equal to $5 per day per City Inmate. Yakima County shall provide monthly reports with its billing statement describing its medical, psychiatric, and dental account balance(s) and payments made from each such account, including provider name, inmate name, name of City being charged for such inmate, dollar amount paid, and description of medical, psychiatric and/or dental service provided. Each quarter Yakima County shall send to the Cities and accounting of the medical fund. In the event Yakima County's actual medical, psychiatric, and dental costs exceed the funds available in the Medical Payment fund, the cities agree to compensate Yakima County for all said costs within 30 days following reciept of said medical billing.

 Yakima County agrees to use best efforts to take advantage of the best available state pharmacy programs or to have an operational in-house pharmacy on or before acceptance of long term inmates.

 Section 7: Section 18(b) of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting existing Section 18 (b) in its entirety and replacing it with the following:

 18(b) Yakima County shall have the right to refuse to accept a City Inmate and to return such Inmate to a City when, in the reasonable and informed judgment of Yakima County, such City Inmate: (i) would require 24-hour per day medical attention as a result of a life- threatening illness or injury or uncontrollable behavior resulting from an acute psychiatric disorder; (ii) would require regular medical staff assistance in connection with mobility, bodily function or personal hygiene needs due to a lack of ambulatory ability; (iii) has a unique medical condition for which Yakima County is unable to obtain medical services, (iv) has been convicted of escape from a secure jail facility; or (v) has been convicted of assault on any correction officer or staff. If an Inmate is being returned to the City pursuant to this Section, the cost of transport shall be paid by the City unless the transport can be made by Yakima County within the terms set forth in Section 5 of this Agreement.

 Section 8: This Addendum may be executed in any number of counterparts. Except as otherwise amended by this Addendum, the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the above and foregoing Addendum has been executed in duplicate by the parties hereto and made effective on the day and year first above written:

 BOARD OF YAKIMA COUNTY

 COMMISSIONERS

 By:

 Ronald F. Gamache, Chairman

 By:

 James M. Lewis, Commissioner

 By:

 Jesse S. Palacios, Commissioner

 ATTEST:

 Carla Ward, Clerk of the Board of

 Yakima County Commissioners

 Approved as to Form:

 Ronald S. Zirkle

 Yakima County Prosecuting Attorney

 CITY OF ALGONA, WA

 By:

 Glenn Wilson, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 George Kelley, Algona City Attorney

 CITY OF AUBURN, WA

 By:

 Pete Lewis, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Daniel B. Heid, Auburn City Attorney

 TOWN OF BEAUX ARTS VILLAGE, WA

 By:

 Charles R. Lowry, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Wayne Stewart, Town Attorney

 CITY OF BELLEVUE, WA

 By:

 Steve Sarkozy, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Richard L. Andrews, Bellevue City Attorney

 CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND, WA

 By:

 Howard Botts, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Loren D. Combs, City Attorney

 CITY OF BOTHELL, WA

 By:

 Jim Thompson, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Michael E. Weight, Bothell City Attorney

 CITY OF BURIEN, WA

 By:

 Gary P. Long, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Lisa Marshall, Burien City Attorney

 CITY OF CARNATION, WA

 By:

 Woody Edvalson, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Phil A. Olbrechts, Carnation City Attorney

 CITY OF CLYDE HILL, WA

 By:

 George S. Martin, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Clyde Hill City Attorney

 CITY OF COVINGTON, WA

 By:

 Andy Dempsey, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Duncan C. Wilson, Covington City Attorney

 CITY OF DES MOINES, WA

 By

 City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Des Moines City Attorney

 CITY OF DUVALL, WA

 By:

 Becky Nixon, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 John L. O'Brien, Duvall City Attorney

 CITY OF FEDERAL WAY, WA

 By:

 David H. Moseley, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 By: Robert C. Sterbank, Federal Way

 City Attorney

 CITY OF ISSAQUAH, WA

 By:

 Ava Frisinger, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 By:

 Wayne D. Tanaka, Issaquah

 City Attorney

 CITY OF KENMORE, WA

 By:

 Stephen L. Anderson, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Michael R. Kenyon, Kenmore City Attorney

 CITY OF KIRKLAND, WA

 By:

 David Ramsay, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Gail Gorud, Kirkland City Attorney

 CITY OF LAKE FOREST PARK, WA

 By:

 David R. Hutchinson, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Michael P. Ruark, Lake Forest Park

 City Attorney

 CITY OF MAPLE VALLEY, WA

 By:

 John F. Starbard, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Maple Valley City Attorney

 CITY OF MEDINA

 By:

 Douglas J. Schulze, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Kirk R. Wines, Medina City Attorney

 CITY OF MERCER ISLAND, WA

 By:

 Richard M. Conrad, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Londi K. Lindell, Mercer Island City Attorney

 CITY OF NEWCASTLE, WA

 Andrew J. Takata, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Newcastle City Attorney

 CITY OF NORMANDY PARK, WA

 By:

 Merlin MacReynold, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Susan Rae Sampson, Normandy Park

 City Attorney

 CITY OF NORTH BEND, WA

 By:

 Joan Simpson, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Michael R. Kenyon, North Bend City Attorney

 CITY OF PACIFIC, WA

 By:

 Howard Erickson, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Bruce Disend, Pacific City Attorney

 CITY OF REDMOND, WA

 Rosemarie Ives, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Redmond City Attorney

 CITY OF RENTON, WA

 By:

 Jesse Tanner, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Lawrence J. Warren, Renton City Attorney

 CITY OF SAMMAMISH, WA

 By

 Ben Yazici, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Bruce Disend, Sammamish City Attorney

 CITY OF SEATAC, WA

 By:

 _____________, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Robert L. McAdams, SeaTac City Attorney

 CITY OF SEATTLE, WA

 By:

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Thomas A. Carr, Seattle City Attorney

 CITY OF SHORELINE, WA

 By:

 Steven Burkett, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Ian Sievers, Shoreline City Attorney

 CITY OF SKYKOMISH, WA

 By:

 Skip Mackner, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Skykomish City Attorney

 CITY OF SNOQUALMIE, WA

 By:

 Randy Fuzzy Fletcher, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Pat Anderson, Snoqualmie City Attorney

 CITY OF TUKWILA, WA

 By:

 Steve Mullet, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Robert F. Noe, City Attorney

 CITY OF WOODINVILLE, WA

 By:

 Pete Rose, City Manager

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Wayne D. Tanaka, Woodinville City Attorney

 TOWN OF YARROW POINT

 By:

 Jeanne R. Berry, Mayor

 Estimated ADP:

 Approved as to Form:

 Wayne Stewart, Yarrow Point Town Attorney

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF ____________ )

 On this day personally appeared before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, ____________________________, to me known to be the City Manager/Mayor of the City/Town of __________________________, a Washington municipal corporation, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 Given under my hand and official seal this _____ day of _______________, 2002.

 (notary signature)

 (typed/printed name of notary)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 My commission expires:

 Interlocal to be filed with the Yakima County Auditor

```
