

********

**Council Bill Number: 114366**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120990**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; adopting a fee schedule from which the Director is authorized to set fees for 2003 and 2004, and adopting policies for use of Seattle Center facilities; authorizing the Director to negotiate terms and conditions and to enter into various forms of use agreements; and amending sections 17.16.010 and 17.16.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code in connection therewith.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 18, 2002
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 26, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 26, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 14, 2002
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, BUDGET, FEES, SEATTLE-CENTER-FACILITIES, OPERA-HOUSE, THEATERS, COLISEUM, CENTER-HOUSE, ARENA

**Fiscal Note:**114366

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; adopting a fee schedule from which the Director is authorized to set fees for 2003 and 2004, and adopting policies for use of Seattle Center facilities; authorizing the Director to negotiate terms and conditions and to enter into various forms of use agreements; and amending sections 17.16.010 and 17.16.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code in connection therewith.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2003 Section 17.16.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Section 1 of Ordinance 107055 as last amended by Ordinance 110906) is amended as follows:

 SMC 17.16.010 Use of Seattle Center facilities.

 The Seattle Center Director, or ~~his~~such Director's designee, is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of the City, to enter into ~~licensing~~ agreements for terms of not more than five years and for not more than 25 days total use of facilities, services, and equipment over the tenure of the agreement,~~substantially in~~~~the~~in a form approved by the City Attorney ~~City Council (Exhibit "A", attached hereto), (Note 1)~~, for the use~~rental~~of the Marion Oliver McCaw Hall~~Opera House~~, the Mercer Arts Arena, the Exhibition Hall, ~~the Mercer Forum, the Playhouse,~~ the Northwest Rooms, the KeyArena ~~Coliseum~~, the Fisher~~Flag~~ Pavilion, the Seattle Center Pavilion, the Center House Conference Center, ~~the Bagley Wright Theatre, the Pacific Arts Center,~~ and other miscellaneous facilities ~~in~~within or on the Seattle Center grounds, for such times as such facilities are not required for public purposes or rented under contracts made pursuant to a specific ordinance.

 Section 2. Effective January 1, 2003 Section 17.16.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Section 1 of Ordinance 113740 as last amended by Ordinance 120175) is amended as follows:

 SMC 17.16.015 Use fees, terms and conditions.

 The Director of the Seattle Center Department is authorized to charge and collect fees for the use of certain Seattle Center facilities, services and equipment provided to users thereof, and to condition such use on compliance with certain general terms and conditions  and rules and guidelines promulgated by the Director, as specified in Attachment A, the "2003~~1~~ and 2004~~2~~ Seattle Center Fee Schedule~~s~~," and Attachment B, the "2003 and 2004 Seattle Center Terms and Conditions for Events at Seattle Center."~~which are attached as "Attachment A" to the ordinance introduced as Council Bill No 113439~~. The 2003 ~~1~~ and 2004~~2~~ Seattle Center Fee Schedule~~s~~ supersedes all prior fee schedules to the extent they are inconsistent.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority, but prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2002. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2002. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2002. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: 2003 and 2004 Seattle Center Fee Schedule Attachment B: 2003 and 2004 Seattle Center Terms and Conditions for Events at Seattle Center 11/9/02 (Ver. 8) t

 Attachment A: 2003 and 2004 Seattle Center Fee Schedule Effective January 1, 2003

 Attachment A: 2003 and 2004 Seattle Center Fee Schedule Effective January 1, 2003

 Use Fee Ranges Use Fee Ranges Standard/Government Spectator Events Facility Agency Events

 MINIMUM EVENT DAY FEES1&2 MINIMUM EVENT PERCENTAGE OF DAY FEE RANGES GROSS SALES3

 LOWEST HIGHEST LOW HIGH LOW HIGH

 Conference Center $520 $750 NA NA NA NA

 Rooms A & H $220 $320 NA NA NA NA

 Room B $140 $190 NA NA NA NA

 Exhibition Hall $1,000 $7,000 $1,000 $7,000 8% 10%

 Fisher Pavilion $1,500 $2,500 NA NA NA NA

 Northwest Rooms $2,960 $4,400 NA NA NA NA

 Alki $600 $800 NA NA NA NA

 Olympic $450 $670 NA NA NA NA

 Rainier $600 $800 NA NA NA NA

 San Juan Suite $1,100 $1,800 NA NA NA NA

 Orcas4 $150 $320 NA NA NA NA

 Lopez $375 $610 NA NA NA NA

 Fidalgo $255 $510 NA NA NA NA

 Shaw $265 $520 NA NA NA NA

 Snoqualmie $600 $800 NA NA NA NA

 Seattle Center Pavilion $1,300 $1,600 NA NA NA NA

 Room A $1,000 $1,200 NA NA NA NA

 Room B $500 $600 NA NA NA NA

 Marion Oliver McCaw Hall $5,000 $7,000 $2,700 $5,000 9% 10% Auditorium

 KeyArena

 CONCERTS

 Upper/Lower Bowls NA NA $10,0005 $25,0005 8% 12%

 Reduced Configuration6 NA NA $5,0005 $15,0005 8% 12%

 FAMILY SHOWS/ SPORTS EVENTS

 Upper/Lower Bowls NA NA $7,5005 $20,0005 8% 12%

 Lower Bowl Only NA NA $5,0005 $15,0005 8% 12%

 OTHER SPECTATOR EVENTS

 Upper/Lower Bowls NA NA $10,0005 $25,0005 8% 12%

 Reduced Configuration6 NA NA $5,0005 $15,0005 8% 12%

 NON-SPECTATOR EVENTS

 Upper/Lower Bowls $10,0005 $25,0005 NA NA NA NA

 Reduced Configuration $5,0005 $15,0005 NA NA NA NA NOTES:

 1. Full Day Move-In/Out: The Director may reduce the use fee for move-in and/or move-out on the days preceding and following an Event to as low as half the price of an Event day.

 2. Partial day Move-In/Out: The Director may reduce the use fee to as low as one quarter of the use fee for an Event day for move-in and move-out when only a small portion of the day is used.

 3. Gross Sales: Gross Sales means the total amount of money received or receivable from the sale of admission tickets to a Spectator Event, less City Admission Tax, City B & O Tax, State Revenue Tax and Washington State Athletic Commission Tax due in connection with such Event, as substantiated by a certified box office statement.

 4. Orcas Room: No fee applies when Orcas Room is used for incidental use in conjunction with use of an adjacent room.

 5. For 2nd day and succeeding days of performances: The Director may negotiate and reduce the use fee for the second and subsequent days of multi-day uses.

 6. Reduced Configuration: Reduced Configuration means either lower bowl by itself or "Theater" set-up. "Theater", for this purpose, means seating reduced by moving the stage further north in the KeyArena than its normal location, to a fixed location set by Seattle Center.

 Attachment B: 2003 and 2004 Seattle Center Terms and Conditions for Events at Seattle Center

 Effective January 1, 2003

 1. DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY

 The Director shall prepare facility use agreements for Events and Event-related services at the Seattle Center for overall terms of not more than five years, with the approval of the Law Department and the guidance of the Risk Manager and the Director of Finance, and in accordance with all applicable City of Seattle ordinances and policies. Facility use agreements with terms in excess of two years shall be subject to review by the Director of Finance.

 The Director shall promulgate rules and guidelines containing regulations and standards for the application of fees, charges, and terms and conditions of use for Seattle Center facilities that are consistent with the policies expressed herein.

 2. DEFINITIONS

 a. "Event" means the purpose for which a facility has been contracted, such as a meeting, show, competition, performance, festival, etc., and includes all related activities such as move- in/move-out, rehearsal, practice, and other activities of the Event. There are three types of Events:

 1) "Government Agency Event" means an Event contracted by an agency of the federal government, State of Washington, any municipal corporation or other special or general purpose unit of local government in the State of Washington; or any legally constituted public governing body with multi-jurisdictional authority, one jurisdiction of which is within the State of Washington, or any quasi- governmental entity or company created solely for conducting the business of one or more of such government entities and subject solely to the rules and regulations thereof for official governmental purposes.

 2) "Spectator Event" means any Event open to the public and held in the KeyArena, Mercer Arts Arena, Exhibition Hall or Marion Oliver McCaw Hall, where admission to the Event's principal activity is ticketed, except for trade or consumer shows, private meetings or conventions.

 3) "Standard Event" means any Event that is not a Spectator Event or Government Agency Event.

 b. "Cancellation Fee" means a fee charged if an Event, or portion thereof, is cancelled within a certain time period prior to the Event, as specified in the Event use agreement.

 c. "Catering" means food or beverage provided by the user to Event participants free of charge, except that "no host" bars are considered "catered" when available as part of an Event for which Catering services are provided.

 d. "Concession Fee" means a fee charged either as a percentage of sales or at a flat rate for the right to sell merchandise and/or food and beverages at an Event.

 e. "Contingency Deposit" means an amount that may be required to be paid prior to an Event to cover some portion of the estimated labor, parking fees, equipment charges, services, damage or other incidental charges anticipated to be incurred during the Event or as partial security for payment-in-full of all Event-related expenses. Any portion of the deposit remaining after deductions are made to pay a user's Event expenses shall be refunded to the user.

 f. "Director" means the Director of the Seattle Center Department or the Director's designee.

 g. "Major Facility" means the KeyArena, Mercer Arts Arena, Marion Oliver McCaw Hall, or Exhibition Hall.

 h. "Recording Fee" means a fee charged for the right to take photographs, broadcast a performance live, or make a video and/or audio recording at an Event at Seattle Center.

 i. "Seattle Center Production Event" means an Event for which Seattle Center is the sole or partial financial sponsor and controls some aspect of the production.

 j. "Use Period" means the time specified in the agreement as the inclusive times for user's use of a specified facility on a specified day, including any portion of the immediately following day into which the inclusive time extends as established in the use agreement.

 3. CLIENT USE OF FACILITIES

 a. USE FEES: The Director is authorized to establish from time to time a schedule of facility use fees (the "Fee Schedule") consistent with Attachment A, "the 2003 and 2004 Seattle Center Fee Schedule", and taking into account the following City policies: (i) that the fee schedule shall be administered the same to any entity that qualifies to use a Seattle Center facility; and (ii) that fees be competitive in the marketplace and be anticipated to return reasonable revenue to Seattle Center relative to operational costs. The Fee Schedule may set fees according to event type, size of venue, or on any other basis consistent with the above policy.

 The Director may negotiate fees for intermittent use of miscellaneous facilities and portions of facilities that are not identified in Attachment A, based on the policies described above, and taking into consideration market conditions and other legitimate business concerns.

 A separate use fee will be charged for each use period. Use fees shown on a use fee schedule are minimum use fees. The Director may negotiate maximum use fees, but in no case shall the use fee be less than the minimum, nor more than the maximum, for the particular facility as shown on Attachment A. In-kind consideration such as complimentary tickets, or services such as guest appearances, may be negotiated as part of the overall consideration for use of a Major Facility or outdoor space. The Director shall promulgate a Complimentary Ticket Use Policy governing the use of complimentary tickets which shall be consistent with the City of Seattle Ethics Code.

 b. USE FEE PAYMENTS: The full amount of the use fee is due prior to the Event for Standard Events; an executed purchase order is required prior to the Event for Government Agency Events. For Spectator Events, the minimum use fee is due in full prior to the Event with the remainder due at settlement for the Event. Money paid to the City shall be in the form of legal tender of the United States of America. Goods and services with a wholesale value that is equal to or greater than the use Fee may be accepted in partial or full payment, subject to City of Seattle purchasing rules.

 The Director is authorized to determine due dates for the return of use agreements and for payments, including installment payments, that take into consideration the fiscal responsibility of Seattle Center and sound business practices including the reasonable amount of time that is needed to re-let a space if a deadline is not met; the financial history of repeat clients; the time needed to set up the space without incurring additional labor costs and the time needed for the user to return the use agreement with the initial payment.

 c. CONTINGENCY DEPOSIT: A deposit may be required based on projected Event charges for incidental spaces, equipment and/or services that may be incurred, plus an amount for possible facility damage. The Director may waive this deposit based on a history of reliable payment by a user or lack of charges incurred during past Events of that user.

 d. CANCELLATION FEES: The Director may assess reasonable Cancellation Fees for Events or portions of Events that are cancelled within a certain time period specified in the use agreement. In determining whether to assess a Cancellation Fee, the Director shall employ sound business practices including the time characteristically needed to book a new Event in the same type of space; the user's past Event history; and the financial consequences to Seattle Center if the Event is cancelled.

 e. TRANSFER FEES: To accommodate users' needs and maintain good business relationships, and subject to availability, Seattle Center may permit users to change contracted Event dates and/or spaces when doing so does not have a negative financial impact on Seattle Center. A transfer fee may be charged if the request is made close to the time of the Event.

 f. RECORDING FEES: The Director may assess Broadcast Fees based on industry standards, or may trade the right to broadcast for user's promotion of Seattle Center, the value of which is equal to or exceeds the value of the broadcast right.

 g. CATERING: The Director may collect fees for catering services provided to guests at Events in facilities at Seattle Center. For Seattle Center Productions Events, the Director may include this fee as part of Seattle Center's Event sponsorship.

 h. FOOD AND BEVERAGE CONCESSIONS: The Director may collect Concessions Fees for sales of food and beverages by users of spaces not subject to an exclusive food and beverage concession agreement, unless the Event is a food fair. The Director shall establish guidelines with a table of charges based on the number of concession stands, the expected attendance and an estimated per capita expenditure by guests at the Event. The Director may combine this charge with other charges and fees.

 i. PROGRAM AND NOVELTY CONCESSION FEES: The Director may collect Concession Fees at any Event in a Major Facility, Fisher Pavilion, Seattle Center Pavilion, the Center House main floor area, or outdoor spaces at which users or their agents sell programs and novelty items. The fee shall not apply to exhibitors at an exhibit show who have contracted for booth space from the user. The Director may combine this charge with other charges and fees.

 The Director may enter into concession agreements with terms of up to five years giving the concessionaire the exclusive right to sell such items at Spectator Events in specific facilities. In negotiating such agreements, the Director shall negotiate the terms favorable for Seattle Center and shall require that sales be conducted in a professional manner that accommodates the needs of both Seattle Center and the users of the concessionaire's services.

 j. REFUNDS: The Director may refund fees to make amends to dissatisfied users for failures in service by Seattle Center or Event vendors or for such other reasons as the Director may determine are fair and reasonable.

 k. OPERATIONAL TERMS:

 1) Services and Equipment: Certain services and equipment will be provided by Seattle Center on the day(s) of an Event in consideration of use fees paid. These services are listed in the applicable Facility or Outdoor Spaces Addenda that shall be attached to the use agreement.

 Certain other services may be required or made available for an additional charge, which shall be described in addenda to the use agreement. The charges in these addenda shall be based on the Director's assessment of reasonable costs to the Department of buying, maintaining and replacing equipment and of supplying services.

 The Director may enter into service provider agreements with terms of not more than five years, securing event-related services at rates favorable to the City and under provisions requiring the services to be performed in a professional manner that accommodates the needs of both the Seattle Center and any user who uses these services.

 2) Cleaning Between Performances: For the safety of attendees to an Event, and to maintain Seattle Center's standards of appearance for the facility, the Director may require users to pay for cleaning between multiple performances on the same day.

 3). Hours of Use: The Director may determine the hours of the day that an Event may be open at Seattle Center.

 l. SPECIAL CONDITIONS: The Director is authorized to vary from the established Fee Schedule only for sound business purposes and only if such variance is available to any user. The reasons for variance shall be contained in Seattle Center rules and guidelines, be in the City's best interest, and be related to the stated goals for Seattle Center, including generating revenue. The Director may negotiate terms and conditions for use that combine use fees with other charges and sources of revenue related to an Event; may waive fees or portions of fees; and negotiate terms that create benefits for Seattle Center in addition to use fees.

 4. SEATTLE CENTER PRODUCTION EVENTS

 The Director is authorized to negotiate and enter into agreements to sponsor Events at Seattle Center. These Events shall comply with the Guidelines for Seattle Center Co-Sponsored Events. The City's financial support for the Event shall be based on the relevancy of the Event to the goals contained in the Seattle Center Vision Statement and on availability of appropriate facilities. Approval by the Director of Finance is required for agreements where the City's financial support exceeds $25,000. Application for status as a Seattle Center Productions Event is open to everyone. Seattle Center shall determine whether to sponsor the Event as a Seattle Center Production and the terms and conditions of such sponsorship.

 5. EVENTS CO-PROMOTED BY SEATTLE CENTER

 The Director is authorized to negotiate and enter into agreements as a co-promotion partner primarily for Events in the Major Facilities and Fisher Pavilion, but in exceptional cases, for use of any spaces at Seattle Center, particularly if these spaces are used in conjunction with use of a Major Facility. For these Events, all sources of Event revenue and Event-related expenses may be shared with the co-promoter. Co-promotion decisions shall be made judiciously for sound business reasons with the intent of achieving Seattle Center goals, increasing the variety of types of events held at Seattle Center, increasing use of the facilities and maximizing revenue for the City. Approval by the Director of Finance is required for agreements where the City's risk for potential loss, excluding the cost of facility rental, exceeds $50,000.

 11/9/02 t

```
