

********

**Council Bill Number: 114346**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120997**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; and Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 18, 2002
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 26, 2002
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 26, 2002
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 14, 2002
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** FEES, DEPARTMENT-OF-DESIGN-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, PERMITS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, ZONING, BUDGET

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 120448, 119766, 120818, 119255

**Fiscal Note:**114346

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 22.900A, Administration and Enforcement; Chapter 22.900B, General Provisions; Chapter 22.900C, Fees for Land Use and Zoning Review; Chapter 22.900D, Fees for New and Altered Buildings and Equipment; Chapter 22.900E, Fees for Certificates and Registrations; and Chapter 22.900F, Compliance and Other Inspections.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2003, Subsection 22.900A.050 B, SMC which was last amended by Ordinance 120448, is amended as follows:

 B. Other Fees.

 Fees for other applications shall be set according to the permit fee legislation in effect at the time ~~the application was received by the Department, if~~the permit is issued unless one of the following occurs:

 1. The permit is issued within 12 months of the start of the initial review; or

 2. If longer than 12 months, the Director determines that there was reasonable and continuous progress on the completion of permit requirements.

~~3.~~ If ~~n~~either Item 1 or 2 occurs, the application shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect ~~at the time of issuance~~at the time the application was received by the Department.

~~4.~~~~Exception: 1. Fees for drainage, excavation, or shoring applications received prior to January 1, 1995 shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect on the date the fee is paid.~~

~~5. Site review fees for applications received prior to January 1, 2000 shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect on the date the application was received.~~

 Section 2. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900B.010, SMC which was last amended by Ordinance 119766, is amended as follows:

 22.900B.010 Base Fee and hourly rate.

 A. The Base Fee shall be charged as specified in this subtitle and shall be $~~125.00~~150.00.

 B. Any services provided by the Department for which an hourly charge is assessed shall be charged at a rate specified in this subtitle. Applicants and owners shall be liable according to Section 22.900A.030C for all hourly charges incurred whether or not a favorable decision or recommendation is given by the Director or a project is canceled or denied.

 C. Where an hourly fee is specified, overtime shall be charged at that same rate; otherwise overtime shall be at a rate of $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour. All overtime shall require approval by the Director. The minimum fee for each overtime request shall be one hour, with minimum increments of one-quarter hour, in addition to other permit fees established by this subtitle.

 D. The Director may bill an applicant and require payment for accrued hourly or overtime charges at any time in the permit review process.

 Section 3. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900B.020 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818 is amended as follows:

 22.900B.020 Miscellaneous and special fees.

 A. General. Miscellaneous and special fees shall be assessed to recover City costs for services and materials which are not otherwise specified in this subtitle or where the valuation or other methodology normally used does not reflect actual conditions which may include but are not limited to the following:

 1. Notification, examination, consultation, testing, or inspection of proposals, sites (or locations), particular plans, construction, equipment, personnel or material which may be related to, but not directly covered by, a specific permit or approval process;

 2. Furnishing or certification of affidavits, reports, data, or similar documentation;

 3. Recording or filing documents with other agencies;

 4. Delivery and mailing costs.

 B. Failure to cancel missed appointments. A fee of $~~35.00~~50.00 per appointment shall be charged for failure by applicant to notify the Department at least 24 hours prior to a scheduled application intake appointment or a preapplication conference appointment that the appointment will not be kept.

 C. Expert witness testimony. The fee for expert witness testimony shall be ~~charged at the hourly rate~~$150.00 per hour.

 D. Address change. The fee to correct the address on an application or, if applicable, on an issued permit is $~~26.00~~40.00 . When an address change is requested which is unrelated to an application for a permit or for an issued permit, a fee of one times the Base Fee shall be assessed.

 E. Microfilm copies of microfilm records. Charges for plans reproduced from the microfilm library are shown in Table B-1.

 Table B-1 - FEES FOR REPRODUCTIONS FROM MICROFILM

 Size or Type of Page Price 81/2" X 11" or 81/2 " X 14" $.25 per page 11" X 17" 1.00 per page Diazo 3.00 per diazo

 F. Special investigation.

 1. Where a special investigation is made for an action requiring Department approval, a fee in addition to the permit fee shall be assessed as provided in Table B-2.

 Table B-2 - SPECIAL INVESTIGATION FEES

 Value of Work (For Permit) Investigation Fee $ 0 - 5,000 $~~100.00~~150.00 $ 5,001-50,000 $~~300.00~~450.00 $ 50,001-100,000 $~~500.00~~750.00 $100,001-500,000 $~~1,000.00~~1,500.00 $500,001-5,000,000 $~~5,000.00~~7,500.00 Over $5,000,000 100% of permit fee

 2. When a permit fee is not determined by valuation, the special investigation fee will be two times the amount of the permit fee.

 3. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Director, the special investigation fee may be assessed at an hourly rate. Special investigation fees may be waived, at the discretion of the Director, for necessary work done in emergency situations.

 4. The payment of a special investigation fee shall not relieve any person from complying with the requirements of the applicable codes in the execution of the work nor from any violation penalties prescribed by law.

 5. The special investigation fee for a use not established by a permit under the current or previous Land Use Code shall be assessed at a rate of $~~100.00~~150.00.

6. Special investigation fees are not refundable.

 G. Reinspection. The fee for reinspection is one-half times the Base Fee per reinspection. No reinspection of the work shall be performed until the required fees have been paid; provided, that in the case of boilers and refrigeration systems, the permit holder may be billed for the reinspection fee. Reinspections of fuel-gas piping shall be charged according to Section 22.900G.030.

 Section 4. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900C.010 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900C.010 Land use fees.

 A. Land Use Review Fees. The land use review fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, Environmentally Critical Area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

 B. Types of Land Use Reviews. The fee for applications with one or more Type A components and no Type B components shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type A land use reviews. The fee for applications with one or more Type B land use review and no Type A component shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type B land use reviews. The fee for applications with both Type A and Type B components shall be as specified in Table C-1 for Type C reviews. Only one minimum review fee shall be charged.

 C. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees. Land use review fees include a minimum land use review fee and may include an hourly fee as specified in Table C-1. The minimum land use review fee covers administrative costs, public notice costs other than environmental review signs, and the number of review hours specified in Table C-1. Additional hours shall be charged at the rate specified in the Table.

 D. Time of payment.

 1. ~~The following fees are due prior to application or provision of service:~~

~~a.~~ Pre-application conference fee. The fee for land use pre-application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

~~b. Design review fee for Type A land use reviews. One- half the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($810) shall be paid upon application for the design review pre-design process.~~

~~c. Design review fee for Type B land use reviews. One- half the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 for Type C land use review {$1,949).~~

 2. ~~The following fees and amounts are due at the time of application or provision of service:~~

~~a.~~ Minimum land use review fee. The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director may require an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

~~b. Design review fee for Type A land use reviews. The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($810) shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.~~

~~c. Design review fee for Type B land use reviews. The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 for Type C land use review ($1,948) shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.~~

 3. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below:

 a. All outstanding land use fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 b. For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due to date plus an estimated charge for future work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. After final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

c.For early design guidance projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, all outstanding fees shall be paid upon application for the master use permit. Any hours paid by the minimum land use review fee but not spent at the time of application for the master use permit shall be credited toward land use review of the master use permit application.

 E. Additional Review. In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be charged hourly as determined by the Director.

 F. Correction Penalty Fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $~~250.00~~300.00 may be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of response from the applicant.

 Table C-1 - LAND USE FEES

 A. GENERAL PROVISIONS Review Hours Covered by Minimum Fee

 Type of Land Minimum Fee Hourly Fee1 General Low-income Use Review Housing2 A $1,620 $250 20 30 B $2,632 $250 10 20 C $3,897 $250 16 26

 B. MASTER USE PERMIT and ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS APPROVALS

 Type of Land Use Review Type of Land Use Review 1. Administrative conditional uses (ACUs) A

 2. Design review

 a. Design review required by SMC 25.11. See Item 19 of this table. 070 or 25.11.080 to protect exceptional tree when no other land use reviews are required

 b. Design review elected by applicant See Item 19 of this table. for tree protection

 c. All other design review A

 3. Environmental reviews (SEPA), including projects with more than one addressed site3

 a. DNSs, mitigated DNSs, other lead agency project review B b. DSs and EISs B; 40 hour deposit is required c. EIS addenda/SEIS B; 10 hour deposit is required d. PEIS latecomers fees Reserved

 4. Environmentally critical areas (ECA) a. Exemption review See Section 22.900D.145. b. Exception and wetland alteration A exception c. Yard reduction variance B d. Buffer reductions and restoration A exceptions e. Short plat cluster housing and ACU D to recover development potential

 5. General development plan B

 6. Plan shoreline permit -- See Council concept approvals

 7. Shoreline permits a. Substantial development permits B b. Variances4 and conditional uses B c. Revisions (not due to required See Item 39 of this table conditions)

 8. Short subdivisions5 B

 9. Special exceptions B

 10. Temporary use permit for more than D 4 weeks

 11. Variances4 A

 C. COUNCIL and HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

 Type of Land Use Review Type of Review Fee

 12. Concept approvals (e.g., planned community/ B residential development, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans)

 13. Council conditional uses B

 14. Full subdivisions6 B

 15. Major Institution a. Master Plans B; 40 hour deposit is required b. Designation B

 16. Zoning map changes and rezones B

 D. MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, AND OTHER SERVICES

 Type of Land Use Review Minimum Hourly Review Land Use Land Hours Review Use Covered Fee Review By Fee Minimum Fee

 17. Concurrency Reserved

 18. Curb cuts as a separate component

 a. single-family residential $62 each None None

 b. other than single-family $125 each None None residential

 19. Design Review for Tree Protection7

 a. Design review required by SMC $1,000 $62 per 10 25.11.070 or 25.11.080 to protect hour for exceptional tree when no other land the use reviews are required second 10 hours; $250 per hour after 20 hours

 b. Design review elected by $0 $62 per 10 applicant for tree protection hour for the second 10 hours; $250 per hour after 20 hours

~~20. Development potential analysis $1,000 $250 4~~

20. Early design guidance $1,500 $250 6

 21. Environmental review sign8 $370 None None

 22. Establishing use for the record $500 250 2

 23. Interpretations9

 a. Interpretations $1,500 $250 6

 b. Interpretations requested after $2,000 $250 8 publication of Director's report

 c. Major Institution master plan $500 $250 2

 24. L~~egal building site l~~etters $~~1,250~~ $250 ~~5~~1,0004for detailed zoning analysis or permit research

 25. Lot boundary adjustment $1,250 $250 5

 26. Major Institution - review of annual $1,500 per $250 6 plan year

 27. Major phased development permit - $500 $250 2 minor amendment

 28. Neighborhood planning Reserved

 29. Noise survey review and variance See Table D-2

 30. Notice (additional)10

 a. Land use information bulletin $125 $250 0.5 (GMR notice)

 b. Re-posting large sign or placards $250 $250 1

 c. Mailed notice $500 $250 2

 d. Landslide prone notice $375 $250 1.5

 31. Open space remainder lots and $1,000 $250 4 surplus state property

 32. Pre-application conference11 $100 $250 1

 33. Public benefit feature review $500 $250 2

~~34. Rebuild letters $1,000 $250 4~~

~~35~~ Records research $110 $110 1 34.by the Public Resource Center

~~36~~ Renewals including shoreline $500 $250 2 35 Renewals

~~37~~ Revisions other than shoreline $~~500~~ $250 $250 ~~2~~136 revisions

~~38~~ School use and school development $2,500 $250 10 37 advisory committee reviews

~~39~~ Shoreline permit revisions not due $500 $250 2 38 to required conditions

~~40~~ Sidewalk cafés $1,250 $250 5 39

~~41~~ Special accommodation $500 $250 2 40

~~42~~ Structural building overhangs and $500 $250 2 41 areaways as a separate component

~~43~~ Vegetation removal12 42

 a. Class A $500 $250 2

 b. Class B $250 $250 1

 c. Class C $125 $250 0.5

 Notes to Table C-1:

 1. The hourly fee shall be charged for hours in excess of the review hours covered by the minimum land use review fee.

 2. For purposes of these land use fees,~~L~~low- income housing is housing ~~which~~that both (1) satisfies the definition of "low-income housing" in SMC 23.84.024~~.~~; and (2) where~~A~~at least fifty percent of the total gross floor area of each structure on the site ~~shall be~~is committed to low-income housing use for at least 20 years.

 3. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DCLU for Determinations of Non-significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non- significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district. No hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DCLU is the lead agency.

 4. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances.

 5. Includes short subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 6. Includes full subdivisions in environmentally critical areas.

 7. This fee applies when design review is initiated only for tree protection and the application has no other Type A or B components.

 8. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign.

 9. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20, 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

 10. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.

 11. This fee is not refundable and shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre-application conference. The pre-application conference fee covers a one hour conference. Additional pre-application review time will be charged at the hourly rate. See also Section 22.900C.010.E

 12. The three classes are defined by Director's Rule 3-94.

 G. Refunds.

 1. Nonrefundable Fees. Fees for preapplication conferences and environmental signs are not refundable.

 2. Calculating Refunds for Land Use Fees. The amount of land use review fee that may be refunded is calculated as follows.

 a. For refunds requested before a required notice is complete, the amount eligible for refund is 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee plus 100% of the hourly deposit, if any, paid by the applicant.

 b. For refunds requested after notice is complete and for applications for which notice is not required, the amount eligible for refund is the number of hours of review time multiplied by $250, subtracted from the amount paid by the applicant The amount refunded shall not exceed 75 percent of the minimum land use review fee.

 Section 5. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900D.010 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.010 Development permit fees.

 A. General. The development fee shall cover the application, review and inspection process associated with new construction, additions, alterations, and repairs to existing buildings and establishment of use. The development fee shall consist of a permit fee and, where plans are reviewed, a separate plan review fee. The permit fee and plan review fee shall be determined based on valuation, except as provided below.

 B. Time of payment of fees. Fees collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final Department fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, provided that hourly fees may be collected earlier, as described in Section 22.900B.010 D. Any fee in excess of the final calculated fee shall be refunded pursuant to Section 22.900B.050 and 22.900D.010 K.

 If, during the initial review, the previously-collected fee is determined to be less than 90% of the estimated fee, the review work subsequent to the initial review will not proceed until the discrepancy is paid to the Department.

 1. Amount due prior to application. Fees for building preapplication conference shall be paid prior to the conference. See 22.900D.010 I for building preapplication conference fees.

 2. Amounts due at time of application. The following amounts are due at the time of application.

 a. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits without plan review shall pay a fee for subject-to-field inspection (STFI) permits equal to the permit fee specified in Table D-2.

 b. Applications for Building and/or Mechanical permits with plan review shall pay the plan review fee plus one-half the permit fee as specified in Table D-2.

 c. For other applications, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application.

 C. Determination of value.

 1. The Director shall determine the value of construction for which the permit is issued (the estimated current value of all labor and materials, whether actually paid or not, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems, automatic sprinkler systems, other mechanical systems, retaining walls, rockeries and any other permanent work or permanent equipment, but not including furnishings). The building valuation data from the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) as published in "Building Standards" and other valuation criteria approved by the Director will be used to determine the value of construction.

 2. Dish or panel antennae. The fee for processing applications for installation of a dish or panel antenna shall be charged on the value of the foundation and supports constructed for the installation. The value of the dish or panel antenna shall not be included in the determination of value.

 3. The development fee for parks and playgrounds shall be based on the project value, including the value of improvements for structures incidental to the park or playground such as retaining walls, rockeries and restrooms, but shall not include the value of playground equipment.

 4. The valuation shall be based on the highest type of construction to which a proposed structure most nearly conforms, as determined by the Director.

 D. Phased permits.

 1. When a new building project is proposed to be built in phases and the Director determines that separate development permits may be issued for portions of the project, the development fee for initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-2, except excavating permits shall be based on Section 22.900D.145. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the new building project minus the sum of the fees for the initial permits, with no credit for an excavation permit fee.

 2. In addition to the fee specified in 22.900.010 D 1 above, where an applicant requests division of an already-submitted permit application with a value of $5,000,000 or less into separate applications, a fee of one times the Base Fee shall be charged for each separate application (including the original application which results from the division). Where the application has a value of more than $5,000,000 the additional fee shall be two times the base fee for each application.

 E. Calculation of development fees. The development fee for a permit shall be calculated as described in this section. Table D-1 establishes the Development Fee Index for value-based development fees. Except as specified in Section 22.900D.010 F below, Table D-2 establishes the permit fee and plan review fee, calculated as a percentage of the Development Fee Index where determined by value. If two or more buildings are allowed under one permit, they shall be assessed fees as separate buildings under Table D-2. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total development fee for the permit.

 Table D-1 - CALCULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT FEE INDEX

 Total Valuation Development Fee Index

 $0.00 to $1,000.00 $~~95.00~~150.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,001.00 to $~~95.00~~150.00 for the first $50,000.00 $1,000.00 plus $~~1.00~~1.25 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,001.00 to $~~585.00~~762.50 for the first $100,000.00 $50,000.00 plus $~~0.75~~1.00 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,001.00 to $~~960.00~~1,262.50 for the first $250,000.00 $100,000.00 plus $~~5.00~~4.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $250,001.00 to $~~1,710.00~~1,975.00 for the first $500,000.00 $250,000.00 plus $~~4.75~~4.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $500,001.00 to $~~2,898.00~~3,100.00 for the first $750,000.00 $500,000.00 plus $~~4.50~~4.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $750,001.00 to $~~4,023.00~~4,162.50 for the first $1,000,000.00 $750,000.00 plus $~~4.25~~4.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,000,001.00 to $~~5,085.00~~5,162.50 for first $2,000,000.00 $1,000,000.00 plus $~~4.00~~3.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $2,000,001.00 to $~~9,085.00~~8,912.50 for first $3,000,000.00 $2,000,000.00 plus $~~3.75~~3.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,000,001.00 to $~~12,835.00~~12,412.50 for first $4,000,000.00 $3,000,000.00 plus $~~3.50})~~3.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $4,000,001.00 to $~~16,335.00~~15,662.50 for first $5,000,000.00 $4,000,000.00 plus $~~3.25~~3.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $5,000,001.00 to $~~19,585.00~~18,662.50 for the $50,000,000.00 first $5,000,000.00 plus $~~2.75~~2.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,000,001.00 to $~~143,335.00~~119,912.50 for the $100,000,000.00 first $50,000,000.00 plus $~~2.25~~1.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,000,001.00 to $~~255,835.00~~207,412.50 for the $200,000,000.00 first $100,000,000.00 plus $~~1.75~~1.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $200,000,001.00 and $~~430,835.00~~332,412.50 for the up first $200,000,000.00 plus $0.75 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE

 Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Specified in Table D-11

 Type of Development Permit Fee Plan Review Fee

 1. Building, with or without 100% of DFI 100% of DFI mechanical, with or without use2,3

 2. STFI (Subject to field 100% of DFI none inspection - building and/or mechanical without plan review)

 3. Reserved Reserved Reserved

 4. Mechanical permit separate 100% of DFI 100% of DFI from building permit3 (See also Section 22.900D.090)

 5. Blanket permit review fees:

 a. Initial tenant alterations $~~1.50~~ $~~1.70~~ within 3 years of first tenant 2.00 per 100 2.30 per permit within a building where square feet1 100 square feet1 the area of work is more than 50,000 sq. ft.

 b. Initial tenant alterations 100% of DFI 40% of DFI after 3 years of first tenant permit, and other tenant alterations

 6. Initial tenant alterations 25% of DFI based on 25% of DFI based within 18 months of first tenant new building value on new building permit (non-blanket permit of shell and core value of shell initial tenant improvements to and core shell and core)4

 7. Standard plans:

 a. Establishment of standard 100% of DFI 100% of DFI plan, including temporary structures. (For swimming pools, see Item 14 below.)

 b. Establishment of 100% of DFI None already-permitted plan as standard plan

 c. Subsequent reviews of 100% of DFI 40% of DFI standard plan, other than temporary structures

 d. Subsequent reviews of See Item 15 below See Item 15 below standard plans for temporary structures

 8. Factory-built housing and Base Fee x 1; base Base Fee x 1 commercial structures fee X 1 for each module up to 10 modules for multistory multifamily structures

 Special Development Fees

 Type of Development Permit Fee Plan Review Fee

 9. Establishing use for the record:

 a. Applications with no Base Fee x 1.5 None construction

 b. Applications with 100% of DFI 100% of DFI construction

 10. Noise survey reviews None $~~125~~150 per hour; 30-minute minimum

 11. Parking facilities

 a. Outside a building See Sec. 22.900D.060

 b. Within or on a building See Sec. 22.900D.010.C

 12. Renewal fees

 a. Development permits and $~~125~~ $~~125~~ separate mechanical permits 150 per hour 150 per hour where original plans will be changed

 b. Development permits other Base Fee x 1.5 than separate mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

 c. Separate mechanical where Base Fee x 1 no change will be made to original plans

 13. Special inspection Base fee x 1

 14. Swimming pools5:

 a. Unenclosed pools accessory Base Fee x 4 to Group R-3 Occupancy

 b. Unenclosed pools accessory Base Fee x 6 to occupancies other than Group R-3

 c. Principal use unenclosed Base Fee x 6 pools

 d. Future construction of an Base Fee x 1 unenclosed swimming pool

 e. Initial approval of Base Fee x 5 standard plan for swimming pool accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy

 f. Subsequent review of Base Fee x 1.5 application based on approved swimming pool standard plan

 15. Temporary structures, such Base Fee x 2 per as commercial coaches; renewal structure of permits for temporary structures6

 16. Temporary tents, off-site Base Fee x 2 plus construction offices & similar $500 refundable facilities deposit per site7

 17. Temporary use permits:

 a. For 4 weeks or less8 Base Fee x 1.5

 b. For more than 4 weeks8 Base Fee x 2

 Notes to Table D-2:

 1. The minimum permit fee or plan review fee for value-based fees is $~~95.00~~150.00.

 2. The minimum fee for accessory dwelling units is $~~180.00~~300.00.

 3. When there is no separate mechanical permit, the value of mechanical equipment included in the building permit application shall be included in the project value for the building permit.

 4. This fee is applicable only to those initial tenants that reflect the use and occupancy established in the shell and core permit. The value used shall be the new construction value used in calculating value for the core and shell permit.

 5. When a swimming pool is located within an enclosed building and is included in the building plans for that building, a separate fee shall not be charged for the swimming pool. The swimming pool area will be considered as floor area of the principal occupancy of the building.

 6. This fee shall not apply to any on-site, temporary construction office where a valid building permit is in force.

 7. All costs to the City for site cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before the deposit is refunded.

 8. Master use permit fees for such temporary uses shall be charged according to Table C-1.

 F. Blanket Permits.

 1. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations within the first three years of the first tenant alteration permit shall be charged at the rate of $~~3.20~~4.30 per 100 square feet of space to be improved within the life of the permit. A deposit based on the estimated value of the work to be completed during the life of the permit shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the amount of the fee equivalent to the floor space examined shall be deducted from the deposit per Table D-2.

 2. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover nonstructural tenant alterations in previously-occupied space, or to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations after three years of the first tenant alteration permit, is $~~95.00~~150.00. A deposit based on the estimated value of the proposed work within 18 months shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the fee for the work to be done shall be calculated according to Table D-2 and deducted from the deposit.

 3. When the estimated blanket fee deposit is used up in less time than the life of the permit and work remains to be done, an additional deposit shall be paid based on the estimated floor area remaining to be improved during the remaining life of the permit. When a portion of the deposit is unused at the end of the life of the permit and work remains to be done, credit for the balance of the deposit may be transferred from the expiring permit to a new blanket permit. To minimize additional accounting costs associated with blanket permits, where more than two deposits are made during the life of a blanket permit, the minimum amount of each subsequent deposit shall be $2,000.00.

 G. Revisions to Issued Permits.

 Fees for revisions to issued permits shall be charged according to standards promulgated by the Director that approximate the additional cost of reviewing the revisions. A nonrefundable fee of one times the Base Fee shall be paid at the time the revisions are submitted.

 H. Certificate of Occupancy. The issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for existing buildings, either where no Certificate of Occupancy has previously been issued or where a Change of Occupancy is requested, requires a building permit. When there is no construction valuation (there is no work which would require a building permit), the minimum building permit fee shall be assessed. In addition to the minimum building permit fee, where records research, plan examination or inspection is required, charges shall be assessed at the rate of $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour. Where work is being done as authorized by a permit, the permanent Certificate of Occupancy fee is not assessed in addition to the building permit fee. The fee for a temporary Certificate of Occupancy shall be charged at the rate of one-half the Base Fee. The fee for the duplication of a Certificate of Occupancy is $~~16.00~~25.00 unless records research, plan examination or inspection is required, in which case charges shall be assessed at the rate of $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour.

 I. Building preapplication conferences.

 1. Required building preapplication conferences. When there is a requirement for a preapplication or predesign conference, such as buildings subject to the Seattle Building Code special provisions for atria (Section 402), or highrise buildings (Section 403), 35% of the estimated plan review fee for the structure shall be charged and paid as specified in Section 22.900D.010.B, and applied toward the development permit fee. (See Table C-1 for land use preapplication conference fees.)

 2. Other building preapplication conferences. When a preapplication conference is requested by the applicant but is not required by Code, a fee equal to one and one-half times the Base Fee shall be paid no later than the time of the conference. Such fee is required for each meeting held on a project, and will be applied toward the future permit application fee provided:

 a. The project is identified by the proper address at the time of the preapplication conference; and

 b. The permit application is made within six months of the date of the preapplication conference.

 J. Correction penalty fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $~~250.00~~300.00 will be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of adequate response from the applicant.

 K. Refunds.

 1. Refunds of development permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-3. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 2. Refunds shall not be given for the following fees: a. Demolition permits; b. Renewal or reestablishment of permits; and c. Preapplication conferences.

 Table D-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS of DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES

 I. Application Filed, Permit Not Issued.

 Stage in Review Process

 Amount of Permit Fee Amount of Plan Review Eligible for Refund Fee Eligible for Stage in Review Process Based on 50% of Total Refund Based on 100% Permit Fee Calculation1 of Total Plan Review Fee Calculation

 A. Application filed, plans 40% 90% not routed

 B. Plans routed for initial 20% 80% review, review not complete

 C. Initial review 0% 70% completed, plans not approved

 D. Initial review 0% 60% completed, routed for first correction review, review of first corrections not completed.

 E. Review of first 0% 50% corrections completed, plans not approved

 F. Plans routed for review 0% 40% of second corrections, but review not completed

 G. Review of second 0% 30% corrections completed, plans not approved.

 H. Review of third 0% 20% corrections not completed.

 I. Review of third 0% 10% corrections completed, plans not approved.

 J. Application approved, 0% 0% permit not issued.

 II. Permit Issued2

 Stage in Review Process Amount of Permit Fee Amount of Plan Review Eligible for Refund Fee Eligible for Based on 100% of Total Refund Permit Fee Calculation

 Permit issued, work not 25% 0% started

 Permit issued, work started 0% 0%

 Note to Table D-3:

 1. Fifty percent of the estimated permit fee is paid at the time the application is submitted. The amount refunded before the permit is issued is a percentage of the fifty percent.

 2. After the permit is issued, the entire permit fee has been paid. Therefore, the amount to be refunded after issuance is based on 100 percent of the permit fee.

 L. Renewals. Fees for renewal of permits shall be charged according to Table D-2. When the fee for a new permit would be less than one and one-half times the base fee, then the fee to renew the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 M. Reestablishment. The following fee shall be charged for reestablishment of development permits.

 1. ~~One and one-half~~Three times the Base Fee; plus

 2. ~~If plan review had been required for the original permit, an additional amount of $1.50 per $1,000.00 of value of work that was not completed and inspected under the expired permit shall be charged; plus~~

~~3.~~ If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour.

~~The maximum fee for reestablishment is ten times the Base Fee.~~

 When the fee for a new permit would be less than ~~one and one- half~~three times the Base Fee, then the fee to reestablish the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 Section 6. Effective January 1, 2003, Subsections 22.900D.060 C and D SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 C. These fees shall not apply to any parking facility which is underground and within a structure or on the roof of a structure, or to any extension of a parking facility which is primarily under a building, provided that the uncovered extension is no more than four feet beyond the footprint of the building. The fees for these parking facilities shall be charged in accordance with Section 22.900D.010.

 Table D-7 - PARKING FACILITIES FEES

 Parking Lot Size Fee Without Fee With (Square feet of Associated Building Associated Building Gross Parking Area1) or Use Permit2 or Use Permit2

 Over 4,000 $~~326.00~~ $~~264.00~~450.00375.00

 2,000-4,000 $~~264.00~~ $~~163.00~~375.00225.00

 Less than 2,000 $~~110.00~~ No fee 150.00

 Notes to Table D-7:

 1. Where an existing parking facility is being reconfigured, gross parking area shall be the area being reconfigured.

 2. Associated building or use permits are permits that have not expired (or are still going through the review process).

 D. The fee for renewal or reestablishment of a permit for a parking facility is one and one-half times the Base Fee where there are no changes in the plans. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour.

 Section 7. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900D.080 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120448, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.080 Demolitions and relocations.

 A. Demolition. The fee for demolition permits is $~~165.00~~225.00.

 B. Relocation other than floating homes.

 1. The fee to relocate a building from within the City to a location outside of the City is $~~165.00~~225.00 demolition fee for the site from which the building is moved.

 2. The fee to relocate a building to any location within the City limits includes

 (a) an amount calculated according to Table D-2 as for new construction for the foundation and additions to the building; and

 (b) a fee for alterations to the building calculated as for alterations to other buildings; and

 (c) $~~165.00~~225.00 demolition fee for the site from which the building is moved.

 3. Relocation permits require a deposit or bond of $10,000.00, refundable upon the completion and approval of the foundation and framing.

 C. Floating home relocation. The fee to relocate a floating home shall be charged at the rate of one and one-half times the Base Fee.

 Section 8. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900D.090 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.090 Permit fees for mechanical equipment and systems, other than boilers and pressure vessels and refrigeration systems.

 A. Mechanical permit fees for the installation, replacement or major alteration of heating equipment, incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances shall be charged as set in Table D-8. Fees shall be charged for each furnace when it is applied for without plans. No separate fee shall be charged for a furnace when it is included in plans for a mechanical air-moving system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 B. Mechanical permits are considered part of a building permit, with no additional fee, when mechanical plans are reviewed at the same time as structural and architectural plans for the same building project. The fees for a separate mechanical permit for installation, alteration or repair of mechanical air-moving systems, including ducts attached thereto, associated nonresidential heating and cooling equipment, and mechanical exhaust hoods, including ducts attached thereto, are charged per Table D-2. See Table D-12 for rates for burners installed in boilers.

 C. The fee to renew or reestablish a furnace permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 Table D-8 - PERMIT FEES FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT~~1~~

 Table D-8 - PERMIT FEES FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT((1))

 Type of Installation Fee

 Forced air, gravity-type, or floor furnace, $~~80.00~~100.00 per gas or oil suspended heater, heat pump, unit((2)) recessed wall heater or floor-mounted space heater, wall furnace, circulating heater or woodstove/fireplace insert, including ducts and burners attached thereto

 New gas or oil burners and newly installed $~~80.00~~100.00 per used gas or oil burners1 unit((2))

 Appliance vents Class A, B, BW or L when $~~64.00~~80.00 per installed separately unit((2))

 Mechanical air-moving systems See Table D-2.

 Appliances or equipment or other work not Hourly at $~~125~~ classed in other categories, or for which no 150.00 per hour. Minimum other fee is listed. of one-half times the Base Fee.

~~Notes to Table D-8:~~1. See Table D-12 for rates for burners installed in boilers.

~~2. Fees shall be charged for furnaces when they are applied for without plans. No fee shall be charged for furnaces when they are included in plans for a mechanical air-moving system submitted for a mechanical permit.~~

 D. Refunds. Refunds of mechanical equipment permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-9.

 Table D-9 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT FEES

 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund Permit is issued; no work started. 25% Permit is issued; work started. 0% (No refund allowed)

 Section 9. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900D.100 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.100 Refrigeration equipment and systems.

 A. Fees for the installation, addition, repair, replacement and alteration of refrigeration equipment and systems shall be charged as set in Table D-10.

 B. Temporary installations of 10 days' duration or less, made for the purposes of exhibition, display or demonstration shall be charged a fee of $~~29.00~~45.00 for each installation.

 Table D-10 - REFRIGERATION PERMIT FEES1

 Type or Size of System/Equipment Fee

 Basic fee2 $~~29.00~~45.00

 Additional installation fee per compressor 0-5 HP $ ~~29.00~~45.00 6-25 HP $~~59.00~~90.00 26-100 HP $~~119.00~~180.00 101-500 HP $~~156.00~~240.00 Over 500 HP $~~193.00~~290.00

 Repair and alteration (value of work) $0 - $1,000.00 $~~29.00~~45.00 $1,001.00 - $5,000.00 $~~44.00~~65.00 $5,001.00 - $10,000.00 $~~74.00~~110.00 Over $10,000.00 $~~74.00~~110.00 plus $~~29.00~~45.00 /each $5,000.00 or fraction thereof of valuation above $10,000.00

 Note to Table D-10:

 1. Where the application for permit shows cooling tonnage rather than horsepower, the fees of this table shall apply at a rate of one horsepower equals one ton of cooling capacity.

 2. The basic fee applies to new installations, repairs and alterations.

 C. Refunds. Refunds of refrigeration permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-11.

 Table D-11 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF REFRIGERATION FEES

 REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund Permit is issued; no work started. 25% Permit is issued; work started 0% (No refund allowed)

 D. The fee to renew or reestablish a refrigeration permit is one- half the base fee.

 Section 10. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900D.110 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.110 New installations and alterations of boilers and pressure vessels.

 A. Fees for the installation of boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged as set in Table D-12. The fee for alteration or repair of boilers and pressure vessels when an inspection is required is a minimum fee of one-half times the Base Fee and a fee for inspection time beyond the first one-half hour of $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour.

 B. The fee to renew or reestablish a boiler permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 Table D-12 - INSTALLATION PERMIT FEES FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Table D-12 - INSTALLATION PERMIT FEES FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Type Of Installation Fee Installation

 Boilers Heated By Electric Power Combustion Products Input (In KW) Heating--Surface (In Square Feet)

 0-250 0-200 $~~110.00~~165.00

 250-500 201-400 $~~162.00~~245.00

 500-750 401-600 $~~219.00~~330.00

 750-1,000 601-800 $~~316.00~~475.00

 1,000 Over 800 $~~397.00~~600.00

 Pressure Length times vessels1 diameter in square feet

 0-15 $~~74.00~~110.00

 15-30 $~~97.00~~145.00

 30-50 $~~138.00~~210.00

 50-100 $~~178.00~~270.00

 100 $~~219.00~~330.00

 Burner2 0-12,500,000 Btu/hr $~~110.00~~165.00 (each fuel) Over 12,500,000 Btu/hr $~~171.00~~255.00 (each fuel)

 Automatic 0-12,500,000 Btu/hr $~~110.00~~ certification 165.00 (each fuel) Over 12,500,000 Btu/hr $~~171.00~~255.00 (each fuel)

 Monitoring Per Boiler $~~203.00~~ System 305.00

 Notes to Table D-12:

 1. Rating size is the product of the two greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels.

 2. When a burner is installed in conjunction with a boiler, a separate fee shall not be charged for the burner.

 Section 11. Effective January 1, 2003, Subsections 22.900D.130 B and C SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 B. Fees for shop and field assembly inspection of boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged at the same rate as the installation fees for the equipment or at an hourly rate of $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour, with a minimum fee charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee for any one inspection.

 C. Fees for inspection requested for other than shop and field assembly inspection shall be charged at an hourly rate of $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour, with a minimum fee charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee for any one inspection.

 Section 12. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900D.140 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.140 New installations and alterations of elevators and other conveyances.

 A. Permit fees for new installations and relocations of passenger or freight elevators, automobile parking elevators, escalators, moving walks, material lifts, dumbwaiters, lifts, private residence elevators and other conveyances shall be charged as set forth in Table D-13.

 B. The permit fee for alterations and repairs to existing elevators, escalators, lifts, moving walks, dumbwaiters, and other conveyances shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-13, provided that in no case shall the fee for alteration or repair exceed the fee if the same were a new installation.

 C. The fee for a temporary, 60-day operating permit is one times the Base Fee.

 D. The fee to renew or reestablish an elevator permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 Table D-13 -PERMIT FEES FOR ELEVATORS AND OTHER CONVEYANCES1,2,3,4

 Table D-13 -PERMIT FEES FOR ELEVATORS AND OTHER CONVEYANCES1,2,3,4

 Type of Conveyance Fee

 New Installations and Relocations

 Hydraulic elevators $~~345~~430.00 plus $~~30~~37.50 per hoistway opening

 Cabled geared and gearless $~~660~~825.00 plus elevators $~~50~~62.50 per hoistway opening

 Residential hydraulic and cabled $~~260~~325.00 elevators

 Dumbwaiters, manual doors $~~125~~156.00 plus $~~15~~19.00 per hoistway opening

 Dumbwaiters, power doors $~~125~~156.00 plus $~~35~~44.00 per hoistway opening

 Escalators and moving walks $~~980~~1,225.00 plus the following: (width in inches + run in feet + vertical rise in feet) x $~~3~~3.75

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and $~~200~~250.00 inclined)

 Material lifts $~~240~~300.00

 Alterations & Repairs

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and $~~100~~125.00 plus $~~15~~ inclined) 19.00 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof.

 Other elevators, escalators, walks, $~~125~~150.00 plus $~~20~~ dumbwaiters and lifts 25.00 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof.

 Elevator Cosmetic Alterations Only:

 Weight differential less than or $~~125~~150.00 plus $~~20~~ equal to 5% 25.00 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof, to a maximum fee of $~~250~~300.00

 Weight differential greater than 5% $~~125~~150.00 plus $~~20~~25.00 for each $1,000 of construction value or fraction thereof.

 Alteration or replacement of a door $~~145~~180.00 per opening device opening device

 Notes to Table D-13:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Applications and permits shall be issued accordingly. (See Seattle Building Code Section 3006.1.)

 2. Installation fees include charges for electrical equipment installed in connection with any conveyance and such equipment shall not be subject to a separate electrical permit and fee.

 3. Each of these fees includes a nonrefundable portion in the amount of one times the Base Fee.

 4. The fee for alteration and repair shall not exceed the fee for the same device if installed as new.

 Section 13. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900D.145 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.145 Site review fee.

 A. The fees for plan review and inspection of the following are as provided in this section and Table D-SR:

 1. Land-disturbing activity as defined in the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Control Code SMC 22.801.130; and

 2. Drainage, including temporary drainage and erosion and sedimentation control.

 B. The minimum fees for site review are specified in Table D-SR, and shall be paid at the time specified in the Table. Hourly fees due in addition to the minimum fee will be calculated during review. Payment of hourly fees is due at the times specified in Table D-SR or may be charged in accordance with Section 22.900B.010.

 C. The charge for review time, including inspections, in excess of the time included in the minimum fee is $~~125~~150 per hour.

 D. The fee for third party review as specified in the environmentally critical areas regulations, Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.09.080C, and for shoring review is the contract cost to the Department for the review plus an amount equal to 15% of the contract amount for administration and review of the third party geotechnical report and professional opinion. Seventy-five percent of the estimated contract amount shall be paid prior to the contract award.

 E. Site review fees are nonrefundable.

 Table D-SR - SITE REVIEW FEE

 Table D-SR - SITE REVIEW FEE

 Type of Site Minimum Fee Time at which Review Time Time at Which Review minimum fee is Included in hourly fees are due Minimum Fee due

 1. $~~94~~~~Before 3/4 hour At the time of Pre-application 113 application is application site inspection submitted~~ intake At the time of application intake

 2. Drainage and $~~125~~ At the time of 1 hour At the time of grading separate 150 application permit issuance from a intake development permit

 3. Review to $~~63~~ At the time of 1/2 hour At the time of determine 75 application decision Environmentally intake Critical Area exemption1

 4. Site located $~~313~~ At the time of 21/2 hours At the time of in 375 application permit issuance Environmentally intake Critically Area unless fully exempt from ECA standards

 5. Sites None-fee Not Applicable Not Applicable At the time of requiring either will be permit issuance Geotechnical or charged for Drainage review each hour or both of review

 6. Post-issuance $~~125~~ At the time of One hour times At the time of site inspection 150 permit the minimum final and other review times issuance number of inspection, the minimum required issuance of number of inspections Certificate of required Occupancy or inspections2 permit expiration

 Note to Table D-SR

 1. The fee for review of exemptions applies to all levels of exemption.

 2. When the permit is issued, the minimum number of required inspections shall be determined according to rules promulgated by the Director. The charge for review time, including inspections, in excess of the time included in the minimum fee is $~~125~~ 150 per hour.

 Section 14. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900D.150 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900D.150 Electrical permit fees.

 A. Permit fees when plans and specifications are reviewed.

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations for which plans and specifications are reviewed by DCLU shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-14.

 2. When approved by the Director to submit plans for advance plan examination, 50% of the estimated permit fee shall be collected at the time of the permit application and plan submittal.

 3. The Director shall determine the value of the construction, which is the value to the vendee of all labor, material, fittings, apparatus and the like, whether actually paid for or not, supplied by the permit holder and/or installed by the permit holder as a part of, or in connection with, a complete electrical system, but which does not include the cost of utilizing equipment connected to the electrical system. The Director may require verification of the stated cost of any work subject to these fees.

 When the cost of any proposed installation is unknown, an estimate of the cost shall be made and used to compute the permit fee.

 The permit fee specified in Table D-14 is due at the time of application. Upon completion of the installation, a fee adjustment may be made in favor of the City or the permit holder, if requested by either party.

 4. When a duplicate set of approved plans is submitted for examination and approval at any time after a permit has been issued on the original approved plans, hourly charges for Departmental work shall be assessed.

 B. Blanket permits for electrical work.

 1. A blanket permit to cover electrical work shall be charged at the rate specified in Table D-14 for the value of the work to be done within one year.

 2. When the initial deposit for one year is used up in less than one year and work remains to be done, an additional deposit shall be paid based on the fee from Table D-14 for the estimated value of work remaining to be done in that year. When a portion of the deposit remains unused at the end of one year and work remains to be done, credit for the balance of the deposit may be transferred from the expiring permit to a new blanket permit for electrical work.

 C. Permit fees when plans and specifications are not required.

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations, additions and alterations for which plans and specifications are not required shall be as set forth in Table D-15. The permit fee specified in Table D- 15 is due at the time of application.

 2. Permit fees for temporary electrical installations shall be charged for services only at the rate set forth in Table D-15.

 D. Phased permits.

 1. When an electrical project is proposed to be installed in phases and the Director determines that separate electrical permits may be issued for portions of the project, the permit fee for the initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-14. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the electrical installations minus the sum of the values of the initial permits.

 2. Where an applicant requests that an application for a permit be divided into separate applications subsequent to the initial submittal of a unified application, an additional fee shall be charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee for each separate application which results from the division.

 Table D-14 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (when plans are reviewed)

 Total Valuation Fee

 $0.00 to $1,000.00 $~~90.00~~150.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,001.00 to $~~$~~90.00~~~~150.00 for the first 3,700.00 $1,000.00 plus $~~5.70~~6.25 for each 5,000.00 additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $~~3,701.00~~ $~~244.00~~400.00 for the first $~~5,001.00 to 3,700.00~~5,000.00 plus $~~2.00~~ $50,000.00 2.50 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,001.00 to $~~1,170.00~~1,525.00 for the first 100,000.00 $50,000.00 plus $~~1.50~~2.00 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,001.00 to $~~1,920.00~~2,525.00 for the first $250,000.00 $100,000.00 plus $10.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $250,001.00 to $~~3,420.00~~4,025.00 for the first $500,000.00 $250,000.00 plus $9.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $500,001.00 to $~~5,795.00~~6,400.00 for the first $750,000.00 $500,000.00 plus $9.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $750,001.00 to $~~8,045.00~~8,650.00 for the first $1,000,000.00 $750,000.00 plus $8.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,000,001.00 to $~~10,170.00~~10,775.00 for the first $2,000,000.00 $1,000,000.00 plus $8.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $2,000,001.00 to $~~18,170.00~~18,775.00 for the first $3,000,000.00 $2,000,000.00 plus $7.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,000,001.00 to $~~25,670.00~~26,275.00 for the first $4,000,000.00 $3,000,000.00 plus $7.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $4,000,001.00 to $~~32,670.00~~33,275.00 for the first $5,000,000.00 $4,000,000.00 plus $6.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $5,000,001.00 to $~~39,170.00~~39,775.00 for the first $50,000,000.00 $5,000,000.00 plus $5.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,000,001.00 to $~~286,670.00~~287,275.00 for the $100,000,000.00 first $50,000,000.00 plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,000,001.00 to $~~511,670.00~~512,275.00 for the $200,000,000.00 first $100,000,000.00 plus $3.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $200,000,001.00 and $~~861,670.00~~862,275.00 for the up first $200,000,000.00 plus $1.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 Table D-15 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES* (when plans are not required)

 1. Administrative Fee

 a. An administrative fee of $~~35.00~~55.00 will be charged for items 2 through 8 and 10 in addition to the other fees specified in this table.

 b. An administrative fee of $~~26.00~~40.00 will be charged when work is added to an existing permit and when other information is changed.

 2. Services Size Fee

 a. Services (installation, 1 - 125A $~~43.00~~64.50 relocation and temporary 126 - 200A $~~71.00~~106.50 installations; size based on 201 - 300A $~~99.00~~148.50 conductor ampacity) 301 - 400A $~~142.00~~213.00 401 - 500A  501 - 599A $~~170.00~~255.00 $~~207.00~~310.50

 b. Temporary construction Any $~~43.00~~64.50 power for single-family residence

 3. Feeders1

 Size 120v only 208v-480v >480v

 15-25A $~~7.00~~ $~~7.00~~ $~~15.00~~10.5010.5022.50

 30-50A $~~15.00~~ $~~15.00~~ $~~30.00~~22.5022.5045.00

 60-125A $~~22.50~~ $~~22.50~~ $~~45.00~~33.7533.7567.50

 150-225A $~~30.00~~ $~~60.00~~45.0090.00

 250-400A $~~73.00~~ $~~89.00~~~~110.00~~135.00

 450 & Above $~~110.00~~ $~~141.00~~165.00211.50

 4. Connections, Devices and Branch Circuits2

 a. Connections Fee

 Light outlet, switches, $ ~~.90~~1.35 plugs, fixtures3, each residential-type fan

 Track lighting or $ ~~.90~~1.35 multi-outlet assembly for every 2 feet of track

 b. Devices and Branch Circuits

 Dimmer (commercial 2,000 $ ~~8.60~~12.90 watt or over) each

 Non-electric furnace4 $ ~~7.00~~10.50 each

 Dedicated appliances & utilization circuits (cord and plug or direct wired)

 (15-25A) $ ~~7.00~~10.50 each

 (30-50A) $ ~~15.00~~22.50 each

 Range $~~15.00~~22.50 each

 Water heater (220 volt) $~~15.00~~22.50 each

 Floodlight5 $~~3.20~~4.80 each

 Sign $~~19.00~~28.50 each

 5. Transformer Installations6 Fee

 Up to 300 VA $~~3.20~~4.80

 300 VA to 6 KVA $~~7.00~~10.50

 7 KVA to 15 KVA $~~22.50~~33.75

 16 KVA to 30 KVA $~~30.00~~45.00

 31 KVA to 45 KVA $~~43.00~~64.50

 46 KVA to 75 KVA $~~71.00~~106.50

 76 KVA to 112.5 KVA $~~142.00~~213.00

 113 KVA to 225 KVA $~~170.00~~255.00

 > 225 KVA $~~207.00~~310.50

 6. Motor Installations Fee

 Up to 1/3 HP $ ~~3.20~~4.80

 1/3 HP to 3/4 HP $ ~~7.00~~10.50

 1 HP to 3 HP $ ~~10.70~~16.05

 4 HP to 5 HP $ ~~13.60~~20.40

 6 HP to 10 HP $~~17.00~~25.50

 11 HP to 20 HP $ ~~25.00~~37.50

 21 HP to 50 HP $ ~~43.20~~64.80

 51 HP to 100 HP $ ~~59.30~~88.95

 101 HP to 200 HP $~~121.90~~182.85

 Over 200 HP $~~133.70~~200.55

 7. Electric Furnaces and Heaters Fee

 Up to 2 KW $ ~~3.20~~4.80

 2 KW to 5 KW $ ~~7.00~~10.50

 6 KW to 15 KW $ ~~9.60~~14.40

 16 KW to 30 KW $ ~~18.90~~28.35

 31 KW to 50 KW $ ~~40.80~~61.20 $ ~~66.50~~99.75

 51 KW to 100 KW

 101 KW to 200 KW $ ~~162.00~~243.00

 Over 200 KW $ ~~270.00~~405.00

 8. Low-voltage and Communication Fee Systems

 a. Low-voltage Requires separate permit for each systems7-sound systems, system security systems, fire alarms, nurse call, industrial controls and similar

 Control unit $ ~~2.65~~4.00 each

 Device (actuating, horn, $ ~~.65~~1.00 each alarm, etc.)

 Control systems (>100 volts) shall be based on the feeder schedule.

 b. Communications systems8-voice cable, data cable, coaxial cable, fiber optics and similar. The maximum fee is $~~235.00~~352.50.

 Control unit $ ~~2.65~~4.00 each

 Outlet $ ~~.65~~1.00 each

 9. Special Events

 a. Inspections occurring during normal business hours-$~~62.50~~ 75.00 for first one-half hour; $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour for additional time

 b. Inspections occurring outside normal business hours-$~~187.50~~225.00

 10. Inspections for which no other fee is listed

 Each $~~125.00~~150.00 per hour; minimum one-half hour

 *See Electrical Code for permit exemptions

 Notes to Table D-15:

 1. Feeders will be charged only for (a) subpanels, (b) distribution panels, and (c) branch circuits of 60 amperes or over.

 2. Fees will be charged according to either section 4a or 4b. Section 4a will be used only when fees according to section 4b cannot be determined.

 3. Fixtures will be charged only for replacement, reinstallation or installation separate from light outlet wiring.

 4. For furnaces where service exceeds 25 amperes, provided an additional feeder fee shall not be charged. For furnaces where service is 25 amperes or less, the furnace fee shall not apply provided a feeder fee is charged.

 5. Outdoor area lighting (parking lots, streets, etc.) The floodlight fee is charged per luminaire.

 6. The transformer fee includes the primary feeder and one secondary feeder up to and including the first panelboard or disconnect. Additional secondary panelboards or disconnecting means are charged at the appropriate feeder rate.

 7. Low-voltage systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Chapter 7 of the National Electrical Code.

 8. Communication systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Article 770 and Chapter 8 of the National Electrical Code.

 F. Renewals and Reestablishment. The fee to renew or reestablish an electrical permit is one-half times the Base Fee.

 G. Refunds. Refunds of electrical fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-16. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 Table D-16 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF ELECTRICAL FEES

 ELECTRICAL: FOR PLAN REVIEW OR OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) PERMITS

 Stage in Review/Inspection Process Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit filed, plan review required 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee but not started

 Plan review started or completed, no 100% minus the sum of the following: inspections any accrued hourly charges for plan review

 Plan review completed/permit issued 100% minus the sum of the following: and inspection(s) made, permit not any accrued hourly charges for plan finaled review + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made

 Advance plan review process 100% of fee paid minus the sum of the completed but permit not issued following: any hourly charges for plan review

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review 100% minus the sum of the following: required) no inspection(s) requested $~~35.00~~55.00 + 1/2-hour charge for one inspection

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review 100% minus the sum of the following: required) Inspection(s) made, permit $~~35.00~~55.00 + 1/2-hour not finaled charge for each inspection made

 Sign permit filed, plan review 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee required, no inspections made

 Sign permit filed, plan review 100% minus the sum of the following: required, inspections made, permit 1/2-hour processing fee + 1/2-hour charge not finaled for each inspection made

 Any permit finaled No refund

 Section 15. Effective January 1, 2003, Subsections 22.900D.160 A and D SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 A. Permanent signs. For permanent signs, a permit fee of $~~80.00~~120.00 shall be charged for the first 100 square feet or less of the total display area of the sign plus an additional charge of $~~6.50~~9.75 for each ten square feet or fraction thereof of total display area in excess of 100 square feet. Each sign or group of signs for a single business entity installed simultaneously on a single structure shall be charged a separate permit fee per business entity. The addition of a sign or group of signs for one business entity to the structure requires a separate permit.

 D. Wall signs. The maximum fee for signs painted on or otherwise applied directly to the building wall without a frame or mechanical fasteners is $~~305.00~~457.50.

 Section 16. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900E.010 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120448, is amended as follows:

 22.900E.010 Off-premises advertising sign (billboard) registration fees.

 A registration fee of $~~40.00~~60.00 shall be charged initially to establish and annually to renew each face of an off- premises advertising sign (billboard). The renewal fees are due on or before July 1, 2002 and on July 1 of each subsequent year.

 Section 17. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900E.020 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900E.020 Boiler and pressure vessel certificates of operation.

 The fee for certificates of operation for boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged in accordance with Table E-1. Where the inspection is performed by the City, the certificate fee includes the certificate of operation, the inspection and one reinspection, if necessary.

 Table E-1 - FEES FOR CERTIFICATES OF OPERATION FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Type of Reinspection and Installation Certificate Fee1

 Boilers3 Heating By Heated By Combustion Electricity Products Electric Power Heating Surface Input (In KW) (In Square Feet)

 0-250 0-200 $~~65.00~~97.50

 251-500 201-400 $~~122.00~~183.00

 501-750 401-600 $~~178.00~~267.00

 751-1,000 601-800 $~~275.00~~412.50

 Over 1,000 Over 800 $~~340.00~~510.00

 Controls and limit Automatic boilers Annual devices for (input) automatic boilers 0-12,500,000 Btu $~~65.00~~ (Charged in Over 12,500,000 97.50 addition to those $~~81.00~~ fees listed above)  121.50

 Monitoring systems Annual for automatic $~~162.00~~ boiler (Charged in 243.00 addition to those fees listed above)

 Unfired pressure Rating Size Biennial vessels1,2,3 0-15 $~~37.00~~55.50 16-30 $~~65.00~~97.50 31-50 $~~106.00~~159.00 51-100 $~~138.00~~207.00 Over 100 $~~203.00~~304.50

 Domestic water Biennial $~~25.00~~ heaters located in 37.50 Group A, E or I Occupancy

 Notes to Table E-1:

 1. Fees for boiler and pressure vessels which are inspected by authorized insurance company inspectors are 50% of those set forth in Table E-1; provided, that the 50% rate shall not apply to the charges for controls and limit devices for automatic boilers specified in Table E-1, and further provided that no fee shall be less than the minimum.

 2. Rating size is the product of the two greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels.

 3. Fees for low-pressure hot water supply boilers installed prior to January 1, 1989, consisting of tanks whose contents are heated by electric elements shall be charged at the same rates that apply to unfired vessels of the same size.

 Section 18. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900E.030 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 120818, is amended as follows:

 22.900E.030 Fees for elevator certificates of inspection.

 A. Certificates of inspection for elevators will be issued upon acceptance inspection and for each subsequent annual reinspection after payment of the fee set in Table E-2.

 B. The fee for renewal of a certificate of inspection to operate any conveyance is as set in Table E-2.

 Table E-2 - FEES FOR ELEVATOR CERTIFICATES OF INSPECTION1

 Type of Conveyance Fee for Each Conveyance

 Hydraulic elevators $~~110.00~~137.50

 Cable elevators2, 3 $~~150.00~~187.50 plus $~~11.00~~14.00 for each hoistway opening in excess of two

 Sidewalk elevators $~~100.00~~125.00

 Hand-powered elevators $~~100.00~~125.00

 Dumbwaiters $~~100.00~~125.00

 Escalators and moving walks $~~150.00~~187.50

 Accessibility lifts (vertical and $~~95.00~~125.00 inclined)

 Material lifts $~~100.00~~125.00

 Fire emergency systems, Phase I or $~~50.00~~62.50 both Phase I and Phase II

 Notes to Table E-2:

 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Separate applications and permits are required for each conveyance. (See Section 3006.1, Seattle Building Code.)

 2. Elevators having a continuous hoistway wall of 100 feet or more without openings shall be charged a fee of $~~245.00~~ 306.00 plus $~~11.00~~14.00 for each hoistway opening in excess of two.

 3. The fee for roped hydraulic elevators is the same as cable elevators.

 Section 19. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900E.040 SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 22.900E.040 Refrigeration systems annual operating permit fee.

 The annual operating permit fee for any refrigeration system is calculated according to Table E-3. The fee for multiple systems on a single premises is based upon the total motor horsepower at the premises.

 Table E-3 - REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS ANNUAL OPERATING FEES

 Size of equipment Fee 0 - 50 HP $~~59.00~~88.50 51 - 100 HP $~~90.00~~135.00 Over 100 HP $~~126.00~~189.00 Over 100 HP (Type 2 refrigerant) $~~185.00~~277.50

 Section 20. Effective January 1, 2003, Section 22.900E.050 SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 119766, is amended as follows:

 22.900E.050 Boiler, refrigeration and gas piping licenses and examinations.

 Fees for boiler, refrigeration and gas piping examination and annual license fees, payable in advance, shall be charged as set in Table E- 4.

 Table E-4 - FEES FOR BOILER, REFRIGERATION, AND GAS PIPING LICENSES AND EXAMINATIONS

 License fees:1

 Refrigeration Contractor Class A $~~100.00~~150.00 Class B $~~100.00~~150.00 Class (r) $~~160.00~~240.00

 Air-conditioning contractor $~~100.00~~150.00

 Refrigeration service shop $ ~~45.00~~67.50

 Journeyman refrigeration mechanic $ ~~45.00~~67.50

 Refrigeration service shop mechanic $ ~~45.00~~67.50

 Industrial refrigeration engineer $ ~~45.00~~67.50

 Refrigeration operating engineer $ ~~45.00~~67.50

 Steam engineers and boiler firemen $ ~~45.00~~67.50 (all grades)

 Boiler supervisor, all grades $ 75.00

 Gas piping mechanic $ ~~45.00~~67.50

 Examination fees - all licenses $ ~~20.00~~30.00

 Note to Table E-4:

 1. When a license is issued that will expire in less than six months from the date of issuance, the fee is one-half the annual fee.

 Section 21. Effective January 1, 2003, Subsection 22.900E.060 C SMC, adopted by Ordinance 119255, is amended as follows:

 C. The fee for renewal of a Special Inspector Certificate of Registration covering one or more types of inspection for which the registrant has been qualified is $~~25.00~~37.50.

 22.900G.020 Fees for review by the Seattle Transportation Department and the Seattle Public Utility.

 The fees shown in Table G-1 shall be collected by the Department for transfer to the Seattle Transportation Department (SeaTran) or the Seattle Public Utility (SPU).

 Table G-1 - SEATTLE TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT

 and

 SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITY Fees

 Work for Which Fee is Charged Amount of Fee Department

 1. Building grade sheet $~~220~~430 for SPU 1-3 lots plus $85 per lot over 3

 2. School Use and School $110 per hour SeaTran Development Advisory Committee reviews

 3. Major institution $110 per hour SeaTran master plans

 4. Processing of right- $110 per hour SPU of-way dedications

 5. Shoring and excavation $110 per hour SeaTran review1

 Note to Table G-1:

 1. A separate street use permit must be obtained from SeaTran under Title 15 if excavation or shoring will occur in the public right-of- way. This fee is collected for SeaTran for shoring projects adjacent to the public right-of-way; it is for the review of utility conflicts, bonding, and temporary use of the right-of-way, and for a deposit to pay for inspections during construction.

 Section 22. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 23. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2002, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2002. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2002. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2002. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 October 9, 2002 version #5a

```
