

********

**Council Bill Number: 114730**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121347**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation, establishing the revised 2003 and 2004 fee schedule for the use of park properties and other park and recreation facilities and services; superceding previous park and recreation fee schedules; and amending Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 24, 2003
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 5, 2003
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 5, 2003
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 20, 2003
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, FEES, PERMITS, BUDGET, AQUARIUM, COMMUNITY-CENTERS, SWIMMING-POOLS, RECREATIONAL-FACILITIES, SPORTS-FACILITIES, ARENAS-AND-STADIUMS, SPORTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, FOOTBALL, GOLF, RECREATIONAL-ACTIVITIES, SAILING

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 121010

**Fiscal Note:**114730

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation, establishing the revised 2003 and 2004 fee schedule for the use of park properties and other park and recreation facilities and services; superceding previous park and recreation fee schedules; and amending Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 WHEREAS, on November 18, 2002, the Seattle City Council approved Ordinance 120986, which established a 2003 and 2004 fee schedule for the use of park properties and other park and recreation facilities and services; superceded previous park and recreation fee schedules; and amended Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and

 WHEREAS, on December 2, 2002, the Council approved Ordinance 121010, which revised the fee schedule attached as Exhibit 1 to Ordinance 120986; and

 WHEREAS, the Council wishes to adopt a revised 2003 and 2004 Department of Parks and Recreation fee schedule effective January 1, 2004; NOW THEREFORE,

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2004, Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code (as last amended by Ordinance 121010) is further amended as follows:

 18.28.010 Fee Schedule Established.

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to charge the fees substantially in the form set forth in the fee schedule attached as Exhibit 1 to ~~Ordinance 121010~~the ordinance introduced as Council Bill 114730, and entitled "Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule, Revised 2003- 2004 Fees and Charges" for all uses of Department of Parks and Recreation facilities identified therein. The Superintendent is also authorized to waive or reduce such fees, establish experimental rates, and engage in special promotional and marketing activities described in Exhibit 1 as conditioned in Sections 18.28.020 through 18.28.040 hereof. This 2003 and 2004 ~~a~~ fee schedule supersedes all prior fee schedules to the extent inconsistent therewith. All fees and charges shall remain in effect unless they are repealed or amended by ordinance.

 Section 2. The provisions of this ordinance and of Exhibit 1 are declared to be separate and severable. If one or more of the provisions of this ordinance or of Exhibit 1 shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, then such provision or provisions shall be null and void and severed from the rest of the ordinance or from Exhibit 1, and all other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2003.

 _________________________________

 President ___________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit 1: Seattle Parks and Recreation Revised 2003-2004 Fees and Charges

 Grace Harris/msl

 Parks 2004 Fee Ordinance

 October 6, 2003/10-15

 version #3b

 1

 SEATTLE

 DEPARTMENT OF

 PARKS AND RECREATION

 FEE SCHEDULE

 REVISED 2003-2004

 FEES AND CHARGES

 2003 RATES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2003

 2004 RATES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2004

 ORDINANCE ________

 NOTE: Call 684-4075 for additional information where phone numbers are not provided in this document. The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation website also provides complete fee information at http/www.ci.seattle.wa.us/parks/.

 Exhibit 1 to Parks Fee Ord

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 TABLE OF CONTENTS A

 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEES AND CHARGES E

 AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS E

 ? Authority E

 ? General Provisions E

 ADMISSION FEES 1

 GOLF COURSES 1

 ? Interbay, Jackson, Jefferson and West Seattle Golf Courses 1

 ? Green Lake Pitch & Putt 1

 JAPANESE GARDEN (ARBORETUM) 2

 ? Admission Fees 2

 ? Public/Private School Group Rate for Grades K through 12 2

 ? Annual Pass 2

 ? Guided Tours 2

 SEATTLE AQUARIUM 3

 ? Admissions Fees 3

 ? School Groups 3

 ? Aquarium Memberships 3

 ? Aquarium Rentals 3

 ? Education Program Fees 3

 ? Discounts and other Programs 3

 SEATTLE TENNIS CENTER 4

 ? Indoor Court Fees 4

 ? Outdoor Court Fees 4

 ? Non-Peak Time Public Service Play 4

 ? Special Fees for Tournaments and Special Events 4

 ? Tennis Lessons 4

 Private/Semi-Private Lessons 4

 Adult Group Lessons 4

 Adult Play - Instructional classes 4

 Junior Group Lessons 5

 Junior Development Program 5

 Tiny Tots 5

 Competitive Flights 5

 Special Events & Equipment Rental 5

 Senior Public Court Time 5

 SWIMMING POOLS 6

 ? Recreation Swimming 6

 ? Fitness 6

 ? Swimming Instruction 6

 ? Special Aquatic Safety Courses 6

 ? Competitive Training and Water Polo 7

 ? Rental Fees - Swimming Pools 7

 Lockers and Other Fees 7

 Non-Commercial Indoor Pool Rentals 7

 Non-Commercial Indoor Pool Recreation Instructional Rental 8

 Non-Commercial Outdoor Pool Rentals 8

 Commercial Indoor Pool Instructional Rental 8

 Commercial, Special Events and Private Groups 8

 ? Swim Meets 8

 Base Rental Fee 8

 ? Special Use Fees 8

 ? Special Provisions 9

 ? Special Programs 9

 Birthday Party Package 9

 FACILITY RENTALS 10

 ATHLETIC FACILITIES 10

 ? Stadium Use 10

 Stadium Rentals 10

 ? Evening Recreation School Gym Rentals 11

 School Gymnasium Rentals 11

 COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS AND GYMNASIUMS 12

 ? "Classification" determinations 12

 ? Hourly Room and Gymnasium Rental Fees 14

 Rooms 14

 Class C use of rooms for weddings, receptions, and other events 14

 Gymnasiums 14

 ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING CENTERS 15

 ? Camp Long 15

 Group Day Use Booking Fee 15

 Cabin Rentals 15

 Lodge Rentals 15

 Weddings, receptions, and other events 16

 Picnic Shelters 16

 ? Discovery Park 17

 Group-Guided Nature Walks 17

 Rentals 17

 ? Washington Park Arboretum (Graham Visitors Center) 18

 Rental Fees 18

 Social Events 18

 Horticulture Group Rates 18

 SPECIAL AMENITY FACILITIES 19

 ? Langston Hughes Performing Arts Center 19

 Theatre 19

 Meeting Rooms 20

 Weddings, receptions, and other events 20

 ? Pritchard Beach Bathhouse 21

 Meeting Room 21

 Weddings, receptions, and other events 21

 ? Sand Point Magnuson Park 22

 Application Fees 22

 Facility/Site Rentals 22

 Special Use Fees 22

 ? South Lake Union 23

 Drill Hall 23

 Drill Hall Athletic Events 23

 Ward Room 23

 Auditorium 23

 Conference/Meeting Rooms 23

 Weddings, Dances, Proms, Receptions, and Special Events 24

 Activity & Administration Fees 24

 MOORAGE AND BOAT RAMP FEES 26

 MOORAGES AND BOAT RAMPS 26

 ? Lakewood Moorage 26

 ? Leschi Moorage 26

 North/South Leschi - Monthly 26

 North Leschi - Quarterly/Annually 26

 South Leschi - Quarterly Annually 27

 Fleet Floats - North/South Leschi 27

 ? Aqua Marina 27

 ? Boat Ramps 27

 ? Other Moorage Fees 27

 ? Transient Moorage 28

 PARTICIPATION FEES 29

 RECREATION PARTICIPATION FEES 29

 ? Community Center and Outdoor Recreation Class Fee 29

 ? Teen Dance Participation Fee 29

 ? Senior Adult Program Participation Fees 29

 ? Daily Small Craft Class Participation Fees 29

 ? Small Craft Program Class Participation Fee - Special Group 30

 ? Small Craft Club Annual Participation Fee - Seattle Canoe Club at Green Lake Small Craft Center 30

 ? Daily Special Event Fees 30

 SPORTS USE FEES 30

 ? Adult Sports League/Tournament Fees 30

 ? Youth Sports Fees 31

 Outdoor Game and Practice Time Fees 31

 Youth Sports Camps 31

 PERMITS 32

 USE PERMITS 32

 ? General Provisions 32

 ? Youth Sports Organizations Use Permits 32

 League Games and Practices 32

 ? Use of Park Facilities for Commercial Purposes 33

 ? First Amendment Activities 33

 ? Construction Contracts 33

 Construction Bidding Documents 33

 REVOCABLE USE PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE 34

 ? General Provisions & Fees 34

 Limited Term Permit Fee 35

 Continuing Use Permit Fee 36

 ? View Tree Pruning Permit 37

 RESERVATIONS 38

 PARK AREA RESERVATION FEE 38

 DAY CAMPS BOOKING FEE 38

 PICNIC RESERVATION FEE 38

 PRACTICE FIELD SCHEDULING 39

 AQUATIC SPECIAL EVENTS 39

 OUTDOOR TENNIS COURTS 39

 RENTALS 39

 ? Showmobile 39

 PROMOTIONAL & MARKETING FEE WAIVERS & REDUCTIONS 40

 EXAMPLES OF FEE WAIVERS & REDUCTIONS 40

 APPENDIX I

 FACILITY PHONE NUMBERS I

 PERMIT AND RESERVATION PHONE NUMBERS II

 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEES AND CHARGES

 AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

 * Authority

 Fees and charges are necessary to provide financial support to the Department of Parks and Recreation (the Department) for the operation and maintenance of programs, facilities and park grounds. The revenue generated by these fees constitutes only a portion of funds required for operating and maintaining the Park System. All fees collected from park and recreation activities and concessions are used exclusively for the Park System, as these funds are deposited in the Park and Recreation Fund, not the City General Fund.

 Fees and charges are proposed each year by the Department as a part of the annual budget process. Both the Mayor and City Council review and, by ordinance, authorize the Department to collect these fees and charges.

 * General Provisions

 The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized to establish a fee for requested uses not included in this schedule, keeping the Mayor and the City Council advised thereof. The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized, as provided in SMC Chapter 18.28, to revise or waive any of the attached fees.

 The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized, as provided in SMC Chapter 18.28, to approve variances to the fee schedule for special promotional and marketing activities to enhance Departmental programs. These include, but are not limited to, use of 2 for 1 coupons, 50% discount coupons and free admission days for children. These types of activities may occur at various Department facilities throughout the year.

 The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized, as provided in SMC Chapter 18.04 and Chapter 18.28, to approve the free use of Department facilities by the Associated Recreation Council, recognized recreation advisory councils, and other organizations that are open to the public, that further Department goals and programs, and that apply any proceeds to Park and Recreation services.

 In addition to the fees and charges identified herein, the user may be required to pay any additional Department costs resulting from such use, and to pay a reasonable portion of the City's costs for traffic control and police services when the user's event requires them.

 Fees contained in this Fee Schedule shall not apply to permits issued pursuant to SMC Chapter 15.35 "Filming".

 ADMISSION FEES

 GOLF COURSES

 * Interbay, Jackson, Jefferson and West Seattle Golf Courses

 All greens fees and all other golf facility or service fees (including, but not limited to, driving range, carts, cars, play cards, lessons, and room rentals) will be established by Premier Golf Centers, LLC (Premier), consistent with and subject to the contract between Premier and the Department as authorized by separate. Golf program fees will be prominently posted at all times in each clubhouse. Call the following for further information:

 Interbay 285-2200

 Jackson 363-4747

 Jefferson 762-4513

 West Seattle 935-5187

 * Green Lake Pitch & Putt

 Green Lake Pitch & Putt is operated through a Concessions Contract. Therefore, fees for participation at this facility are not governed through City Ordinance. You may contact Green Lake Pitch & Putt, or the Contract Business Resources unit of the Department of Parks and Recreation, to obtain specific information related to this facility. Call 632-2280 for further information.

 JAPANESE GARDEN (Arboretum)

 Admission Fees

 2003 2004

 $3.00 $3.00 Adult (19-64)

 $2.00 $2.00 Youth (6-18) College/University students (with valid ID) Senior (65 & over)

 FREE FREE Children (0-5)

 * Public/Private School Group Rate for Grades K through 12

 School Group Rates are for students only, and do not include Adult fees. Group rates are not extended to colleges, universities, or day-care facilities. Organized groups of children attending an educational institution with grades K through 12 are entitled to this group fee during the regular school year, if advance reservations are made (a minimum of two weeks notice is required for advanced reservations).

 One responsible adult who has paid the admission fee is required for every group of students, as indicated in the following ratios:

 1:5 for grades K - 2 2:24 for grades 7 - 8

 1:10 for grades 3 - 6 1:24 for grades 9 - 12

 2003 2004

 $10.50 $10.50 Group size 1-24 students

 $5.50 $5.50 Add for each added group sized between 1 and 12 students

 * Annual Pass

 Annual Family Passes include unlimited admission for all members of an immediate family living in the same household, defined as two adults (parents or guardians) and their children. Individual Annual passes include unlimited admission for the person whose name appears on the pass.

 2003 2004 Annual passes are valid for 12 months from date of purchase

 $15.00 $15.00 Annual Pass, Individual

 $25.00 $25.00 Annual Pass, Family

 * Guided Tours

 The Japanese Garden Advisory Council, in cooperation with Unit 86 of the Arboretum Foundation, provides sponsor guided tours of the Garden. Fees are established by the Advisory Council and may be obtained by calling 684-4725.

 SEATTLE AQUARIUM

 * Admissions Fees

 2003 2004

 $11.00 $11.50 Youth/Adult/Senior (13 & over)

 $7.00 $7.50 Youth (6-12)

 $5.00 $5.25 Child (3-5)

 FREE FREE Child (0-2)

 School Groups

 2003 2004

 $6.00 $6.25 Youth/Adult/Senior (13 & over) Youth (6-12)

 $5.00 $5.25 Child (3-5)

 FREE FREE Child (0-2)

 Aquarium Memberships

 2003 2004 Annual Memberships expire one year from date of issue

 $55.00 $55.00 Family

 $45.00 $45.00 Individual

 * Aquarium Rentals

 Aquarium exhibit areas and other rooms are available for group rentals and special programs. Rates are based on per person admission fees and rental requirements. Depending on the day of the week and time of year, minimum group sizes apply to these rentals, and discounts may be offered for low demand dates. A 10% surcharge may be added for peak periods.

 Special or additional services, staffing or use of other rooms may require added fees. Details are available from the Aquarium scheduling office.

 * Education Program Fees

 Per person fees and/or group fees are charged for Aquarium Education Programs. These are based on the cost of materials, associated administrative costs, and applicable admission fees.

 * Discounts and other Programs

 Free admission is provided for low-income people through the distribution of admission tickets through social service agencies such as United Way per SMC 18.28.030. The Aquarium may also provide discounts for special promotional and marketing activities per SMC 18.28.020. Call the Aquarium at 386-4342 for further information.

 SEATTLE TENNIS CENTER

 * Indoor Court Fees

 NOTE: Singles and Doubles court fees may be made available at half price for special group clinics, tournaments, or lessons for low- income youth and senior adults during off-peak times. These programs are to be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation.

 2003 2004 Fees cover 1-1/4 hr court use

 $16.00 $18.00 Singles

 $21.00 $24.00 Doubles

 -$1.00 -$1.00 Senior/Special Populations discount per court

 $32.00 $35.00 Telephone Reservation Card (annual) for indoor/outdoor courts

 Outdoor Court Fees

 NOTE: Call 684-4764 to make Seattle Tennis Center court reservations.

 2003 2004 Fees cover 1-1/2 hr court use

 $6.00 $6.00 Reservation Fee

 $32.00 $35.00 Telephone Reservation Card (annual) for indoor/outdoor courts

 Non-Peak Time Public Service Play

 Five percent of the total time available on a monthly basis will be allocated as low-cost or free playing time. The specific times are to be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation based on actual use and demand for the facility.

 * Special Fees for Tournaments and Special Events

 Charges for high volume usage of courts for tournaments and special events, as well as rates for tournament management, can be obtained by contacting the Tennis Center Senior Recreation Specialist at 684- 4764. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation determines these fees.

 * Tennis Lessons

 Private/Semi-Private Lessons

 2003 2004

 $43.00 $45.00 One or Two people

 $51.00 $51.00 Three people

 $56.00 $56.00 Four people

 Adult Group Lessons

 2003 2004 Maximum of 8 people per group/camp

 $63.00 $65.00 Groups, 6 sessions

 $80.00 $80.00 Camps, 10 hrs/4 days

 Adult Play - Instructional classes

 2003 2004

 $75.00 $78.00 Per person fee at 4 students, 6 weeks

 Junior Group Lessons

 2003 2004 Ages 8-17

 $50.00 $50.00 6 sessions

 $68.00 $68.00 Junior Camp, 10 hrs/4 days

 Junior Development Program

 2003 2004

 $50.00 $50.00 Future Stars/Tournament Team, 6 week session (1 time per wk)

 $92.00 $92.00 Tournament Team, 6 week session (2 times per wk)

 Tiny Tots

 2003 2004

 $16.00 $16.00 Beginning ages 4-5 (30 minutes for 6 weeks)

 $22.00 $22.00 Beginning ages 6-7 (45 minutes for 6 weeks)

 $27.00 $27.00 Advanced ages 6-7 (1 hour for 6 weeks)

 $32.00 $32.00 Advanced ages 6-7 (1-1/4 hour for 6 weeks)

 Competitive Flights

 2003 2004 Adults & Seniors (18 & older)

 $60.00 $62.00 Doubles (7 weeks)

 $52.00 $54.00 Doubles (6 weeks)

 $75.00 $78.00 Singles (7 weeks)

 $65.00 $68.00 Singles (6 weeks)

 Special Events & Equipment Rental

 2003 2004

 Double Double Public Group court court fee fee + + 10% 10%

 Double Double Private Group court court fee fee + + 20% 20%

 $25.00 $25.00 Rescheduling

 $30.00 $30.00 Ball machine rental: (Includes court fees) 1 hour

 $3.00 $3.00 Racket Rental, per use

 Senior Public Court Time Monday, Wednesday and Friday 1:45 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.

 2003 2004 Ages 65+

 $1.00 $1.00 Per person fee May 1 through September 30

 $2.00 $2.00 Per person fee October 1 through April 30

 SWIMMING POOLS Recreation Swimming

 2003 2004

 $2.25 $2.25 Youth (ages 1-18 years)

 $3.25 $3.25 Adult (ages 19 through 64 years)

 $2.25 $2.25 Senior Adult (65 years & older) and Special Populations

 $1.75 $1.75 Non-profit youth (ages 1-18 years) organizations (Advance approval through application required)

 $45.00 $45.00 Adult, Monthly unlimited personal fitness "FAST" (Fitness Aerobic Swim Ticket)

 $35.00 $35.00 Senior Adult, Monthly unlimited personal fitness "FAST"

 $20.00 $20.00 Discount Recreational Swim Card - ($22.00 value)

 $1.00 $1.00 Promotional Swim Fee (All Ages)

 FREE FREE Children under one year of age (must be accompanied by adult)

 Fitness

 2003 2004

 $ 3.75 $3.75 Fitness, ages 19-64 years - per lesson (Including Hydrofit, Masters, and Water Exercise)

 $ 2.50 $2.50 Fitness, ages 65+, youth, and Special Populations - per class

 $30.00 $30.00 Discount Fitness Swim Card - ($33.00 value)

 Swimming Instruction

 2003 2004

 $ 4.00 $4.00 Ages 18 & under - per 1/2 hr lesson with minimum of 4 students

 $2.00 $2.00 Ages 18 & under (low income families) - per 1/2 hr lesson with minimum of 4 students

 $4.00 $4.00 Ages 19 through 64 - per lesson with minimum of 4 students

 $4.00 $4.00 Ages 65 & over and Special Populations - per lesson with minimum of 4 students

 $6.00 $6.00 3 yr old Group Lessons - one to three ratio (1/2 hr)

 $75.00 $75.00 Summer Swim League (Ages 6-17)

 $37.50 $37.50 Summer Swim League (low income families)

 $22.00 $22.00 Personal Instruction - one on one (30 minute lesson)

 $32.00 $32.00 Personal Instruction - one on two (30 minute lesson)

 Special Aquatic Safety Courses NOTE: Prices and course titles may be adjusted to correspond to curriculum modifications made by the American Red Cross. Prices include pool admission and instruction only.

 2003 2004 Minimum class size is 6 students

 $35.00 $35.00 Community Water Safety

 $100.00 $100.00 Water Safety Instructor

 $90.00 $90.00 Lifeguard Training Course OR Lifeguard Instructor Course

 $4.00 $4.00 "Guard Start" Program - 1 1/2 hr lesson

 $35.00 $35.00 CPR (various) First Aid (various) Challenge Courses (various) Supplemental Training Modules (various) * Competitive Training and Water Polo

 NOTE: Rates also apply to Metro or Kingco League swim meets for events that do not include a Seattle Public School. Events that include a team from a Seattle Public School are covered under the Joint Use Agreement and are not charged a swim meet fee.

 2003 2004 Lifeguard staff costs are additional*

 $42.00 $42.00 Indoor Pools and Mounger Pool (5 lane maximum at Mounger) - All lanes, 25 yards

 $84.00 $84.00 Colman Pool - 8 lanes, 50 meters

 * Rental Fees - Swimming Pools

 Where indicated (*), additional charge for staff will apply. Individuals and groups desiring to use swimming pools will be expected to pay the cost of staffing in addition to the rates established. Staffing costs will be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation. Staff rates will be billed at 150% on holidays.

 Lockers and Other Fees

 2003 2004

 $0.25 $0.25 Coin Operated Locker - 1/6 or 1/4 size locker

 $0.50 $0.50 Coin Operated Locker - 1/2 size locker

 $0.50 $0.50 Towels, each

 $1.50 $1.50 Hydrofit Exercise Equipment

 $2.00 $2.00 Shower use (without swimming)

 Non-Commercial Indoor Pool Rentals

 NOTE: Lobby rentals are part of the non-commercial pool rental (see Class C room rental rates for small rooms).

 2003 2004 Lifeguard staff costs are additional*

 $50.00 $50.00 Pool rental cost per hour

 $25.00 $25.00 Shallow end only in bulkhead pools when deep end is in use (Evers, Madison, and Rainier Beach Pools)

 Non-Commercial Indoor Pool Recreation Instructional Rental NOTE: This category is for programs such as canoe and kayak skills training and practice.

 2003 2004 Lifeguard staff costs are additional*

 $55.00 $55.00 Pool rental cost per hour (plus $200 refundable deposit)

 Non-Commercial Outdoor Pool Rentals

 2003 2004 Lifeguard staff costs are additional*

 $85.00 $85.00 Colman Pool, per hour (exclusive use, including pool & slide)

 $100.00 $100.00 Mounger Pool, per hour (exclusive use, including pool & slide)

 Commercial Indoor Pool Instructional Rental NOTE: This category is for instructional program rental such as Scuba, Swim Instruction, Cold Water Rescue Training, and related rentals by a commercial business.

 2003 2004 Lifeguard staff costs are additional*

 $75.00 $75.00 Pool rental cost per hour (plus $200 refundable deposit)

 Commercial, Special Events and Private Groups NOTE: This category is for those groups desiring to have charge events at indoor pools.

 2003 2004 Lifeguard staff costs are additional*

 20% of 20% of Negotiated on a case-by-case basis, but not to be event event less than 20%. fees to fees to ($100.00 per hour minimum) be be charged charged

 Swim Meets NOTE: There is an hourly flat-rate charge for competitive meets, with no additional percentage charges for the event (no percentage collected for entry fees and heat sheet sales).Staff costs are additional. Base Rental Fee

 2003 2004 2 hour minimum rental

 $42.00 $42.00 Per hour, when indoor pool is scheduled to be closed

 $84.00 $84.00 Per hour, when indoor pool is scheduled to be open

 $84.00 $84.00 Per hour at Colman Pool (8 lanes/50 meters), open or closed

 $75.00 $75.00 Permit Application Fee ( +10% of gross revenue) for all Admissions and Swim Meet Concessions (food/drink, t-shirts, goggles, etc). Additional insurance/permits may be required.

 Special Use Fees

 2003 2004

 $0.50 $0.50 Swimming Pool Spa Use Fee (Southwest Pool) per person

 $1.00 $1.00 Water Slide Use Fee per person

 $0.25 $0.25 Swimming Pool Sauna Use Fee (Queen Anne Pool) per person

 $5.00 $5.00 Sauna Use Fee (Queen Anne Pool) - 20 admission punch card

 Special Provisions

 Colman and Mounger Pools: Admission fees to these facilities are charged to all persons entering pool area, even if not swimming (except parents watching children in lesson programs). Use of the pools, decks and picnic areas are part of the overall recreation opportunity; pool capacity is based on use of this area.

 * Special Programs

 Birthday Party Package

 A complete birthday party package at pools includes one-hour exclusive use in a section or portion of the pool, a 30-minute party in the lobby, water recreation leadership, one spill-proof pre- packaged juice, paper products and favors. (Food items not included.)

 2003 2004

 $180.00 $180.00 Minimum package fee - for a party of 10 children

 $8.00 $8.00 Additional fee - per child

 FACILITY RENTALS

 ATHLETIC FACILITIES

 * Stadium Use

 The following sites are included in this fee structure:

 Bobby Morris Playfield Rainier Beach High School Stadium

 Ingraham High School Stadium Sealth High School Stadium

 Interbay Soccer Stadium West Seattle High School Stadium

 Nathan Hale High School Stadium

 Where an admission or donation is charged (excluding entry fees), renters must pay 10% of gross receipts in addition to charges noted below.

 Stadium Rentals

 The type of event to be scheduled will determine the exact fees to be charged (based on the established costs):

 Private Contract event 200% of established cost

 Community Sponsored Adult event 100% of established cost

 Non-Community Sponsored Youth event* 100% of established costs

 (*includes Youth Sports Camp rentals)

 Community Sponsored Youth event 25% of established costs

 NOTE: Staff supervision is required for Stadium Rentals.

 Specific staffing fees (including SECURITY) will be determined by the size and complexity of the event and will be established during the permit application process.

 Concession fees and use of concessions will be negotiated by site.

 2003 2004

 $500.00 $500.00 Track and/or Field, per day

 $100.00 $100.00 Track & Field equipment, per day

 $100.00 $100.00 Grand Stands, per SIDE

 $15.00 $15.00 Lights, per hour

 $20.00 $20.00 Ticket Booth, per day

 $50.00 $50.00 Press Box/Public Address system, per day

 $150.00 $150.00 Locker Rooms, per day

 10% of 10% of Admissions/Sales - where an admission or donation is gross gross charged (excludes entry fees) revenue revenue

 $35.00 $35.00 Clean up, per hour (based on negotiated time to complete)

 * Evening Recreation School Gym Rentals

 The Department of Parks and Recreation utilizes the following Seattle Public School District High School gymnasiums for the Evening Recreation programs offered through the Parks Athletics unit:

 Ballard High School Rainier Beach High School

 Cleveland High School Roosevelt High School

 Franklin High School Sealth High School

 Ingraham High School West Seattle High School

 (Garfield and Nathan Hale High Schools are covered under the Parks and Recreation/Seattle Public Schools Joint Use Agreement and are not subject to this rental fee)

 School Gymnasium Rentals

 NOTE: Additional fees may be charged for weekend usage.

 2003 2004

 $35.00 $35.00 Per hour (1 hour minimum) per gym floor

 COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS AND GYMNASIUMS

 * "Classification" determinations

 The Department charges rental fees (according to the classifications of usage) for the use of social/meeting rooms and/or kitchens and/or gymnasiums at:

 * Community Centers, including: (see Appendix for telephone numbers)

 Meeting Room(s) Kitchen Gym

 Small Medium Large Small Large Small Large

 Alki x x x x

 Ballard x x x x x

 Bitter Lake x x x x x

 Bitter Lake Annex x

 Delridge x x x x

 Garfield x x x x x

 Garfield Teen Life x x Center

 Green Lake x x x

 Hiawatha x x x x

 High Point x x x

 Jefferson x x x

 Laurelhurst x x

 Loyal Heights x x x x

 Magnolia x x x x

 Meadowbrook x x x x x

 Meadowbrook Annex x

 Miller x x x x x

 Miller Annex x

 Montlake x x x x

 Queen Anne x x x x x

 Rainier x x x (2)

 Rainier Beach x x x

 Ravenna Eckstein x x x

 South Park x x x

 Southwest x x x x

 Van Asselt x x x

 Yesler x x

 Environmental Learning Centers, including: (see Appendix for telephone numbers)

 Meeting Room(s) Kitchen Gym

 Small Medium Large Small Large Small Large

 Camp Long x x

 Carkeek Park x

 Discovery Park x x

 Small Craft and Rowing & Sailing Centers, including: (see Appendix for telephone numbers)

 Meeting Room(s) Kitchen Gym

 Small Medium Large Small Large Small Large

 Green Lake x

 Mt Baker x

 Specialized & Other Facilities, including: (see Appendix for telephone numbers)

 Meeting Room(s) Kitchen Gym

 Small Medium Large Small Large Small Large

 Langston Hughes x x x x

 Pritchard Beach x Bathhouse

 Other Shelter houses & x x Bathhouses

 Meeting room and gymnasium space is available only during times Department and Advisory Council programs are not scheduled. Uses are determined by classification A, B, or C as defined below:

 Class A Use: Non-Commercial Use, for the general public, scheduled during operating hours. No admission fee, vendor fee and/or donation is requested or received.

 Class A use is reserved for advertised, non-commercial, public events/meetings that are for the general public and are scheduled during hours of operation. (If scheduled outside normal community center operating hours, see Class B use.)

 Class B Use: Events/meetings, open to the public, where an admission fee, vendor fee and/or donation is requested or received; or any commercial use which is open to the public.

 Class B use is reserved for events/meetings that are held for the general public. The rental involves fundraising, admission fee, vendor fee, donation requested or received, or a commercial purpose for the public.

 Non-profit agencies holding an event serving youth, seniors, the disabled or low-income populations.

 A non-profit agency sponsored event/meeting for youth, seniors, and the disabled or low-income populations in the City of Seattle, which may be open or closed to the general public with an admission fee.

 Any Class A use scheduled outside of regular operating hours.

 Class C Use: Closed to the general public.

 Class C use is reserved for events/meetings where the general public is not invited. Admission fees may be collected and donations may be received. Examples are private children's birthday parties, seminars, workshops, etc.

 NOTE: An event will be considered advertised if it has been announced in the local paper, through mass mailing, radio announcements, posters throughout the community, posted in or distributed through the community center.

 * Hourly Room and Gymnasium Rental Fees

 NOTE: A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee per site is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for staff and the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 Rooms

 Class A Class B Class C Staff costs are additional

 * $20.00 $25.00 Small Rooms (1-400 square feet), per hr

 * $30.00 $35.00 Medium Rooms (401-1,500 square feet), per hr

 * $35.00 $45.00 Large Rooms (1,500+ square feet), per hr

 Booking $10.00 $15.00 Small KitchenA (minimum of 2 hours), per hr fee only

 * $30.00 $35.00 Large KitchenA (minimum of 2 hours), per hr

 N/A $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB

 N/A $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no alcohol), for rentals outside of normal operating hours

 N/A $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $5.00 per hour for all hours over 2 per day.

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park site.

 B Alcohol must remain in facility. Alcohol is not permitted in facilities during operating hours.

 Class C use of rooms for weddings, receptions, and other events

 NOTE: This fee includes up to 7 hours use of multi-purpose room and kitchenA, which allows time for renter to do event set up, kitchen prep, the event and clean up. Included in the rental fee are 10 banquet tables and 50 chairs. For time over 7 hours, the Class C hourly rate is added.

 2003 2004 Staff costs are additional.

 $400.00 $450.00 Weddings, receptions, and other events, up to 7 hoursC

 $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (when no alcohol)

 $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB

 $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park site.

 B Alcohol must remain in facility. Alcohol is not permitted in facilities during operating hours.

 C Exception: Any Class C use of Laurelhurst Community Center over two (2) hours is charged a special fee of $400.00 in 2003 and $450.00 in 2004, for a maximum of 7 hours.

 Gymnasiums

 Class A Class B Class C Staff costs are additional.

 * $25.00 $30.00 Small gym, Athletic use, per hr

 * $45.00 $60.00 Small gym, Non-Athletic use, per hr

 * $25.00 $35.00 Large gym, Athletic use, per hr

 * $70.00 $80.00 Large gym, Non-Athletic use, per hr

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $5.00 per hour for all hours over 2 per day.

 ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING CENTERS

 * Camp Long

 Group Day Use Booking Fee

 NOTE: This reservation is for fire ring or rock/glacier reservations. Group Day Use is restricted to a maximum number of 250 participants.

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $5.00 per hour for all hours over 2 per day.ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING CENTERS Camp Long Group Day Use Booking Fee NOTE: This reservation is for fire ring or rock/glacier reservations. Group Day Use is restricted to a maximum number of 250 participants.

 2003 2004

 $20.00 $20.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 1-50

 $30.00 $30.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 51-100

 $40.00 $40.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 101-150

 $50.00 $50.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 151-200

 $60.00 $60.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 201-250

 $50.00 $50.00 Refundable damage/cleaning deposit

 Cabin Rentals NOTE: Overnight use of Cabins is restricted to a maximum number of 120 participants (i.e., 10 cabins @ 12 per cabin). Cabin fees are non-refundable.

 2003 2004

 $35.00 $35.00 Per night, per cabin (maximum of 12 persons per cabin)

 $50.00 $50.00 Refundable damage deposit per cabin

 $10.00 $10.00 Per hour for "exclusive use" of kitchen A

 FREE FREE Kitchen A is available for "common use" with all cabins

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on the park site.

 Lodge Rentals A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL lodge rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility. NOTE: See "Community Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" section for further explanation of classification determinations and room rental information.

 Class A Class B Class C Staff costs are additional

 * $35.00 $45.00 Large Rooms (1,500+ square feet)

 N/A $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB

 N/A $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no alcohol), for rentals outside of normal operating hours

 N/A $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 $10.00 $10.00 $15.00 Per hour for "exclusive use" of kitchen A

 FREE FREE FREE Kitchen A is available for "common use" with all cabins

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $5.00 per hour for all hours over 2 per day.

 B Alcohol must remain in facility. Alcohol is not permitted in facilities during operating hours.

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on the park site.Weddings, receptions, and other events

 A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility

 NOTE: This fee includes up to 7 hours use, which includes time for renter to set up and clean up after the event. Included in the indoor rental fee are 10 banquet tables and 50 chairs. For time over 7 hours, the Class C hourly rate is added. Fees for these events are non-refundable.

 2003 2004 Staff costs are additional.

 $400.00 $450.00 Indoor weddings, receptions, and other events up to 7 hours

 $350.00 $350.00 Outdoor weddings, receptions, and other events up to 7 hours

 $700.00 $750.00 Combined Indoor/Outdoor event up to 7 hours

 $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (when no alcohol)

 $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB (must be kept in Lodge only). NOTE: Alcohol may not be used in conjunction with outdoor events or Cabin rentals.

 $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events when serving ALCOHOLB

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on the park site. B Alcohol is not permitted in facilities during operating hours. Picnic Shelters NOTE: Fees for picnic shelters are non-refundable.

 2003 2004

 $90.00 $100.00 East Shelter with 7 tables

 $70.00 $80.00 West Shelter with 5 tables

 Discovery Park Group-Guided Nature Walks

 2003 2004

 $60.00 $60.00 1-15 participants (1 staff)

 $120.00 $120.00 16-30 participants (2 staff)

 $180.00 $180.00 31-45 participants (3 staff)

 $240.00 $240.00 46-60 participants (4 staff)

 $4.00 $4.00 Drop In program (or for groups over 60 people), per person, plus $4.00/person supply fee as appropriate

 Rentals Evening or Monday daytime A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility NOTE: These rentals may be arranged when there are no Department of Parks and Recreation or Advisory Council programs in the building. Partial rental includes the Main Meeting room, the Discovery Room and the Lobby.

 Full rental includes these areas plus one large room which can be subdivided into two classrooms.

 2003 2004 Staff costs are additional.

 $200.00 $200.00 Partial rental, up to 4 hours

 $350.00 $350.00 Full rental, up to 4 hours

 $50.00 $50.00 Per hour for each hour over 4 hours

 Visitor's Center Social Room Rental Fee A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 NOTE: See "Community Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" section for further explanation of classification determinations and room rental information.

 Class A Class B Class C Staff costs are additional

 * $20.00 $25.00 Small Rooms (1-400 square feet), per hr

 * $30.00 $35.00 Medium Rooms (401-1,500 square feet), per hr

 * $35.00 $45.00 Large Rooms (1,500+ square feet), per hr

 N/A $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB

 N/A $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no alcohol), for rentals outside of normal operating hours

 N/A $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $5.00 per hour for all hours over 2 per day. B Alcohol is not permitted in facilities during operating hours. Washington Park Arboretum (Graham Visitors Center) Rental Fees

 2003 2004

 $175.00 $185.00 Half day, 8:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. OR 12:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m. (meetings overlapping these times will be charged at the full day rate)

 $25.00 $25.00 Kitchen Use Fee for half day or evening meetings

 $250.00 $260.00 Full Day, 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. (Kitchen use is included in Full Day fee)

 $25.00 $25.00 Additional per hour charge for Full Day rentals after 5:00 p.m.

 Social Events NOTE: Social events are scheduled between 4:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Friday and until midnight on Friday and Saturday nights. Events requested during daytime hours are handled on an individual basis with hours and rates determined by the building manager. The Graham Visitor Center is a self-service facility. Deliveries, set-up and clean-up must occur during the scheduled event times. Events beginning after 4:00 p.m. weeknights and all weekend events will be charged $15.00/hr for a staff person to be on the premises.

 2003 2004

 $350.00 $360.00 Fundraisers/Memorials (limited food), with up to 49 guests for up to 6 hours. ADDITIONAL hours are charged at $50.00/hr

 $460.00 $460.00 Events with limited food, with up to 49 guests for up to 6 hours. ADDITIONAL hours are charged at $75.00/hr

 $650.00 $660.00 Events with full food service, with up to 49 guests for up to 6 hours. ADDITIONAL hours are charged at $100.00/hr

 $450.00 $460.00 Fundraisers/Memorials (limited food), with 50-100 guests for up to 6 hours. ADDITIONAL hours are charged at $75.00/hr

 $660.00 $670.00 Events with limited food, with 50-100 guests for up to 6 hours. ADDITIONAL hours are charged at $100.00/hr

 $850.00 $860.00 Events with full food service, with 50-100 guests for up to 6 hours. ADDITIONAL hours are charged at $125.00/hr

 Horticulture Group Rates

 2003 2004

 $80.00 $80.00 Meetings up to 5 hours ($10.00/hr for extra hours)

 $150.00 $150.00 Meetings from 5-8 hours ($10.00/hr for extra hours)

 $250.00 $250.00 Social events up to 5 hours, includes Security ($35.00/hr for extra hours)

 SPECIAL AMENITY FACILITIES Langston Hughes Performing Arts Center Theatre

 The 300-plus seat theatre use fees vary by length and type of use. Fees for the theatre include the theatre, the green room, 2 dressing rooms, foyer and box office. Heating and ventilation, basic house lights, podium lights, public address system, pre-event set up (chairs, tables, screen, podium) and post-event clean up are also included in the fees.

 Please NOTE the following: All theatre rentals require additional labor charges for the house manager/facility supervisor and a technical director, with holidays charged at the overtime rate of pay.

 An extra hourly custodial charge may be required for excessive litter (e.g. confetti).

 The City provides insurance, but each use requires an application for a rider, paid by the client, based upon estimated attendance and type of event. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL theatre rentals in addition to the hourly rates. A refundable damage deposit of $250.00 is required for all rentals. If an alcohol permit is issued, a $500.00 refundable deposit is required.

 Performances

 2003 2004

 $200.00 $200.00 First 5 hours or less per day

 $55.00 $55.00 Additional hours over 5 on the same day

 $100.00 $100.00 Marquee rental for up to 7 days (one side only)

 Film/Video

 2003 2004

 $175.00 $175.00 First 5 hours or less per day

 $25.00 $25.00 Additional hours over 5 on the same day

 $100.00 $100.00 Marquee rental for up to 7 days (one side only)

 Conference, Meeting or Seminar

 2003 2004

 $130.00 $130.00 First 5 hours or less per day

 $20.00 $20.00 Additional hours over 5 on the same day

 $100.00 $100.00 Marquee rental for up to 7 days (one side only)

 Rehearsals

 2003 2004

 $50.00 $50.00 Up to 2 hours per day

 $15.00 $15.00 Additional hours over 2 on the same day

 $100.00 $100.00 Marquee rental for up to 7 days (one side only)

 Meeting Rooms

 A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL meeting room rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility. NOTE: See "Community Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" section for further explanation of classification determinations and room rental information.

 Class A Class B Class C Staff costs are additional

 * $20.00 $25.00 Conference Room, per hr

 * $30.00 $35.00 West Room (750 square feet), per hr

 * $35.00 $45.00 Multi-purpose Room (4,400 square feet), per hr

 * $30.00 $35.00 KitchenA (minimum of 2 hours), per hr

 N/A $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB

 N/A $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no alcohol), for rentals outside of normal operating hours

 N/A $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $5.00 per hour for all hours over 2 per day.

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on the park site. B Alcohol must remain in facility. Alcohol is not permitted in facilities during operating hours.

 Weddings, receptions, and other events A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL weddings, receptions, and other event rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 NOTE: This fee includes up to 7 hours use of multi-purpose room and kitchenA, which allows time for renter to do event set up, kitchen prep, the event and clean up. Included in the rental fee are 10 banquet tables and 50 chairs. See "Community Meeting

 Rooms and Gymnasiums" section for further explanation of classification determinations and room rental information.

 2003 2004 Staff costs are additional.

 $400.00 $450.00 Weddings, receptions, and other events, up to 7 hours (For time over 7 hours, the Class C hourly rate is added)

 $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (when no alcohol)

 $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB

 $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on the park site.

 B Alcohol must remain in facility. Alcohol is not permitted in facilities during operating hours.

 Pritchard Beach Bathhouse Meeting Room A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 NOTE: See "Community Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" section for further explanation of classification determinations and room rental information.

 Class A Class B Class C Staff costs are additional

 * $35.00 $45.00 Multi-purpose Room, per hr

 N/A $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB

 N/A $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no alcohol), for rentals outside of normal operating hours

 N/A $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $5.00 per hour for all hours over 2 per day.

 B Alcohol must remain in facility. Alcohol is not permitted in facilities during operating hours.

 Weddings, receptions, and other events

 A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 NOTE: This fee includes up to 7 hours use of multi-purpose room, which allows time for renter to do event set up, the event, and clean up. Included in the rental fee are 10 banquet tables and 50 chairs.

 See "Community Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" section for further explanation of classification determinations and room rental information.

 2003 2004 Staff costs are additional.

 $400.00 $450.00 Weddings, receptions, and other events, up to 7 hours (For time over 7 hours, the Class C hourly rate is added)

 $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (when no alcohol)

 $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOLB

 $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 B Alcohol must remain inside the facility. Sand Point Magnuson Park Application Fees

 2003 2004

 $10.00 $10.00 Booking Fee, non-refundable per facility booking (quarterly)

 $75.00 $75.00 Application Fee, per contract for Special Events

 $75.00 $75.00 Application Fee, per contract (Film/photo shoots with over 6 days advanced notice)

 $75.00 $75.00 Application Fee, per contract for Concession/License (Film/photo shoots with over 6 days advanced notice)

 $60.00 $60.00 Late Fee, per contract (Film/photo shoots with 6 days or less advanced notice)

 Facility/Site Rentals

 2003 2004

 $75.00 $75.00 Auditorium, per hour

 $500.00 $500.00 Auditorium, per day

 $400.00 $400.00 Bldg 11 Workshop, per day

 $300.00 $300.00 Bldg 18, per day

 $25.00 $25.00 Bldg 30 Conference Room, per hour

 $125.00 $125.00 Bldg 30 Conference Room, per day

 $50.00 $50.00 Bldg 406 Meeting Room, per hour

 $250.00 $250.00 Bldg 406 Meeting Room, per day

 $350.00 $350.00 Bldg 406 North Pod, per day

 $350.00 $350.00 Bldg 406 South Pod, per day

 $50.00 $50.00 Gym Rental, per hour (1 hr minimum)

 $300.00 $300.00 Hangar 2 N, per day

 $500.00 $500.00 Hangar 2 S, per day

 $1000.00 $1300.00 Hangar 27, per day

 $600.00 $600.00 Hangar 30, per day

 $800.00 $800.00 Hangar 30 and Workshop, per day

 $200.00 $200.00 Outdoor site fee, per day (groups of 100+ )

 $45.00 $45.00 Outdoor site electrical hook-up (outdoor events)

 $200.00 $200.00 Performance rehearsal space, per week

 $50.00 $50.00 Performance rental, per performance ( +10% of revenue)

 Special Use Fees

 2003 2004

 10% of 10% of Admissions, booths, and sales revenue gross + gross + (includes all performance revenue) rental rental charges charges

 $15.00 $15.00 Commercial Photography, per hour (Still Photo Shoot)

 $35.00 $35.00 Commercial Photography, per hour (Videography)

 $50.00 $50.00 Commercial Photography, per hour (Cinematography)

 $50.00 $50.00 Key Deposit

 South Lake Union

 A non-refundable $10.00 booking fee is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility. A staffing fee @ $20.00 per hour is required (staff rates increase on Holidays).

 Drill Hall (100' x 135' = 13,500 sq. ft.) 400-1000 people

 2003 2004

 $400.00 $80/hour 4 hours

 $800.00 $80/hour 8 hours

 $1200.00 $80/hour 12 hours

 $1600.00 $80/hour 16 hours

 Drill Hall Athletic Events

 2003 2004

 $100.00 $40/hour 2 hours

 $200.00 $40/hour 4 hours

 $400.00 $40/hour 8 hours

 $600.00 $40/hour 12 hours

 Ward Room (30' x 40' = 1,200 sq. ft.) 75-100 people

 2003 2004

 $300.00 $55/hour 4 hours

 $600.00 $55/hour 8 hours

 $900.00 $55/hour 12 hours

 $1200.00 $55/hour 16 hours

 Auditorium (30' x 70' = 2,100 sq. ft.) 150-200 people

 2003 2004

 $100.00 $45/hour 2 hours

 $200.00 $45/hour 4 hours

 $400.00 $45/hour 8 hours

 $800.00 $45/hour 16 hours

 Conference/Meeting Rooms Room 106 (18' x 30' = 540 sq. ft.) 25-50 people

 2003 2004

 $80.00 $35/hour 2 hours

 $140.00 $35/hour 4 hours

 $260.00 $35/hour 8 hours

 $380.00 $35/hour 12 hours

 Room 111 (17' x 30' = 510 sq. ft.) 25-50 people

 2003 2004

 $80.00 $35/hour 2 hours

 $140.00 $35/hour 4 hours

 $260.00 $35/hour 8 hours

 $380.00 $35/hour 12 hours

 Room 122 (18' x 21' = 378 sq. ft.) 25 people

 2003 2004

 $90.00 $25/hour 2 hours

 $160.00 $25/hour 4 hours

 $300.00 $25/hour 8 hours

 $440.00 $25/hour 12 hours

 Room 127C (18' x 25' = 450 sq. ft.) 25-30 people

 2003 2004

 $100.00 $35/hour 2 hours

 $180.00 $35/hour 4 hours

 $340.00 $35/hour 8 hours

 $500.00 $35/hour 12 hours

 Weddings, Dances, Proms, Receptions, and Special Events Special Rate (use of all rooms)

 2003 2004

 $1750.00 NA 8 hours, except Saturdays

 $2000.00 NA 8 hours, Saturdays

 $2000.00 NA 12 hours, except Saturdays

 $2500.00 NA 12 hours, Saturdays

 $2500.00 NA 16 hours, except Saturdays

 $3000.00 NA 16 hours, Saturdays

 Activity & Administration Fees

 2003 2004

 $10.00 $10.00 Booking Fee (all rentals)

 $75.00 $75.00 Special Event Application Fee

 $500.00 $500.00 Damage Deposit (refundable)

 $60.00 $60.00 Alcohol Fee

 $250.00 $250.00 Floor Maintenance Fee, non-refundable, up to 5 hrs of follow-up maintenance. (Drill Room & Ward Room)

 $50.00 NA Additional Floor Maintenance Fee per hour for each hour over 5 hours.

 50% rate 50% rate Move In/Move Out Days reduction reduction

 Other Rentals

 2003 2004

 NA Sat-$170 Drill Hall-Exclusive Use. Four hours minimum. per hour, Sun-Fri: $140 per hour

 NA Sat-$200 Drill Hall, Ward Room, Auditorium - Exclusive Use. per hour, Four hours minimum. Sun-Fri: $170 per hour

 NA Sat-$230 Drill Hall, Ward Room, Auditorium, Downstairs per hour Conference rooms. Four hours minimum. Sun-Fri: $200 per hour

 MOORAGE AND BOAT RAMP FEES Whenever the Department of Natural Resources lease is re-negotiated, the contract with the moorage concessionaires and the moorage fees may be re-established so as to cover the additional fees that must be paid by the City.

 MOORAGES AND BOAT RAMPS Lakewood Moorage

 NOTE: Available slip sizes are 20', 24', 30', 40', 50' and 60'. Tenants pay for the size of the slip or the size of the boat, whichever is greater.

 2003 2004

 $6.50 $6.50 Wet Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month

 $6.50 $6.50 Additional fee per foot for excess of boat extending beyond the slip (for boats longer than the slip)

 Quarterly (Examples of quarterly rates for 20', 30', and 40' slips)

 2003 2004

 $390.00 $390.00 Slip 20' minimum

 $585.00 $585.00 Slip 30' minimum

 $780.00 $780.00 Slip 40' minimum

 Limited Public Access to Ohler's Island (maximum 20-30 persons)

 NOTE: The concessionaire provides informational signage which details operation hours, access instructions, and scheduling procedures via the Department of Parks and Recreation's Contract and Business Resources Office (684-8002). Concessionaire's phone: 722-3887.

 Leschi Moorage

 NOTE: Catamaran-type boats requiring the use of one and one-half spaces, at the applicable rate for wet moorage at North or South Leschi locations. Concessionaire's phone: 325-3730. North/South Leschi - Monthly

 2003 2004

 $6.50 $6.50 Wet Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month

 $3.50 $3.50 Dry Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month

 North Leschi - Quarterly/Annually

 2003 2004

 $168.00 $168.00 Quarterly: Dry 16' Float Space

 $546.00 $546.00 Quarterly: Wet Slip, 28' maximum

 $624.00 $624.00 Quarterly: Wet Slip, 32' maximum

 $741.00 $741.00 Quarterly: Wet Slip, 38' maximum

 $672.00 $672.00 Annually: Dry 16' Float Space

 $2184.00 $2184.00 Annually: Wet Slip, 28' maximum

 $2496.00 $2496.00 Annually: Wet Slip, 32' maximum

 $2964.00 $2964.00 Annually: Wet Slip, 38' maximum

 South Leschi - Quarterly Annually

 2003 2004

 $168.00 $168.00 Quarterly: Dry Float Space

 $468.00 $468.00 Quarterly: Wet Slip, 24' maximum

 $507.00 $507.00 Quarterly: Wet Slip, 26' maximum

 $585.00 $585.00 Quarterly: Wet Slip, 30' maximum

 $672.00 $672.00 Annually: Dry Float Space

 $1872.00 $1872.00 Annually: Wet Slip, 24' maximum

 $2028.00 $2028.00 Annually: Wet Slip, 26' maximum

 $2340.00 $2340.00 Annually: Wet Slip, 30' maximum

 Fleet Floats - North/South Leschi

 2003 2004

 $1008.00 $1008.00 Quarterly: per 6 boat float size

 $1344.00 $1344.00 Quarterly: per 8 boat float size

 $1512.00 $1512.00 Quarterly: per 9 boat float size

 $1680.00 $1680.00 Quarterly: per 10 boat float size

 Aqua Marina

 NOTE: Tenants pay for the size of the slip or the size of the boat, whichever is greater. Concessionaire's phone (Lakewood Marina): 722-3887.

 2003 2004

 $5.00 $5.00 Monthly: Wet slip fee per slip foot

 $5.00 $5.00 Additional fee per foot for excess of boat extending beyond the slip (for boats longer than the slip)

 Boat Ramps

 2003 2004

 $5.00 $5.00 Daily Permit

 $80.00 $80.00 Annual Permit

 $7.00 $7.00 Overnight parking privileges*

 $110.00 $110.00 Annual Permit w/overnight parking privileges*

 *Overnight parking privileges not to exceed four consecutive days. Other Moorage Fees

 2003 2004

 $25.00 $25.00 Quarterly parking permit (Leschi & Lakewood)

 $50.00 $50.00 Key fee - for each key issued or re-issued. All keys must be returned upon vacating a slip.

 TBD TBD Metered Docks - electrical fee, billed directly to tenant

 $4.00 $4.00 Non-metered Docks - per month for system maintenance minimum charge

 Transient Moorage NOTE: By reservation only.

 2003 2004

 $0.75 $0.75 Per foot. Leschi Moorage: daily rate per boat foot, temporary moorage not to exceed 14 days for attendance at Leschi races. Subject to availability, by reservation only.

 $0.75 $0.75 Per foot. Lakewood Moorage: daily rate per boat foot, minimum of $10.00/day charge. Temporary moorage not to exceed 14 days. Subject to availability, by reservation only.

 $10.00 $10.00 Aqua Marina Moorage: Minimum daily rate, temporary moorage not to exceed 14 days, by reservation only.

 50% 50% Live Aboard Moorage Fee: percentage of tenant's monthly moorage fee, charged in addition to their monthly fee for Live Aboard privileges. EXAMPLE: A tenant paying for a slip of 35 feet @ $6.50/slip foot pays a fee of $227.50/month. To live aboard, the tenant would pay an additional 50% of their monthly fee, or $113.75 for a total of $341.25/month ($227.50 + $113.75).

 Moorage Penalties: Fee to be imposed for mooring a private boat in a posted "NO TRANSIENT MOORING" area - $50.00 initial day; $25.00 each additional day.

 Impoundment of Unauthorized Vessel - $50.00 impoundment fee, plus $25.00 per day for each day thereafter.

 Moorage Waiting List Reservation Fee - $15.00 for all tenant applicants to be applied to first month's rental if moorage space is accepted when offered. If application is cancelled prior to being offered moorage space, fee shall not be refunded. No refund shall be made if space is refused when offered.

 Late Fees - Tenants will pay 1% per month simple interest with $1.00 per month minimum for fees that are past due. An administrative late fee of $25.00 shall be charged for each past due fee. Tenants shall be charged a $35.00 fee for any returned check.

 Sublet Fee - Non-refundable $25.00. PARTICIPATION FEES RECREATION PARTICIPATION FEES

 As a service to the public, the Department of Parks and Recreation may contract with Advisory Councils, or the Associated Recreation Council to collect fee payments. The contract shall require the Advisory Council or Associated Recreation Council to remit the participation fee to the City. Community Center and Outdoor Recreation Class Fee

 2003 2004

 1.2% 1.2% Percent of fee for all Advisory Council sponsored classes, programs, and sessions at community centers and for outdoor recreation programs.

 0.5% 0.5% Additional percent of Participant Registration Fee to cover increased utility costs.

 Teen Dance Participation Fee

 2003 2004

 $3.00 $3.00 Admission to Department sponsored teen dances, per person

 Senior Adult Program Participation Fees NOTE: These fees only apply to programs offered through the Department's Senior Adult Section. Senior adult fees for participation in other programs are listed elsewhere in this ordinance. Where there is no senior adult fee listed for the activity, the adult fee will apply.

 2003 2004

 10% 10% Percent of Senior Adult Advisory Council class fee paid by registrants for all advisory council sponsored classes, programs and field trips.

 Daily Small Craft Class Participation Fees NOTE: There is no City fee for community-based summer day camp youth or Seattle Public Schools participating in the water safety program.

 2003 2004

 $1.45 $1.50 Adult Fee/student/hour of instruction

 $0.65 $0.70 Youth, Senior Adults and Disabled/student/class/hour. This fee will be charged to participants in boating programs and is in addition to fees paid to any of the small craft advisory councils.

 Small Craft Program Class Participation Fee - Special Group

 2003 2004

 $1.45 $1.50 Fee/student/hour. This fee will be charged to all participants who wish to have a boating program conducted for a specific group of people.

 $15.00 $15.00 Monthly Participation Fee for Canoe/Kayak sprint racing team at Green Lake Small Craft Center

 Small Craft Club Annual Participation Fee - Seattle Canoe Club at Green Lake Small Craft Center

 2003 2004

 $35.00 $35.00 Adults and Seniors, annually

 $25.00 $25.00 Youth members, annually

 $85.00 $85.00 Families (2 adults plus children under 18), annually

 Daily Special Event Fees

 2003 2004

 $2.50 $2.50 Fee/day/participant for Regattas operated by the Department or its recognized advisory councils.

 SPORTS USE FEES Adult Sports League/Tournament Fees NOTE: Adult Sports league playoffs and tournaments will be assessed the following fees.

 2003 2004

 $25.00 $25.00 Indoor sports, per hour

 $25.00 $25.00 *Outdoor sports, per hour - all weather sand fields

 $40.00 $40.00 *Outdoor sports, per hour - grass and synthetic surface

 $15.00 $15.00 Outdoor Field Lighting fee, per hour (adult play only)

 $30.00 $30.00 Adult Sports Team Administration fee/team

 *This fee will be charged to participants in addition to fees assessed by the organization conducting the event. Each team will be responsible for 50% of the above fees. Fees for all league and playoff games will be at the above rates, but teams are required to pay for only the number of games which they are guaranteed to play in tournaments.

 Youth Sports Fees Outdoor Game and Practice Time Fees

 2003 2004

 $4.00 $4.00 Game fee, per game Assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees, during the regularly established season.

 $2.00 $2.00 Practice time, per hour Assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees, during the regularly established season.

 $10.00 $10.00 Game fee, per game Assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees, for usage that occurs outside of the regularly established season.

 $5.00 $5.00 Practice time, per hour Assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees, for usage that occurs outside of the regularly established season.

 Single Elimination - number of teams multiplied by one-half of the hourly rate. Round Robin - number of teams multiplied by one-half of the hourly rate plus $1.00 per game/match. Double Elimination - number of teams multiplied by the hourly rate fee. Youth Sports Camps

 2003 2004

 $55.00 $55.00 Outdoor sports camps, per hour - synthetic surfaces

 $25.00 $25.00 Outdoor sports camps, per hour - grass or all weather sand fields

 PERMITS USE PERMITS Use Permits authorize non-department groups to utilize Department of Parks and Recreation property for special events (i.e., runs, boating, concerts, day camps, community festivals, rallies, commercials, etc.). General Provisions

 NOTE: Insurance and/or a performance bond may be required except as limited by the First Amendment for political or religious activities as provided by SMC 18.12.045 or by applicable rules. An application fee will be collected upon formal written application. This fee is non-refundable, except when the Department denies a request.

 2003 2004

 $50.00 $50.00 Application fee - First Amendment Events, including political and religious activities.

 $75.00 $75.00 Standard Application fee - Use Permits (i.e., runs, boating, concerts, day camps, community festivals, rallies, commercials, etc.)

 $10.00 $10.00 Booth Fee - As part of a special event, a charge of $10.00 or 10% of gross sales, whichever is greater.

 10% of 10% of If, in the course of the activity/event, charges are gross gross levied for admission, sales, or entry fees, the user income income will be subject to a minimum charge of 10% of the gross receipts.

 $10.00 $10.00 Load/Unload fee, per vehicle - for short-term access into non-parking areas or those areas accessed through a locked gate or bollard.

 $50.00 $50.00 Refundable Key deposit - for access into a locked gate or bollard

 $45.00 $45.00 Utility hook-up fee - for any utility hook-up performed by Department personnel.

 $60.00 $60.00 Late fee - for requests submitted less than 6 working days before event. (Fee does not apply to First Amendment events)

 Youth Sports Organizations Use Permits All Department review and approval requirements shall apply for all Youth Sports organizations' requests to sell food, beverage, or other items on park property. Qualifying community-based outdoor Youth Sports organizations are exempt from percentage payment requirements for Concession Permits only when selling approved food, drink or other items during scheduled regular season league games and practices.

 League Games and Practices NOTE: Youth Sports organizations' special events, such as jamborees and tournaments, shall be subject to regular Use Permit charges.

 2003 2004

 $75.00 $75.00 Youth Sports Organizations Use Permits

 Use of Park Facilities for Commercial Purposes NOTE: Regular permit fees apply to below charges, including late permit fee.

 2003 2004

 $10.00 $10.00 Minimum fee range, per hour. Based upon the type of to to use and medium. (Maximum charges subject to $50.00 $50.00 negotiations based upon park and public disruption)

 $100.00 $100.00 Minimum, per day - for posting commercial signage in a park in conjunction with a special event. (Maximum fees are subject to negotiations)

 $60.00 $60.00 Late fee - for requests submitted less than six working days before event

 First Amendment Activities Activities protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Article I of the Washington Constitution are subject to reasonable regulations as to time, place and manner, and to the Department's permit system in reserving or making exclusive use of a site or facility. No fee, deposit, or liability insurance is required under some circumstances (see SMC 18.12.045, SMC 18.28.030, or applicable rules). Vending by a non-profit, tax-exempt organization, of merchandise in which a political, religious, philosophical or ideological message is inextricably intertwined (First Amendment Vending) is governed by rules for First Amendment Vending of Merchandise adopted by the Department of Parks and Recreation. When conducted on a park drive or boulevard, First Amendment Vending is subject to a base permit fee of Seventy-five Dollars ($75.00) for a monthly site permit. When conducted within a park, First Amendment Vending is subject to a base permit fee of Seventy-five Dollars ($75.00) plus a fee of ten percent (10%) of gross receipts, but may exclude from its gross receipts used in calculating the amount of the fee: (1) all bona fide donations for which the donor receives no, or nominal, consideration; and (2) payments for items that communicate a political or religious message and have no commercial value apart from the message (e.g., literature, and message-bearing buttons, bumper stickers, and posters). Use permits issued for First Amendment Vending on Department boulevards and park drives shall conform with the zoning and regular usage patterns of the immediately adjacent and surrounding areas.

 Construction Contracts Construction Bidding Documents There is a non-refundable $35.00 fee for contractors to acquire a copy of the construction contract bidding documents. Requests should be made through the Planning and Development Division (Engineering and Design section) of the Department of Parks and Recreation (233-7920).

 REVOCABLE USE PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE General Provisions & Fees

 Revocable Permits to Use or Occupy Park Property, commonly called Revocable Use Permits, are issued by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, under authority of Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) 18.12.042, 18.12.045, and 18.12.275, for various short-term or on-going (i.e., Limited Term or Continuing Use, respectively) non-park use of public land under the control of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Permits are revocable upon thirty (30) days notice or immediately upon failure of the Permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of the Permit. Unauthorized use of park property, including failure to apply for and obtain a Revocable Use Permit, is unlawful and subject to enforcement actions or other remedies as specified in SMC 18.30 or other applicable law.

 In accordance with the Policy on Non-Park Uses of Park Lands, as endorsed by City Council Resolution 29475, it is the policy of the Department of Parks and Recreation to limit authorized non-park uses of park land to the fullest extent practicable. Fees and conditions set for Revocable Use Permits are intended to discourage private, non-park uses of park lands; encourage the elimination of encroachments; and promote private and public cooperation in maintenance of park lands in a manner consistent with a public park-like character.

 Consideration of any permit application requires payment of an Application Fee, unless City action to a public right-of-way resulted in inaccessibility from other than park property. The Application Fee is non-refundable. Issuance of a permit requires payment of a Permit Fee which is: a fixed daily fee (i.e., Limited Term permit fee); and/or calculated in accordance with a formula (Continuing Use permit fee); or a minimum Permit Fee.

 Application Fees and Permit Fees are set periodically by ordinance. Under exceptional circumstances, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation may waive or reduce the Revocable Use Permit Fee, in accordance with criteria established by SMC 18.28.030 or SMC 18.28.040. Creek restoration projects proposed by other City departments are specifically exempted from permit fees of any kind as the City recognizes these projects as valuable enhancements to its parks and recreation assets. In determining whether the Permit Fee should be waived or reduced, the Superintendent shall be guided by: The benefit to the public and the direct benefit to the park system; The frequency and/or amount of usage requested; The effect on and fairness to other park users; Consistency with policies underlying the fee schedule and SMC Chapter 18; and The consequences of denying the request.

 The Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, authorize the acceptance of permanent physical improvements, such as constructed improvements or landscaping, as compensation in lieu of the Permit Fee in those circumstances where the proposed in lieu compensation can be shown to be equal to or greater in value than the calculated or set amount of the Permit Fee.

 Waiver or reduction of the Permit Fee does not necessarily waive or reduce other fees, charges, requirements, or obligations in connection with issuance of a Revocable Use Permit including Application Fee, Inspection Fee, processing charges, insurance or indemnity requirements, or restoration requirements.

 Limited Term Permit Fee Limited Term permits may be issued for necessary uses of park property for brief periods of time, generally expected to be limited to ninety (90) days or less; however, Limited Term permits may be issued for uses expected to continue beyond ninety (90) days at the discretion of the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation. Examples of activities for which Limited Term permits may be issued include, but are not limited to, construction staging, temporary access, and utility installation.

 The Limited Term permit fee will be charged at a daily rate from the date the permit is issued or the date the use or occupancy of park property began, whichever is earlier, until the activity is completed and all conditions of the permit, including restoration of any damage to park land, have been satisfied. If seasonal factors, such as planting conditions or construction prohibitions, warrant a delay between the time the use or occupancy of park property is completed and the time the restoration. is completed, no Permit Fee shall be charged for the interim period, unless the park land is unavailable for the use or enjoyment of the public.

 If a Revocable Use Permit is issued for a use of park land expected to continue for a limited period of time, such as a Limited Term permit, but for a period exceeding ninety (90) days, the fee shall be the daily rate set for Limited Term permits for the first ninety (90) days; the fee for the period exceeding ninety (90) days shall be calculated in accordance with the Continuing Use permit fee.

 Under no circumstances shall a Limited Term permit fee be converted to a lesser fee due to extension of the anticipated completion date of the permitted activity. If upon inspection it is determined that the permit conditions have not been satisfied, charges for additional daily fees at the same rate shall accrue until conditions have been satisfied.

 Continuing Use Permit Fee Continuing Use permit fees shall be charged for uses expected to continue for an extended period of time, generally beyond ninety (90) days (e.g., encroachments or other non-park uses that will not be corrected or eliminated within a ninety (90) day period). Continuing Use permit fees shall be calculated using a formula based on land Value, Area of use, a Barrier factor, and a Rate of return (V x A x B x R).

 The Value of the park land used shall be determined by calculating the average of the assessed value per square foot of the benefited property and the assessed values per square foot of comparable (i.e., similarly zoned, having similar amenities such as waterfront or view), nearby (within a distance not to exceed 1,000 feet) non-park properties.

 The Area shall be the total of the square footage of park land actually used or occupied for non-park purposes and/or the square footage of park land that is subject to a barrier to public use of enjoyment.

 The Barrier Factor is a multiplier of 1 or less than 1, representing the extent of barrier to public use and enjoyment, as set by the following scale. If two or more Barrier Factors may apply, the greater factor shall apply.

 Factor: 1.00 Full use and/or occupancy of area, preventing public use or occupancy of the area (e.g., a private structure); or creation of a physical barrier denying public use or access to the area (e.g., a fence or hedge); .70 Creation of a perceptual barrier by improvements or actions that capture the public space for private use (e.g., paving, shrubbery, other plantings); .35 Private landscaping or other improvements on park land that violate, exceed, or are inconsistent with established design guidelines or reasonable standards intended to preserve the public park-like character of park lands (e.g., private access drive or walkway in excess of standard; private lighting or safety railings that exceed a security function).

 The Rate of return (i.e., land capitalization rate) is set at 10%.

 Continuing Use permit fees will be pro-rated as necessary, and annualized October 1 to September 30, billed and payable not later than September 30 of each calendar year for the twelve (12) month period to follow.

 If the permit period is shorter than anticipated, the permit fees paid in advance shall be prorated for the time used and over-payment shall be refunded, except in the case of revocation due to Permittee's failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, in which case no refund shall be given.

 Permits for utility installations, such as electrical, natural gas, or telephone service, shall be charged as Limited

 Term permits, based on the permit period necessary for installation. There is no Permit Fee charged for Limited Term permits of ninety (90) days or less issued expressly to allow the removal or elimination of an encroachment onto park land.

 There is no Permit Fee charged for certain non-park uses of park land which may be allowable by property right, such as driveway access from the roadway portion of a park boulevard if access is not available from any other right-of-way, or pedestrian walkway access from a public sidewalk to the abutting private property, if such uses comply with established design guidelines or reasonable standards intended to preserve the public park-like character of park lands.

 2003 2004

 $100.00 $100.00 Application Fee

 $50.00 $50.00 Inspection Fee, per inspection (Application fee includes one on-site inspection. Additional on-site charges at $50.00 per inspection may be assessed, if necessary in the Department's judgment, due to Applicant's or Permittee's action(s) or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.)

 $50.00 $50.00 Limited Term Permit, per day, OR $100 minimum, whichever is greater

 Formula Formula Continuing Use Permit, determined by formula (V x A x B x R) OR $200 minimum, whichever is greater

 $50.00 $50.00 Processing Charges, per hour In the case a Permit Fee is waived or reduced, costs of staff time to review and process permit applications may be recovered on an hourly basis at $50.00/hour for time in excess of four (4) hours.

 View Tree Pruning Permit Private citizens may apply for a permit if they wish to hire a qualified, bonded tree service firm to perform view tree pruning which is not normally done as part of the Department tree maintenance program along its designated viewpoints and scenic drives.

 The request for this permit must be submitted in writing to the Manager of our City Wide Horticulture Unit. Three site inspections by a Department Landscape Supervisor will be performed. The first inspection to review the request and make a determination of allowed pruning, the second (if the request is approved) during the proposed work to ensure compliance with the permit, and a final inspection for satisfaction of all permit specifications.

 2003 2004

 $50.00 $50.00 Application fee, non-refundable. Must be submitted with the written request for a View Tree Pruning Permit.

 $100.00 $100.00 Permit fee, due upon issuance of the View Tree Pruning Permit

 $100.00 $100.00 Bond from tree service firm must be submitted prior to work. The tree service firm is also required to submit proof of insurance in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 bodily injury liability and $5,000 property damage.

 RESERVATIONS PARK AREA RESERVATION FEE NOTE: Areas are available in many parks for various special uses. See "USE PERMITS - General Provisions" for standard application Use Permits.

 2003 2004

 $350.00 $350.00 Parks for Garden Weddings or ceremonies at Kubota Gardens, Parsons Gardens, and Camp Long (Additional staff fee will be charged.)

 $200.00 $200.00 Parks for Weddings or ceremonies (Additional staff fee will be charged when wedding or ceremony is large and/or complex)

 $10.00 $10.00 Load/Unload fee per vehicle for short term access into non-parking areas or those areas accessed through a locked gate or bollard

 $50.00 $50.00 Refundable Key deposit for access into a lock gate or bollard

 DAY CAMPS BOOKING FEE

 2003 2004

 $75.00 $75.00 Summer day camp program park area reservation - per group camp per week.

 PICNIC RESERVATION FEE NOTE: Tables at shelters are not included in shelter price and are charged separately. Shelter rental must include shelter price plus $10.00 for each table.

 2003 2004

 $20.00 $30.00 Each Regular Shelter, per day

 $10.00 $10.00 Each Table, per day

 $10.00 $10.00 Reschedule fee (14-day notice required to reschedule)

 $10.00 $10.00 Load/Unload fee for vehicles in non-public parking areas

 $50.00 $50.00 Refundable Key deposit for bollards or gates

 PRACTICE FIELD SCHEDULING

 2003 2004

 $11.00 $11.00 Scheduled practices: One hour minimum, hourly fee (private school use)

 $10.00 $10.00 Scheduled practices: One hour minimum, hourly fee (adults)

 $15.00 $15.00 Scheduled practices: Lighting Fee, one hour minimum, hourly fee (adults)

 AQUATIC SPECIAL EVENTS NOTE: This category is for special events that result in the cancellation of scheduled programs or closure of a small craft center, swimming beach, or other public program. This fee is in addition to other fees.

 2003 2004

 $300.00 $300.00 Special events, per day

 OUTDOOR TENNIS COURTS NOTE: Where a participant entry fee for tournaments or a fee for lessons is charged, 10% of gross receipts is to be paid to the Department in addition to the charges noted below. All persons who instruct tennis for a fee on Department courts must schedule according to court availability with the Scheduling Office, obtain the appropriate permit and pay the required fees. They must also successfully complete the Department's Tennis Instructor's Certification program and show proof of certification before a permit will be issued.

 Tennis Reservations (4 or less players) are scheduled at Departmental discretion.

 2003 2004

 $6.00 $6.00 Court rental

 RENTALS Showmobile

 2003 2004

 $150.00 $150.00 Fee for first day or relocation (PLUS set-up/take-down - $215.00 non-overtime OR $280.00 overtime required)

 $30.00 $30.00 Daily fee - for second to tenth day of rental

 PROMOTIONAL & MARKETING FEE WAIVERS & REDUCTIONS The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized, as provided in SMC 18.28.020, to waive or reduce entry or use fees from those contained in an approved fee schedule in conjunction with the promotion and marketing of Park and Recreation programs.

 EXAMPLES OF FEE WAIVERS & REDUCTIONS Authorized activities include, but are not limited to, the following arrangements: Sponsored days: A sponsored day or activity for which a sponsor pays the Department a fixed fee, a matching amount, or supplies advertising, service, or other benefit. In exchange, the Department provides free public entry use of the facility, or free or reduced entry for a certain segment of the public (e.g., children under 12, senior citizens, anyone donating clothing or food for a drive for those in need); for a special group of the public (e.g., participants in a community parade); or to the first entrants up to a specified number.

 Bonus and prizes: The Department may distribute to users or entrants an item supplied by the sponsor (e.g., a button, a balloon, literature, an item of apparel, or a donated prize for an achievement).

 Combination tickets: The Superintendent may issue a combination ticket for use of multiple City facilities or participation in multiple City events. A combination ticket may also take the form of a reciprocal discount or credit. For example, presentation of a ticket stub or coupon from an Aquarium in another city may entitle the holder to a credit on admission to the Seattle Aquarium when a receipt for paid entry to Seattle's Aquarium entitles the holder to like privileges in the facility of the other city. In those cases where a combination ticket is authorized, combining multiple events and facilities:

 The combined ticket price may be less than the amount that would be paid for each entry or event singly; The combined ticket shall expire within a proximate time after its sale or first usage; And the City and any other participant organizations shall apportion the revenue from the combined sale by a ratio or formula.

 Discount Coupons: A coupon allowing two people to enter for the price of one person, or the coupon holder to enter at a reduced rate. Coupons may be offered through a sponsor who makes a payment to the City or who provides special advertising in return.

 For example, the coupon may accompany an advertisement in a widely distributed publication for tourists, which contains similar coupons for other attractions. The Department may also use coupons as a way of reaching out to a group or segment of the citizenry, who would not attend or use the facility at the established fee.

 Prepaid Passes: During special hours or otherwise, admission may be sold to a tour company, the organizer of a convention, or an association at an aggregate fee for all members and the participants may be granted entry, either as a group or individually, at the hours or on the days authorized by presenting a ticket or other indication of pre-payment.

 Departmental Free or Half-Price Days: "Senior citizens' days" may be offered during which time people over a minimum age are admitted free; a free day may be provided for the public to see and enjoy an exhibit financed through a bond issue or by a public fund-raising drive; or, on a "Kids' Day" or "Neighborhood Day," admission may be free for children and low income adults; a free golf lesson day for kids; or free swimming day at our pools.

 Promotional Purposes: The Department may offer extended evening hours or special discounts during specific periods in the year to encourage high attendance to our park facilities. Some examples include, but are not limited to, the following:

 Extended Aquarium hours and special discounts during the summer.

 Extended special discount for swimming fees during the summer.

 APPENDIX

 FACILITY PHONE NUMBERS

 AQUARIUM

 Administrative Office 386-4300

 Member/Group Sales/Registrar 386-4353

 AQUATICS FACILITIES

 ROWING & SAILING CENTERS

 Green Lake Small Craft Cntr 684-4074

 Mt. Baker Rowing & Sailing 386-1913

 SWIMMING POOLS

 Ballard Pool 684-4094

 Colman Pool (summer only) 684-7494

 Evans Pool 684-0780

 Madison Pool 684-4979

 Meadowbrook Pool 684-4989

 Medgar Evers Pool 684-4766

 Mounger Pool (summer only) 684-4708

 Queen Anne Pool 386-4282

 Rainier Beach Pool 386-1944

 Southwest Pool 684-7440

 ARBORETUM/GARDENS

 WA Arboretum Visitor Center 543-8800

 Japanese Gardens 684-4725

 GOLF DRIVING RANGES

 DRIVING RANGES

 Interbay 285-2200

 Jefferson 763-8989

 GOLF COURSES

 Green Lake (Pitch & Putt) 632-2280

 Interbay 285-2200

 Jackson Park 363-4747

 Jefferson Park 762-4513

 West Seattle 935-5187

 West Seattle Clubhouse

 Restaurant (Banquets) 932-7577

 MOORAGES AND BOAT RENTALS

 Aqua Marina 722-3887

 Green Lake Boat Rentals 527-0171

 Lakewood Moorage 722-3887

 Leschi Moorage 325-3730

 Mt. Baker Rowing & Sailing 386-1913

 RENTAL FACILITIES

 COMMUNITY CENTERS

 Alki 684-7430

 Ballard 684-4093

 Bitter Lake 684-7524

 Delridge 684-7423

 Garfield 684-4788

 Green Lake 684-0780

 Hiawatha 684-7441

 High Point 684-7422

 Jefferson 684-7481

 Laurelhurst 684-7529

 Loyal Heights 684-4052

 Magnolia 386-4235

 Meadowbrook 684-7522

 Miller 684-4753

 Montlake 684-4736

 Queen Anne 386-4240

 Rainier 386-1919

 Rainier Beach 386-1925

 Ravenna-Eckstein 684-7534

 South Park 684-7451

 Southwest 684-7438

 Van Asselt 386-1921

 Yesler 386-1245

 ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING CENTERS

 Camp Long (cabins & rooms) 684-7434

 Carkeek Park 684-0877

 Discovery Park 386-4236

 Seward Park 684-4396

 OTHER FACILITIES

 Langston Hughes Performing

 Arts Center 684-4757

 Pritchard Beach Bathhouse 386-1925

 SAND POINT/MAGNUSON PARK

 Administrative Office 684-4946

 SEATTLE TENNIS CENTER

 Indoor & Outdoor courts 684-4764

 PERMIT AND RESERVATION PHONE NUMBERS

 Athletic Field/Court Scheduling

 Field Scheduling - Individual 684-4077

 Field Scheduling - League 684-4082

 Tennis

 Indoor courts 684-4764

 Outdoor tournaments 684-4082

 Tennis Center (indoor courts) 684-4764

 General & Group Reservations

 Day Camp Reservations 684-4080

 Picnic Area Reservations 684-4081

 Weddings

 Camp Long (outdoor) 684-7434

 Facility (indoor) (call specific facility)

 Park areas 684-4081

 Specialized Permits & Contracts

 Commercial Use Permits 684-4080

 Concession Contracts 684-8002

 Events & Filming (held on Park property)

 Commercial events 684-4080

 Film Permits 684-4080

 @ Sand Point 684-4946

 Special Events 684-4080

 Revocable Use Permits 684-4860

 Special Events Permits 684-4080

 Tree Trimming 684-471

 Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 2003-2004 Fees and Charges Ordinance Exhibit 1, Version 4

 Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 Revised 2003-2004 Fees and Charges

 C

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 E

 1

 GOLF COURSES

 2

 JAPANESE GARDEN

 3

 SEATTLE AQUARIUM

 4

 SEATTLE TENNIS CENTER

 5

 SEATTLE TENNIS CENTER

 7

 SWIMMING POOLS

 8

 SWIMMING POOLS

 9

 SWIMMING POOLS

 10

 ATHLETIC FACILITIES - STADIUM USE

 11

 ATHLETIC FACILITIES - EVENING RECREATION SCHOOL GYM RENTALS

 12

 COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS AND GYMNASIUMS

 13

 COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS AND GYMNASIUMS

 14

 HOURLY ROOM AND GYMNASIUM RENTAL FEES

 15

 CAMP LONG

 16

 CAMP LONG

 17

 DISCOVERY PARK

 18

 WASHINGTON PARK ARBORETUM

 19

 LANGSTON HUGHES PERFORMING ARTS CENTER

 20

 LANGSTON HUGHES PERFORMING ARTS CENTER

 21

 PRITCHARD BEACH BATHHOUSE

 22

 SAND POINT MAGNUSON PARK

 25

 26

 MOORAGE AND BOAT RAMPS

 27

 MOORAGES AND BOAT RAMPS

 28

 29

 RECREATION PARTICIPATION FEES

 30

 RECREATION PARTICIPATION FEES SPORTS USE FEES

 31

 32

 USE PERMITS

 33

 USE PERMITS

 36

 REVOCABLE USE PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE

 37

 REVOCABLE USE PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE VIEW TREE PRUNING PERMIT

 38

 RESERVATIONS

 39

 RESERVATIONS RENTALS

 40

 PROMOTIONAL & MARKETING FEE WAIVERS AND REDUCTIONS

 I

 FACILITY PHONE NUMBERS

 II

 PERMIT AND RESERVATION PHONE NUMBERS

```
