

********

**Council Bill Number: 114789**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121382**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to certain real property commonly described as 4130 16th Avenue SW, legally described as Block 6 Lot 6 and 7 Sander's Second Addition to West Seattle, and located adjacent to the Department of Parks and Recreation's Westbridge Maintenance Facility; authorizing acquisition of such real property; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to execute such documents as may be necessary to acquire such property; and amending the 2003 Adopted Budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation by making an appropriation from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund, all by a three- fourths (3/4) vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 15, 2003
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 22, 2003
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 19, 2003
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 8, 2003
   
**Committee:** Parks, Education and Libraries
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** DELRIDGE, NORTH-DELRIDGE, LAND-ACQUISITION, FACILITIES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION

**Fiscal Note:**114789

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to certain real property commonly described as 4130 16th Avenue SW, legally described as Block 6 Lot 6 and 7 Sander's Second Addition to West Seattle, and located adjacent to the Department of Parks and Recreation's Westbridge Maintenance Facility; authorizing acquisition of such real property; authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to execute such documents as may be necessary to acquire such property; and amending the 2003 Adopted Budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation by making an appropriation from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund, all by a three- fourths (3/4) vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, Donald L. Nelson and Joann Nelson, husband and wife, have voluntarily listed their property for sale; and

 WHEREAS, the listed property will provide a valuable adjunct to the Department of Parks and Recreation's adjacent maintenance facility ("Westbridge Maintenance Facility") and provide a storage area for materials currently stored at Discovery Park; and

 WHEREAS, implementation of the Discovery Park Master Plan requires removal of a substantial amount of the material currently stored at the Park;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to acquire real property from Donald L. Nelson and Joann Nelson in accordance with the Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment 1, and to accept the deed for such real property by attaching to each his written acceptance thereof and to record the same. Such real property is legally described as follows and shall be accepted for general municipal purposes and placed under jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation:

 Lots 6 and 7, Block 6, Sander's Second Addition to West Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in volume 3 of Plats, page 56, in King County Washington;

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of vacated street adjacent, as vacated by Ordinance 80585 in December 1951.

 Section 2. The sum of Two Hundred Twenty-One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($221,500) is hereby transferred from the Park and Recreation Fund (10200) to the Cumulative Reserve Subfund - REET I (00163) in order to pay for costs related to the acquisition authorized in Section 1 above.

 Section 3. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses for which insufficient appropriations were made, the appropriation for the following in the 2003 Budget is increased from the fund shown, as follows:

 Department Fund Budget Control Level/ Amount CIP Program

 Parks and Cumulative Reserve K72714: Roy Street $221,500 Recreation Subfund - REET I Shops Replacement (00163)

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2003, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2003. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2003. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2003. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement - Westbridge Parcel 2

 10/17/03 version #2

 Attachment 1

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT WESTBRIDGE PARCEL 2

 THIS REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made as of the _____ day of _______________, 2003 by and between Donald L. Nelson and Joanne Nelson, husband and wife, as ("Seller"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("Buyer"). The real property that is the subject of this Agreement is situated in King County, Washington, and legally described in Exhibit A attached hereto ("Land"). The Land together with all permanent improvements thereon and all rights, privileges, easements and other appurtenances thereto are hereafter referred to as the "Property".

 1. Purchase Price; Payment. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, Seller shall sell and Buyer shall purchase the Property for a price of One Hundred and Eighty Seven Thousand Dollars ($187,000) ("Purchase Price"). The Purchase Price is payable as follows:

 1.1 Deposit. Within five (5) days of the execution of this Agreement by Buyer and Seller, Buyer will open an escrow account with Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc., 215 Columbia Street, Seattle, Washington 98104 (referred to hereafter as "Escrow Agent" or "Title Company") and shall deliver to Escrow Agent a deposit of Two Thousand and NO/100 Dollars ($2,000) (the "Deposit") together with a copy of the fully executed Agreement. Escrow Agent shall place the Deposit in an interest-bearing account for the benefit of the Buyer. Escrow Agent shall apply or disburse the Deposit as provided in this Agreement. At closing, Escrow Agent shall apply the Deposit together with interest, if any, to the Purchase Price.

 1.2 Payment of Remainder of Purchase Price. The balance of the Purchase Price shall be payable in cash, certified funds or wire transfer at closing.

 3. Conveyance; Title Insurance.

 3.1 Conveyance. Seller shall convey good, marketable and insurable title to the Property to Buyer by statutory warranty deed, free and clear of any and all liens, encumbrances, defects, easements, conditions, and restrictions except those listed on Exhibit B and those, if any, accepted by Buyer in writing (collectively referred to as "Permitted Exceptions").

 3.2 Title Insurance. Title to the Property shall be insured under a standard coverage owner's policy of title insurance issued pursuant to the preliminary commitment for title insurance from the Title Company, No. 544445, dated August 6, 2003 ("Title Report").

 4. Conditions Precedent; Feasibility Period.

 4.1. Buyer Conditions. The obligations of Buyer under this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions, which are for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived only in writing by Buyer. If any condition is not satisfied or waived prior to closing (or such earlier date as provided in the subsections below), then this Agreement shall terminate, and the parties shall have no further obligations under this Agreement, except that Buyer shall be entitled to return of the Deposit together with interest, if any.

 4.1.1 Feasibility; Condition of Property. Buyer shall have until Thursday, September 10, 2003 ("Feasibility Period") to perform, or have performed by consultants acceptable to Buyer, such surveys, investigations and studies, including, but not limited to, sampling of the Property (collectively referred to as "Investigations") as Buyer deems necessary or desirable. During the Feasibility Period, Buyer and its agents shall have the right to enter the Property at reasonable times to conduct such Investigations subject to the following: (a) Buyer shall not allow (and shall immediately remove) any liens on the Property as a result of the Investigations and shall repair or restore the Property to its original condition after completion of its Investigations; and (b) Buyer shall fully indemnify and hold Seller harmless from any claim, liability, loss or expense asserted against Seller or the Property arising out of Buyer's or its agent's, employee's or designee's entry onto the Property. All costs of such Investigations shall be paid for by Buyer. Buyer shall have the Feasibility Period to determine the acceptability of the information, the suitability of the Property for Buyer's intended uses and the feasibility of this transaction, all in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion. Any deficiency or defective condition determined by Buyer in its feasibility assessment may be waived in Buyer's sole discretion.

 4.1.2 Confirmation of Value. On or before Friday, September 15, 2003, Buyer shall have obtained an appraisal or otherwise confirmed to its satisfaction that the Purchase Price is equivalent to the fair market value of the Property.

 4.1.3 Debris and Personal Property. Not later than fifteen (15) days before closing, Buyer shall notify Seller of the nature and location of any garbage, waste or debris on the Property that Buyer desires Seller to remove before closing. Within five (5) days of closing, Seller shall, at Seller's cost and expense, perform a one- time, reasonable cleanup to remove garbage, waste and debris from the Property, which shall be subject to Buyer's inspection and reasonable approval. Seller will hold Buyer harmless from all claims and expenses arising from such removal.

 4.1.4 Title Insurance. On the date of closing, Title Company shall be irrevocably committed to issuing to Buyer an owner's Standard coverage policy of title insurance, dated as of the date of closing and insuring Buyer in the amount of the Purchase Price against loss or damage by reason of defect in Buyer's title to the Property subject only to the printed exclusions and general exceptions appearing in the policy form and any Permitted Exceptions.

 4.1.5 Compliance With Obligations. Seller shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Seller.

 4.1.6 Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties of Seller in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all respects as of the closing date.

 4.1.7 No Adverse Changes. As of closing, there shall have been no adverse change in the physical condition of the Property from the date of this Agreement.

 4.2. Seller Conditions. The obligation of Seller to convey the Property to Buyer hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions within the time periods specified below, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 4.2.1 Compliance With Obligations. Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, conditions and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Buyer.

 5. Representations and Warranties. Effective as of the date of this Agreement and the date of closing, Seller represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive closing and shall not be merged in any deed delivered by Seller to Buyer at closing.

 5.1 Authority of Seller. Seller has full power and authority to execute this Agreement and perform Seller's obligations hereunder. When executed and delivered by Seller, this Agreement shall constitute a legal, valid, and binding obligation of Seller.

 5.2 Ownership. Seller is the sole owner of the Property.

 5.3 Hazardous Substances. Seller has not received notification from any federal, state, or local agency suggesting that the Property is currently in violation of any environmental law or regulation or is or may be targeted for environmental cleanup. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Property is not in violation of any federal, state or local law, ordinance or regulation relating to industrial hygiene or to the environmental conditions on, under, above or about the Property, including but not limited to soil and groundwater conditions. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there are no cisterns, wells, subterranean storage or underground storage tanks on the Property. Seller warrants that no underground storage tanks have been removed from the Property unless the report of the licensed contractor performing the removal is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit C.

 5.4 The Property. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Property is free of any material defects, latent or patent, and there are no prescriptive or adverse interests with respect to the Property. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there are no boundary problems or encroachments on or from the Property.

 5.5 Litigation. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there is not pending or threatened any litigation or proceeding affecting the Property or any portion thereof which might materially impair the value or usefulness of the Property or any portion thereof to Buyer or would prevent Buyer from acquiring the Property in accordance with this Agreement. Seller has received no written notice of any judgments, orders, or decrees pending or outstanding against the Property or against Seller that would affect Seller's ability to perform his obligations under this Agreement or the use and occupancy of the Property for Buyer's purposes.

 5.6 Outstanding Contracts. To the best of Seller's knowledge, all persons and corporations supplying labor, materials or equipment to the Property have been paid and there are no claims of liens. Seller shall indemnify and hold harmless Buyer from and against any and all obligations, costs, and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) for any contract for improvements to or otherwise affecting or relating to the Property that has not been fully paid and Seller shall discharge all mechanics' and materialmens' liens arising from any labor or material furnished prior to the closing date.

 5.7 Agreements with Governmental Authorities. Seller has no knowledge of any agreements with governmental authorities, agencies, utilities, or quasi-governmental entities that affect the Property except provision of utilities to the house located at 4130 16th Avenue SW. No consent or approval of any federal, state, or local court or federal, state or local government, bureau, department, commission, or agency is required to permit Seller to execute, deliver, or perform the transactions contemplated in the Agreement.

 5.8 Persons in Possession. As of the date of this Agreement, the Property is not, and as of the closing date the Property will not be subject to any leases, tenancies or rights of persons in possession. The house located at 4130 16th Avenue SW Street will be unoccupied and empty on the date of closing. Seller will hold Buyer harmless from any and all claims and expenses arising from previous leases, tenancies or rights of persons in possession.

 6. Closing.

 6.1 Closing Date. Closing shall occur in the office of Escrow Agent on a date mutually agreeable to Buyer and Seller after Buyer's conditions precedent have been satisfied or waived, but in any event no later than October 15, 2003, unless further extended by written agreement. As used in this Agreement, "closing," "closing date" or "date of closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for disbursement to Seller in accordance with this Agreement. Funds held in reserve accounts pursuant to escrow instructions shall be deemed, for purposes of the definition of "closing," "closing date" and "date of closing," as available for disbursement to Seller.

 6.2 Prorations; Closing Costs. Surface water management fees and other fees (if any) payable to governmental entities shall be prorated as of the date of closing. Seller shall pay real estate excise taxes (if any are due), real property taxes prorated through the date of closing, and one half the premium for Buyer's owner's title insurance policy. If Seller is entitled to a reimbursement for overpayment of real property taxes, it shall be Seller's responsibility to seek such reimbursement from the appropriate taxing authority outside of closing. Seller's monetary liens on the Property shall, if not previously discharged, be discharged in full out of the Purchase Price at closing. Buyer will pay half the premium for its owners title insurance policy, the escrow agent's fees and the cost of recording the statutory warranty deed from the Seller.

 6.3 Documents. Buyer and Seller shall deposit in escrow with Escrow Agent all instruments, documents and monies necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. At closing, Seller shall execute and deliver to Buyer in escrow the following documents, each of which shall be in form and substance satisfactory to Buyer: a statutory warranty deed as described in Subsection 3.1 above, a real estate excise tax affidavit, and an affidavit evidencing that Seller is exempt from the withholding requirements of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code.

 6.4 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property upon closing.

 7. Risk of Loss. Seller will bear the risk of loss of or damage to the Property until the date of closing upon which event, the risks shift to the buyer as new owner of the property. Seller shall at all times before closing maintain an all-risk policy on the structure(s) on the Property for no less than the value of the structure(s). If any structure on the Property is damaged or destroyed before closing then, at the election of Seller, either the proceeds of insurance for damage to or destruction of such structure(s) shall be paid or credited to Buyer at closing, or the Purchase Price shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to the proceeds of insurance. If uninsurable damage occurs to the Land (i.e., earthquake) and adversely affects value by more than ten percent (10%), Buyer may elect to terminate this Agreement by giving notice of termination to Seller. If Buyer elects to terminate this Agreement, the Deposit, together with accrued interest, if any, shall be refunded to Buyer, and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement.

 8. Remedies on Default. If Buyer has performed its obligations under this Agreement, and Seller defaults under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then Buyer shall be entitled to specific enforcement, or to damages for breach and to terminate this Agreement without further obligation to Seller and to receive return of the Deposit plus interest, if any. If Seller has performed its obligations under this Agreement, and Buyer defaults under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then the Deposit shall be forfeited to Seller as liquidated damages as Seller's sole and exclusive remedy.

 9. Broker Representation. Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that Seller has incurred finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees in connection with the sale of the Property and Seller is responsible for the payment of such fees. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees incurred by Seller. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that Buyer has incurred no finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with the sale of the Property. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees incurred by Buyer.

 10. General Provisions.

 10.1 Notices. All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or delivered via facsimile transmittal, and shall be deemed received on the sooner of actual or facsimile receipt or three (3) days after deposit in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer, as the case may be, at the address/facsimile number set forth below and with copies as specified:

 Seller: Will Stout Stout Realty P.O. Box 793 Edmonds, WA 98022 Telephone: (206) 841 9556

 Buyer: Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr. Seattle, WA 98134 Facsimile: (206) 233-7038 Telephone: (206) 733-9106 Attn: Terry Dunning

 Notice of a change of address or facsimile number shall be given by written notice in the manner specified above.

 10.2 Costs. Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, neither party shall be responsible for paying any costs incurred by the other party in connection with this Agreement or otherwise. All obligations, if any, for reimbursement or cost-sharing shall survive closing.

 10.3 Memorandum of Agreement. This Agreement shall not be recorded, but a mutually approved Memorandum stating the legal description and closing schedule may be prepared, signed, acknowledged and recorded at the request of either party.

 10.4 Amendment. This Agreement may be amended only by written instrument signed by Seller and Buyer acting through duly authorized representatives.

 10.5 Entire Understanding. This Agreement, and the documents incorporated herein, embody the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the transaction contemplated hereby, superseding all prior expressions by the parties. The terms of this Agreement cannot be waived except by the written agreement of the party against whom a waiver shall be asserted.

 10.6 Time of Essence. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and each term and condition hereof.

 10.7 Governing Law. This Agreement shall in all respects be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws and judicial decisions of the State of Washington.

 10.8 Severability. If any portion of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, the same shall not affect in any respect whatsoever the validity of the remainder of this Agreement, which shall be enforced in accordance with its terms.

 10.9 Holidays and Weekends. In the event that the date for any notice, performance, term, or period specified or contemplated hereunder shall fall on a holiday or a weekend, the date and any associated performance or action shall automatically be extended to the next succeeding business day.

 10.10 Captions. Section titles or other headings set forth in this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not be a part of this Agreement, nor shall they be considered in its interpretation, construction, or enforcement.

 10.11 Exhibits Incorporated. All exhibits attached hereto, as listed below, are expressly incorporated into and form a part of this Agreement.

 Exhibit A. Legal Description of Property Exhibit B. Permitted Exceptions.

 Exhibit C __________________ _____________________] [if attached, Buyer and Seller initial here:

 11. Survival. The covenants, agreements, indemnities, representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall survive closing unimpaired and shall not merge into the deed and the recordation thereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement as of the date first stated above.

 BUYER:

 The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation By: ___________________________________ Kenneth R. Bounds, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 SELLER: Donald L. Nelson ____________________________________ Joanne Nelson _____________________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ____, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ____________________________, to me known to be the ______________Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written. ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _____________.

 My Commission expires on ____________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ____, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Donald L. Nelson, to me known to be the individual that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be her free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written. ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _____________.

 My Commission expires on ____________.

 EXHIBIT A LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 Block 6 Lot 6-7 Sanders 2nd Addition to W S and Portions of a Vacated Street

 EXHIBIT B PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS

 Subject to the following special exceptions contained in Schedule B Pacific Northwest Title Insurance Company, Inc. preliminary commitment No. 544468 dated August 6, 2003:

 Special district taxes and charges not yet due and payable.

 Public utility easements as may be disclosed.

```
