

********

**Council Bill Number: 114887**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121466**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of surplus City Light property; declaring property known as Fremont Substation, located at 3622 Albion Place North in Seattle, Washington, surplus to the City's needs and not required for providing continued municipal utility services; authorizing the sale of such property for $337,500 to Capitol Hill Housing Improvement Program, a Washington public corporation; authorizing the execution of sale documents; and directing the deposit of proceeds to the Light Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 3, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 14, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 12, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 26, 2004
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, FREMONT, SUBSTATIONS, PUBLIC-CORPORATIONS, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, SUBSIDIZED-HOUSING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 89289

**Fiscal Note:**114887

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of surplus City Light property; declaring property known as Fremont Substation, located at 3622 Albion Place North in Seattle, Washington, surplus to the City's needs and not required for providing continued municipal utility services; authorizing the sale of such property for $337,500 to Capitol Hill Housing Improvement Program, a Washington public corporation; authorizing the execution of sale documents; and directing the deposit of proceeds to the Light Fund.

 WHEREAS, Fremont Substation is now surplus to the City's needs and is not and will not be used or useful for any City Light Department or other municipal purpose, and the Superintendent of City Light has recommended the sale of the Fremont Substation site to Capitol Hill Housing Improvement Program ("CHHIP"), a Washington public corporation; and

 WHEREAS, an independent real estate appraisal has determined the value of the Fremont Substation site, including land and building, to be Three Hundred Thirty-seven Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($337,500); NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 35.94.040 and after a public hearing, the following described real property in Seattle, Washington, located at 3622 Albion Place North, and commonly known as the Fremont Substation:

 That portion of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 18, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W. M., described as follows: Beginning on the west margin of Woodland Park Avenue 200 feet north of the intersection with the north margin of North 36th St., thence north 50 feet, thence west 130 feet, thence south 50 feet, thence east 130 feet to beginning.

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of Vacated Woodland Park Avenue, vacated under City of Seattle Ordinance 89289, which would attach under operation of law.

 hereinafter referred to, including all improvements, as the "Property," is hereby found and declared to be no longer required for providing municipal utility service and to be surplus to the City's needs.

 Section 2. As requested by the Superintendent of City Light and recommended by the Mayor, said Superintendent is authorized to offer and sell the Property to Capitol Hill Housing Improvement Program (CHHIP), for and in consideration of Three Hundred Thirty-seven Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($337,500), in accordance with the terms of a Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, and to execute and deliver for and on behalf of The City of Seattle such an agreement and a Quit Claim Deed, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. The Superintendent and his designees are further authorized to execute and deliver such other documents and take such other actions as they may deem necessary or appropriate to implement the intent of this ordinance. Any other provision of this ordinance notwithstanding, because the Property is zoned to permit retail business, the Superintendent is authorized to comply with the terms of RCW 35.87 to the extent applicable.

 Section 3. Proceeds from the sale of the Property shall be deposited in the Light Fund.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit A: Agreement for the Purchase and Sale of Real Estate (Fremont Substation - SCL/CHHIP)

 Exhibit B: Quit Claim Deed

 Charlie Hampton/ch

 SCL Fremont Substation ORD

 April 8, 2004

 version 3a

 1

 EXHIBIT A

 AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 (Fremont Substation - SCL/CHHIP)

 This Fremont Substation Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of ______________, 2004, by and between The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through the City Light Department ("Seller" or the "City"), and Capitol Hill Housing Improvement Program, a Washington public corporation ("Buyer" or "CHHIP"), whose address is 1406 10th Ave., Suite 101, Seattle, WA 98122.

 WHEREAS, CHHIP desires to purchase the Property (as hereinafter defined) for the development of a multifamily, low-income housing project (the "Project"); and

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance _________, dated ________________, 2004, the Seattle City Council authorized the execution and delivery of a real estate purchase and sale agreement with respect to the Property, which is this Agreement;

 Now, therefore, the parties hereto, for and in consideration of the mutual promises and obligations herein undertaken, do hereby agree as follows:

 Article 1. Agreement to Convey Property

 Subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the City agrees to sell, convey, transfer, and assign to Buyer and Buyer agrees to buy from the City, that certain land located in the City of Seattle, commonly known as the Fremont Substation, and legally described on Attachment 1 and incorporated herein by this reference, together with all improvements and other rights appurtenant to the land (the land, improvements and all such rights are referred to collectively as the "Property").

 Article 2. Payment of Purchase Price

 Buyer agrees to pay to the City the sum of Three Hundred Thirty- seven Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($337,500) (the "Purchase Price"). At Closing, the Buyer shall deliver cash or other immediately available funds to the Seller in the amount of the Purchase Price.

 2.1 Conditions Precedent to Buyer's Obligations. The obligations of Buyer hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the date set for Closing in Section 5.1, which conditions are for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived in the manner described below or otherwise waived in writing by Buyer, as follows:

 2.1.1 Title Matters.

 (a) Title Commitment. The Buyer shall order (with copy to the Seller) a preliminary commitment for an owner's title insurance policy (the "Title Commitment") from Pacific Northwest Title Company (the "Title Company") for the Property, listing Buyer as the prospective named insured and showing the Purchase Price as the policy amount.

 (b) Title Objections. Buyer shall have 30 days from the date of this Agreement to give written notice to Seller of any objection to the condition of title as disclosed by the Commitment. If Buyer fails to give Seller timely written notice of its objection to a condition of title, Buyer shall be deemed to have approved the condition of title as shown in the Commitment, and all encumbrances and defects shown thereon shall be Permitted Exceptions hereunder. If Buyer gives written notice that it disapproves of any special exception, then Seller shall have 30 days to notify Buyer whether Seller shall remove such special exception. If Seller notifies Buyer that Seller will not remove such special exception, then within 30 days of receipt of such notice Buyer may either (a) terminate this Agreement by delivery of a notice thereof to Seller, in which event all of the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall terminate and the Earnest Money Note (as defined in Section 4) shall be returned to Buyer, or (b) elect to waive objection to such special exception, in which event such exception shall be deemed to be a Permitted Exception. If Buyer does not give timely notice of termination under this Subsection 2.1.1, then Buyer's right to object to the condition of title shall be deemed irrevocably waived.

 2.1.2 Property Inspection. By a Right of Entry substantially in the form of Attachment 2, Seller shall grant permission to Buyer and its agents and consultants to enter the Property to conduct inspections for the purposes of determining the feasibility of Buyer's intended use of the Property. Buyer shall have until December 31, 2004 to inspect and to approve or disapprove the physical condition of the Property. Inspections made or ordered by Buyer under this Subsection 2.1.2 (collectively, the "Property Inspection"), may include, without limitation, conducting or causing to be conducted structural, fire, and safety studies, studies relating to the environmental and geological condition of the Property (including review of any environmental reports prepared by Seller and delivered to Buyer pursuant to this Agreement) and market studies of the proposed Project. If the Property Inspection indicates that the Property is not suitable for Buyer's intended purposes, in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion, then Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by sending written notice to the Seller. In such event, neither Buyer nor Seller shall have any further liability to the other under this Agreement, and the Earnest Money Note shall be returned to Buyer. If Buyer does not give such notice of termination on or before December 31, 2004, then Buyer's right to object to the physical condition of the Property shall be deemed irrevocably waived. Whether or not such condition is waived, Buyer shall provide to Seller copies of all studies and reports generated in the Property Inspection at the time Buyer gives notice to terminate or at the time this condition is waived, except as provided in Section 9.2.

 2.1.3 Financing Contingency. Buyer shall have until December 31, 2005 to obtain commitments for financing the Project, with terms and conditions acceptable to Buyer in its sole and absolute discretion. Buyer may terminate this Agreement by notifying Seller in writing on or before December 31, 2005 of Buyer's inability to obtain such financing or approvals. Upon such termination, neither party shall have any liability to the other. Buyer will be deemed to have waived this contingency if it does not provide such notice.

 2.1.4 Condition of Title at Closing. On the date set for Closing pursuant to Section 5.1, title shall be insurable by a standard 1992 ALTA form owner's policy of title insurance, in the amount of the Purchase Price, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions, any restrictions that may be required by the State of Washington Department of Ecology with respect to environmental remediation of the Property, and any exceptions caused by Buyer.

 2.2 Conditions Precedent to Seller's Obligations. The obligations of Seller hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the date set for Closing pursuant to Subsection 5.1, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 2.2.1 Compliance with Obligations. Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material respects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Buyer, and shall not be in default under any provision hereof.

 2.2.2 Right of First Offer. No entity entitled to acquire all or part of the Property pursuant to RCW 35.87 shall have given notice to the Seller of its intent to acquire all or part of the Property for use as free public parking, and the time for any such notice shall have expired. Seller shall post the statutorily required notice of the sale contemplated in this Agreement at its earliest convenience, but no more than thirty (30) days of the date hereof. If any such entity does give such notice, then Seller shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by notice to Buyer, without liability of either party.

 2.2.3 Regulatory Agreement. Simultaneously with Closing (as hereinafter defined) Buyer shall have executed, delivered and recorded against title to the Property covenants acceptable to the Director of the Office of Housing committing to the development and maintenance of Low-Income Housing, specifying the number of such units and the affordability level they will be restricted to, for a period of no less than 50 years (the "Regulatory Agreement"). As used in this paragraph, "Low-Income Housing" means housing for Low- Income Families. "Low-Income Family" means a family, whose annual income does not exceed 80% of Area Median Income, as such term shall be defined in the Regulatory Agreement.

 2.2.4 No Action or Proceeding. No action or proceeding shall be pending or threatened before any court or administrative body challenging the legality of, or seeking to enjoin the sale of the Property.

 Unless all conditions to the Seller's obligations are satisfied on the date set for Closing pursuant to Section 5.1, the Seller shall have the right, at its sole option exercisable at any time thereafter by written notice to Buyer, to terminate this Agreement, without any liability to Buyer and in such case, if the condition in Subsection 2.2.1 is satisfied, Buyer shall have no liability to Seller.

 Article 3. Representations, Warranties, and Covenants

 3.1 Seller's Warranties. As additional consideration for this sale, Seller represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive Closing and shall not be merged in any deed delivered by Seller to Buyer at Closing:

 3.1.1 Seller has full power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, and all other documents and certificates contemplated hereby, and the execution, delivery and performance thereof have been duly authorized by Seller. This Agreement constitutes the valid, binding obligation of Seller enforceable in accordance with its terms.

 3.1.2 Seller has incurred no finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with the sale of the Property. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees.

 3.2 Buyer's Warranties. As additional consideration for this purchase, Buyer represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive Closing.

 3.2.1 Buyer has not employed any broker or finder in connection with the purchase of the Property. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees.

 3.2.2 Buyer is a public corporation duly organized and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington and the ordinances of the City of Seattle. The execution and delivery on behalf of Buyer of this Agreement and all documents contemplated hereunder, and the performance by Buyer of its obligations under this Agreement and all such documents, have been duly authorized by all necessary action and the individual executing this Agreement for Buyer has been duly authorized to do so. This Agreement constitutes the valid, binding obligation of Buyer enforceable in accordance with its terms.

 Article 4. Earnest Money

 Within five days of executing this Agreement, Buyer shall deposit with the Title Company, a promissory note in the amount of $10,000 in Attachment 3 (the "Earnest Money Note"). The Earnest Money Note shall be held by the Title Company until such time as the Buyer becomes entitled to return of such Earnest Money Note under the terms hereof, or until the Seller becomes entitled to the Earnest Money Note under the provisions of this Agreement.

 Article 5. Closing

 5.1 Time for Closing. This sale will be closed in the offices of the Title Company on or before March 1, 2006 on a date selected by Buyer and reasonably acceptable to Seller. If Buyer shall become entitled to give notice setting a date for Closing and shall fail to give such notice by February 15, 2006, Buyer shall be in default hereunder. As used in this Agreement, "Closing," means the recording of the Deed (as defined in Section 5.3) and delivery of the proceeds of sale to the Seller in accordance with this Agreement. "Date of Closing" means the date on which Closing actually is completed.

 5.2 Prorations, Closing Costs. Any assessments, drainage service fees and other governmental charges for the current year from which the Seller is not exempt will be prorated as of the Date of Closing. Buyer shall pay the premium for the Title Policy, Buyer shall pay the cost of recording the Deed and Seller and Buyer each shall pay 50% of escrow costs. To the extent chargeable to Seller hereunder, closing costs shall be deducted from proceeds released to Seller.

 5.3 Closing Documents. At Closing, Buyer shall deposit with the Title Company the Regulatory Agreement and customary closing documents and, in immediately available funds, the full amount of the Purchase Price and additional funds sufficient to pay all closing costs chargeable to Buyer hereunder. Seller will execute and deposit with the Title Company a quit claim deed conveying Seller's interest in the Property ("Deed"), a real estate excise tax affidavit, the Earnest Money Promissory Note, and other customary closing documents.

 5.4 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property at Closing.

 Article 6. Default

 If the conditions to Seller's obligations are satisfied or waived, Buyer gives timely notice of a date for Closing and tenders all funds and documents required for Closing, and Seller fails or refuses to close this transaction through no fault of Buyer, Buyer may seek specific performance of this Agreement or such other remedies as Buyer may elect. In the event Buyer fails, without legal excuse, to complete the purchase of the Property, and on any event of termination of this Agreement by the Seller under the terms hereof after any breach or default by the Buyer, the Earnest Money Note shall be released to Seller as the sole and exclusive remedy available to Seller for such failure, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty.

 Article 7. Notices

 All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, faxed, or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed received (a) upon receipt if hand delivered or faxed, or (b) on the earlier of actual receipt during normal working hours on a Business Day, or on the first Business Day that is at least two (2) days after the date when the notice is deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer at the addresses set forth below, or such other addresses as either party shall have provided to the other by written notice:

 Buyer: Capitol Hill Housing Improvement Program

 1406 10th Ave., Suite 101

 Seattle, WA 98122

 Phone: (206) 329-7303

 Fax: (206) 329-1857

 Attention: Chuck Weinstock

 Seller: Seattle City Light

 Real Estate Services

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle. WA 98124-4023

 Phone: (206) 684-3394

 FAX: (206) 233-2760

 Attention: Manager, Real Estate Services

 Notice of change of address shall be given by written notice in the manner detailed above.

 Article 8. General Provisions

 8.1 Entire Agreement. This is the entire agreement of Buyer and Seller with respect to the Property and supersedes all prior agreements between them, written or oral. This Agreement may be modified only in writing, signed by Buyer and Seller. Any waivers under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of default will not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. This Agreement is for the benefit of, and binding upon, Buyer and Seller and their successors and assigns, subject to the limit on assignment in Section 8.2. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.

 8.2 Assignment. This Agreement may be assigned by Buyer to a limited liability company or limited partnership formed and controlled by Buyer for the purpose of utilizing low-income housing tax credits to fund the development of the Project (as hereinafter defined). Buyer may assign its rights under this Agreement to any other entity only with the prior written consent of Seller. Such assignment shall not relieve CHHIP of any duties it has under this Agreement.

 Article 9. Environmental Matters

 All terms and provisions of this Article 9 shall survive Closing.

 9.1 Seller Representations.

 9.1.1 Seller represents and warrants that, to the best of its knowledge, (a) the Property does not contain Excessive Hazardous Substances (as hereinafter defined) and (b) the Property does not contain underground tanks of any type. As used in the previous sentence, the word "Seller" shall be limited to those persons employed in the Real Estate Services Unit and the Environment and Safety Division of Seller's City Light Department with actual knowledge of the sale of the Property contemplated by this Agreement. The representations and warranties made in this Subsection 9.1.1 also shall be deemed made by Seller to Buyer on the date of closing.

 9.1.2 Except as specifically stated in Subsection 9.1.1 of this Agreement, Seller makes no representation or warranty as to the environmental condition of the Property. And except for the specific representations and warranties in Subsection 9.1.1, Buyer acknowledges that it is not relying on any representation, warranty or statement, express or implied, made by or on behalf of Seller or any of its officers, employees or agents as to any matter related to the environmental condition of the Property, nor relying on any duty of Seller or such persons to disclose any such matter.

 9.2 Duties Regarding Hazardous Substances

 9.2.1 Environmental Documents. Buyer acknowledges that prior to the date hereof, Seller has delivered to Buyer, and Buyer has reviewed, (a) a copy of the HWA Geosciences Inc. report dated December 15, 2003 of its limited Phase 2 environmental assessment of the Property (the "Phase 2 Assessment"), including the Knebel Company, Inc. report regarding asbestos and lead paint and (b) copies of the Raven Services Corporation "Final Report" dated November 16, 1988, and the Raven Services Corporation letter dated September 18, 1990.

 9.2.2 Remediation During Construction. In the event that Buyer, in the normal course of construction, but not later than March 1, 2007, discovers any Excessive Hazardous Substances or underground tanks on the Property, Seller shall reimburse Buyer for the incremental cost of removing and disposing of such Excessive Hazardous Substances or underground tanks; provided, that Buyer submits to Seller a written plan for such work (stating the nature and extent of the Excessive Hazardous Substances or underground tanks, the proposed method of removal and disposal and the estimated cost) and that Seller approves such plan prior to its initiation, which approval shall not unreasonably be denied. If Seller fails to respond within five (5) working days of submittal, Buyer's plan shall be deemed to be approved. As used in this Subsection 9.2.2, "incremental cost" means the amount by which the total reasonable cost incurred by Buyer for removal and disposal of Excessive Hazardous Substances or underground tanks exceeds the total reasonable cost that Buyer would have incurred for the removal and disposal of soil or materials if none had contained Excessive Hazardous Substances or underground tanks. If Buyer is entitled to reimbursement under this Subsection 9.2.2, Buyer shall, following completion of the aforesaid removal and disposal, submit an invoice showing work performed in accordance with the approved plan. Seller shall make payment within 30 days of receipt of such invoice, documented to Seller's reasonable satisfaction.

 9.3 Environmental Definitions.

 "Excessive Hazardous Substance" means any Hazardous Substance (as defined below) shown by the Phase 2 Assessment to be in excess of MTCA Method A risk-based clean-up levels, as such are defined by the Washington State Department of Ecology as of December 15, 2003.

 "Hazardous Substance" means any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material defined as such in (or for purposes of) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, the Washington Model Toxics Control Act, as amended ("MTCA"), any so-called Superfund or Super lien law, or any other federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order or decree regulating, relating to or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material, which is in effect as of December 15, 2003, and any other chemical, material or substance, exposure to which is prohibited, limited or regulated, as of December 15, 2003, by any federal, state or local government authority pursuant to any environmental health and safety or similar law, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, order or decree and which may or could pose a hazard to the health and safety of occupants or users of the Property or any part thereof.

 Article 10. Demolition of Structures

 Buyer shall be responsible for demolition of all structures on the Property, and Buyer shall do so in the course of construction. Seller agrees to reimburse Buyer for fifty percent (50%) of demolition costs in excess of $14,800; provided that such costs are reasonably incurred. Following completion of demolition, Buyer shall submit an invoice, and Seller shall make payment within 30 days of receipt of the invoice, documented to Seller's reasonable satisfaction. This Article 10 shall survive Closing and shall not merge with the Deed.

 Article 11. Release and Indemnification

 11.1 Release. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, and conditioned on Seller's compliance with of its obligations under Section 9.2, Buyer hereby irrevocably releases and waives any and all claims that Buyer has or may have against Seller with respect to the condition of the Property or arising pursuant to the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or the Washington State Model Toxics Control Act, as amended, except to the extent Seller knew of any conditions that reasonably would be expected to give rise to such a claim and failed to disclose such conditions to Buyer. Following the word "except" in this Section 11.1, the word "Seller" shall be limited to those persons employed in the Real Estate Services Unit and the Environment and Safety Division of Seller's City Light Department with actual knowledge of the sale of the Property contemplated by this Agreement.

 11.2 Indemnification.

 11.2.1 Seller Indemnities. Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer, its successors and assigns, harmless from any and all liabilities, claims, damages, demands, costs, fines, penalties and expenses of any kind or nature including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and expenditures for investigation and remediation, (collectively "Claims"') asserted by any other party or parties (including a governmental entity) which may be imposed upon or incurred by Buyer, its successors or assigns arising out of or in connection with: (a) the material breach of Seller's warranties under this Agreement; (b) the presence, disposal, escape, migration, leakage, spillage, discharge, emission, release, threatened release, handling, or transportation of Hazardous Substances on or from the Property or any part of the Property during the ownership of Seller prior to the Closing (collectively, "Pre-Closing Environmental Events''); (c) any personal injury, death, or property damage arising out of or related to any Pre-Closing Environmental Event; and (d) any lawsuit brought or threatened, settlement reached, or government hearing, investigation, inquiry, proceeding, or order relating to any Pre-Closing Environmental Event, or any violations of any environmental statutes or regulations by Seller prior to Closing. Claims for investigation and remediation shall be limited to those required by regulatory agencies with jurisdiction.

 11.2.2 Buyer Indemnities. Buyer shall indemnify, defend and hold Seller, its successors and assigns, harmless from any and all Claims asserted by any other party or parties (including a governmental entity) which may be imposed upon or incurred by Seller, its successors or assigns arising out of or in connection with: (a) the material breach of Buyer's warranties under this Agreement; (b) the disposal, escape, migration, leakage, spillage, discharge, emission, release, threatened release, handling, or transportation of Hazardous Materials caused or created by Buyer on or from the Property or any part of the Property during the ownership of Buyer and after the Closing (collectively, "Post-Closing Environmental Events''); (c) any personal injury, death, or property damage arising out of or related to any Post-Closing Environmental Event; and (d) any lawsuit brought or threatened, settlement reached, or government hearing, investigation, inquiry, proceeding, or order relating to any Post-Closing Environmental Event, or any violations of any environmental statutes or regulations by Buyer after Closing. Claims for investigation and remediation shall be limited to those required by regulatory agencies with jurisdiction.

 Article 12. Assumption of Risk

 Except as specifically set forth in Subsection 9.1.1 of this Agreement, Seller makes no representations or warranties and shall not be liable for the condition or suitability of the Property or any structures or improvements thereon for Buyer's use. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Buyer agrees that, except as may be specifically set forth in this Agreement, neither Seller nor any person for whom Seller may have any responsibility makes any representation, warranty or promise of any kind, or has any responsibility or duty to disclose any information to Buyer, with regard to any of the following: (a) the physical condition of the Property (land, buildings, fixtures, or infrastructure), whether or not readily determined by inspection; (b) the history of the Property or activities that may have occurred or been conducted thereon or thereunder; (c) soils conditions or drainage; (d) square footage of land or buildings; (e) location or condition of utility lines; (f) encroachments; or (g) the presence or absence of underground tanks or any hazardous or defective substances or conditions on or about the Property or on adjacent properties. This Article 12 shall survive Closing.

 Article 13. Miscellaneous

 The Agreement shall not be binding upon Buyer until executed by both Seller and Buyer. This Agreement may be amended by writing executed by Buyer and Seller. Time is of the essence in all provisions of this Agreement.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: _______________________________

 Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 CAPITOL HILL HOUSING IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

 By: ________________________________

 Chuck Weinstock, Executive Director

 Attachment 1: Legal Description

 Attachment 2: Agreement for Right of Entry

 Attachment 3: Earnest Money Note

 1 Exhibit A to Ordinance

 EXHIBIT B

 Seattle City Light

 Real Estate Services

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 Quit Claim Deed

 Assessor's Parcel Number

 182504-9051

 QUIT CLAIM DEED

 THE GRANTOR, The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, for and in consideration of Three Hundred Thirty-seven Thousand Five Hundred and No/100 ($337,500.00) Dollars in hand paid, conveys and quit claims to Capitol Hill Housing Improvement Program, a Washington public corporation, all its right, title and interest in the following described real estate located in King County, Washington to wit:

 That portion of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 18, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W. M., described as follows: Beginning on the west margin of Woodland Park Avenue 200 feet north of the intersection with the north margin of North 36th St., thence north 50 feet, thence west 130 feet, thence south 50 feet, thence east 130 feet to beginning.

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of Vacated Woodland Park Avenue, vacated under City of Seattle Ordinance 89289, which would attach under operation of law.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The City of Seattle has caused this instrument to be executed by the Superintendent of City Light Department pursuant to Ordinance _________________. Dated this _____ day of ___________________, 2004.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 ________________________________

 Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 (ACKNOWLEGDEMENT)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that JORGE CARRASCO signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as Superintendent of City Light Department of The City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date: ______day of _______________, 2004

 _______________________________________

 (Print Name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at ______________________________

 My Commission Expires:___________________

 1 Exhibit B to Ordinance

 ATTACHMENT 1

 TO AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 Fremont Substation Legal Description:

 That portion of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 18, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W. M., described as follows: Beginning on the west margin of Woodland Park Avenue 200 feet north of the intersection with the north margin of North 36th St., thence north 50 feet, thence west 130 feet, thence south 50 feet, thence east 130 feet to beginning.

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of Vacated Woodland Park Avenue, vacated under City of Seattle Ordinance 89289, which would attach under operation of law.

 Attachment 1 to Exhibit A

 ATTACHMENT 2

 TO AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 AGREEMENT FOR RIGHT OF ENTRY

 This Agreement for Right of Entry ("Right of Entry") is made this _______ day of __________________, 2004, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington acting by and through the City Light Department (the "City") and CAPITOL HILL HOUSING IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM, a Washington public corporation ("CHHIP").

 Recitals

 The City of Seattle owns the property legally described as:

 That portion of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 18, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W. M., described as follows: Beginning on the west margin of Woodland Park Avenue 200 feet north of the intersection with the north margin of North 36th St., thence north 50 feet, thence west 130 feet, thence south 50 feet, thence east 130 feet to beginning.

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of Vacated Woodland Park Avenue, vacated under City of Seattle Ordinance 89289, which would attach under operation of law ("Property").

 The City and CHHIP have entered into a Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement dated _______________ ("REPSA") that requires the City to grant CHHIP a Right of Entry onto the Property for certain purposes.

 Right of Entry

 Now, Therefore, the City consents to the entry onto the Property by CHHIP, its employees, agents and contractors as necessary for Property Inspection, from the date hereof until the earliest of Closing, termination of the REPSA or termination of this Right of Entry in accordance with its terms. This Right of Entry is granted subject to the following terms and conditions:

 1. This Right of Entry is only for the City's consent to entry on the Property, and shall not be construed to replace or to be used in lieu of any permits or licenses which may be required, granted or supervised by any other agency or subdivision of government with authority to license, police or supervise the CHHIP's entry or activity on the Property. CHHIP shall obtain all such permits and licenses.

 2. Throughout the term of this Right of Entry, the City shall have the right to use the Property for all lawful City purposes, including without limitation inspection of the Property to determine CHHIP's compliance with the terms and conditions of this Right of Entry. CHHIP shall not at any time interfere with the City's access to and over the Property or any portion thereof.

 3. CHHIP agrees that the City of Seattle shall not be liable for any damage caused by CHHIP, its employees, agents or contractors by reason of any entry or activity on the Property, except to the extent caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the City of Seattle, its employees or agents.

 4. CHHIP agrees to assume all risk of loss, damage or injury, which may result from the Purchaser's entry or activity on the Property. It is understood that any damage to City property caused by or resulting from CHHIP's use of the Property may be repaired by the City, and the actual cost of such repair shall be charged against and be paid by CHHIP.

 5. CHHIP agrees to indemnify and save harmless The City of Seattle, its officials, employees and agents from all claims, actions or damages of every kind and description, including without limitation all claims, actions or damages brought by CHHIP's employees, agents or contractors, which may accrue from or be suffered by reason of entry or activity on the Property under this Right of Entry. In case of any suit or action brought against the City arising out of or by reason of any of the above causes, CHHIP shall, upon receipt of notice of the commencement of such action, defend the same at no cost or expense to the City. CHHIP shall fully satisfy any judgment in such action rendered adversely to the City, except to the extent of its negligence or willful misconduct. By this indemnity provision, CHHIP expressly waives any immunity it may have from claims by its employees under any industrial insurance or workers' compensation law arising out of workplace injuries in connection with the Purchaser's use of the property. Said express waiver was mutually negotiated between the Purchaser and the City.

 6. CHHIP shall obtain, and maintain continuously for the term of this Right of Entry, an occurrence form Commercial General Liability policy, insuring against personal injury, death, loss or damage of any kind arising or resulting from entry or activity on the Property by CHHIP, its employees, agents or contractors. Minimum limit of coverage shall be ONE MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000.00) each occurrence. Such insurance shall be endorsed to include The City of Seattle as additional insured, and shall not be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days' prior written notice to the City. Such insurance shall include a provision (whether by endorsement or otherwise) indicating that, except with respect to the limits of insurance and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, such insurance shall apply (a) as if each party insured thereunder (whether as named insured or additional insured) were the only party insured by such policy, and (b) separately to each party that is insured thereunder and against whom a claim is made or suit is brought.

 Within 5 days of the date hereof, CHHIP shall provide the City a photocopy of the insurance policy with its endorsements as evidence of coverage. The policy shall be subject to the approval of the City as to carrier, form, coverage and limits. The City will reject any policy written by a carrier not admitted and licensed to conduct business in the State of Washington unless the policy has been filed in compliance with RCW 48.15. Failure to maintain required insurance shall be considered a material breach of this Right of Entry. Upon such breach, this Right of Entry shall be deemed immediately terminated and the City's consent for any and all uses hereunder immediately revoked.

 7. CHHIP covenants and agrees that neither it, nor its employees, agents or contractors, will store, dump, bury or transfer (except in connection with a Phase 2 Assessment) any Hazardous Substances, flammable materials, chemicals, oils or fuels, on or from the Property. Purchaser agrees that it will, and will cause its employees, agents and contractors to, observe all Federal, State and local environmental laws and regulations.

 8. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given in the REPSA.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 City Light Department

 By: ____________________________

 Charlie Hampton, Manager of Real Estate Services

 CAPITOL HILL HOUSING IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

 By: ____________________________

 Chuck Weinstock, Executive Director

 1 Attachment 2 to Exhibit A

```
