

********

**Council Bill Number: 114859**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121446**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; approving monorail transit system design guidelines for the review of monorail transit facilities.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 19, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 30, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 29, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Monorail Green Line Design Guidelines

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 5, 2004
   
**Committee:** Committee of the Whole
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO, LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, MONORAIL-SYSTEM, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, SEATTLE-POPULAR-MONORAIL-AUTHORITY, DESIGN-REVIEW, URBAN-DESIGN

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; approving monorail transit system design guidelines for the review of monorail transit facilities.

 WHEREAS, in September 2003, the City Council passed Ordinance 121278, which provides for a permitting and approval system for monorail transit facilities that may be proposed by a city transportation authority such as the Seattle Popular Monorail Authority (commonly known as the Seattle Monorail Project or SMP); and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 30629 states that the Council anticipates that the Monorail Review Panel (MRP) will work with the SMP to develop design guidelines for Council adoption; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 121278 states that the City of Seattle will use monorail transit system-specific design guidelines when reviewing applications for approval of monorail transit facilities; and

 WHEREAS, the Council held joint public workshops with the Executive to review the Executive's February 23, 2004 draft Monorail Transit System Design Guidelines; and

 WHEREAS, the Council held a public hearing on the Executive's March 19, 2004 proposed Monorail Transit System Design Guidelines and considered comments received orally and in writing; and

 WHEREAS, the Council intends for the Executive to prepare for Council review and approval by end of 2nd Quarter 2004 illustrations to elaborate on and provide examples showing how the systemwide design guidelines in Exhibit A may be applied; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the location-specific (e.g., "typology") guidelines proposed by the SMP and the Executive are a good starting point, but that further work is needed to make such guidelines more useful by better addressing, by way of example, such things as site planning, plazas and open space, station architecture, streetscape improvements, and pedestrian access and circulation; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the further development of location- specific guidelines will benefit from further integration with ongoing work by the Department of Planning and Development on station area plans and the first review of station designs by the MRP; and

 WHEREAS, the Council intends for the Executive to prepare for Council review and approval by end of 1st Quarter 2005 additional location- specific guidelines, and location-specific illustrations (as needed); NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The City Council approves monorail transit system design guidelines, attached as Exhibit A, for use by the Department of Planning and Development and the Department of Transportation, pursuant to the authority of those departments under Ordinance 121278, in reviewing applications for approval of monorail transit facilities.

 Section 2. The Directors of Planning and Development, and Transportation, are authorized to create user's guides, client assistance memoranda and/or other material describing the administration and application of the monorail transit system design guidelines.

 Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 4. In approving these systemwide guidelines, the City requests that SMP provide the Design-Build-Operate-Maintain contract proposers with these guidelines so they may consider them as they prepare their proposals for submittal to the SMP.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Exhibit A: Monorail Transit System Design Guidelines

 April 19, 2004 version #4 ta

 Exhibit A City of Seattle Monorail Transit System Design Guidelines Design Guidelines for the Monorail Corridor

 City of Seattle Integrating the Monorail

 I. Guideway and Related Elements

 A. Guideway

 1. Design the guideway as an elegant and graceful structure that positively expresses the civic nature of the monorail and its ability to serve as a regional landmark contributing to the identity of Seattle. This may be done by:

 * Using the scale of the guideway to emphasize the civic nature of the project, while providing detailing to integrate it into the communities through which it passes.

 * Designing the guideway, columns, emergency walkways, rails, raceways, lighting, cables and other components as a comprehensive and coherent system of integrated elements that all appear to be of the same style or from the same design approach.

 * Not cluttering the guideway with elements other than those necessary to operate the system.

 2. Balance civic-scale of the guideway with attention to the scale, proportion, and detailing of the existing topography and urban fabric along the corridor. This may be done by:

 * Keeping the guideway structurally lean and light, and at a height appropriate to the neighborhood, as much as is possible given technical constraints and parameters.

 * Increasing attention to detail in the system elements and emphasizing smaller scale elements at the pedestrian level of the system in order to be more compatible with areas that have a "fine- grained" urban fabric-e.g. an environment that is characterized by smaller structures and pedestrian oriented uses.

 * Protecting public views where possible, and maximizing opportunities to enhance vistas by optimizing the height of the guideway where there are such views; and/or by arranging the beams and locating the columns in such a way as to minimize public view blockage.

 * Paying special attention to the location of system elements and to design details and scale in those areas with historic or culturally significant context.

 3. Integrate the guideway into its context, minimizing visual impacts to the urban fabric and taking advantage of the opportunities presented by each setting along the corridor. This may be done by:

 * Balancing the sometimes competing desires for a flat or gradual guideway profile for structural or operational reasons, as well as a profile that responds to the topography and urban form of the city along its length.

 * Minimizing curves and transitions from one side of the street to the other. Where curves are required, minimize the visual impacts by crossing streets as few times as possible. Where transitions are required, locate them where the street configuration naturally facilitates a transition, such as on a curve. Avoid locating transitions at intersections.

 * Minimizing frequent transitions from side-by-side tracks to vertical or stacked tracks. Where transitions are required, work with the topography to ensure a graceful and coherent appearance in conjunction with adjacent development or features.

 * Ensuring that transitions in guideway alignment, structure type, elevation and column placement are uniform, resulting in a visually appealing and consistent structure as viewed from adjoining neighborhoods and along the corridor.

 * Minimizing bents and other special structures. Where bents and other special structures are required, design them as an integral part of the system, and allow them to serve other purposes where possible, such as corridor or gateway-defining elements responding to the scale and character of their context.

 * Where column size and guideway height are flexible, making decisions that best support neighborhood values and needs.

 4. Make the monorail system a positive addition to the streetscape through attention to scale, proportion and detailing of system elements. This may be done by:

 * Designing the guideway and columns to respond to and fit within the function of the street and the character of the pedestrian environment.

 * Providing a generally consistent pattern of system elements; coordinating this with the pattern of intersections, street lights and trees that give continuity to the streetscape. In making final siting decisions, locate system elements in coordination with building entrances, sidewalks, vehicular movements, property access, bus stop locations and bus shelters, on-street parking location, landscape elements, lighting, signage, and other street furnishings such that the monorail elements allow for continued safe and comfortable use of these existing features.

 * In areas where property has yet to develop or redevelop to its highest potential, locating all monorail elements with the least impact possible on future development; including locating monorail elements such that they may be integrated into future development, or locating monorail elements at the edge of a site if integration is not possible.

 * Increasing the level of detail in materials, texture, and craftsmanship, and providing overhead weather protection in areas where pedestrians are expected to be close to columns and other elements such as switches, turnbacks and layover/holdover tracks.

 * Incorporating other amenities/functions into the guideway or system elements where appropriate and desired; such as accommodating signage on the guideway or providing seating at column bases.

 * Using reveals or shadow lines or other variations in the form to lessen the perceived mass or depth of the guideway structure.

 5. Use high quality, durable materials for system elements appropriate to their function and their context. This may be done by:

 * Choosing materials, finishes, and forms that will retain an attractive character over time, including anticipating weathering characteristics so that the passage of time will improve, rather than mar, the character of the guideway elements.

 * Using life-cycle assessment data as part of the materials selection process.

 * Using low toxicity materials and minimizing finish coatings.

 * Designing the system elements to be vandal-resistant and selecting materials and finishes that resist graffiti and that are easily cleanable.

 B. Columns

 1. Create a generally consistent rhythm through column location and design, balancing systemwide design objectives with responsiveness to local conditions. This may be done by:

 * Generally locating the columns in a consistent, regularly spaced manner, providing for visual legibility and safety.

 * Where local conditions might not allow regular spacing, or where conditions warrant irregular spacing, designing the columns to enhance the creation of places at stations or other areas where the columns can help form an interesting visual identity.

 * Addressing the impact and scale of the columns-particularly on narrower streets and finer-grained street environments-by minimizing their size, incorporating them into other structures, and/or by paying special attention to ameliorating their impact on pedestrian activities and uses.

 2. Minimize impacts to public views and spaces. This may be done by:

 * Minimizing the size of columns in public view areas to the extent possible, and only blocking those public views that are essential to allow for the construction and operation of the system. Where blockage of public views is necessary, locate columns to minimize the effect on important view corridors.

 * Locating columns carefully in regard to adjacent buildings- particularly historic properties-and open spaces such that columns do not block entrances or major features of buildings, are placed away from buildings at a distance sufficient to allow for safe and comfortable passage, and allow for continued safe and comfortable use of existing open spaces.

 3. Detail columns to enhance context and local character. This may be done by:

 * Having columns and other elements meet the ground plane in a simple fashion that expresses the structural function and material characteristics of the column or other element. Specifically, express the footprint of the column as an integral part of the detailing in the surrounding paving.

 * Giving particular design attention to columns that are in close proximity to historic properties, sidewalks and other pedestrian areas; emphasizing human scale features, materials, textures and details in these areas.

 C. Other Structures and System Elements

 1. Locate and design monorail-related structures, such as switches, turnbacks, pocket tracks, tail tracks and bents, to fit within the local context and cause the least impact to adjacent uses and neighborhood character. This may be done by:

 * Minimizing the number and size of switches and other structures required by the system as much as possible within technical and operational constraints.

 * Ensuring that switches and other structures do not result in dark or undesirable spaces underneath them by detailing the underside with lighting, design treatments, and/or artwork to create safe and pleasant spaces.

 * Where switches or other structures are located close to stations, providing continuity of design between the station and switches through a similar architectural expression or detailing.

 * Creating amenities in street level spaces beneath switches or other structures, such as overhead weather protection, areas for portable vendors, and future retail uses.

 * Providing screening of ancillary structures, as necessary, either through attractive fencing or landscaping, in order to contribute to an attractive streetscape.

 D. Operation Center(s)

 1. Design the operation center(s) to fit its context and expressing its functions in a manner that is not visually disruptive to adjacent uses. This may be done by:

 * Articulating functions of the facility through its architecture-form and materials.

 * Creating a visually pleasing and organized open space, especially as viewed from adjacent properties, streets, or slopes.

 * Screening utility areas.

 * Using landscaping to highlight entrances or other places where the public is welcome.

 * Ensuring that yard lighting, noise, and dust do not impact adjacent uses.

 * Designing a green building per LEED standards.

 II. Access and Circulation Near the Guideway

 A. Vehicular Access and Circulation

 1. Ensure a safe environment that allows for all necessary vehicular movements. This may be done by:

 * Locating columns to maintain a safe environment for vehicles of all kinds (including emergency vehicles, trucks, and transit buses), pedestrians and bicycles.

 * Ensuring that sight lines and clearances are maintained along the street and at driveways and intersections.

 2. Accommodate existing and potential land uses. This may be done by:

 * Maintaining freight mobility throughout the city, and to and on commercial and industrial properties.

 * Maintaining safe, visible access for business and residential uses along the corridor.

 * Preserving on-street parking along the corridor (between stations) to serve existing businesses and other uses.

 B. Transit Access and Circulation

 1. Design the guideway and system elements to support and, where possible, improve the visibility and viability of present and future transit connections and operations. This may be done by:

 * Maintaining or improving transit mobility and operations within the street right-of-way.

 * Ensuring that transit stops are visible and not obscured by columns or other monorail system elements.

 * Maximizing the potential of the guideway and system elements to support intermodal connections; such as using the guideway to create weather-protected areas for transit stops or for pedestrian routes to transit stops, and creating larger passenger waiting areas and/or bulbed-out bus stops in sidewalk areas.

 C. Pedestrian and Cyclist Access and Circulation

 1. Design the guideway and system elements to support and, where possible, improve the pedestrian environment and bicycle access. This may be done by:

 * Creating a safe environment for pedestrians and cyclists, using the monorail system elements to improve safety where possible, including providing consistent and predictable treatment of pedestrian crossings throughout the system to reinforce safe street-crossing practices.

 * Ensuring adequate space for pedestrians on sidewalks and pathways for current conditions and for likely future pedestrian movements.

 * Ensuring adequate space for bicycles on streets, bike lanes and pathways for current conditions and for likely future bicycle volumes.

 * Making improvements to traffic signals and timing/phasing as needed, and adding pedestrian safety devices at intersections where warranted.

 * Ensuring comfortable and safe pedestrian access to building entrances, bus stop locations and bus shelters.

 * Designing system elements creatively to enhance the pedestrian realm, for example, by creating protected or weather protected areas that serve as outdoor "rooms," or by using columns to protect pedestrians from traffic.

 * Maximizing accessibility for persons with disabilities in pedestrian environments along the monorail corridor; including carefully locating street furniture, providing audible pedestrian signals, and meeting or exceeding universal accessibility guidelines and standards wherever possible.

 * Using the monorail corridor as an opportunity to create dedicated bicycle lanes or paths.

 III. Streetscape Design

 A. Corridor Landscaping

 1. Use landscape elements generously throughout the Monorail corridor to integrate the monorail into its various contexts and contribute to its identity and success as a positive civic element for Seattle. This may be done by:

 * Designing landscaping that has an identity as part of the larger monorail corridor, but within that overall language responds to and enhances the individual places through which the monorail travels.

 * Maximizing the planting potential of the available space, in accordance with City policy regarding tree selection and spacing; requiring trees wherever they can be planted without compromising function and safety along the corridor.

 * Ensuring a year-round presence through evergreen species or deciduous species with seasonal variation in leaf color and attractive branching habit.

 * Planting landscape elements that are mature enough to integrate the guideway at the outset of the project (e.g. a minimum caliper tree).

 * Integrating plant materials with landscaping on adjacent private property, either existing or as required under development standards for future development.

 * Minimizing the removal of existing significant trees and retaining significant vegetation wherever possible, particularly where impacts are temporary such as removal of vegetation for construction staging. Replace distinctive or character-giving vegetation that must be removed with new plantings of a similar type and/or size.

 2. Ensure long-term health and attractiveness of the landscape. This may be done by:

 * Using landscape materials that are easily maintained, drought- tolerant, and can withstand local conditions.

 * Creating primarily permeable surfaces in the area below the guideway, wherever it is not used as a sidewalk or travel way.

 * Ensuring sufficient light, soil volumes, and moisture in all planting areas for healthy and vigorous plant growth. Do not propose planting where these conditions cannot be met.

 * Providing adequate water to ensure health and vigor of newly installed material until established to the satisfaction of the City Arborist.

 * Designing a system to capture storm water from the monorail structure or from adjacent structures to use in providing supplemental water to plant materials.

 * Using drought-tolerant and low maintenance materials with an emphasis on native Northwest plants as a first choice.

 * Incorporating other principles of sustainability in landscape design.

 B. Public Art

 1. Incorporate art and/or an artistic approach or expression in the guideway, system components, and corridor as well as in the stations and station areas in order to contribute to a sense of place and to the specific physical and cultural attributes of each context. This may be done by:

 * Encouraging artistic expression in detailing, materials, and lighting of the guideway and system components, especially using art to reduce the scale of the system components in sensitive contexts.

 C. Corridor Amenities

 1. Provide and coordinate amenities throughout the corridor, as appropriate to the needs of pedestrians within each corridor setting. This may be done by:

 * Providing street furnishings as part of the design language of the guideway and system elements, coordinated as individual elements and compatible with the aesthetic of the system.

 * Locating street furniture and other amenities such that passenger waiting areas at bus stops are improved rather than diminished by reduced space or interference with bus operations.

 * Integrating system elements and street furnishings with the guideway to avoid them appearing as "afterthoughts" that detract from the simplicity and elegance of the system.

 * Including seating, trash receptacles, street lights, paving materials, signage, and landscaping as appropriate.

 2. Use lighting along the corridor to create a safe environment, and where appropriate, to create a sense of place and for artistic expression. This may be done by:

 * Designing the lighting along the corridor to balance the system-wide character of lighting with the local conditions and needs.

 * Adding visual interest to the system elements through lighting and incorporating lighting into the design of the system overall.

 * Employing lighting designs that use a high level of energy efficiency.

 * Using neighborhood goals (as defined by neighborhood plans) to inform lighting design-reinforcing gateways and protecting adjacent uses, particularly residences, from glare due to train and other system lights.

 * Limiting accent lighting that creates ambient light to highly visible locations such as adjacent buildings of historic or architectural value.

 * Considering the varying needs and abilities of persons with visual impairments in lighting design.

 D. Spaces Under the Guideway

 1. Ensure that spaces under the guideway are safe and attractive, providing opportunities for functional space where appropriate. This may be done by:

 * In locations where pedestrians are expected to use them, designing areas under the guideway as attractive outdoor space; with attention given to the underside of the guideway, to maintainability, to personal safety, weather protection and an attractive pedestrian-scale character.

 * Developing urban paths underneath guideways where feasible and envisioned by neighborhood plans and/or desired by community members.

 E. Corridor Signage/Wayfinding

 1. Coordinate signage and wayfinding for the monorail with other City signage systems. This may be done by:

 * Coordinating all street and monorail-related signage, and introducing interpretive signage or other wayfinding elements where needed.

 * Providing sufficient signage and wayfinding so that people can locate public facilities and destinations along and adjacent to the corridor.

 * Taking advantage of the visibility of the guideway itself to help people locate monorail and other transit stations.

 F. Utilities

 1. Coordinate the design of the vertical elements that will serve the corridor, including street lights, utility poles, and the columns. This may be done by:

 * Having poles serve multiple uses in order to minimize visual clutter and/or undergrounding utilities where possible, without compromising the desired elegance, simplicity, and clarity of the guideway and monorail system overall.

 IV. Bridges

 A. Ship Canal/Ballard Bridge

 1. Use the drama of the bridge span as an opportunity for artistic expression and design. This may be done by:

 * Designing the bridge to be both an appropriate individual expression, and if appropriate, also as an understandable part of a family or ensemble of bridges.

 * Designing the bridge to be technically and aesthetically both "of its time" and thematically appropriate for its specific location.

 * Incorporating lighting (both functional and celebratory) and artwork into the intrinsic design of the bridge.

 2. Strive for unity, and structural expressiveness to the bridge as a whole, including bridge approaches, the span, and related support columns. This may be done by:

 * Creating aesthetic and artistic expression that flows from the forces within the structure rather than through non-structural ornamentation.

 * Designing the visual mass of the columns in proportion to the length of the span supported.

 * Carefully selecting and integrating/coordinating materials and finishes.

 * Keeping columns simple and stately in form.

 3. Use site conditions and local context to inform the design of the bridge, thereby creating a positive and reciprocal relationship between the bridge and its setting. This may be done by:

 * Relating the structure of the bridge to other nearby structures (bridges, buildings, other historical structures)

 * Ensuring that transitions to and from land are uniform in design approach

 * Framing or enhancing important views to, from, and through the bridge elements

 * Assessing the view of the bridge from significant viewpoints afar and from the respective bridge approaches as part of the design process

 * Reflecting the aquatic, maritime and industrial context

 4. Design the bridge for long-term function, durability and maintenance, including:

 * Minimizing opportunities for birds and animals to nest

 * Using materials and finishes that are designed for ease of maintenance and graceful weathering.

 B. West Seattle Bridge

 1. Ensure a compatible fit of the monorail guideway with the existing West Seattle Bridge. This can be done by:

 * Relating the scale, profile, and detailing of the guideway to the existing bridge.

 * Designing approaches and transition structures sensitively so as to respect the integrity of the existing bridge.

 * Designing the retrofit and strengthening of the existing bridge to be as unobtrusive as possible.

 Design Guidelines for Monorail Stations

 I. Site Planning and Architecture

 A. Site and Context Responsiveness

 1. Respond to site conditions and opportunities in the size, proportion, form, and scale of the station. This may be done by:

 * Using specific site conditions and opportunities such as non- rectangular lots, location on prominent intersections, unusual topography, significant vegetation, and views or other natural features to create excellent designs.

 * Creating a positive relationship with adjacent existing structures by referencing or linking the station through entryway placements, decorative elements and materials, or use of strong horizontal treatment at the height of surrounding buildings.

 * Using the station walls and features to shape the public realm and streetfront in a way that enhances the pedestrian environment and street activity, including reinforcing the existing streetscape where it is currently beloved and considered successful by community members.

 * Where applicable, orienting stations that are sited on corner lots to the corner and public street fronts, with service parking and vehicular access located away from the corner.

 * Maximizing use of natural daylight and orientation to sun.

 * Protecting designated public views and minimizing impacts to private views where possible.

 2. Provide a transition between the station and adjacent development in height, bulk, scale, and detailing. This may be done by:

 * Siting and designing stations to provide as sensitive a transition as possible to nearby, less-intensive land use zones, with particular attention to zone edges.

 * Locating less intensive uses next to adjacent properties.

 * Minimizing disruption to the privacy and outdoor activities of residents in adjacent buildings by limiting views into adjacent properties, and stepping the station back from the property edge or otherwise facing public activity zones away from private residences.

 3. Ensure that transit power substations, signal/communication buildings, and other systems structures and equipment are seamlessly integrated into the design of the station and/or streetscape, and appropriately scaled and detailed to be an asset to the station and/or surrounding neighborhood. This may be done by:

 * When included with a station, siting and designing systems structures to be functional but unobtrusive, and compatible with the overall station design, intended future uses of adjacent properties, and the neighborhood as a whole.

 * When included with a station, consolidating system structures within the footprint and massing of the stationhouse as much as possible.

 * Detailing wall surfaces to be pedestrian-oriented and human-scaled in terms of materials used, artwork, landscaping, screening, and other treatments.

 * Using these structures creatively to provide other amenities, such as a backdrop for bench seating, a place for artwork, or part of bicycle storage.

 4. Site and design the station and platform such that it enhances the viability of adjacent parcels (and the remainder of the station parcel as applicable) for future development. This may be done by:

 * Incorporating offsite functions and features adjacent to stations as appropriate, such as existing paths, open space, and landscaping.

 * Preserving development potential, including sunlight and street visibility to adjacent development parcels, giving serious consideration to the development parameters of adjacent developable property, including site configuration and the need for access and parking.

 * For stations that displace an existing structure larger than the size of the station footprint, creating a plan that encompasses the entire site until future development occurs.

 * Understanding the potential future use of sites being purchased for stations and construction staging in order to determine how best to use the site for the monorail project to maximize future development potential and public benefit of remaining land.

 B. Architectural Design and Fit with Program

 1. Express the function and program of the station through station design elements, details, and massing. This may be done by:

 * Using station design elements, details, and massing to create a well-proportioned and unified form that both expresses the functions within and fully accommodates the architectural program.

 * Designing for multiple functions of the public spaces over time of day, week and annually.

 * Exhibiting a balance between the "elements of continuity"-expressing the station as one part of the monorail system-and "elements of distinction"-lending uniqueness to each station as a reflection of its neighborhood context.

 * Encouraging social and community interaction through the relationships between functions; seating edges adjacent to the pedestrian circulation; programming for community activities; artwork; and interactive media and video monitors.

 * Maximizing the transparency of stations as much as possible to activate the stations and related streetscape.

 * Emphasize human scale features, elements, and details at the station and related pedestrian areas.

 2. Ensure that station entrance(s) are visible and inviting from primary pedestrian routes and destinations, bus stops, and other public transportation facilities. This may be done by:

 * Placing the entrance(s) in visually prominent locations.

 * Using the form and siting of the building-as well as landscaping, wayfinding elements, and/or special paving treatment-to mark the entrance to the station.

 * Where pedestrians are accessing the station from multiple directions, ensuring there are visual cues to direct the pedestrian beyond the edge of the station to the actual entrance to the fare-paid zone.

 * Ensuring visible and accessible connections to the elevators and stairs leading pedestrians to the overhead platform, including connections to existing sidewalks (where they exist).

 3. Include amenities at each station to facilitate use of the monorail and accommodate the needs of passengers arriving or departing, and other uses of the public spaces. Take into account that stations will have different requirements for amenities. Examples of possible amenities include:

 * Adequate seating, both in and outside the fare paid zone.

 * Public restrooms.

 * Pedestrian-scale lighting in all areas where passengers may be waiting or boarding the train.

 * Public art.

 * Phone (on or near platform) and/or security access.

 * Waste receptacles (including cigarette receptacles at station entrances).

 * Clocks.

 * Information display cases or kiosks including newspaper racks.

 * Weather protection-canopies and windbreaks.

 * Trees and landscaping (see detailed design guidelines).

 * Accommodation for street musicians and performers.

 * Water and electrical power for use by potential street vendors.

 4. Avoid creating blank building or retaining walls at stations; where walls are unavoidable or cannot be transparent for large areas, provide detailed design treatment to increase pedestrian comfort and interest. This may be done by:

 * Including wall surface treatment, street trees, drop lighting on buildings, awnings/canopies, benches, and planters to detail the wall to a human scale.

 * Incorporating information boards onto walls for the community in addition to monorail and transit information.

 * Terracing and landscaping retaining walls.

 5. Provide overhead weather protection for both passengers and other pedestrians using the station area. This may be done by:

 * Where applicable, continuing the weather protection already provided on nearby buildings.

 * Illuminating the underside of the platform or weather protected area if an opaque material is used.

 * Designing the weather protection to a height and depth that is a comfortable scale for pedestrians and provides sufficient protection from rainfall.

 6. Use simple, easily maintained and well-crafted materials for the station finishes. This may be done by:

 * Selecting quality materials that tolerate heavy use in high-traffic areas, age and weather well, are durable, and vandal resistant.

 * Developing a palette of finish materials that work together in a coherent and harmonious manner, relate to the station context, and exhibit human-scale at the street level. Include a variety of color and texture within the palette.

 C. Station Landscaping

 1. Use landscaping to provide identity to the station and guideway, as an element of wayfinding, and to complement existing streetscape and/or street tree plantings adjacent to the station. This may be done by:

 * As a first priority, providing trees for maximum benefit from landscaping. Where trees cannot be accommodated but planting is desired, provide low maintenance shrubs and/or groundcover within the station area.

 * Integrating station landscaping with landscaping on adjacent private property; either existing development or as required for current projects with issued permits.

 * Designing station and street landscaping jointly, in order to create a landscape design that is compatible and greater than the sum of its parts.

 * Using landscaping to screen utility areas or views into adjacent properties, provide shading, emphasize entries, and/or reinforce neighborhood character.

 * Using landscape materials that are easily maintained and drought- tolerant, with an emphasis on providing year-round presence through the use of evergreen species or deciduous species with seasonal variation in leaf color and attractive branching habit.

 D. Sustainability

 1. Maximize environmental benefits and long-term investment benefits through sustainable practices and use of a "whole building" design approach. This may be done by:

 * Reducing demands on potable water requirements.

 * Using porous pavement where possible and technically feasible.

 * Maximizing quantity and quality of landscape, considering all surfaces as opportunities for vegetation to reduce urban heat island and manage rainwater runoff.

 * Considering native Northwest plants to help create habitat and using drought tolerant plants as much as possible.

 * Siting, orienting and configuring the stations to take advantage of daylight, exterior views, and natural ventilation.

 * Siting the stations and design facades and roofs to respond to the sun. Consider distinct north, south, east, and west facades based on solar impacts, passive solar gain and control.

 * Providing shading devices where appropriate.

 * Using affordable renewable energy sources where appropriate.

 * Using life-cycle assessment data as part of the materials selection process.

 * Using local materials whenever possible.

 * Using low toxicity materials and minimizing finish coatings where possible.

 * Using sustainably certified wood where possible.

 E. Accessibility

 1. Meet or exceed all standards prescribed in the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities (ADAAG). This may be done by:

 * Assuring that pedestrian-controlled traffic signals and time cycles at intersections approaching the station conform to or exceed ADA standards.

 * Meeting or exceeding ADA requirements, whenever possible, in providing sufficient maneuvering space, surfaces, and accommodations for wheelchairs, strollers, and the elderly and the sight impaired who use walkers.

 * Designing circulation at each station through the eyes of a pedestrian, a bicyclist, and a person with disabilities.

 * Assuring that uncluttered pathways are maintained by keeping furniture, newspaper boxes, bike parking facilities, and other elements outside of pedestrian and ADA traffic flow areas.

 * Locating all information and wayfinding devices in well-marked, easily accessible and similar locations in each station.

 * Providing information at Monorail stations through different ways (e.g., verbal, images, tactile).

 * Providing visual and audible systems on station platforms to announce arriving trains.

 * Providing means for emergency communications for people with disabilities at key areas of the system that are easily accessible.

 * Consider using changes in texture that adequately and distinctly announce to the user decision points, information boards, waiting zones, and vehicle-boarding zones.

 F. Public Art

 1. Optimize opportunities for public art at stations and related open spaces. This may be done by:

 * Incorporating art into the functional elements of the station and/or streetscape such as benches, screens, walls, doors, paving, etc.

 * Siting public art in highly visible and prominent locations, focusing on those areas with substantial pedestrian and passenger activity.

 * Developing artwork in collaboration with other entities such as local arts councils and community organizations in order to leverage funding.

 2. Provide a balance of, and relationship between, station-specific and system wide artwork. This may be done by:

 * Considering artwork that thematically spans one or more stations, creating visual relationships between those stations.

 * Including a variety of forms of art such as signature pieces and artwork that is fully integrated with architectural or landscape elements.

 * Incorporating artwork or artistic expression into both the large- scale elements (such as guideway and related structures) and the smaller-scaled elements (such as passenger waiting areas, platform)

 3. Explore ways for artwork to engender a sense of community ownership. This may be done by:

 * Using artwork to present images of local culture, heritage, and vision.

 * Creating artwork that responds appropriately to human touch and other senses.

 * Using art to contribute to vibrancy in the public spaces and areas within the stations.

 * Incorporating water features, lighting, and movement into the artwork.

 F. Station Security and Crime Prevention

 1. Enhance personal safety and security within and around the station. This may be done by:

 * Creating clear and logical pedestrian circulation routes and deterring circulation in areas that could foster undesirable activities.

 * Providing two pedestrian routes out of stations whenever possible.

 * Providing clear directional signage and natural surveillance-or "eyes on the street"-by opening up views from stations to and from adjacent community areas through the placement of windows, balconies, and street-level uses.

 * Providing an appropriate level of nighttime lighting at stations and adjacent pedestrian areas, taking care that pockets of light and dark do not provide hidden areas.

 * Retaining clear lines of sight throughout public spaces.

 * Using semi-transparent materials instead of opaque or blank walls.

 * Carefully selecting and placing plant materials to avoid creating hiding places for criminal activity.

 2. Provide generally consistent methods across stations for surveillance and emergency communications. This may be done by:

 * Using video monitoring, providing security phones, and/or having staff on-site at stations during all hours of operation.

 * Providing highly visible and easily identifiable security cameras in tamper-resistant locations at stations.

 * Providing highly visible emergency communication systems in the same locations at each station.

 II. Streetscape and Public Realm

 A. Street improvements

 1. Contribute to a high-quality street environment adjacent to monorail facilities. This may be done by:

 * Providing quality street improvements, furnishings, and other amenities that are complementary to, and supportive of the monorail station, intermodal connections including bus operations, and neighborhood plan goals.

 * Designing the station and streetscape to facilitate human activity, thereby making the street livelier and safer.

 * Using the area beneath the guideway and/or platform as space to site and organize street furniture, signage, transit shelters, vending machines, and landscaping.

 * Where applicable, coordinating the design and construction of these improvements with existing capital projects and plans to leverage the benefits provided by each project.

 2. Provide landscaping to complement existing streetscape and/or street tree plantings adjacent to the station. This may be done by:

 * Maximizing the planting potential of the available space, in accordance with City policy regarding tree selection, spacing, and care; requiring trees wherever they can be planted without compromising facility function and safety, and requiring large scale trees rather than small scale where it is feasible for them to successfully develop.

 * Minimizing the removal of existing significant trees and retaining significant vegetation wherever possible, particularly where impacts are temporary such as removal of vegetation for construction staging. Replace any and all distinctive or character-giving vegetation that must be removed with new plantings of a similar type and/or size.

 * Designing landscaping to respond to and enhance the individual places at each station while still being part of the identity of the monorail corridor as a whole.

 * Integrating with landscaping on adjacent private property, either existing or as required under development standards for future development.

 * Ensuring a year-round presence through evergreen species or deciduous species with seasonal variation in leaf color and attractive branching habit.

 3. Ensure long-term health and attractiveness of the landscape. This may be done by:

 * Using landscape materials that are easily maintained, drought- tolerant, and can withstand local conditions.

 * Ensuring sufficient light, soil volumes, and moisture in all planting areas for healthy and vigorous plant growth. Do not propose planting where these conditions cannot be met.

 * Providing adequate water to ensure health and vigor of newly installed material until established to the satisfaction of the City Arborist.

 * Designing a system to capture storm water from the monorail structure or from adjacent structures to use in providing supplemental water to plant materials.

 * Using drought-tolerant and low maintenance materials with an emphasis on native Northwest plants as a first choice.

 * Incorporating other principles of sustainability in landscape design.

 4. Illuminate the station and related street envelope and its activities to provide a safe and attractive environment. This may be done by:

 * Improving pedestrian lighting in general at and around stations.

 * Incorporating a combination of lighting conditions including ambient, direct, and path lighting in the design of each station and related areas (plaza, crosswalks), the street, and sidewalks.

 * Using light in an artistic manner, integrated with the art at the station.

 * Using neighborhood goals as defined by neighborhood plans to inform the lighting design; such as reinforcing gateways through lighting and protecting businesses and residences from glare.

 * Considering the varying needs and abilities of persons with visual impairments in lighting design.

 * Use Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) guidelines to establish visibility and lighting parameters.

 B. Open Space/Public Plazas

 1. Provide open space and/or public plazas outside the fare-paid zone that are welcoming, comfortable, safe, and complementary to adjacent uses. This may be done by:

 * Creating inviting public open space at every station where there is opportunity to do so.

 * Locating public spaces intended for high occupancy in areas that have sun access at the corresponding time of day when use is expected.

 * Designing spaces with careful attention to lighting, paving materials, sightlines, sun and wind orientation, and landscaping.

 * Including public art sited within the spaces and/or developing the open spaces as artworks in themselves.

 * Providing clear and graceful transitions between public spaces for all users and the fare-paid zone for monorail passengers.

 * Where applicable, coordinating design with other adjacent or nearby places where people gather including parks, plazas, and bus stops.

 2. Include public art that is sited in highly visible and prominent locations. This may be done by:

 * Incorporating art into the functional elements of the station and/or streetscape.

 * Considering artwork that thematically spans one or more stations, creating visual relationships between those stations.

 * Developing artwork in collaboration with other entities such as local arts councils and community organizations.

 III. Access and Connections

 A. Pedestrian Access and Circulation

 1. Provide comfortable, safe, and functional pedestrian circulation to, in, and around stations. This may be done by:

 * Ensuring that circulation paths, gathering areas, and elevators/stairs/escalators are sized to accommodate expected ridership and other pedestrian traffic (based on peak ridership), including the flexibility to allow for reorganization in the future to accommodate greater/changed pedestrian activity. Pay particular attention to corners where pedestrian flows converge and people gather.

 * Providing clear connections to the station from adjacent sidewalks and across streets to/from adjoining bus stops and communities via safe and attractive crossings and waiting areas (corner or mid-block).

 * Providing consistent and predictable treatment of pedestrian crossings throughout the system to reinforce safe street crossing practices.

 * Making improvements to intersection channelization, traffic signals and timing/phasing as needed.

 * Including different surface materials and/or a change in furnishings such as paving patterns, color, signage, landscaping, bollards, lighting or seating that extend across the street to mark pedestrian routes to differentiate pedestrian areas from driveways, and loading or service access and zones.

 * Minimizing conflicts between pedestrians, cyclists, and vehicles of all kinds at and around stations.

 * Locating any service parking (for systems structures, substations) such that it does not conflict with or impede pedestrian, bicycle, transit and auto drop-off access to the station.

 * Providing connections to neighborhood trail systems where consistent with local access plans and neighborhood plans.

 * Encouraging people to use station stairs through careful siting, generous proportions, and accentuating views to the surrounding environs.

 * Accommodating persons with disabilities in all aspects of station and streetscape design.

 B. Transit Facilities and Connections

 1. Provide clear and safe connections for passengers transferring between monorail, buses, and other transit modes. This may be done by:

 * Designing the stations to be as integral as physically possible with bus stops and other transit modes.

 * Ensuring easy, barrier-free access for all in the connections between the monorail and other transit facilities, along with wayfinding for the visually impaired.

 * Providing information on bus, train, and ferry routes and schedules as applicable alongside monorail schedules and information to support multi-modal transportation.

 * Coordinating any relocation, improvement, and design of bus stops with monorail station design and general street improvements to provide attractive and convenient facilities for passengers arriving by transit.

 * Where existing bus stops are being relocated, ensure they are as close as possible to station entrances.

 * Coordinating the location of bus layover zones consistent with bus service plans and convenient to passengers. Incorporate off-street layover and intermodal facilities into station sites where agreed upon by the City, SMP, and Metro.

 C. Bicycle Access and Parking/Storage

 1. Provide access to the station for cyclists and otherwise encourage cyclists to use the monorail. This may be done by:

 * Focusing on connections from established/known bike routes, including improvements to facilitate safe bicycle movements.

 * Providing bicycle parking and storage facilities in close proximity to station entrances that are secure, visible, and convenient while not in conflict with the primary flow of pedestrians.

 * Providing trail information clearly at each station, alongside Monorail rules and procedures for bringing bicycles onto trains.

 * Developing a plan to accommodate anticipated future demand for bicycle parking either on- or off-site.

 2. Incorporate bicycle facilities as essential elements of station design. This may be done by:

 * Designing bicycle facilities in stations with special attention to night/day/weekend and special events fluctuations.

 * Working with adjacent developments, both existing and future, to partner in the joint siting of bike storage.

 * Siting bike storage in "eyes on the bikes" locations.

 * At high use bike locations, exploring a partnership to create a bike station, which could include a staffed information and maintenance kiosk, coffee and refreshments, multi-level bike racks, and bicycling bulletin boards.

 D. Vehicular Circulation and Parking

 1. Traffic circulation around stations should be maintained for all users, balancing the needs of vehicles of all kinds-buses, trucks, cars, service vehicles, and emergency vehicles-with pedestrians and cyclists and monorail system requirements. This may be done by:

 * Minimizing conflicts between vehicles of all kinds-buses, trucks, cars, light rail, and emergency vehicles-and pedestrians, with clear demarcation of pedestrian zones and priority given to pedestrians and buses at the intersections nearest each station.

 * Implementing safety measures in locations where vehicle, bicycle and pedestrian movements intersect.

 2. Provide adequate drop-off/pick-up zones for paratransit, taxis, and private vehicles located conveniently to station entrance(s) without creating undue traffic and circulation impacts to pedestrians, transit, or to adjacent uses. This may be done by:

 * Directing drop-off activity to one or more clearly identified areas to preclude other drop-off activity occurring elsewhere in an ad hoc manner, and in order to disperse vehicular traffic and minimize disruption to traffic flow in and around the station area.

 * Ensuring that drop-off/pick-up zones are within easy access and clear sight of the station entrance.

 * Developing taxicab zones where feasible at stations expected to generate significant taxi usage.

 3. Discourage parking at the station or on adjacent streets. This may be done by:

 * Designing the station such that pedestrians and passengers transferring from buses are granted the most convenient access to the station entrance.

 * Establishing clear drop-off/pick-up zones.

 * Developing parking management plans in conjunction with adjacent neighborhoods to address potential hide and ride parking.

 E. Signage and Wayfinding

 1. Provide clear, coordinated, and appropriately scaled wayfinding and signage along principal pedestrian routes (as defined in the Transitway Agreement) within a one-half mile of the station. This may be done by:

 * Coordinating all street and monorail-related signage, and introduce interpretive signage or other wayfinding elements as desired.

 * Using signage to direct passengers to key destinations within the vicinity of each station.

 * Using views of prominent landscape features, landforms, and/or manmade structures to orient pedestrians and enhance wayfinding; e.g. Elliott Bay, the Olympics, Salmon Bay, Delridge, Space Needle, and city skyline.

 * Using a multi-faceted wayfinding system to assist persons with visual or cognitive disabilities.

 April 12, 2004 t

```
