

********

**Council Bill Number: 114855**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121452**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of surplus property located north of 2123 12th Avenue S.; authorizing the sale of real property to an abutting property owner and execution of a Quitclaim Deed in connection therewith; and designating the disposition of sales proceeds.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 26, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 7, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 7, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 5, 2004
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, BEACON-HILL, NORTH-BEACON-HILL

**Fiscal Note:**114855

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the sale of surplus property located north of 2123 12th Avenue S.; authorizing the sale of real property to an abutting property owner and execution of a Quitclaim Deed in connection therewith; and designating the disposition of sales proceeds.

 WHEREAS, Resolution 29799 adopted policies and procedures and a process for notifying other City departments or other government agencies of the potential availability of property excess to department needs; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle acquired for general municipal purposes that certain property described below pursuant to Ordinance Nos. 65077 and 65166 in 1934; and

 WHEREAS, the availability of the property has been circulated to City departments and public agencies as excess to the City's Fleets and Facilities Department needs and no City department or other public agency has indicated interest in assuming jurisdiction over said property; and

 WHEREAS, the property described below is considered excess to City needs and not required for governmental purposes; and

 WHEREAS, the Purchaser Stephen Walker, the owner of the residential lot located to the south and abutting said City property, has asked to purchase said property so as to legally include its area as part of his side yard; and

 WHEREAS, the Fleets and Facilities Department, having reviewed the suitability of each property against the criteria adopted in Resolution 29799, recommended sale of the subject property to the adjoining landowner;

 WHEREAS, the Real Estate Oversight Committee concurred with the Fleets and Facilities Department recommendation that the property be offered for sale by public bid; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The real property legally described as follows:

 Those portions of Lots 7 and 8, Block 7 of Mc Kinney's T.I. Central Seattle

 Addition, Volume 1 of Plats, page 57, records of King County, lying

 southwesterly of Beacon Avenue South.

 is hereby declared to be surplus.

 Section 2. The director of the Fleets and Facilities Department is hereby authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Quitclaim Deed for the sale of the property described in Section 1, in substantially the form attached hereto as "Exhibit A."

 Section 3. Proceeds from the sale authorized herein shall be deposited in the Unrestricted Subaccount of the Cumulative Reserve Subfund (00164) in accordance with Seattle Municipal Code 5.80.030, to be appropriated consistent with Council Resolution 30379.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2004.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2004.

 _____________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2004

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 Exhibit A: Quitclaim Deed

 (Seal)

 David C. Hemmelgarn/dch

 Filename: FFD-PMA4180-Ord

 02/23/04

 version #1

PRELIMINARY REPORT  EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR

PMA No. 4180 - North of and Adjoining 2123 12th Avenue S.

In Resolution 29799, City Council expressed its desire for the Executive to make recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property included in that resolution. Additionally, the Resolution identified guidelines for items to be considered in making a recommendation. This report addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799.

Property Management Area: PMA No. 1480 - South of and adjoining 2123 12th Avenue S.

 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

Legal Description:

 Those portions of Lots 7 and 8, Block 7 of Mc Kinney's T.I. Central Seattle Addition, Volume 1 of Plats, page 57, records of King County, lying southwesterly of Beacon Avenue South.

 Physical Description and Related Factors

: This city-owned parcel is an 875 SF triangular parcel located immediately north and adjacent to the property identified by a street address of 2123 12th Avenue S. It was a remnant from the improvement and extension of Beacon Avenue in 1934. Since then, the property has been occasionally used for yard and storage by the adjoining owners to the south. It has dimensions of 50 feet along its western boundary line on the adjacent alley, 61 feet along its eastern boundary on Beacon Avenue S., and 35 feet along its south line that meets with the adjoining residential property. The property is partly bordered on two of its side by an aged and leaning 4.5- foot wooden fence. This small lot slopes slightly to the west and to the south, and levels off as it joins with the neighboring property to the south. Along Beacon Avenue S., the property slopes down to be approximately 3 feet below grade. PMA No. 4180 has no trees. Its groundcover is composed of grass, blackberry tangles, several stumps and bits of rubbish. Lying to the west of the property is open alley right-of-way that connects Beacon Avenue S. with S. Walker Street. Just across this alley to the west a small building of less than 800 SF has been framed out and roofed, waiting finishing. Beacon Avenue S. and the sidewalk along its climb to Beacon Hill are on the east side. PMA No. 4180 is situated on the second lowest terrace of residences that lie on the western slope of Beacon Hill. Above and below it are forested greenbelt areas that have often been refuges for transients and homeless. It is located in a SF 5000 zone in an independent middle-class neighborhood with relatively small houses. It is identified by the King County Assessor as Tax Parcel No. 149830-0440.

Guideline A: Consistency

The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state or federal ordinances, statutes and regulations.

 PMA No. 4180 was acquired in 1934 under the authority of Ordinance No. 65077, as amended by Ordinance No. 65166. It provided for the condemnation of property for the creation of the Beacon Avenue South right-of-way for General Municipal Purposes with monies allocated from the General Fund. Neither the city nor the property are bound or subject to any contractual instruments or extraordinary governmental laws or regulations.

 Guideline B: Compatibility and Suitability

The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space, in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development, as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.

Context. The property is located in the Beacon Hill neighborhood in the near south side of Seattle. It is located within the Greater Duwamish Manufacturing and Industrial Center Planning Area and one block outside of the North Beacon Hill Planning Focus Area. However, because of its small size and location, it has not been identified as a property desired or needed for the implementation of any community plan or project. Likewise, because of its character as an oddly- shaped vacant lot adjoining a single family residence, it is not appropriate for consideration or use in support of any of the aforementioned city policies or programs. It is not located within a Sound Transit planning area.

Range of Options. Options include retention by the City, negotiated sale, or sale by public bid. No other City department has identified any current or future use for the property. Given the limited potential for any kind of redevelopment of this small irregularly-shaped parcel, retention of the property presents no benefits for the City. The proposed purchaser approached the City, expressing an interest in buying the 875 SF piece.

Guideline C: Other Factors

The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that may affect the value of the property.

Highest and Best Use: The zoning designation for the property is SF 5000 - Single Family Residential - minimum lot size of 5,000 square feet. It is an uneconomic remainder. The best and most appropriate use for this property is for additional yard space for the adjoining single-family residence.

Compatibility with the physical characteristics: Sale of the property to the abutting property owner will allow the Purchaser to expand his yard area and to completely fence off his property from the thoroughfares that pass on the open sides. Incorporating the city property into the adjoining yard is very compatible with the present uses in the single-family zoned neighborhood.

 Compatibility with surrounding uses

:

 Currently, the property is already partly used as a side yard by the adjoining property owner. The immediate neighborhood is zoned Single Family Residential. Sale of the property to the abutting owner will allow him to legally use said property in designing and creating landscape features for his residential property.

 Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property:

The property was originally acquired when it was condemned by the city for street improvements in 1934. The nearest city-owned properties are under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation. They are PMA Nos. 283 and 430 - natural areas that are included in the East Duwamish Green space - and are located within 140 feet to the north and 70 feet to the southeast of the subject property. There are no public properties in the vicinity that could benefit from a consolidation with this parcel. It is not needed for any future public right-of-way.

 Timing and Term of Proposed Use:

The proposed purchaser has agreed to a purchase of the property as soon as the sale is authorized by the City Council. The sale should close within three months and use of the property will be at the Purchaser's election.

Appropriateness of the consideration:

Due to the size of the property, it has not been appraised. The consideration for the transfer is based on the value established by the King County Assessor for properties in the area, zoning and neighborhood influences. The assessed value for this subject is $1,000. A small 875 SF parcel like PMA No. 4180 cannot be built upon and can only be used as an addition to the adjoining property yard area. Property of this nature is considered useless and undevelopable and is usually valued at no more than $2 per square foot. Because of its small size and irregular shape, the proposed consideration of $1,000 is a fair amount to be obtained from the Purchaser.

Unique Attributes: Part of the subject parcel is presently being used as yard area by the adjoining owner and prospective purchaser. It is an oddly-shaped triangular parcel that is typical of remainders from street construction.

Conditions in the real estate market: The real estate market in near south Seattle has demonstrated gradual appreciation over the last five years. However, either standing alone or added to the adjoining property, PMA No. 4180 does not have the capacity to sustain development or value beyond that allowed for one single- family lot in a SF 5000 zone.

Known environmental factors: There are no environmental factors that would prevent a transfer of property. A preliminary field visit indicated no cause for testing. Purchase and use of the site by the adjoining property owner is the most reasonable manner of sale and it will result in improved yard maintenance.

Guideline D: Sale

 The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the property to non-City public entities and to members of the general public.

 Information concerning the availability of the property was circulated to all City departments and other public agencies that may have an interest in publicly-owned property. This circulation took place in November 2003. No city department or other public agency has expressed any interest in acquiring this property. The potential for selling this property to anyone other than the proposed purchaser is virtually non-existent.

Recommendation:

 FFD recommends sale of PMA No. 4180 to the adjoining landowner be approved by the Seattle City Council.

 PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION FORM

 Property Name:

 Vacant parcel

 Address:

 North of and adjoining 2123 12th Avenue S. PIN 149830-0440

 PMA ID:

 4180

 Subject Parcel #:

 375

 Dept./Dept ID:

 FFD

 Current Use:

 Yard area

 Area (Sq. Ft.):

 875

 Zoning:

 SF 5000

 Est. Value:

 $1,000

 Assessed Value:

 $1,000

 PROPOSED USES AND RECOMMENDED USE

 Department/Governmental Agencies:

 Proposed Use:

 None

 None

 Other Parties wishing to acquire:

 Proposed Use:

 Adjoining Property Owner

 Yard extension

 RES'S RECOMMENDED USE:

 Sell to adjoining property owner.

 PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION (circle appropriate response)

 1.) Is more than one City dept/Public Agency wishing to acquire?

 No / Yes

 15

 2.) Are there any pending community proposals for Reuse/ Disposal?

 No / Yes

 10

 3.) Have citizens, community groups and/or other interested parties contacted the City regarding any of the proposed options?

 No / Yes

 10

 4.) Will consideration be other than cash?

 No / Yes

 10

 5.) Is Sale or Trade to a private party being recommended?

 No / Yes

 25

 6.) Will the proposed use require changes in zoning/other regulations

 No / Yes

 20

 7.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value between $250,000-$1,000,000?

 No / Yes

 10

 8.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value over $1,000,000?

 No/ Yes

 45

 Total Number of Points Awarded for "Yes" Responses:

 35

 Property Classification for purposes of Disposal review: Simple / Complex (circle one) (a score of 45+ points results in "Complex" classification)

 Signature: __David Hemmelgarn Department: FFD/RES Date: _03/01/04

 ATTACHMENT 1

 1 Attachment 1 - Preliminary Report PMA No. 4180

 ATTACHMENT A

 ATTACHMENT A - 39th Ave. NE

 1

 After recording, return to:

 QUIT CLAIM DEED

 (Unimproved Property)

 Reference number of related documents:

 Grantor: The City of Seattle

 Grantee:

 Legal Description:

 1. Abbreviated Form:

 2. Additional legal description is on Page of document.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s):

 Grant. The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), hereby conveys and quit claims to , ("Grantee"), for and in consideration of the sum of Dollars ($ .00), and subject to the COVENANT set forth below that certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally described as follows:

 COVENANT REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS

 The Property described herein is conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL- FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE GRANTEE'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. Grantee acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and ground-water conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property and assumes Grantor's responsibility for all environmental conditions of the Property, known or unknown, including but not limited to responsibility, if any, for investigation, removal or remediation actions relating to the presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance or other environmental contamination relating to the Property. Grantee also releases and shall indemnify, defend, and hold Grantor and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to regulatory agencies, attorneys, contractors and consultants' fees and costs), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Grantee shall so indemnify Grantor and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of Grantor or Grantee. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns.

 For purposes of this COVENANT, the term "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 Grantee's release shall include both claims by Grantee against Grantor and cross-claims against Grantor by Grantee based upon claims made against Grantee by any and all third parties. The obligation to indemnify and defend shall include, but not be limited to, any liability of Grantor to any and all federal, state or local regulatory agencies or other persons or entities for remedial action costs and natural resources damages claims. The obligation to complete all environmental investigation, removal or remediation of the Property and the acknowledgement, release and indemnification touch and concern the Property, restrict the use of the Property, constitute an assessment against the Property and are intended to run with the land and bind Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of Grantor and its successors and assigns. This release means that Grantee accepts the Property "as- is, where-is and with-all-faults," and that Grantee assumes all responsibility of Grantor to investigate, remove and remediate any environmental conditions on the Property and has no recourse against Grantor or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property.

 Grantor shall have the right to defend itself and seek from Grantee recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and defense costs and expenses incurred by Grantor if Grantee does not accept unconditionally Grantor's tender to Grantee of the duty to investigation, remove and/or remediate environmental conditions on the Property and/or defend and indemnify Grantor against any such claim, suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses, cost or expense. This Covenant shall apply regardless of whether or not Grantee is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. This Covenant is not intended, nor shall it, release, discharge or affect any rights or causes of action that Grantor or Grantee may have against any other person or entity, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, and each of the parties reserves all such rights including, but not limited to, claims for contribution or cost recovery relating to any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property.

 Executed this ____day of ___________, 2004, pursuant to Ordinance of The City of Seattle.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:

 Fleets & Facilities Director

 Approved as to form by Purchaser:

 By:

 Print Name:

 Print Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 2004, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared John Franklin, to me known to be the Fleets & Facilities Director of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation on behalf of which the within and foregoing instrument was executed, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this instrument above written.

 (Signature) (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at .

 My commission expires .

 EXHIBIT A

 3

 1

 Exhibit A - Quitclaim Deed PMA No. 4180

```
