

********

**Council Bill Number: 114841**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121458**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to cable television; amending the cable franchise held by Millennium Digital Media Systems, L.L.C. (as successor to Summit Communications, Inc.) in settlement of disputed matters pertaining to Millennium's compliance with the franchise agreement for the TCI-1 franchise area; extending the term of the franchise; updating outdated references and provisions; and correcting various grammatical errors in the franchise.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 3, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 14, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 12, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 22, 2004
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** CABLE-TELEVISION, FRANCHISES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 118361, 119295, 121148; Amending: Ord 117955, 119295

**Fiscal Note:**114841

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to cable television; amending the cable franchise held by Millennium Digital Media Systems, L.L.C. (as successor to Summit Communications, Inc.) in settlement of disputed matters pertaining to Millennium's compliance with the franchise agreement for the TCI-1 franchise area; extending the term of the franchise; updating outdated references and provisions; and correcting various grammatical errors in the franchise.

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 117955, the City granted a nonexclusive cable franchise to Summit Communications, Inc. for the TCI-1 Franchise District effective January 20, 1996; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 118361, the City granted a nonexclusive cable franchise to Summit Communications, Inc. for the Central Cable Television Franchise District effective December 13, 1996; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 119295, the City approved the transfer of the franchise for both the TCI-1 Franchise District and the Central Cable Television Franchise District to Millennium Digital Media Systems, L.L.C. ("MDM"); and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 121148, the City renamed the TCI-1 Franchise District to Cable Franchise District One; and

 WHEREAS, the City has alleged MDM to be in violation of the build-out requirements of the Franchise for Cable Franchise District One and SMC Ch. 21.60; and

 WHEREAS, MDM has denied that it has violated the Franchise or SMC Ch. 21.60, and that any failure to meet buildout requirements was due to circumstances beyond its reasonable control; and

 WHEREAS, the parties have agreed to resolve this dispute through amendments to the Franchise Agreement as set forth in this Ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, the City has extended the term of MDM's Cable Franchise District One Franchise for approximately two (2) years through March 1, 2008 to coincide with the renewal date of MDM's Franchise in the Central Cable Television Franchise District, thereby allowing the City to more efficiently conduct the renewal ascertainment process, scheduled to begin in 2005 for the MDM Central Cable Television Franchise District Franchise, by including both franchise areas; and

 WHEREAS, other amendments have been made to the MDM Cable Franchise District One Franchise to correct grammatical errors, and to update outdated references and provisions.

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The cable franchise agreement of Summit Communications, Inc., set forth in an attachment to Ordinance 117955, and transferred to Millennium Digital Media Systems, L.L.C. ("MDM") by Ordinance 119295 ("Franchise"), shall be amended as set forth in this Ordinance (hereinafter the "First Amendment").

 Section 2. The parties agree that this First Amendment is a resolution of a dispute between the parties with respect to MDM's compliance with franchise obligations and that this First Amendment shall not be deemed to be a modification of the Franchise pursuant to 47 USC section545, or a renewal of the Franchise pursuant to 47 USC section546. In particular, the parties agree that this First Amendment shall not be deemed to be: 1) evidence of an ascertainment of the cable-related needs of the community; 2) a review of, or a waiver by the City of its rights to review, the performance of MDM under the Franchise over the entire term of the Franchise in any future renewal process; or (3) an admission by MDM of any noncompliance with the terms of the Franchise or applicable law.

 Section 3. The parties agree that in addition to amendments made to the Franchise referenced in Section 1 as set forth in this Ordinance, this First Amendment to the MDM Cable Franchise District One Franchise shall include the additional franchise obligations as outlined in Exhibit B to this Ordinance to be provided within the time frame as specified in Exhibit B. The revised franchise area, as referenced in Section 8 of this Ordinance, is depicted on a map attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance.

 Section 4. For this First Amendment to the MDM Cable Franchise District One Franchise, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in Article 3 of the Franchise.

 Section 5. Section 1.2 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 Duration of Franchise. The term of this Franchise, and all rights, privileges, obligations, and restrictions pertaining thereto, shall ~~be ten years from the effective date of this franchise~~end on March 1, 2008, unless terminated earlier as provided herein.

 Section 6. Section 1.6 of the Franchise is deleted in its entirety.

 Section 7. Subsection 3.36 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 "Normal Business Hours" means the hours from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, and ~~8:00~~9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Saturday, excluding legal City holidays.

 Section 8. Section 4.1 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 Franchise Area. Grantee shall provide Cable Services, as authorized under this Franchise, within the area of the City ~~designated as the [TCI 1] Franchise Area, and set forth as Cable Districts identified with Teleprompter~~set forth on Exhibit A (map) attached hereto. For purposes of this Franchise, the Franchise area shall be known as Cable Franchise District 1A. Cable Franchise District 1A shall consist of two (2) sub-areas:  (1) The first sub-area (the "Built-out Area") shall consist of all areas as set forth in Exhibit A where as of November 1, 2003, MDM currently has a Cable System constructed.

 (2) The second sub-area (the "Adjacent Area") shall consist of the area of Cable Franchise District 1A that is not in the Built-out Area.

 Section 9. Section 4.2 of the Franchise is deleted in its entirety

 Section 10. Section 4.3 of the Franchise is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new Section 4.3:

 4.3 Cable System Buildout

 (A) Built-out Area. Grantee shall provide Cable Services to any Dwelling Unit within the Built-out Area, under the terms and conditions of this Franchise, and within seven (7) days of a request for services, provided that the installation is a "Standard Installation" as that term is defined in SMC 21.60.810.

 (B) Adjacent Area. Grantee shall have the option to construct the Cable System and to provide Cable Services to Dwelling Units within the Adjacent Area. In the event that Grantee chooses to provide Cable Services to a Customer within the Adjacent Area, Grantee shall be obligated to provide Cable Services to any Dwelling Unit within Cable Franchise District 1A that fronts or backs upon the right of way used by the Cable System within the Adjacent Area under the terms and conditions of this Franchise, and within seven (7) days of a request for services, provided that the installation is a "Standard Installation" as that term is defined in SMC 21.60.810.

 (C) All new construction shall comply with the provisions of Section 8 of this Franchise regarding technical standards. The Cable System shall comply with the provisions of Section 7 of the Franchise. Programming standards and criteria will comply with the provisions of Sections 5 and 7 of this Franchise.

 Section 11. Subsection 7.3(B) of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 (B) The Cable System shall be designed and deployed to enable operation within the manufacturer's recommended specifications ~~of~~for active components that have a rating of no less than 750 MHz without requiring changes to active component spacing. Upon activation, the Cable System may operate at less than 750 MHz as long as the channel capacity requirements ~~and net;~~are met and the  modernization requirements of the Franchise are satisfied.

 Section 12. Subsection 7.10(A) of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 (A) ~~As soon as it is physically practicable after completion of the technical upgrade provided for in Section 5.3,~~ Grantee shall offer commercial Internet access to residential, governmental and educational subscribers. Grantee will be relieved of this obligation only upon its demonstrating that the service is not commercially feasible. There will be a rebuttable presumption that such access is not commercially feasible if ~~no~~ comparable service is not available within the City.

 Section 13. Section 8.2 of the Franchise is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new Section 8.2:

 Cable System Maps. The Grantee shall prepare and provide the City with line extension maps on a semi-annual basis showing any portions of the Facility installed within the one-half year. The maps shall be provided to the City electronically in a data file in a form acceptable to the City for use in its GIS system. The City shall have the right to require maps in electronic and/or hard copy format on a more frequent basis than set forth in this Section, if reasonably necessary to perform its regulatory functions.

 Section 14. Section 8.4 of the Franchise is deleted in its entirety.

 Section 15. Subsection 10.1(G) of the Franchise is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new Subsection 10.1(G):

 (G) The Grantee shall provide at least one (1) service center for each seventy-five thousand (75,000) Subscribers served, located at a safe, visible site within the City of Seattle, that is handicapped accessible, and located along mass transit routes. Except as otherwise approved by the City, all service centers shall be open during Normal Business Hours and will offer the following services to Subscribers who come to the service center: bill payment (including the ability to provide change and customer receipts), equipment exchange, processing of change of service requests, and response to customer inquiries and requests. The City may approve alternatives for service centers that provide substantially equivalent services. The Grantee shall post a sign at each service center advising Subscribers of its hours of operation and of the addresses and telephone numbers to contact the City and the Grantee if the service center is not open at other than Normal Business Hours.

 Section 16. Subsection 13.2(B) of the Franchise is deleted in its entirety.

 Section 17. Section 13.12 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 Discontinuing Use of Facilities. Whenever Grantee intends to discontinue using any Facility or capacity within the City's Rights of Way, Grantee shall submit for the Director of ~~Engineering's~~ Transportation's approval a complete description of the Facility and the date on which the Grantee intends to discontinue using the Facility or capacity. Grantee may thereafter remove the Facility without further notice to the City or request that the City permit the Facility~~it~~ to remain in place. Notwithstanding the Grantee's request that any such Facility remain in place, the Director of ~~Engineering~~Transportation may require the Grantee to remove the Facility from the City's Right of Way or modify or maintain the Facility or capacity to protect the public health and safety or otherwise serve the public interest. The Director of ~~Engineering~~Transportation may require the Grantee to perform a combination of modification, maintenance, and/or removal of the Facility and/or capacity. Grantee shall complete such removal or modification in accordance with a reasonable schedule set by the Director of ~~Engineering~~Transportation. Until such time as Grantee removes or modifies the Facility as directed by the Director of ~~Engineering~~Transportation, or until the rights to and responsibility for the Facility are accepted by another Person having authority to construct and maintain such Facility, Grantee shall be responsible for all necessary repairs and relocations of the Facility, as well as maintenance of the City's Right of Way, in the same manner and degree as if the Facility were in active use, and Grantee shall retain all liability for such Facility. Nothing in this section relieves the Grantee from complying with City permitting requirements or any other City rule or regulation pertaining to Grantee's discontinued use of facilities.

Grantee is authorized to continue to use any Facility to provide Cable Services in Cable Franchise District 1A although such Facility is outside Cable Franchise District 1A if prior to this First Amendment such Facility was located in the original Franchise Area (as defined on the effective date of the Franchise); provided, however, that when such Facility is no longer used to provide Cable Services in Cable Franchise District 1A, then it shall be removed by Grantee within 60 days after it is no longer so used. Nothing herein shall authorize Grantee to provide Cable Services to any Person outside of Cable Franchise District 1A except that Grantee is authorized to continue providing services until June 30, 2005 to Dwelling Units at 3021 and 3022 S.W. Bradford Street, Seattle, WA 98126, which is where Grantee has its off-air pick-up site for local broadcast channels. Grantee shall discontinue providing Cable Service to the aforementioned Dwelling Units on or before June 30, 2005.

 Section 18. Section 13.16 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

~~Construction and~~ Use of Poles. Grantee shall ~~complete a new~~execute and maintain in effect such pole attachment agreements with Seattle City Light to cover all attachments ~~within the Franchise Area~~to City Light poles within Cable Franchise District 1A that are necessary for the ~~implementation of~~performance of Grantee's obligations under the Franchise Agreement.

 Section 19. Subsection 16.3(B) of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 (B) Grantee shall be entitled to increase rates only as provided in this Franchise or by federal law. ~~Grantee and the City shall follow the process for establishing increases in rates and charges set forth in the City's Master Cable Ordinance, SMC Ch. 21.60, as now constituted or hereafter amended.~~ Grantee shall provide all information requested by the City with respect to any increase in rates by Grantee.

 Section 20. Section 16.8 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 Reserved City Authority. The City reserves all regulatory authority arising from the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 as amended.

 Section 21. Section 18.1 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. During the performance of this ~~contract~~Franchise, the Grantee agrees as follows:

 The Grantee will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, creed, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Grantee will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race,  age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer, recruitment, or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Grantee agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

 The Grantee will, prior to commencement and during the term of this ~~contract~~Franchise, furnish to the Director of ~~Human Rights~~Executive Administration (as used herein "Director" means the Director of ~~Human Rights~~Executive Administration  or his/her designee) upon his/her request and on such form as may be provided by the Director therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the Grantee in implementing the terms of these provisions, and will permit access to his/her records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Director for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with this provision.

 If upon investigation the Director finds probable cause to believe that the Grantee has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provisions, the Grantee and the contracting authority shall be so notified in writing. The contracting authority shall give the Grantee an opportunity to be heard, after ten (10) days' notice. If the contracting authority concurs in the findings of the Director, it may suspend the ~~contract~~Franchise and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to the Grantee, pending compliance by the Grantee with the terms of these provisions.

 Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be a material breach of this ~~contract~~Franchise.

 The foregoing provisions will be inserted in all subcontracts for work covered by this ~~contract~~Franchise.

 Section 22. Section 18.2 of the Franchise is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new Section 18.2:

 18.2 Efforts to Use Women and Minority Business Enterprises.

 (A) General: The City encourages the use of Women and Minority Business Enterprises ("WMBEs") as subcontractors and women and minority employees in all City contracts, and encourages outreach efforts to include women and minorities in employment, contracting, and subcontracting opportunities.

 Outreach efforts may include the use of solicitation lists, advertisements in publications directed to minority communities, breaking down total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities where economically feasible, making other useful schedule or requirements modifications that are likely to assist small or WMBE businesses to compete, targeted recruitment efforts, and using the services of available minority community and public organizations to perform outreach.

 The Grantee shall ensure that all employees, particularly supervisors, are aware of, and adhere to their obligation to maintain a working environment free from discriminatory conduct, including but not limited to harassment and intimidation of minorities, women, or WMBE businesses.

 (B) Non-Discrimination: The Grantee shall not create barriers to open and fair opportunities for WMBEs to participate in any City contract and to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services.

 (C) Record-Keeping: The Grantee shall maintain, for at least 12 months after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, relevant records and information necessary to document all Grantee solicitations to subcontractors and suppliers, all subcontractor and supplier proposals received, and all subcontractors and suppliers actually utilized under this Agreement. The City shall have the right to inspect and copy such records.

 (D) Sanctions for Violation: Any violation of the mandatory requirements of the provisions of this section (sub-sections B and C) shall be a material breach of contract for which the Grantee may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by applicable law.

 Section 23. Subsection 19.1(A)(5) is deleted in its entirety.

 Section 24. Section 19.2 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 (A) Amounts of Liquidated Damages. Because the Grantee's failure to comply with provisions of the Franchise will result in injury to the City in amounts that will be difficult to quantify with reasonable certainty, the City and the Grantee agree to the following liquidated damages for the following violations. These damages represent the parties' best estimate of the damages resulting from the specified injury. ~~The liquidated damage amounts are in 1995 dollars and shall be increased each year by the increase in the U.S. Consumer Price Index.~~

 (1) ~~For failure to complete the annual requirement to buildout in accordance with the Franchise: $10,000/month for each full month the violation continues~~. For failure to provide Cable Service to any Dwelling Unit requesting Cable Service that has a right to Cable Service under this Franchise within seven days after a request is made, provided that the installation is a "Standard Installation" as that term is defined in SMC 21.60.810, unless a date that exceeds the seven day timeline is requested by the Subscriber or the Subscriber rejects available 4 hour installation windows within the seven days after the request is made: free installation and one month's basic service for the Dwelling Unit. In addition, if installation occurs after the twenty-first day following the request for service, Grantee shall pay $200 per Subscriber per day until such installation is complete, but not including the day of installation.

 (2) For any transfer subject to the provisions of Section 14 without prior City approval: $200 for each day the violation continues;

 (3) For failure to comply with public, educational, and governmental requirements of the franchise and use of the System: $0.50/subscriber/month not to exceed $10,000;

 (4) Except as provided in (5) - (6) below, for violation of applicable Subscriber service standards: $200 per occurrence;

 (5) For failure to maintain a local office pursuant to the conditions of this franchise: $1 per Subscriber per month, not to exceed $5000  per month;

 (6) For violation of any technical performance standards of this Franchise Agreement: $500 per occurrence;

(7) For Providing Cable Service outside Cable Franchise District 1A: $200 per day per Dwelling Unit receiving Cable Service; provided, however, this shall not apply to the provision of services to areas outside of Cable District 1A where Grantee holds franchises or permits. The City shall notify Grantee by certified letter of any violation of this Franchise provision. Grantee shall have 30 days from receipt of City's notice to cure the violation. If the violation specified in City's notice is not cured within 30 days, penalties under this subsection shall be assessed on the 31st day following Grantee's receipt of the City's notice.

(8) For failing to remove Facilities as provided in Section 13.12 of the Franchise: $200 per day.

~~(7)~~(9) For all other material violations of this Agreement: $500 per occurrence.

 (B) Effect on Duty to Comply. The collection of liquidated damages by the City shall in no respect affect:

 (1) Compensation owed to subscribers; or

 (2) The Grantee's obligation to comply with the provisions of this Franchise or applicable law.

 (C) Accrual. Liquidated damages accrue from the date the violation occurs, not from the date the City determines there has been a violation.

 (D) Cap on Liquidated Damages; Effect on Other Remedies. The cap on liquidated damages shall be the greater of $100,000 or $1.00 per subscriber for the ~~life of the franchise; but~~period from the effective date of this Franchise to December 31, 2003. For the period of January 1, 2004 to March 1, 2008, the cap on liquidated damages incurred during this period shall be $80,000. The imposition of liquidated damages shall not preclude the City from  exercising any other remedy under this Franchise or as provided by law.

 Section 25. Section 22.8 of the Franchise is amended to read as follows:

 Any notice provided for under this franchise shall be sufficient if in writing and delivered personally to the following addressee or deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed as follows, or to such other address as the receiving party specifies in writing:

 If to the City:

~~Department of Administrative Services Office of Cable Communications City of Seattle Alaska Building - 12th Floor Seattle, WA 98104~~

Seattle Office of Cable Communications Key Tower, Suite 2700 700 5th Avenue, P.O. Box 94709 Seattle, WA 98124-4709

 If to the Grantee:

~~Summit Communications, Inc, 3633 136th Place Southeast, Suite 107 Bellevue, WA 98006 Attn: Robert J. Ericson~~

Mr. Mike O'Herron, President Northwest Region Millennium Digital Media 3633 136th Pl. SE, Suite 107 Bellevue, WA 98006

 Section 26. This franchise extension and associated terms and conditions relating to the aforementioned dispute between the City and MDM shall not become effective for any purpose unless and until Millennium Digital Media Systems, L.L.C. accepts the conditions of this Ordinance and such acceptance is filed with the City Clerk and the Office of Cable Communications. Such acceptance shall be in writing, shall be in a form and substance approved by the City Attorney, and shall be and operate as an acceptance of each and every term and condition and limitation contained in this Ordinance. If Grantee fails to accept the amendments to the Franchise contained herein within 30 days of the Mayor's acceptance of this Ordinance, the Franchise amendments shall be null and void. All other terms, conditions, and limitations of the Franchise Agreement not specifically amended by this Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect and shall apply to the obligations created by this Ordinance. Any acts consistent with and prior to the effective date of this Ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 27. This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004. _________________________________ President __________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Exhibit A - Map of Cable Franchise District 1A.

 Exhibit B - Chart of Additional Benefits/Franchise Obligations.

 April 27, 2004 Version #3 t

[Exhibit A - Map of Cable Franchise District 1A.](/~ordpics/114841.jpg)

 EXHIBIT B. TO FIRST AMENDMENT OF MDM CABLE FRANCHISE DISTRICT ONE FRANCHISE

 The following chart details the additional franchise obligations and estimated dollar value per year to be provided by Millennium Digital Media Systems, L.L.C. (MDM) as part of the First Amendment to the Cable Franchise District One Franchise in settlement of a dispute between the City of Seattle and MDM regarding franchise compliance. All obligations listed herein are due and payable within 30 days of the effective date of this Ordinance unless otherwise specified. The estimated value of each obligation is to be amortized over three years beginning from the effective date of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.

 Franchise Obligation 2004 2005 2006 Total Est. Value

 1. Discount of $1.25 per $6,780 $6,780 $6,780 $20,340 subscriber to low income subscribers in addition to the discount provided in Section 16.4 of the MDM Franchise Agreement for Cable Franchise District One, beginning on the first billing cycle following the effective date of this Ordinance and continuing until such time as the allocated funds are exhausted.

 2. Free cable modem $900 $1,600 $1,800 $4,300 installation and service to be distributed at the City's discretion. All installations shall be completed within 10 days of the City's request.

 3. Cash allowance for the $1,600 $1,200 $200 $3,000 Seattle Community Access Network (SCAN) to produce promotional advertisements for non-profit organizations.

 4. Free air time on MDM' $10,554 $10,553 $10,553 $31,660` cable system for use in promoting local non-profit groups, The Seattle Channel or for other public purposes upon City's request.

 5. Free air time on KIRO-TV $8,000 $7,700 $0 $15,700 for use in promoting The Seattle Channel and local non-profit groups.

 6. Repositioning of the $35,000 n/a n/a $35,000 Seattle Channel from Channel 28 to Channel 21 to match the channel position in Comcast's franchise areas. This channel repositioning shall occur as soon as it is feasible but no later than June 30, 2004.

 Total Estimated Value $62,834 $27,833 $19,333 $110,000

 Tony Perez/JJ Copy of DoIT Millennium EXHIBIT B.doc March 2, 2004 Version #2a

 EXHIBIT B

```
