

********

**Council Bill Number: 114863**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121448**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to transferable development rights; authorizing the sale by the City of transferable development rights acquired from low-income housing projects and other development rights available for transfer from the Benaroya Hall Music Center to a developer of a project at 1301 Second Avenue; authorizing related agreements and deeds; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 19, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 30, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 29, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Washington Mutual Tower TDR

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 12, 2004
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, DOWNTOWN, SEATTLE-ART-MUSEUM

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 119051, 114029

**Fiscal Note:**114863

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to transferable development rights; authorizing the sale by the City of transferable development rights acquired from low-income housing projects and other development rights available for transfer from the Benaroya Hall Music Center to a developer of a project at 1301 Second Avenue; authorizing related agreements and deeds; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, under the City's Land Use Code certain Downtown properties, including those preserved for low-income housing and those developed with Major Performing Arts Facilities, are eligible to transfer unused development rights; and

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 114029, as amended, the City has established a "TDR Bank" and authorized the Director of the Office of Housing ("Housing Director") as the successor to the housing functions of the former Department of Housing and Human Services to negotiate the sale of transferable development rights ("TDR") from such low-income housing; and

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 119051, the City Council authorized certain agreements with respect to the sale of up to 423,000 square feet of Major Performing Arts Facility TDR ("MPAF TDR") from the Benaroya Hall site and the proceeds thereof; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinances 120331, 120116, and 118805 as amended by Ordinance 120092, the City acquired 106,442 square feet of TDR from low-income housing sites, known as the Devonshire Apartments, Lewiston Hotel, and the Julie Apartments ("Housing TDR"); and

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 119051, the City Council established a schedule for the order of sale by the City of Housing TDR and MPAF TDR; and

 WHEREAS, the owner of a proposed office and museum project has offered to purchase up to 109,842 square feet of TDR for use in accordance with the City's Land Use Code; the Housing Director has negotiated the terms of sale in consultation with the Finance Director; and the Mayor has recommended that the negotiated terms be accepted;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Housing Director is authorized, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, to execute, deliver, perform, administer, and enforce an agreement for the sale of up to One Hundred Nine Thousand and Eight Hundred Forty-Two (109,842) square feet of transferable development rights ("TDR") based on the terms set forth in Attachment A to this Ordinance, with such additional terms and conditions and such modifications, other than reduction in price, as the Housing Director shall find to be appropriate to effect the intent of this ordinance ("Agreement"). The TDR to be sold derive from the properties described on Attachment B to this Ordinance, and include TDR from a Major Performing Arts Facility ("MPAF TDR") as well as Housing TDR, as defined in the Land Use Code. Upon performance by the buyer in accordance with the terms of the Agreement, the Housing Director is further authorized to execute and deliver a deed or deeds to the TDR sold, substantially in the form of Attachment B to this Ordinance; provided, that if consistent with the Agreement the Buyer elects to acquire fewer than the full amount of TDR authorized, then the Housing Director is authorized to deliver a deed or deeds for the lesser amount, and the order in which TDR from the respective properties are sold shall be consistent with the agreement authorized pursuant to Ordinance 119051, taking into account any other City sales of TDR. The proceeds of sale of the MPAF TDR shall be deposited in the Development Rights Subfund (00179). The proceeds of sale of the Housing TDR shall be deposited in the TDR/Mitigation Subfund (16430).

 Section 2. The Housing Director or her designee is hereby authorized, for and on behalf of the City, to negotiate, execute, deliver, record, accept, modify, perform, and administer, as appropriate, any additional documents that may be contemplated by the Agreement or that may be necessary or appropriate to implement the intent of the Agreement or this Ordinance.

 Section 3. Any actions pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Term Sheet-Sale of TDR from the City of Seattle ("Seller") to 1301 Second Avenue, LLC ("Buyer")

 Attachment B: Form of Special Warranty Deed-Development Rights

 Laura Hewitt Walker

 OH TDR Sale Ord.doc

 March 25, 2004

 Version #7

 ATTACHMENT A

 TERM SHEET

 SALE OF TDR FROM THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereafter "Seller")

 TO 1301 SECOND AVENUE, LLC (hereafter "Buyer")

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, Buyer intends to construct a building for Washington Mutual offices and an expansion of the Seattle Art Museum in a single project containing approximately 1.6 million gross square feet of floor area including parking (the "Project"); and

 WHEREAS, the Project would involve floor area exceeding the base floor area ratio ("FAR") allowed in the Downtown Office Core 1 ("DOC 1") zone and the Downtown Mixed Commercial ("DMC") zone; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle Land Use Code allows developers to obtain floor area above the base FAR by use of various bonuses and by transferring development rights from other sites under certain conditions; and

 WHEREAS, Seller currently owns at least 245,000 square feet of transferable development rights ("TDR");

 NOW THEREFORE, this term sheet describes the basic terms of the proposed purchase and sale of TDR between Buyer and Seller. Any binding commitment by the City to sell TDR will be made only after City Council approval by ordinance and upon signing of a definitive purchase and sale agreement (the "Agreement"). The Agreement is intended to include the following terms:

 1. Purchase and Sale of TDR. Seller shall sell and Buyer shall buy no less than 9,842 square feet of TDR, and no more than 109,842 square feet of TDR in the following amounts:

 Up to 100,000 square feet of Housing TDR, and

 Up to 9,842 square feet of Major Performing Arts Facility ("MPAF") TDR.

 Buyer shall not be entitled to buy any Housing TDR from Seller unless Buyer buys at least 9,842 square feet of MPAF TDR.

 2. TDR Warranties. Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that, as of the date of execution of the Agreement:

 Seller is the owner of the TDR described in Section 1 above; and

 Subject to compliance by the Buyer with all applicable conditions to the use of TDR under the Land Use Code and Public Benefit Features Rule thereunder, and subject to all other applicable laws, regulations, ordinances and permits that affect the Project, the TDR are usable for the Project under the City of Seattle Land Use Code on the date of the Agreement to achieve floor area exceeding the base FAR in the DMC and DOC-1 zones. Buyer understands that applicable conditions include, without limitation, maximum limits on chargeable FAR and limits on the percentage of additional FAR that may be achieved through TDR that is not Housing TDR, alone or in combination with certain bonuses.

 3. Purchase Price. Buyer agrees to pay a purchase price of $20.00 per square foot for Housing TDR and a purchase price of $15.00 per square foot for MPAF TDR.

 4. Transfer of Title/Closing.

 4.1 The closing date shall be the date that title is transferred from Seller to Buyer (the "Closing Date"). There shall be a single Closing Date. Buyer shall specify at least ten (10) days prior to the Closing Date the amount of each type of TDR to be purchased and the desired Closing Date. Buyer shall then be obligated to buy on that date the amounts specified. Buyer shall have no right or obligation to buy any TDR above such amounts. The Closing Date shall be on or before ___________, 2004 and shall precede issuance of any permit for any construction activity for the Project other than excavation and shoring.

 4.2 Buyer shall pay all cash at closing in the amount of the purchase price applicable to the transaction.

 4.3 On the Closing Date, upon receipt of full payment in immediately available funds, Seller shall execute and cause to be recorded, and instruct the County recording officer to deliver to Buyer, one or more special warranty deed(s) for the TDR referenced in Section 1 above.

 4.4 Buyer shall pay all costs of recording and, if Buyer requires an escrow, all fees and costs of the escrow agent.

 5. Title Insurance.

 5.1 Seller shall not be required to provide or pay for title insurance.

 5.2 Buyer may obtain title insurance or title reports at Buyer's own expense. Buyer shall provide a copy of any title report of commitment to Seller, promptly upon receipt. Buyer understands that title insurance for TDR may not be available or may contain non- standard exceptions and exclusions.

 Page 1 of 2 TDR Sale Ordinance, Attachment A

 ATTACHMENT B

 After recording, return to:

 Melody McCutcheon

 Hillis Clark Martin & Peterson

 500 Galland Building

 1221 Second Avenue

 Seattle, Washington 98101-2925

 FORM OF

 SPECIAL WARRANTY DEED_DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS

 Reference numbers of related documents: Not applicable.

 Grantor: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation

 Grantee: 1301 Second Avenue, LLC, a Washington limited liability company

 Legal Descriptions:

 1. Abbreviated forms

 TDR Sending Lots

 (a) TDR from Lot 9, Block 36, Bell & Denny 2nd Addition, Volume 1, p. 77.

 (b) TDR from Lot 5, Block 35, 2nd Addition to Seattle by Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased, Volume 1, p. 121.

 (c) TDR from Portion of Lot 11, Block 40, A. A. Denny's Addition, Volume 1 of Plats, page 99.

 (d) TDR from Block 2, A. A. Denny's Second Addition to Seattle, Volume 1, page 30.

 TDR Receiving Lot

 (e) Parcel B, City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 2207977, as recorded under King County Recording No. 20030417900008.

 2. Additional legal descriptions are on pages 2-5 below.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s):

 TDR Sending Lots

 a) Not applicable, development rights only, previously severed.

 b) Not applicable, development rights only, previously severed.

 c) Not applicable, development rights only, previously severed.

 d) 197470-0025-06, 197470-0055-09, 197470-0030-09

 TDR Receiving Lot

 e) 197470-0005

 The Grantor, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation, for and in consideration of Ten Dollars ($10.00) and other good and valuable consideration, bargains, sells and conveys to Grantee, 1301 SECOND AVENUE, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, the following amounts of Transferable Development Rights ("TDR") pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.49:

 [The final deed may include TDR from any or all of the properties in (a) through (c) below, and may include different amounts up to the respective figures in (a) through (c), but shall include the amount stated from the property in (d) below.]

 (a) Fifty-Two Thousand Two Hundred Fifty-Three (52,253) square feet of Transferable Development Rights ("TDR"), from those TDR previously conveyed to Grantor under deed recorded under King County Recording No. 199812241598, from the real property on which there is located a housing structure known as the "Devonshire Apartments", legally described as follows:

 LOTS 7 AND 8, BLOCK N, BELL'S 5TH ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT RECORDED IN VOLUME 1 OF PLATS, PAGE 191, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON;

 EXCEPT THAT PORTION THEREOF CONDEMNED IN KING COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT CAUSE NO. 52280 FOR STREET PURPOSES AND PROVIDED BY ORDINANCE NO. 13776 OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE;

 ALSO EXCEPT THAT PORTION THEREOF CONDEMNED IN KING COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT CAUSE NO. 642136 FOR A MONORAIL SYSTEM AND PROVIDED BY ORDINANCE NO. 93917 OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE.

 and

 (b) Twenty Nine Thousand Five Hundred Fifty Seven (29,557) square feet of TDR, from those TDR previously conveyed to Grantor under deed recorded under King County Recording No. 20020730000189, from the real property on which there is located a housing structure known as the "Julie Apartments", legally described as follows:

 PARCEL A:

 ALL IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED ON LOT 5, BLOCK 35, SECOND ADDITION TO THE TOWN OF SEATTLE AS LAID OFF BY THE HEIRS OF SARAH A. BELL, DECEASED, (COMMONLY KNOWN AS HEIRS OF SARAH A. BELL'S 2ND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE), ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED IN VOLUME 1 OF PLATS, PAGE 121, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON;

 PARCEL B:

 LOT 5, BLOCK 35, SECOND ADDITION TO THE TOWN OF SEATTLE AS LAID OFF BY THE HEIRS OF SARAH A. BELL, DECEASED, (COMMONLY KNOWN AS HEIRS OF SARAH A. BELL'S 2ND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE), ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED IN VOLUME 1 OF PLATS, PAGE 121, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON;

 EXCEPTING THEREFROM ALL IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED THEREON.

 and

 (c) Eighteen Thousand One Hundred Ninety (18,190) square feet of TDR, from those TDR previously conveyed to Grantor under deed recorded under King County Recording No. 20001129000390, from the real property on which there is located a housing structure known as the "Lewiston Hotel", legally described as follows:

 LOT 11, BLOCK 40, ADDITION TO THE TOWN OF SEATTLE, AS LAID OUT BY A. A. DENNY (COMMONLY KNOWN AS A. A. DENNY'S 6TH ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE), ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED IN VOLUME 1 OF PLATS, PAGE(S) 99, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON;

 EXCEPT THE EASTERLY 9 FEET THEREOF CONDEMNED FOR STREET PURPOSES.

 and

 (d) Nine Thousand Eight Hundred Forty-Two square feet (9,842 s.f) of TDR, from the real property in the City of Seattle owned by Grantor, which includes a Major Performing Arts Facility as defined in the Seattle Land Use Code, known as the Benaroya Hall Music Center, and is legally described as follows:

 LOTS 1-12, INCLUSIVE, BLOCK 2, ADDITION TO THE TOWN OF SEATTLE, AS LAID OUT BY A. A. DENNY (COMMONLY KNOWN AS A. A. DENNY'S SECOND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE), ACCORDING TO THE PLAT RECORDED IN VOLUME 1 OF PLATS, PAGE 30, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON,

 EXCEPT THE WESTERLY 12 FEET OF LOTS 1, 4, 5, 8, 9 AND 12 CONDEMNED IN KING COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT CAUSE NO. 7097 FOR THE WIDENING OF 2ND AVENUE, AS PROVIDED BY ORDINANCE 1107; AND EXCEPT THE EASTERLY 9 FEET OF LOTS 2, 3, 6, 7, 10 AND 11 CONDEMNED IN KING COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT CAUSE NO. 54135 FOR THE WIDENING OF 3RD AVENUE, AS PROVIDED BY ORDINANCE 14345;

 TOGETHER WITH THOSE PORTIONS OF THE ALLEY ADJOINING SAID LOTS THAT ATTACHED BY OPERATION OF LAW PURSUANT TO SEATTLE VACATION ORDINANCE 113486;

 SITUATE IN THE COUNTY OF KING, STATE OF WASHINGTON.

 This conveyance is made in accordance with the terms of that certain Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Transferable Development Rights between Grantor and Grantee, dated _______________, 2004, the terms of which are not merged into this Deed and survive the delivery of this Deed to Grantee to the extent provided in such Agreement. The Grantor covenants that it will forever warrant and defend title to the TDR conveyed hereunder against all persons lawfully claiming or to claim the same TDR by, through or under Grantor. Grantor hereby expressly limits the covenants and warranties of this deed to those herein expressed, and does hereby exclude all covenants and warranties arising or to arise by statutory or other implication.

 The undersigned Grantee hereby designates the following described property, located at 1301 Second Avenue, Seattle, Washington, as the receiving lot for all of the above TDR, for purposes of Seattle Municipal Code Ch. 23.49:

 THAT PORTION OF BLOCK 1, ADDITION TO THE TOWN OF SEATTLE, AS LAID OUT BY A. A. DENNY, COMMONLY KNOWN AS A. A. DENNY'S SECOND ADDITION TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED IN VOLUME 1 OF PLATS, PAGE 30, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 BEGINNING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID BLOCK 1 AND THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF THE NORTHEASTERLY 12 FEET THEREOF CONDEMNED IN DISTRICT COURT CAUSE NUMBER 7097 FOR SECOND AVENUE AS PROVIDED BY ORDINANCE NUMBER 1107 OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE, THENCE SOUTH 30 DEGREES 37' 39" EAST 229.90 FEET ALONG SAID SOUTHWESTERLY LINE TO THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF THE SEATTLE ART MUSEUM BUILDING;

 THENCE SOUTH 59 DEGREES 23' 14" WEST 235.01 FEET ALONG SAID PROLONGATION, SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE AND THE SOUTHWESTERLY PROLONGATION THEREOF TO THE NORTHEASTERLY LINE OF THE SOUTHWESTERLY 9 FEET OF SAID BLOCK 1 CONDEMNED IN DISTRICT COURT CAUSE NUMBER 7092 FOR FIRST AVENUE AS PROVIDED BY ORDINANCE NUMBER 1129 OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE;

 THENCE NORTH 30 DEGREES 36' 57" WEST 229.88 FEET ALONG SAID NORTHEASTERLY LINE TO SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF BLOCK 1;

 THENCE 59 DEGREES 22' 59" EAST 234.96 FEET ALONG SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 THIS DESCRIPTION INCLUDES THAT CERTAIN STRIP OF LAND WHICH BISECTS SAID BLOCK 1 AND IS LABELED "NO ALLEY IN THIS 16 FEET WIDE" ON SAID PLAT, PRESUMED TO BE PART OF SAID BLOCK 1;

 THE PARCEL DESCRIBED ABOVE CONTAINS 54,021 SQUARE FEET (1.240 ACRES), MORE OR LESS.

 SITUATE IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 31, TOWNSHIP 25 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W. M., IN THE CITY OF SEATTLE, KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON.

 ALSO KNOWN AS PARCEL B OF CITY OF SEATTLE, LBA #2207977, RECORDING NO. 20030417900008, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON.

 Pursuant to SMC Section 23.49.014D2, notice is hereby given by Grantee that _________ square feet of the above TDR are intended to be used for a project on the above receiving lot that received a Master Use Permit issued by the Seattle Department of Planning and Development under Project No. 2203656 and, therefore, are not available for retransfer unless such project shall be abandoned, except to the extent that such project may be modified to require fewer than all the TDR conveyed hereunder, as determined by such Department.

 Dated this ______ day of ____________________, 2004.

 GRANTOR: THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By

 Katie Hong

 Director, Office of Housing

 GRANTEE: 1301 SECOND AVENUE, LLC

 By

 ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ______ day of ______________________________, 2004 before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared KATIE HONG, to me personally known (or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the Director of the Office of Housing for the City of Seattle, the Washington municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS my hand and seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 Print Name

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at

 (seal or stamp) My commission expires

 ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF ______________)

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF __________ )

 On this _______ day of ______________________________, 2004 before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _______________, to me personally known (or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to be the _______________________ of ____________, a ____________________, the party that executed the within and foregoing instrument as ___________ of 1301 Second Avenue, LLC, a __________ limited liability company, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said limited partnership for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that (s)he was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 Print Name

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at

 (seal or stamp) My commission expires

 Page 7 of 7 TDR Sale Ordinance, Attachment B

```
