

********

**Council Bill Number: 114840**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121434**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the acquisition of real property located at 700 Queen Anne Avenue North; repealing Ordinance Number 121371 relating to such acquisition; reauthorizing acquisition of such real property for open space, park, and recreation purposes; and making a new appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for costs and expenses related to the acquisition, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 12, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 13, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 13, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Unocal Property Sale

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 22, 2004
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods and Education
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, LAND-ACQUISITION, QUEEN-ANNE, OPEN-SPACE-LAND, PARKS, LOWER-QUEEN-ANNE

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 121371; Related: Ord 120024

**Fiscal Note:**114840

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the acquisition of real property located at 700 Queen Anne Avenue North; repealing Ordinance Number 121371 relating to such acquisition; reauthorizing acquisition of such real property for open space, park, and recreation purposes; and making a new appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for costs and expenses related to the acquisition, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy, as proposed by Ordinance 120024 and approved by Seattle voters on November 7, 2000, provides funds for acquisition of new neighborhood parks and green spaces; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 described the Neighborhood Park acquisition category as the "acquisition of properties specifically identified in Neighborhood Plans and other planning efforts"; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 included a Queen Anne Neighborhood Park in the Neighborhood Park allocation; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation conducted a public planning process in 2002 to identify, evaluate, and select a Queen Anne Neighborhood Park site for acquisition; and

 WHEREAS, the selected property has an appraised value of One Million Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,700,000); and

 WHEREAS, the sellers are incurring expenses to develop the selected property with a mixed-use project; and

 WHEREAS, the sellers are willing to sell the selected property for One Million Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,700,000) plus reimbursement of up to Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) in verified costs and expenses; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 121371 authorized the acquisition of the selected property, conditioned upon sellers and the former operator/owner of the selected property, Union Oil Company of California, a California corporation ("Unocal"), executing an assignment to the City of rights and affirmative undertakings relating to environmental indemnities in the form of Assignment of Rights, Consent to Assignment and Affirmative Undertaking attached to Ordinance 121371 ("Assignment"); and

 WHEREAS, under Ordinance 121371 authorization to enter into an agreement to acquire the selected property expired on December 31, 2003; and

 WHEREAS, Unocal did not consent to the Assignment and sellers and the City did not enter into an agreement prior to December 31, 2003; and

 WHEREAS, sellers and the Department of Parks and Recreation have negotiated the terms of a revised form of assignment of environmental indemnities acceptable to Unocal;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Ordinance 121371 entitled:

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing acquisition of real property located at 700 Queen Anne Avenue North, in the Queen Anne Uptown Urban Center, for open space, park, and recreation purposes; and making an appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for the costs and expenses related to the acquisition, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 is hereby repealed.

 Section 2. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation or his designee is authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to acquire real property commonly known as 700 Queen Anne Avenue North, for a purchase price of One Million Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,700,000) in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement attached hereto as Attachment 1. The legal description of the real property ("Property") is as follows:

 Lots 6 and 7, Block 2, Supplemental Plat of G. Kinnear's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 62, in King County, Washington.

 Section 3. The Superintendent or his designee is further authorized to reimburse certain costs and expenses, supported by documentation acceptable to the Superintendent, in an amount not to exceed Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000), incurred by the sellers during negotiations and prior to closing to develop the Property with a mixed-use project.

 Section 4. The Superintendent or his designee is authorized to execute such documents as he deems necessary or desirable to accomplish acquisition of the Property consistent with this ordinance. Upon delivery of the statutory warranty deed for the Property, the Superintendent or his designee is authorized to accept the deed on behalf of the City of Seattle by attaching to the deed his written acceptance thereof, and to record the same. The Property shall be accepted for open space, park, and recreation purposes, and placed under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation.

 Section 5. To pay for the acquisition of the Property and for necessary related costs and expenses, for which insufficient appropriations were made, the following appropriation is added to the 2004 Budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation:

 Fund

 Department

 Capital Improvement Program: Program and Project

 Amount

 2000 Parks Levy Fund (33850)

 Parks and Recreation

 2000 Parks Levy - Neighborhood Park Acquisitions Program K723001

 $1,900,000

 Section 6. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 7. The foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient appropriation has been made due to causes that could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of making the 2004 Budget. Now, therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by a three-fourths vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Lise Ward/law

 02/09/04

 version #4

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 THIS REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made as of the _____ day of _______________, 2004 by and THE UNION GROUP, L. L. C., a Washington limited liability company (the "Company"), as to an undivided 80% interest, and CONNIE L. HEIDEL ("Heidel"), a single woman as her separate estate, as to an undivided 20% interest (collectively, the Company and Heidel are referred to as "Seller"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("Buyer"). The real property that is the subject of this Agreement is situated in King County, Washington, and legally described in Exhibit A attached hereto ("Land"). The Land together with all permanent improvements thereon and all rights, privileges, easements and other appurtenances thereto are hereafter referred to as the "Property".

 1. Purchase Price; Payment. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement Seller shall sell and Buyer shall purchase the Property for a price of One Million Seven Hundred Thousand and NO/100 Dollars (U.S. $1,700,000.00) ("Purchase Price"). The Purchase Price is payable as follows:

 1.1 Deposit. Within five (5) days of the execution of this Agreement by Buyer and Seller, Buyer will open an escrow account with Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc., 215 Columbia Street, Seattle, Washington 98104 (referred to hereafter as "Escrow Agent" or "Title Company") and shall deliver to Escrow Agent a deposit of Five Thousand and NO/100 Dollars ($5,000.00) (the "Deposit") together with a copy of the fully executed Agreement. Escrow Agent shall place the Deposit in an interest-bearing account for the benefit of the Buyer. Escrow Agent shall apply or disburse the Deposit as provided in this Agreement. At closing, Escrow Agent shall apply the Deposit together with interest, if any, to the Purchase Price.

 1.2 Payment of Remainder of Purchase Price. The balance of the Purchase Price shall be payable in cash, certified funds or wire transfer at closing.

 2. Reimbursement of Verified Costs; Payment. As additional consideration for this Agreement, at closing Buyer shall reimburse Seller for architect and engineering fees actually incurred by Seller for the Property between October 9, 2003 and December 15, 2003 ("Costs") in an amount not to exceed Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000). Buyer's obligation to reimburse Seller for Costs at closing is conditioned on Buyer's receipt, at least seven (7) days prior to the date of closing, of written notice of the amount of the Costs and documentary evidence acceptable to Buyer that the Costs were actually incurred by Seller, that the Costs were paid in full by Seller, and that the Costs are reasonable, necessary, not duplicative of development costs incurred prior to October 9, 2003 and relate solely to development of the Property.

 3. Conveyance; Title Insurance.

 3.1 Conveyance. Seller shall convey good, marketable and insurable title to the Property to Buyer by statutory warranty deed, free and clear of any and all liens, encumbrances, defects, easements, conditions, and restrictions except those listed on Exhibit B and those, if any, accepted by Buyer in writing (collectively referred to as "Permitted Exceptions").

 3.2 Title Insurance. Title to the Property shall be insured under an ALTA extended coverage owner's title insurance policy issued pursuant to the preliminary commitment for title insurance from the Title Company, No. 493006, dated September 18, 2002, Supplemental Report #1 dated January 3, 2003, Supplemental Report #2 dated February 18, 2003, and Supplemental Report #3 dated October 2, 2003, Supplemental Report #4 dated December 10, 2003, Supplemental Report #5 dated February 10, 2004 ("Title Report"), subject only to the Permitted Exceptions. If required by the Title Company to issue an ALTA extended coverage owner's title insurance policy; Buyer shall obtain a survey and title updates for an extended policy at its own cost and expense.

 4. Conditions Precedent.

 4.1. Buyer Conditions. The obligations of Buyer under this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions, which are for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived only in writing by Buyer. If any condition is not satisfied or waived prior to closing (or such earlier date as provided in the subsections below), then this Agreement shall terminate, and the parties shall have no further obligations under this Agreement, except that Buyer shall be entitled to return of the Deposit together with interest, if any.

 4.1.1 Council Approval of Transaction. On or before March 31, 2004, an ordinance shall have been passed by the Seattle City Council and signed by the Mayor authorizing the transaction contemplated by this Agreement and appropriating funds to complete this transaction.

 4.1.2 Debris and Personal Property. On the date of closing, the Property shall be free of garbage, waste and debris. Seller will hold Buyer harmless from all claims and expenses arising from removal and disposal of any such garbage, waste and debris.

 4.1.3 Title Insurance. On the date of closing, Title Company shall be irrevocably committed to issuing to Buyer an ALTA extended coverage owner's title insurance policy, dated as of the date of closing and insuring Buyer in the amount of the Purchase Price against loss or damage by reason of defect in Buyer's title to the Property subject only to the printed exclusions and general exceptions appearing in the policy form and any Permitted Exceptions.

 4.1.4 Compliance With Obligations. Seller shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Seller.

 4.1.5 Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties of Seller in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all respects as of the closing date.

 4.1.6 No Adverse Changes. As of closing, there shall have been no adverse change in the physical condition of the Property from the date of this Agreement.

 4.1.7 Assignment. At closing, Seller shall deliver to Buyer an assignment, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C ("Assignment"), of all of Seller's rights of indemnity in connection with the Property from Union Oil Company of California, a California corporation, doing business as Unocal ("Unocal").

 4.1.8 Fees. On or before closing, Seller shall provide evidence acceptable to Buyer that all fees and charges owing to the Department of Planning and Development, or its functional predecessor, in connection with permits or permit applications for the Property have been paid in full.

 4.2 Seller Conditions. The obligation of Seller to convey the Property to Buyer hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions within the time periods specified below, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 4.2.1 Compliance With Obligations. Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, conditions and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Buyer.

 4.2.2 Assignment. At closing, Seller shall deliver to Buyer an assignment, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C ("Assignment"), of all of Seller's rights of indemnity in connection with the Property from Union Oil Company of California, a California corporation, doing business as Unocal ("Unocal"). The Assignment shall include Unocal's consent to assignment whereby Unocal agrees to indemnify Buyer in connection with certain claims and costs of remediation for contamination that has migrated from the Property to other property, including Buyer's rights of way adjacent to the Property, as provided in the attached Assignment.

 5. Representations and Warranties. Effective as of the date of this Agreement and the date of closing, Seller represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive closing and shall not be merged in any deed delivered by Seller to Buyer at closing.

 5.1 Authority of Seller. The Company, and the person signing on behalf of the Company, and Heidel have full power and authority to execute this Agreement and perform Seller's obligations hereunder. When executed and delivered by Seller, this Agreement shall constitute a legal, valid, and binding obligation of Seller.

 5.2 Ownership. Seller is the sole owner of the Property.

 5.3 Hazardous Substances. Seller has not received notification from any federal, state, or local agency suggesting that the Property is currently in violation of any environmental law or regulation or is or may be targeted for environmental cleanup. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Property is not in violation of any federal, state or local law, ordinance or regulation relating to industrial hygiene or to the environmental conditions on, under, above or about the Property, including but not limited to soil and groundwater conditions. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there are no cisterns, wells, subterranean storage or underground storage tanks on the Property. Except as disclosed in the documents listed in Exhibit D attached hereto, Seller warrants that during the term of Seller's ownership no underground storage tanks have been removed from the Property.

 5.4 The Property. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Property is free of any material defects, latent or patent, and there are no prescriptive or adverse interests with respect to the Property. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there are no boundary problems or encroachments on or from the Property.

 5.5 Litigation. Except as otherwise disclosed in the documents listed in Exhibit D attached hereto, to the best of Seller's knowledge, there is not pending or threatened any litigation or proceeding affecting the Property or any portion thereof which might materially impair the value or usefulness of the Property or any portion thereof to Buyer or would prevent Buyer from acquiring the Property in accordance with this Agreement. Seller has received no written notice of any judgments, orders, or decrees pending or outstanding against the Property or against Seller that would affect Seller's ability to perform his obligations under this Agreement or the use and occupancy of the Property for Buyer's purposes.

 5.6 Outstanding Contracts. To the best of Seller's knowledge, all persons and corporations supplying labor, materials or equipment to the Property have been paid and there are no claims of liens. Seller shall indemnify and hold harmless Buyer from and against any and all obligations, costs, and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) for any contract for improvements to or otherwise affecting or relating to the Property that has not been fully paid and Seller shall discharge all mechanics' and materialmens' liens arising from any labor or material furnished prior to the closing date.

 5.7 Agreements with Governmental Authorities. Except as otherwise disclosed in the documents listed in Exhibit D attached hereto, Seller has no knowledge of any agreements with governmental authorities, agencies, utilities, or quasi-governmental entities that affect the Property. No consent or approval of any federal, state, or local court or federal, state or local government, bureau, department, commission, or agency is required to permit Seller to execute, deliver, or perform the transactions contemplated in the Agreement.

 5.8 Persons in Possession. As of the closing date the Property will not be subject to any leases, tenancies or rights of persons in possession. Seller will hold Buyer harmless from any and all claims and expenses arising from previous leases, tenancies or rights of persons in possession.

 5.9 Seller Documents. As of the date of this Agreement, Seller has delivered to Buyer copies of all items listed on Exhibit D, and Seller has no surveys, maps, engineering studies, soil studies, environmental reports or site assessments or other documents relating in any way to the physical or environmental condition of the Property that are not listed on Exhibit D. Seller shall immediately deliver to Buyer copies of any documents related to the physical or environmental condition of the Property, or relating to offsite migration of contamination from the Property, discovered or generated after the date of this Agreement.

 5.10 No Releases. Seller has not released any person or entity who may have legal responsibility for any hazardous substances or other environmental conditions on, under, above, about or from the Property except as disclosed in that certain Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, Restrictions, Waiver and Release Agreement between Unocal and Seller recorded under King County recording number 199912300021700.

 5.11 Instruments. Seller shall not enter into or record any leases, trust deeds, mortgages, restrictions, encumbrances, liens, licenses, releases or other instruments or agreements affecting the Property (each, an "Instrument") without the prior written consent of Buyer from and after the date of this Agreement. Buyer shall not assume or release nor be deemed to have assumed or released any obligation or liability or right under any such Instrument without its express written agreement to do so.

 6. Closing.

 6.1 Closing Date. Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, closing shall occur in the office of Escrow Agent on a date mutually agreeable to Buyer and Seller on or before April 15, 2004. As used in this Agreement, "closing," "closing date" or "date of closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for disbursement to Seller in accordance with this Agreement. Funds held in reserve accounts pursuant to escrow instructions shall be deemed, for purposes of the definition of "closing," "closing date" and "date of closing," as available for disbursement to Seller.

 6.2 Prorations; Closing Costs. Surface water management fees and other fees (if any) payable to governmental entities shall be prorated as of the date of closing. Seller shall pay real estate excise taxes and real property taxes prorated through the date of closing. If Seller is entitled to a reimbursement for overpayment of real property taxes, it shall be Seller's responsibility to seek such reimbursement from the appropriate taxing authority outside of closing. Seller's monetary liens on the Property shall, if not previously discharged, be discharged in full out of the Purchase Price at closing. Buyer will pay the premium for its owners title insurance policy, the escrow agent's fees and the cost of recording the statutory warranty deed from the Seller and the Assignment.

 6.3 Documents. Buyer and Seller shall deposit in escrow with Escrow Agent all instruments, documents and monies necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. At closing, Seller shall execute and deliver to Buyer in escrow the following documents, each of which shall be in form and substance satisfactory to Buyer: a statutory warranty deed as described in Subsection 3.1 above, a real estate excise tax affidavit, the Assignment, an affidavit evidencing that Seller is exempt from the withholding requirements of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code, and evidence that the Company is in existence and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington and that the person(s) signing on behalf of the Company is/are authorized to carry out the obligations of Seller under this Agreement. In addition, Seller shall deliver to Buyer at closing all plans and permits for the Property and shall assign to Buyer all Seller's right, title and interest therein.

 6.4 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property upon closing.

 7. Risk of Loss. Seller will bear the risk of loss of or damage to the Property until the date of closing. In the event of material loss of or damage to the Property prior to closing, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by giving notice of termination to Seller. If Buyer elects to terminate this Agreement, the Deposit together with interest, if any, shall be refunded to Buyer, and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement.

 8. Remedies on Default. If Buyer has performed its obligations under this Agreement, and Seller defaults under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then Buyer shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement without further obligation to Seller and to receive return of the Deposit plus interest, if any. If Seller has performed its obligations under this Agreement, and Buyer defaults under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, then the Deposit shall be forfeited to Seller as liquidated damages as Seller's sole and exclusive remedy.

 9. Broker Representation. Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that Seller has not incurred finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees in connection with the sale of the Property and Seller is responsible for the payment of such fees. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees incurred by Seller. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that Buyer has incurred no finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with the sale of the Property. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees incurred by Buyer.

 10. General Provisions.

 10.1 Notices. All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or delivered via facsimile transmittal, and shall be deemed received on the sooner of actual or facsimile receipt or three (3) days after deposit in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer, as the case may be, at the address/facsimile number set forth below and with copies as specified:

 Seller: c/o Terrance L. Lien The Union Group, LLC 1700 Westlake Avenue North, Suite 700 Seattle, WA 98109 Facsimile: (206) 285-6723 Telephone: (206) 285-6716

 Buyer: Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr. Seattle, WA 98134 Facsimile: (206) 233-7038 Telephone: (206) 733-9106 Attn: Lise Ward

 Notice of a change of address or facsimile number shall be given by written notice in the manner specified above.

 10.2 Costs. Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, neither party shall be responsible for paying any costs incurred by the other party in connection with this Agreement or otherwise. All obligations, if any, for reimbursement or cost-sharing shall survive closing or the earlier termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever.

 10.3 Memorandum of Agreement. This Agreement shall not be recorded, but a mutually approved Memorandum stating the legal description and closing schedule may be prepared, signed, acknowledged and recorded at the request of either party.

 10.4 Amendment. This Agreement may be amended only by written instrument signed by Seller and Buyer acting through duly authorized representatives.

 10.5 Entire Understanding. This Agreement, and the documents incorporated herein, embody the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the transaction contemplated hereby, superseding all prior expressions by the parties. The terms of this Agreement cannot be waived except by the written agreement of the party against whom a waiver shall be asserted.

 10.6 Time of Essence. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and each term and condition hereof.

 10.7 Governing Law. This Agreement shall in all respects be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws and judicial decisions of the State of Washington.

 10.8 Severability. If any portion of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, the same shall not affect in any respect whatsoever the validity of the remainder of this Agreement, which shall be enforced in accordance with its terms.

 10.9 Holidays and Weekends. In the event that the date for any notice, performance, term, or period specified or contemplated hereunder shall fall on a holiday or a weekend, the date and any associated performance or action shall automatically be extended to the next succeeding business day.

 10.10 Captions. Section titles or other headings set forth in this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not be a part of this Agreement, nor shall they be considered in its interpretation, construction, or enforcement.

 10.11 Exhibits Incorporated. All exhibits attached hereto, as listed below, are expressly incorporated into and form a part of this Agreement.

 Exhibit A. Legal Description of Property Exhibit B Permitted Exceptions Exhibit C Assignment Exhibit D Seller's Documents

 11. Indemnification. Seller shall pay, protect, defend, indemnify and hold Buyer and its successors and assigns harmless from and against any and all loss, liability, damage and expense suffered or incurred by reason of (a) the breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement of Seller set forth in this Agreement, (b) the failure of Seller to perform any obligation required by this Agreement to be performed by Seller, (c) any injuries to persons or property from any cause occasioned in whole or in part by any acts or omissions of the Seller, its representatives, employees, contractor or suppliers that occurred before closing. For purposes of the indemnification provided in the above subsection (c) only, indemnification by the Seller, its representatives, employees, contractor or suppliers shall apply to the extent of the negligence of the Seller, its representatives, employees, contractor or suppliers, if RCW 4.24.115 applies.

 12. Limitation on Seller's Liability. Buyer acknowledges that it is aware that the Property once was used for the storage and handling of fuel hydrocarbons, that petroleum products and other substances identified in the documents listed in Exhibit D attached hereto were present on the Property, and that a prior owner conducted remedial activities on the Property as documented in Exhibit D. Buyer acknowledges that it has examined the documents listed in Exhibit D attached hereto. Buyer further acknowledges that Seller has assigned to Buyer its rights in certain indemnifications by the Union Oil Company of California and Buyer agrees to pursue its rights under these indemnifications rather than seek to hold Seller liable for claims covered by such indemnifications. Buyer acknowledges and agrees that it is purchasing the Property "as is, where is," except as otherwise provided under the terms of the Assignment attached as Exhibit C. Seller makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, with respect to, and shall have no liability to Buyer for, the presence on the Property of the contaminants identified in the documents listed in Exhibit D or the suitability of the Property for any use whatsoever.

 13. Survival. The covenants, agreements, indemnities, representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall survive closing unimpaired and shall not merge into the deed and the recordation thereof.

 14. Expiration Date. This offer shall terminate if not accepted by Seller by 5:00 p.m. on February 27, 2004.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement as of the date first stated above.

 BUYER: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation By: ___________________________________ Kenneth R. Bounds, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 SELLER The Union Group L. L. C., a Washington limited liability company By: ____________________________________ Its: ________________ ____________________________________ Connie L. Heidel, a single woman, as her separate estate

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ____, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ____________________________, to me known to be the ______________Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _____________. My Commission expires on ____________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ______, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________________, known to me to be the ___________________ of The Union Group L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company, the company that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said company for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at______________. My Commission expires on _____________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ______, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Connie L. Heidel, known to me to be the individual that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be her free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written. ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at______________. My Commission expires on _____________

 EXHIBIT A

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 Lots 6 and 7, Block 2, Supplemental Plat of G. Kinnear's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 62, in King County, Washington.

 EXHIBIT B

 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS

 Subject to the following special exceptions in Schedule B Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc.'s preliminary commitment No. 493006 dated September 18, 2002, Supplemental Report #1 dated January 3, 2003, Supplemental Report #2 dated February 18, 2003, and Supplemental Report #3 dated October 2, 2003:

 1. Declaration of covenants, conditions, restrictions, waiver and release agreement and the terms and conditions thereof by Union Oil Company of California, a California corporation doing business as Unocal; and The Union Group, L.L.C., a Washington Limited Liability Company, and Connie L. Heidel, a single woman recorded December 30, 1999 under Recording Number 19991230002170.

 2. Special district charges not yet due and owing.

 PENDING: Assignment of rights, consent to assignment, and affirmative undertaking agreement and the terms and conditions thereof by Union Oil Company of California, a California corporation doing business as Unocal; the Union Group, L. L.C., a Washington Limited Liability Company, and Connie L. Heidel; and the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation recorded ______________________ under Recording Number _____________________.

 EXHIBIT C

 ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS, CONSENT TO ASSIGNMENT AND AFFIRMATIVE UNDERTAKING

 THIS ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS, CONSENT TO ASSIGNMENT AND AFFIRMATIVE UNDERTAKING ("Assignment") is entered into as of the _____ day of _______________, 2004 by THE UNION GROUP, L. L. C., a Washington limited liability company (the "Company"), and CONNIE L. HEIDEL ("Heidel"), a single woman as her separate estate, (collectively, the Company and Heidel are referred to as "Union Group"), whose address is _________________________________________, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("City"), whose address is Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr Seattle, Washington 98134, attention: Property Manager, and UNION OIL COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA, a California corporation, doing business as Unocal ("Unocal"), whose address is _________________________________________ .

 1. Recitals.

 1.1 Unocal is the former owner of that certain real property described in Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein ("Property").

 1.2 Unocal sold the Property to the Union Group, but agreed under paragraphs 5.3 through 5.5 of the "Agreement for Sale of Real Property and Escrow Instructions" dated September 14, 1999, as amended by the "Addendum to Agreement for Sale of Real Property and Escrow Instructions" dated on or about December 28, 1999 (collectively referred to as the "Unocal Agreement"), to indemnify the Union Group and its successors from and against certain remedial action costs and certain claims of the owners and operators of the Marqueen Hotel property and the City of Seattle with respect to its rights of way adjacent to the Property. A true and correct copy of the Unocal Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit B.

 1.3 The City has entered into a real estate purchase and sale agreement with the Union Group for acquisition of the Property subject to certain terms and conditions. A condition precedent to the City's obligation to purchase is the Union Group's assignment to the City of all of its rights to indemnification and remediation as set forth in the Unocal Agreement, Unocal's consent to such assignment, and Unocal's affirmative acknowledgment of continued responsibility for certain environmental matters, including migration of contaminants from the Property to the City's adjacent right of way.

 2. Assignment. Union Group hereby assigns, conveys, transfers and sets over to the City all if its rights and interests in and under paragraphs 5.3 through 5.5 of the Unocal Agreement.

 3. Warranty. Union Group and Unocal represent and warrant to the City that paragraphs 5.3 through 5.5 of the Unocal Agreement are in full force and effect, and that neither the Union Group nor Unocal is in default in the performance of any of their respective obligations thereunder.

 4. Consent to Assignment. Unocal hereby consents to the Union Group's assignment to the City of the Union Group's rights and interests in and under paragraphs 5.3 through 5.5 of the Unocal Agreement, and Unocal hereby acknowledges its continuing obligations and responsibilities thereunder. From and after the date of this Assignment, Unocal shall deliver copies of all monitoring reports to the City at Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr Seattle, Washington 98134, attention: Property Manager, or to such other address as the City shall request. Unocal agrees that the City may submit all claims directly to Unocal, and that the City need not bring a claim against itself, when the City's costs, claims, losses or expenses concern alleged migration of contamination from the Property to the City's right-of-way adjacent to the Property. The fact that the City is the owner of the Property and holder of an easement in the rights of way adjacent to the Property shall in no way affect Unocal's obligation to indemnify, defend, and hold the City harmless with respect to contamination in the rights of way. No covenants, conditions, restrictions, waivers or releases contained in the Unocal Agreement or in any other agreement or document executed by Unocal and the Union Group shall affect in any way Unocal's obligations under this Assignment or the City's rights or claims against Unocal or others, under any environmental laws, with respect to the City's right-of-way or any contamination within the City's right-of-way, including alleged migration of contaminants from the Property to the right-of-way. Unocal further acknowledges that the City does not release or indemnify Unocal for any claims, including claims relating to contamination under any environmental laws, within the right-of-way. In consideration for Unocal's consent to assignment and other obligations set forth herein, the City hereby agrees to  undertake the obligations in and under paragraphs 5.4 and 5.5 of the Unocal Agreement. The City further acknowledges the disclosures set forth in and under paragraph 5.1 of the Unocal Agreement, and agrees to the releases and indemnification provisions set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 6 of the Unocal Agreement except to the extent they conflict with this Assignment. This Assignment shall not release, discharge or affect any claim that the City may have against any other person or entity, except with respect to Unocal as expressly stated herein, and the City reserves all such rights.

 5. Governing Law. This Assignment shall in all respects be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws and judicial decisions of the State of Washington.

 6. Severability. If any portion of this Assignment shall be held to be invalid, the same shall not affect in any respect whatsoever the validity of the remainder of this Assignment, which shall be enforced in accordance with its terms.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this Assignment as of the date first stated above.

 CITY: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation By: ___________________________________ Kenneth R. Bounds, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 UNION GROUP: The Union Group L. L. C., a Washington limited liability company By: ____________________________________ Its: ____________________________________

 ____________________________________ Connie L. Heidel, a single woman, as her separate estate

 UNOCAL The Union Oil Company of California, a California corporation By: ____________________________________ Its: ____________________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ____, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ____________________________, to me known to be the ______________Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written. ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _____________. My Commission expires on ____________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ______, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________________, known to me to be the ___________________ of The Union Group L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company, the company that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said company for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written. ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at______________. My Commission expires on _____________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) )ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ______, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Connie L. Heidel, known to me to be the individual that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be her free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written. ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at______________. My Commission expires on _____________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) )ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________________, ______, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________________, known to me to be the ___________________ of The Union Oil Company of California, a California corporation, the corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written. ________________________________________ ________________________________________ (TYPE OR PRINT NAME)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at______________. My Commission expires on _____________

 EXHIBIT A TO ASSIGNMENT

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 Lots 6 and 7, Block 2, Supplemental Plat of G. Kinnear's Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 62, in King County, Washington.

 EXHIBIT B TO ASSIGNMENT

 UNOCAL AGREEMENT

 EXHIBIT D

 SELLER'S DOCUMENTS

 Project: Queen Anne and Roy Street, Seattle, Washington

 1. Subsurface Fuel Contamination Problem, Queen Anne District (For Ecology) by GeoEngineers, dated 12/10/86

 2. Subsurface Contamination Study by GeoEngineers, dated 3/9/89

 3. GeoEngineers letter to Unocal on Preliminary Results Field Explorations Subsurface Contamination Evaluation with Map, dated 3/29/90

 4. Preliminary Results, UST Removal Activities by GeoEngineers, dated 3/24/92

 5. Report of Geoenvironmental Services, Underground Storage Tank Removal by GeoEngineers, dated 6/25/92

 6. Site History Report by GeoEngineers, dated 9/3/92

 7. Interim Report for Unocal Service Station 5474, Seattle, WA, dated 10/30/92

 8. Report of Geoenvironmental Services, Supplemental Subsurface Contamination Study by GeoEngineers dated 1/20/93

 9. Report of Geoenvironmental Services, Soil Remediation Monitoring and Aguifer Testing by GeoEngineers, dated 9/24/93

 10. Underground Storage Tank Removal Summary Report by RZA AGRA, dated 10/11/93

 11. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling, Sept. 1993 & Sept.1994 by GeoEngineers, dated 11/15/94

 12. Progress Report No.4 from GeoEngineers, dated 4/11/95

 13. Letter from Unocal to Evan Zefkeles enclosing latest environmental report, Progress Report No.4, dated 4/25/95

 14. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling, Dec. 1994 & Mar. 1995 by GeoEngineers, dated 7/3/95

 15. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling, Jun. & Aug. 1995 by GeoEngineers, dated 8/29/95

 16. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling, Sept. & Dec. 1995 by GeoEngineers, dated 4/8/96

 17. Summary Figures and Tables of the Soil and Groundwater Investigation Report from Clayton Environmental Consultants, dated 4/9/96

 18. Results of Ground Water Monitoring with Sampling, Mar. & Jun. 1996 by GeoEngineers, dated 12/9/96

 19. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling, Sept. & Nov. 1996 by GeoEngineers, dated 1/29/97

 20. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling, Feb. & May 1997 by GeoEngineers, dated 6/20/97

 21. Letter to Washington State Department of Ecology dated on Ground Water Beneficial Use Evaluation, Report Comments from GeoEngineers, dated 12/4/97 (Reports 4/13/92 thru 10/4/01 enclosed)

 22. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling Aug. & Nov. 1997 by GeoEngineers, dated 2/17/98

 23. Results of Underground Storage Tank Removal Program at 14 Roy Street, Seattle, WA, by QUEST, dated 5/15/98

 24. Letter to Ron Isaacs dated from QUEST on results of Underground Storage Tank Removal Program at 14 Roy Street, Seattle, WA, with enclosures, dated 5/15/98

 25. Letter to Motion Financial Management from Geo Tech Consultants, Inc. on Geotechnical Engineering Study Proposed Mixed-Use Building, dated 6/15/98

 26. Letter to Ronald Timm, Washington State Department of Ecology from Kleen Environmental Technologies, Inc., dated 7/24/98

 27. Letter to Ron Timm, Washington State Department of Ecology from Kleen Environmental Technologies, Inc., dated 8/17/98

 28. Letter from Sean Gormley of AGRA Earth and Environmental conveying Analytical Results, dated 8/21/98

 29. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling, Feb. & July 1998 by GeoEngineers, dated 8/24/98 (Note: document cannot be located.)

 30. Cleanup Action Plan from Kleen Environmental, Inc. on 14 Roy Street, Seattle, Washington, dated 11/6/98

 31. Letter from Robin K. Rock of Marten & Brown, LLP to Ronald Timm, Washington State Department of Ecology, dated 11/18/98

 32. Letter from Ronald Timm of State of Washington Department of Ecology, dated 11/20/98

 33. Letter from Mark Brearley to Ronald Timm, on former Unocal Station No. 0255, dated 12/10/98

 34. Revised Chemical Analytical Data Interim TPH Policy Evaluation by GeoEngineers, dated 12/31/98

 35. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling for Aug. and Nov. 1998 by GeoEngineers, dated 1/8/99

 36. Letter from Robin Rock of Marten and Brown, LLP to Jeffrey Wishko, dated 1/19/99

 37. Map of Soil Remediation Areas from Kleen Environmental on 14 Roy Street, Seattle, Washington, dated 2/4/99

 38. Note to File - Orestes Site by R. Timm, dated 2/11/99

 39. Letter from Darin Petrollaz of Kleen Environmental Technologies, Inc., to Ronald Timm, Washington State Department of Ecology, regarding 14 Roy Street, Seattle, WA and Utilities Clarification, dated 2/15/99

 40. Voluntary Cleanup Program Submittal by GeoEngineers, dated 2/18/99

 41. Letter of No Further Action for 14 Roy Street, Seattle, WA from Ronald Timm, State of Washington, Department of Ecology, dated 3/1/99

 42. Supplemental Remedial Action, East Property Boundary by GeoEngineers, dated 3/19/99

 43. Letter from Gregory T. Costello of Marten and Brown to Jeffrey Wishko of Bell and Ingram, dated 4/14/99

 44. Results of Ground Water Monitoring and Sampling, Aug. & Nov. 1999 by GeoEngineers, dated 5/3/99

 45. Response to AGRA's March 3, 1999 letter, titled, Free Product Source by GeoEngineers, dated 5/13/99

 46. Work Plan, Supplemental Subsurface Assessment by GeoEngineers, dated 7/12/99

 47. Letter to Dr. Mark Brearley of Unocal on 4-inch-diamenter Steel Pipe, East Property Boundary, by GeoEngineers, dated 8/2/99

 48. Letter to Terry Lien on Revised Proposal and Cost Estimate File Review and Ecology Consultation by SECOR, dated 8/3/99

 49. Letter of Transmittal to Terry Lien by GeoEngineers, checklist requesting documents, dated 10/8/99

 50. August 1999 Off-Site Explorations and May and Sept. 1998 Ground Water Monitoring by GeoEngineers, dated 10/13/99

 51. Summary of Environmental Site Studies to Terry Lien from Galloway Environmental, Inc., dated 11/8/99

 52. Fax from Terry Lien to Rick Tackett at UNOCAL, on Galloway Environmental, Inc. review, dated 11/10/99

 53. November 1999 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers. dated 12/29/99

 54. February 2000 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 4/28/00

 55. May 2000 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 7/31100

 56. August 2000 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 1/7/00

 57. Letter to Seattle Permit Counter on Drainage Permit Application by Terry Lien, dated 12/28/00

 58. Fax from Galloway Environmental, Inc. to Terry Lien, Marty Nelson or Ron Lien on City of Seattle application, dated 12/28/00

 59. November 2000 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 3/5/01

 60. February 2001 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 5/15/01

 61. May 2001 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 7/17/01

 62. August 2001 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 10/29/01

 63. November 2001 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by bGeoEngineers, dated 3/13/02

 64. February 2002 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 5/7/02

 65. May 2002 Quarterly Ground Water Monitoring results by GeoEngineers, dated 7/24/02

 66. Ground Water Monitoring Report, Second Quarter 2002 by GeoEngineers, dated 9/25/02

 67. Ground Water Monitoring Report, Fourth Quarter 2002 by GeoEngineers dated 1/14/03

 68. Ground Water Monitoring Report, First Quarter 2003 by GeoEngineers dated 4/24/03

```
