

********

**Council Bill Number: 114888**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121467**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; declaring property commonly known as the High Point Substation located in Seattle Washington, surplus to the City's needs and not required for providing continued public utility services; and authorizing its sale to the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington. (P.M.#240325-2-301).

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 3, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 14, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 12, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 26, 2004
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, SALES, SUBSTATIONS, HIGH-POINT, SEATTLE-HOUSING-AUTHORITY

**Fiscal Note:**114888

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; declaring property commonly known as the High Point Substation located in Seattle Washington, surplus to the City's needs and not required for providing continued public utility services; and authorizing its sale to the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington. (P.M.#240325-2-301).

 WHEREAS, the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle d/b/a the Seattle Housing Authority, hereinafter referred to as "SHA", is undertaking the redevelopment of certain property within the City of Seattle commonly known as High Point Public Housing Community; and

 WHEREAS, SHA requested the purchase of the High Point Substation to enhance the economic viability of the High Point Public Housing Community[LD1]; and

 WHEREAS, a Purchase and Sale Agreement has been approved by SHA; and

 WHEREAS, an independent appraiser has determined and established the fair market value of the High Point Substation property to be One Hundred Forty Thousand Dollars ($140,000); and

 WHEREAS, the Superintendent of City Light recommends the sale and conveyance of High Point Substation to SHA; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 35.94.040 and after public hearing, the following described real property, in Seattle, Washington, known as High Point Substation:

 Lots 23 and 24, Block 8, Supplemental Plat of High Point Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 32 of Plats, page 23, records of King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the following described property:

 Beginning at the northeast corner of said Lot 23;

 thence southerly along the easterly line thereof, a distance of 36.83 feet;

 thence westerly parallel with the southerly line of said lots, a distance of 70 feet;

 thence northerly parallel with the westerly line of Lot 24, a distance of 19.12 feet to the northerly margin thereof;

 thence easterly along the northerly margins of Lots 24 and 23 to the place of beginning.

 is hereby found and declared to be no longer required for providing public utility service and to be surplus to the City's needs.

 Section 2. The appraised value of said property is hereby found and declared to be One Hundred Forty Thousand Dollars ($140,000).

 Section 3. The Superintendent of City Light, or his designee, is authorized to execute for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a purchase and sale agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, which sells said surplus property to the SHA for and in consideration of One Hundred Forty Thousand Dollars ($140,000). The Superintendent of City Light, or his designee, is also authorized to execute a Quit Claim Deed for the sale of the same, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. Said consideration shall be deposited in the Light Fund.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit A: Agreement for the Purchase and Sale of Real Estate (High Point Substation - SCL/SHA)

 Exhibit B: Quit Claim Deed

 [LD1]Should this be the High Point Public Housing Community? Or should the reference above be changed to the Redevelopment project. Either way if it's the same project (and I assume it is) we should use the same name to be consistent.

 david flores / df

 SCL high point ORD

 February 12, 2004

 version#2a

 1

 EXHIBIT A

 AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 (High Point Substation - SCL/SHA)

 THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into this ____ day of _____________, 2004, ("Agreement Date") by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting through its City Light Department whose address is 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300, P.O. Box 34023, Seattle, WA 98124-4023 (the "City") and the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, d/b/a Seattle Housing Authority, a public body corporate and politic of the of the State of Washington, whose address is 120 6th Avenue North, Seattle, WA 98109 ("SHA"). The City and SHA are referred to collectively as the "Parties."

 The following documents are attached to and made a part of this Agreement:

 Attachment 1 - Location Map

 Attachment 2 - Legal Description

 TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 1. Property. The City hereby agrees to sell, and SHA agrees to purchase, all that certain real property, including the land and all buildings, improvements and fixtures thereon, all mineral, water, timber and other surface and subsurface rights, permits, hereditaments, easements, incidents and appurtenances belonging thereto, located in the County of King, State of Washington, indicated on the map ("Property"), Attachment 1, and more fully described in Attachment 2, on all of the terms and conditions set forth below.

 2. Purchase Price. The price for the SHA's purchase of the Property from the City shall be One Hundred Forty Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($140,000.00), payable in cash at closing.

 3. Earnest Money. Earnest money shall consist of a promissory note of SHA, for Fourteen Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($14,000.00), due on closing or upon a failure to close pursuant to paragraph 15 (A) below, paid or delivered to the City as partial payment of the purchase price for the Property.

 4. Conditions Precedent to the City's Obligation. SHA's obligation to purchase the Property as provided herein shall be subject to satisfaction of the following conditions:

 A. The condition of the title to the Property shall be satisfactory to SHA, in its sole discretion.

 B. The environmental assessment of the Property shall be satisfactory to SHA, in its sole discretion.

 The foregoing conditions are for the sole benefit of the SHA. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived by SHA, in its sole discretion, on or before the time prescribed, then SHA may, at its sole election, terminate this Agreement upon written notice thereof to the City without any further liability to either party.

 5. Period to Satisfy Conditions Precedent. SHA shall have until and through midnight of August 15, 2003, in which to notify the City that the conditions precedent to SHA's purchase of the Property, as described in paragraph 4 above, have been fulfilled.

 6. Waiver of Conditions Precedent. Any waiver by SHA of the conditions precedent shall be by written notice to the City at the address listed above, by certified mail, postage prepaid. Such notice shall be deemed to have been given upon the date shown postmarked on the envelope in which such notice is sent.

 7. Closing Date. Closing shall be held at the City on or before ______________.

 8. City's Representations and Warranties. The City hereby makes the following representations and warranties, which shall also be deemed made by the City to SHA as of the Closing Date and which shall survive closing:

 A. There are no parties or trespassers in possession or which have a right to possess all or any portion of the Property, and there are no leases or licenses affecting the Property.

 B. The City has complied in all material respects with all applicable laws, ordinances, regulations, statutes and rules relating to the Property, and every part thereof, and has not received nor is aware of any notification from any governmental authority having jurisdiction, requiring any work to be done on the Property or advising of any condition (including without limitation Hazardous Substances as defined below) which would render the Property unusable or affect the usability of the Property or any part thereof for the purposes of SHA.

 C. The City shall not enter into any leases, trust deeds, mortgages, restrictions, encumbrances, liens, licenses or other instruments or agreements affecting the Property (each, an "Instrument") without the prior written consent of SHA from and after the date of this Agreement. SHA shall not assume nor be deemed to have assumed any obligation or liability under any such Instrument without its express written agreement to do so.

 D. The City is not holding fee title as a nominee for any other person or entity.

 E. Neither the execution nor delivery of this Agreement, nor consummation of the transaction contemplated hereby, nor fulfillment of nor compliance with the terms and conditions hereof contravenes any provision of any law, statute, rule or ordinance to which the City or the Property is subject, or conflicts with or results in a breach of or constitutes a default under any of the terms or conditions of any agreement or instrument to which the City is a party or by which it is bound, or constitutes a default under any of the foregoing and there exists no default in respect to any obligation pertaining to the Property.

 F. No labor, materials or services have been furnished in, on or about the Property or any part thereof as a result of which any mechanics', laborers', or material persons' liens or claims might arise.

 G. SHA shall not be required, by virtue of the purchase of the Property, to satisfy any obligation of the City arising prior to closing.

 H. The City is not in default and there has occurred no uncured event which, with notice, the passage of time or both would be a default under any contract, transaction, agreement, lease, encumbrance or other instrument pertaining to the Property.

 I. There is no litigation either pending or, to the best of the City's knowledge, threatened, which could now or in the future in any way constitute a lien, claim or obligation of any kind on the Property, affect the use, ownership or operation of the Property or otherwise adversely affect the Property. For purposes of this subsection, "litigation" includes any lawsuit, action, administrative proceeding, governmental investigation and all other proceedings before any tribunal having jurisdiction over the Property.

 J. To the best of the City's knowledge, the Property does not contain and has not been used in any manner for the storage, discharge, deposit, dumping, or contamination, whether of soil, groundwater or otherwise, of any Hazardous Substance, and no activity on the Property has produced any such Hazardous Substance, except in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. As viewed in this Agreement, the term "Hazardous Substance" includes without limitation: (a) those substances included within the definitions of "Hazardous Substances", "Hazardous Materials", "Toxic Substances", "Hazardous Wastes" or "Solid Waste" regulated or subject to cleanup authority under any environmental law; (b) petroleum products and petroleum byproducts; (c) polychlorinated biphenyls; and (d) chlorinated solvents. The term "Environmental Law" includes any federal, state, municipal or local law, statute, ordinance, regulation, order or rule pertaining to the protection of human health or the environment.

 K. To the best of the City's knowledge, the Property does not contain underground tanks of any type, or any materials containing or producing any polychlorinated biphenyls or any asbestos.

 L. During the City's ownership, the Property has not been used in any manner that would lead to the release of any Hazardous Substance in or on the property, except in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.

 M. To the best of the City's knowledge, there are no surface or subsurface conditions with respect to the Property which constitute or with the passage of time may constitute a public or private nuisance.

 N. To the best of the City's knowledge, there are no easements, tenancies or rights of way which have been acquired by prescription or which are otherwise not of record with respect to the Property. There are no disputes, claims or actions involving the location of any fence or other monumentation of the Property's boundary nor any claims or actions involving the location of any fence or boundary.

 The existence as of the Closing Date of any state of facts with respect to the Property which are inconsistent with any of the foregoing representations and warranties in SHA's sole discretion shall constitute the failure of a condition precedent to the SHA's obligations under this Agreement. In such event, SHA shall have the right to terminate this Agreement.

 9. Taxes. The Parties agree that all taxes, assessments and encumbrances that will be a lien against the Property at closing, including all deferred taxes, whether or not a lien, and any other charges that could be imposed on the Property in the future by recapture or otherwise as a result of any classification of the Property for assessment purposes existing prior to closing, open space tax, interest, and penalties, whether or not those charges would constitute a lien against the Property at closing, shall be satisfied of record by the City at or before closing. It is agreed that SHA has no obligation to maintain any use of the Property, make any applications to any governmental authority, or take or refrain from taking any other actions that would continue to defer, or preclude, the imposition of any of the above referred to charges on the Property.

 10. Indemnification. The City shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless SHA, its officers, employees and agents, from and against any and all loss, claims, demands, causes of action, liability, liens and encumbrances, costs and expenses, including all out-of-pocket litigation costs and the reasonable fees and expense of counsel, (a) no matter how arising, related in any way to the Property and occurring or arising before the Closing, or in any way related to or arising from any act, omission or agreement of the City on or before or after Closing; and (b) arising out of the inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or warranty of the City, or any breach or default by the City under this Agreement. The City agrees to conduct any environmental investigation, response, removal, or remedial action required by a regulatory agency with jurisdiction over the Property to protect human health and the environment involving Hazardous Substances contamination resulting from the City's use, ownership and operations on the Property prior to Closing, so long as SHA's actions on the Property do not cause or exacerbate the Hazardous Substances. SHA agrees to cooperate fully and in good faith with any actions, and specifically to provide access to the Property and any information in its possession relating to the Property and environmental conditions. SHA shall notify the City in writing of the nature of any claim for indemnification or notice of Hazardous Substance contamination. The City may elect to assume defense of the matter giving rise to the claim for indemnification, in which event the defense shall be conducted by counsel chosen by the City and reasonably satisfactory to SHA.

 11. Preservation of Property; Risk of Loss. The City agrees that the Property shall remain as it is now until Closing, and that the City shall refrain from and shall not actively permit any use of the Property for any purpose or in any manner which would adversely affect SHA's intended use of the Property. The City shall deliver possession of the Property to SHA at Closing.

 12. Costs and Fees. SHA shall pay costs of recording the quit claim deed.

 13. Right of Entry. Prior to the Closing Date, SHA may enter upon the Property at reasonable times for surveying, inspection and other reasonable purposes related to this transaction. SHA agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from and against any loss, cost, lien or other liability resulting from SHA's negligent or malicious act or omission in connection with its entry onto the Property pursuant to this Paragraph. SHA shall leave the site in the same or as nearly as possible the same condition as it was prior to the time of entry.

 14. Contingencies to Closing. (1) SHA's obligation to close as provided herein shall be subject to satisfaction of the following contingencies:

 A. Legal documents shall be acceptable to SHA; and

 B. The City shall be in full compliance with this Agreement, and the City's representations and warranties shall be true and accurate; and

 C. The City's obligation to close as provided herein shall be subject to satisfaction of the following contingencies:

 1. Legal documents shall be in a form acceptable to the City; and

 2. SHA shall be in full compliance with this Agreement.

 15. Failure to Close.

 A. In the event SHA fails, without legal excuse, to complete the purchase of the Property within the time limit specified in this Agreement, the Agreement shall terminate and the Earnest Money shall be forfeited to the City as the sole and exclusive remedy available to the City for such failure. In establishing this liquidated damages amount, SHA and the City agree that the amount of the Earnest Money is a reasonable estimate, as of the time this Agreement is being executed, of the risks and damages the City could suffer as a result of SHA's failure to close on the Property, including, without limitation, the risk of freezing the purchase price or losing the opportunity to sell for a higher price, the risk that the market for the Property could drop substantially, the lost time value of the City's equity resulting from any delay in receiving payment of its equity, lost opportunities for other investments, and costs that the City could incur as a result of SHA's default. SHA and the City acknowledge that this provision has been specifically negotiated.

 B. In the event the City fails, without legal excuse, to complete the sale of the Property, SHA's sole recourse against the City shall be either the remedy of specific performance of the City's obligations under this Agreement or the return of the promissory note held by the City.

 C. If, prior to the date set for closing, this Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, the City shall return SHA's promissory note to SHA and neither party shall have any further liability to the other party.

 16. Binding Upon Successors; Assignment. SHA may NOT assign its interest in this Agreement, or in any of the documents described herein, to any party, without the City's consent. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to and bind the successors and assigns of the City.

 17. Notices. Except as expressly set forth in Paragraph 6 above, any notices, demands or other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be delivered (a) in person, against receipt, (b) by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or (c) by US Express Mail or a commercial overnight courier that guarantees delivery within the next two business days.

 Such notices shall be addressed as follows:

 TO SHA:

 Asset Manager with copy to: General Counsel

 Seattle Housing Authority Seattle Housing Authority

 P.O. Box 19028 P.O. Box 19028

 Seattle, WA 98109-1028 Seattle, WA 98109-1028

 TO THE CITY OF SEATTLE:

 Seattle City Light

 Real Estate Services

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 Notice of change of address shall be effective only when done in accordance with this paragraph. All notices complying with this paragraph shall be effective only upon delivery, except that the notice of waiver of conditions precedent set forth in Paragraph 6 above shall be effective upon the date shown postmarked on the envelope in which such notice is sent.

 18. Miscellaneous.

 A. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts and all counterparts so executed shall constitute one agreement which shall be binding on all of the Parties, notwithstanding that all of the Parties are not signatory to the original or the same counterpart.

 B. If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, the other provisions shall not be affected thereby.

 C. This Agreement represents the entire agreement of the Parties and may not be amended except by a written amendment signed by each party hereto.

 D. Each party to this Agreement warrants to the other that it is duly organized and existing and that it and the respective signatories have full right and authority to enter into and consummate this Agreement and all related documents.

 E. The representations, warranties and indemnifications set forth in this Agreement shall not merge with transfer of title but shall remain in effect following Closing.

 F. Each party shall execute and deliver or cause to be executed and delivered all instruments reasonably required to convey the Property to SHA and to vest in each party all rights, interests and benefits intended to be conferred by this Agreement.

 G. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington.

 H. In the event of a dispute, the prevailing party shall be entitled to payment of its reasonable attorney's fees and costs in negotiating, resolving, arbitrating, or litigating the dispute.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the SHA have executed this Agreement as of the Agreement Date.

 SHA: THE CITY:

 HOUSING AUTHORITY OF THE THE CITY OF SEATTLE,

 CITY OF SEATTLE, a State of Washington

 a public body corporate and politic municipal corporation

 of the State of Washington

 By: ______________________________ By: ___________________________

 _________________________________ Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 _________________________________ City Light Department

 Page 7 of 7

 Page 1 of 7 Exhibit A

[Attachment 1 to Exhibit A - Location Map](/~ordpics/114888ExaAt1.gif) ATTACHMENT 2

 TO AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 High Point Substation Legal Description:

 Lots 23 and 24, Block 8, Supplemental Plat of High Point Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 32 of Plats, page 23, records of King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the following described property:

 Beginning at the northeast corner of said Lot 23;

 thence southerly along the easterly line thereof, a distance of 36.83 feet;

 thence westerly parallel with the southerly line of said lots, a distance of 70 feet;

 thence northerly parallel with the westerly line of Lot 24, a distance of 19.12 feet to the northerly margin thereof;

 thence easterly along the northerly margins of Lots 24 and 23 to the place of beginning.

 Attachment 2 to Exhibit A

 EXHIBIT B

 SEATTLE CITY LIGHT

 Real Estate Services

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 QUIT CLAIM DEED

 P.M.#240325-2-301; CF#______________

 KCA No. 327830-0085

 QUIT CLAIM DEED

 THE GRANTOR, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for and in consideration of One Hundred Forty Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($140,000.00) and other good and valuable consideration, quit claims and conveys to

 HOUSING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, the following described real property, situated in the County of King, State of Washington:

 Lots 23 and 24, Block 8, Supplemental Plat of High Point Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 32 of Plats, page 23, records of King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the following described property:

 Beginning at the northeast corner of said Lot 23;

 thence southerly along the easterly line thereof, a distance of 36.83 feet;

 thence westerly parallel with the southerly line of said lots, a distance of 70 feet;

 thence northerly parallel with the westerly line of Lot 24, a distance of 19.12 feet to the northerly margin thereof;

 thence easterly along the northerly margins of Lots 24 and 23 to the place of beginning.

 PURSUANT TO the provisions of Ordinance No. ____________ of the City of Seattle, said City has caused this instrument to be executed by its Superintendent of City Light, thereunto duly authorized this _____day of _______________, 20____.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE,

 a municipal corporation

 By:______________________________

 Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 STATE OF WASHINGTON)

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that JORGE CARRASCO signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as Superintendent of City Light of The City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date________________________

 _____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the

 State of Washington,

 residing at ____________________

 Commission Expires:__________

 ??

 Page 2 of 2

 Page 1 of 2 Exhibit B

```
