

********

**Council Bill Number: 114800**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121395**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to a future historical museum in downtown Seattle; authorizing the amendment of a restrictive covenant, easement and contract with the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, doing business as the Museum of History and Industry (MOHAI), in order to reduce a termination payment and to extend the time for opening such a museum.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 9, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 11, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 10, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 26, 2004
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** MUSEUMS, HISTORICAL-SOCIETIES, CONVENTION-CENTER, CONTRACTS, EASEMENTS, LIBRARY

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 120584, 120816, 121151

**Fiscal Note:**114800

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to a future historical museum in downtown Seattle; authorizing the amendment of a restrictive covenant, easement and contract with the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, doing business as the Museum of History and Industry (MOHAI), in order to reduce a termination payment and to extend the time for opening such a museum.

 WHEREAS, the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, doing business as the Museum of History and Industry ("MOHAI"), has purchased certain property in the expanded Convention Center in downtown Seattle (the "Property") from the Washington State Convention and Trade Center (the "WSCTC") for the development of an historical museum; and

 WHEREAS, by purchasing the Property, MOHAI assumed the WSCTC's obligations under (i) the lease between the WSCTC and the Board of Trustees of the Seattle Public Library ("Library") for use of the Property as the Temporary Central Library (the "Library Lease") and (ii) the Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property between the WSCTC and the City of Seattle (the "City"), as authorized by Ordinances 120584, 120816 and 121151 and as amended and restated in connection with the purchase of the Property (the "Prior Covenants"); and

 WHEREAS, under the Prior Covenants, the City paid Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) to gain use and access rights and various public benefits for sixteen years after an historical museum opens on the Property; and

 WHEREAS, MOHAI granted the City a deed of trust to secure MOHAI's financial obligations under the Prior Covenants (the "Deed of Trust"); and

 WHEREAS, MOHAI has agreed to reduce the rent due to it under the Library Lease from December 20, 2003 through June 30, 2004 by approximately One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) if the City amends the Prior Covenants to extend the date for opening an historical museum from January 1, 2007 to January 1, 2017 and decrease the payment to the City in the event of MOHAI's termination of the Prior Covenants from Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) to One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), plus interest (as so amended and restated, the "Covenant and Easement"); and

 WHEREAS, the City has determined that extending the date specified in the Prior Covenants for opening the Museum will improve the quality of the planning and development of the Museum, and therefore is in the best interest of the City and its residents; and

 WHEREAS, the City has determined that reducing the rent payable under the Library Lease is in the best interest of the City and its residents; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS: Section 1. As requested by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation (the "Superintendent"), and recommended by the Mayor, the Superintendent [LP1]or his designee [LP2]is authorized to execute the Covenant and Easement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment A, provided that the rent due under the Library Lease from December 20, 2003 through June 30, 2004 is reduced by approximately One Million Dollars ($1,000,000). The Superintendent or his designee is authorized to execute all related and necessary documents, including an amendment to the Deed of Trust, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment B. The Superintendent or his designee also is authorized to execute such documents as he deems necessary in connection with the sale of the Property from the Washington State Convention and Trade Center ("WSCTC") to the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, doing business as the Museum of History and Industry ("MOHAI"). Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days

 after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________ City Clerk

 (Seal)

 ATTACHMENTS Attachment A - Second Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property (Covenant and Easement) Attachment B - First Amendment to Deed of Trust [LP1] [LP2]

 Tim Morrison/tm DOF SPL MOHAI Lease Extension ORD January 14, 2004 version #4

 Attachment A

 FILED FOR RECORD AT REQUEST OF

 AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

 The City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 100 Dexter Avenue North

 Seattle, WA 98109

 Attn: Charles Ng, CBR

 Document title: Second Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property

 Reference numbers of related documents: The document amends, restates and replaces the documents recorded under number 20011203002784 and 20031223001261

 Grantor: Historical Society of Seattle and King County

 Grantee: The City of Seattle

 Legal Description: The Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in Volume 195 of condominiums, Page 30, according to the Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820, situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Tax Parcel Account Number: Ptn of 0660000875, 0660000885 and 0660000930

 Reference Nos. of related documents: 20011203002784 and 20031223001261

 THIS SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED RESTRICTIVE COVENANT, EASEMENT AND CONTRACT CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY AMENDS, RESTATES AND REPLACES IN ITS ENTIRETY (A) THE RESTRICTIVE COVENANT, EASEMENT AND CONTRACT CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY ENTERED INTO BY AND BETWEEN WASHINGTON STATE CONVENTION AND TRADE CENTER, A PUBLIC CORPORATION OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON AND THE CITY OF SEATTLE, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON DATED DECEMBER 3, 2001 AND RECORDED ON DECEMBER 3, 2001 UNDER KING COUNTY RECORDING NO. 20011203002784; AND (B) THE AMENDED AND RESTATED RESTRICTIVE COVENANT, EASEMENT AND CONTRACT CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY BY AND BETWEEN THE WASHINGTON STATE TRADE AND CONVENTION CENTER, A PUBLIC CORPORATION OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, AND THE CITY OF SEATTLE, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, DATED DECEMBER 23, 2003 AND RECORDED UNDER KING COUNTY RECORDING NO. 20031223001261.

 SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED RESTRICTIVE COVENANT,

 EASEMENT AND CONTRACT CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY

 This Second Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property ("Covenant and Easement"), is entered into as of this ___ day of ____________, 2004, to amend, restate and replace in its entirety the (a) Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property entered into by and between Washington State Convention and Trade Center, a public corporation of the State of Washington ("WSCTC") and The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("City" or "Grantee") dated December 3, 2001 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20011203002784, and (b) the Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property by and between the WSCTC and the City dated December 23, 2003 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001261 (collectively, the "Prior Covenants").

 RECITALS

 1. The Property (hereinafter defined) has been submitted to the condominium form of use and ownership and to the provisions of the Washington Condominium Act and a Condominium Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium, consisting of three units, the Museum Unit, the WSCTC Air Unit and the WSCTC Ground Unit, has been recorded in the King County Recorder's Office.

 2. WSCTC entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (as hereinafter defined) with the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington non-profit corporation d/b/a the Museum of History and Industry ("MOHAI" or "Grantor") with regard to MOHAI's purchase of the Museum Unit (as improved with the Museum Unit and Library Improvements, as defined in the Library Lease, as hereinafter defined. MOHAI purchased the Museum Unit on December 23, 2003, and assumed all of WSCTC's obligations under the Prior Covenants pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption of City Easement dated December 23, 2003 recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001267. Contemporaneously with such sale of the Museum Unit, the City released WSCTC from its obligations under the Prior Covenants.

 3. On December 23, 2003, MOHAI assumed the Library Lease with the Board of Trustees of Seattle Public Library to use the Museum Unit as a public library through June 30, 2004, when a permanent downtown central library is expected to open. MOHAI has agreed to reduce the rent payable under the Library Lease for the entire extension term by an amount equal to approximately half of all Payments made by Grantee under the Prior Covenants.

 4. Following termination of the Library Lease, MOHAI is expected to remove certain Library Improvements and make further improvements to the Museum Unit for use as an Historical Museum (as hereinafter defined), and to open the museum to the public.

 5. The City recognizes that an Historical Museum has substantial educational and cultural value to Seattle residents by promoting a greater understanding of the history, industry and cultures of the Pacific Northwest region, and further recognizes that this value is maximized if the broadest possible cross section of the City's residents, schools and certain non-profit organizations have easy access to an Historical Museum.

 6. Because of the greater size and accessibility of the Museum Unit (in downtown Seattle with greater availability of public transportation) in comparison to the existing MOHAI Historical Museum located at 2700 24th Avenue East, Seattle, the Museum Unit would be accessible to a far greater number of visitors and would allow greater exhibition and meeting space than does the existing Historical Museum.

 7. The City wishes to ensure that in the future the City and its residents will enjoy the above-noted advantages of an Historical Museum located at the Museum Unit. In furtherance thereof, the City made certain Payments, as hereinafter defined.

 8. This Covenant and Easement is being entered into to extend the time for opening the Historical Museum, change the termination payment described in Section 4 hereof and amend and restate the Prior Covenants.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above-recited benefits to the City as Grantee and of the Payments (which have been made by the City), receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and other good and valuable consideration, MOHAI and City agree as follows:

 AGREEMENT

 Section 1. Definitions

 Covenant and Easement: This Second Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property between MOHAI as Grantor and the City as Grantee.

 City: The City of Seattle and its successors.

 Grantee: The City of Seattle and its successors.

 Grantor: MOHAI and its successors and assigns, but excluding any party that leases or rents the Museum Unit from Grantor.

 Historical Museum: A museum whose exhibits and programs are devoted primarily to the history, culture, industry or commerce of the Puget Sound region and the Pacific Northwest, including related space for auditorium, conference, meeting, administrative, storage and educational functions, book store, gift shop and orientation theater.

 Initial Term: The period beginning on the date of mutual execution of this Covenant and Easement and ending on the expiration of the Use Period.

 Library Lease: The Lease Agreement dated September 28, 2000, by and between the WSCTC as landlord, and the Board of Trustees of the Seattle Public Library as tenant, a memorandum of which was recorded on October 13, 2000 under King County Recording Number 20001013001165 as amended on December 23, 2003, and as further amended by a second amendment of even date herewith, together with any amendments or supplements to the Lease Agreement entered into from time to time.

 MOHAI: Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington non-profit corporation d/b/a the Museum of History and Industry.

 Museum Shell: The structure so defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement and located in the Museum Unit.

 Museum Unit: The Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in volume 195 of condominiums, page 30, according to the Declaration thereof, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820 and any amendments thereto; situated in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Partial Use Year: The period beginning on the first day of the Use Period and ending on December 31 of that calendar year, and the period beginning on the last January 1 of the Use Period and ending at the end of the Use Period.

 Payments: The amount of $2 million, which has been paid by the City in fulfillment of certain of MOHAI's obligations to WSCTC, which payments were consideration for the Prior Covenants and are consideration for this Covenant and Easement.

 Property: The real property legally described in Exhibit A to this Covenant and Easement.

 Purchase and Sale Agreement: The Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of January 15, 1998, by and between the WSCTC as seller, and the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a non-profit corporation, doing business as the Museum of History and Industry as purchaser, as amended by a First Amendment dated as of March 18, 1998, a Second Amendment dated as of April 30, 1998, a Third Amendment dated as of November 18, 1998, a Fourth Amendment dated as of September 28, 2000, a Fifth Amendment dated December 3, 2001, and a Sixth Amendment dated December 23, 2003.

 Term: The Initial Term and all extensions thereof, which Term may be terminated prior to expiration, pursuant to this Covenant and Easement.

 Use Period: The period beginning on the first day of the month immediately following the date on which an Historical Museum is open to the public in the Museum Unit and ending four (4) years later, provided that the Use Period shall be extended for a period equal to all extensions of the Initial Term, but shall not exceed the Term.

 Use Rights: Grantee's rights to access and use the Museum Unit or to permit others to do so, as described and subject to the conditions set forth in Exhibit B hereof.

 Use Year: The period beginning on the first January 1 of the Use Period and ending on December 31, and each successive one year period thereafter during the Use Period.

 WSCTC: The Washington State Convention and Trade Center, its successors and assigns.

 WSCTC Air Unit: The WSCTC Air Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in Volume 195 of condominiums, Page 30, according to the Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820, situated in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington..

 WSCTC Ground Unit: The WSCTC Ground Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in Volume 195 of condominiums, Page 30, according to the Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820, situated in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Exhibit B contains additional defined terms. Capitalized terms not defined in this Section 1, elsewhere in this Covenant and Easement or in the Purchase and Sale Agreement shall be given their usual and ordinary meaning pursuant to a standard dictionary of American usage.

 Section 2. Restrictive Covenant

 For the period of time beginning on the first day of the Use Period and ending on the earlier of the expiration of the Term or any prior termination of this Covenant and Easement, Grantor covenants that the Museum Unit shall be used principally for the development, construction and operation of an Historical Museum and related uses and for no other purpose whatsoever.

 Section 3. Easement

 Grantor bargains, sells and conveys to Grantee an easement for the use of and access to the Museum Unit throughout the Use Period, as specifically set forth and subject to the terms and conditions contained in Exhibit B, subject to the permitted exceptions listed on Exhibit C attached hereto.

 Section 4. Term and Termination

 A. Grantee previously paid $500,000 as consideration for the Initial Term. In addition, Grantee paid $1,500,000 to extend the Initial Term of this Covenant and Easement for two consecutive extension periods, the first for a period of eight (8) years and the second for a period of four (4) years. Thus, the total Payments made by Grantee are $2,000,000.

 B. This Covenant and Easement shall terminate, and all easements, covenants and obligations in it shall be of no further force or effect upon the earliest to occur of:

 (i) The expiration of the Term; or

 (ii) Prior to the beginning of the Use Period, the date on which Grantee receives reimbursement in accordance with the following and Section 4.C: (a) Grantor may so terminate this Covenant and Easement at any time by giving Grantee thirty (30) days prior written notice and by reimbursing half of all Payments paid by Grantee hereunder; or (b) Grantor shall so terminate this Covenant and Easement on or before February 1, 2017 if an Historical Museum on the Property is not open to the public by January 1, 2017, by giving Grantee five (5) days prior written notice and reimbursing half of all Payments made by Grantee hereunder; or

 (iii) After the beginning of the Use Period, the date on which Grantee receives full reimbursement in accordance with the following and Section 4.C: Grantor may so terminate this Covenant and Easement at any time by giving Grantee thirty (30) days prior written notice and reimbursing the amount equal to half of all Payments made by Grantee hereunder (including without limitation Payments made for all extensions of the Initial Term) multiplied by the ratio of the unused months in the Use Period to the total months in the Use Period. For example, since Grantee has paid $2,000,000 for a four (4) year Use Period under the Initial Term plus both extensions totaling twelve (12) years (for a total Use Period of sixteen (16) years or one hundred ninety-two (192) months), if the effective date of the termination under this Section 4.B(iii) occurs at the end of the tenth year (i.e., end of month one hundred twenty (120) of the Use Period), the amount to be reimbursed would be Three Hundred Seventy- Five Thousand Dollars ($375,000); or

 (iv) Upon a termination pursuant to Section 9 or 13 hereof.

 No documentation or other action shall be required to confirm a termination of this Covenant and Easement in accordance with this Section 4.B, and any such termination shall be automatic and self- operative. However, upon the request of either party, Grantor and Grantee shall execute and deliver a Memorandum of Termination in recordable form, which shall confirm the date of termination of this Covenant and Easement. Either Grantor or Grantee may record such Memorandum of Termination with the King County Recorder's Office.

 C. In addition to the amounts required to be paid under Section 4.B above, if such termination payment is required to be made under Section 4.B above, interest shall accrue thereon from December 3, 2001 until the date of reimbursement, at the rate applied from time to time to participating funds in the Consolidated Cash Portfolio of Grantee, and shall be paid as part of the required termination payment.

 Section 5. Condominiumization of Museum Unit

 Grantor and Grantee acknowledge that (a) the Property has been submitted to the condominium form of use and ownership and to the provisions of the Washington Condominium Act, RCW 64.34, (b) a Condominium Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium as contained in Annex 3 of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and accompanying Survey Map and Plans (collectively, the "Declaration") has been recorded with respect to the Property in the King County Recorder's Office, and (c) the Northeast Block Condominium consists of three units: the Museum Unit, the WSCTC Air Unit and the WSCTC Ground Unit. Grantor and Grantee covenant and agree that (i) this Covenant and Easement and the easements, covenants, restrictions and obligations in it shall encumber and be covenants running with only the Museum Unit, and (ii) this Covenant and Easement and the easements, covenants, restrictions and obligations in it shall not encumber, run with or pertain in any manner to the WSCTC Air Unit or the WSCTC Ground Unit.

 Section 6. Transfer of Museum Unit

 A. As a condition of closing any conveyance, assignment or other transfer of ownership of the Museum Unit, whether as all or part of a condominium unit or otherwise (each, a "Transfer"), unless this Covenant and Easement is terminated pursuant to Section 4 contemporaneously with such Transfer, Grantor agrees to cause any transferee, successor in interest or assign of the Museum Unit (each, a "Transferee") to execute at closing an assumption of Grantor's obligations hereunder and under the Deed of Trust (as defined in Section 6.B. below) and acknowledgement that said Transferee is bound by all of Grantor's obligations set forth herein and under the Deed of Trust. The form and substance of such document must be reasonably satisfactory to Grantor, Grantee and Transferee, and shall be delivered to Grantee for its review at least twenty (20) days prior to Transfer.

 B. MOHAI has granted a Deed of Trust dated December 23, 2003 to Grantee recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001269, as amended by a First Amendment to Deed of Trust of even date and recorded contemporaneously herewith (as amended, the "Deed of Trust") to secure MOHAI's obligations to make the payment to terminate this Covenant and Easement under Section 4.B(ii)(b) hereunder. Such deed of trust shall be subject and subordinate only to the permitted exceptions set forth in therein and any purchase money or construction loans that may be obtained by MOHAI. Grantee shall release the deed of trust if and when an Historical Museum is first opened to the public in the Museum Unit. Grantee agrees that if it obtains ownership of the Museum Unit through purchase at foreclosure sale, Grantee shall use the Museum Unit and the improvements therein, and permit the Museum Unit and the improvements therein, to be used only for those uses that are (i) permitted by Governmental Requirements, (ii) do not emit or create excessive noise or offensive odor and (iii) not otherwise inconsistent with or detrimental to the operation, use and enjoyment of the Convention Center Expansion or the Existing Convention Center by its users and occupants.

 C. If Grantor Transfers the Museum Unit in accordance with all requirements of this Covenant and Easement, Grantor shall be released from all of its obligations hereunder. If the Transfer has not been made in accordance with this Covenant and Easement, Grantor shall continue to be bound by all of its obligations hereunder. Upon a Transfer by Grantor in accordance with this Covenant and Easement, and upon the request of Grantor, Grantee shall execute and deliver a written document confirming that Grantor has been released from all obligations under this Covenant and Easement.

 Section 7. Lease, Rental or Permission for Use of Museum Unit

 If the Grantor leases, rents or otherwise permits any person to use the Museum Unit in any manner whatsoever, Grantor shall remain bound by this Covenant and Easement and shall not be released from any of Grantor's obligations hereunder.

 Section 8. Reporting; Allowance and Adjustment of Use Rights

 A. Grantor shall provide annual reports to Grantee throughout the Use Period and a final report upon termination of this Covenant and Easement detailing the Occasions and types of Use Rights used during the past Use Year or Partial Use Year by Grantee and other persons pursuant to Exhibit B. Reports shall in such form and with such supporting documents as are reasonably satisfactory to Grantee and Grantor. Annual reports shall be delivered to Grantee no later than sixty (60) days after the close of Grantor's fiscal year, and the final report shall be delivered no later than sixty (60) days after termination of this Covenant and Easement.

 B. Throughout the Use Period, Grantor shall maintain records adequate to document Grantee's exercise of Use Rights. During the Use Period, Grantee may inspect and copy such records at Grantee's expense on seven (7) days prior written notice, during normal business hours.

 Section 9. Damage or Destruction

 If the Museum Unit is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty during the Term of this Covenant and Easement and Grantor does not commence restoration or rebuilding of the Museum Unit within eighteen (18) months after the event of casualty loss, then Grantor shall reimburse all Payments that Grantee shall have made hereunder (including without limitation Payments made for extensions of the Initial Term) without interest, provided that if such casualty loss occurs during the Use Period, said amounts to be reimbursed shall be multiplied by the ratio of the unused months in the Use Period to the total months in the Use Period. Upon such reimbursement, this Covenant and Easement shall terminate. If Grantor commences restoration or rebuilding within eighteen (18) months, the Use Period and Term shall be extended by the number of months that the Museum Unit was closed due to casualty loss.

 Section 10. Intentionally Reserved

 Section 11. Representations and Warranties

 A. Representations and Warranties By Grantor:

 Grantor represents and warrants as follows:

 (i) Grantor is a nonprofit corporation duly organized and in good standing in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington; that Grantor has the right, power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Covenant and Easement; and that all requisite actions of Grantor to enter, deliver and perform this and to authorize the execution by the person signing on behalf of Grantor (including the consent of third parties if applicable) have been taken.

 (ii) No provision of this Covenant and Easement is in conflict with any provision of any other agreement or instrument by which Grantor is bound or to which the Museum Unit is subject (including without limitation the Purchase and Sale Agreement), nor shall the execution, delivery or performance of this Covenant and Easement constitute an event of default under any such agreement or instrument.

 (iii) Grantor is the Owner of the Museum Unit.

 (iv) This Covenant and Easement is legal, valid, and binding upon Grantor, and is enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of bankruptcy, reorganization and other similar laws and general principles of equity.

 B. Representations and Warranties By Grantee:

 Grantee represents and warrants as follows:

 (i) Grantee is duly organized municipal corporation of the State of Washington; that Grantee has the right, power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Covenant and Easement; and that all requisite actions of Grantee to enter, deliver and perform this and to authorize the execution by the person signing on behalf of Grantee (including the consent of third parties if applicable) have been taken.

 (ii) No provision of this Covenant and Easement is in conflict with any provision of any other agreement or instrument by which Grantee is bound, nor shall the execution, delivery or performance of this Covenant and Easement constitute an event of default under any such agreement or instrument.

 (iii) This Covenant and Easement is legal, valid, and binding upon Grantee, and is enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of bankruptcy, reorganization and other similar laws and general principles of equity.

 Section 12. Default

 A. Default by Grantor

 If not cured pursuant to this Section 12.A or not curable, each of the following events shall constitute a "Default" of Grantor under this Covenant and Easement:

 (i) Grantor shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of Grantor contained herein, and such failure shall continue for thirty (30) days after writ-ten notice thereof from Grantee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the potential default is other than a failure to make a required payment or reimbursement hereunder and if the cure cannot commercially reasonably be made within such 30-day period, so long as Grantor has commenced cure within such 30-day period and thereafter diligently pursues the cure and complete it within 120 days, Grantor shall not be in Default. In addition, while the deed of trust is a lien on the Museum Unit, WSCTC shall have the right to cure any monetary default by MOHAI as Grantor within the cure period afforded to MOHAI as Grantor. For this purpose, Grantee shall give simultaneous notice to WSCTC and MOHAI of monetary defaults hereunder during the time that the deed of trust is such a lien.

 (ii) Grantor shall commence a voluntary case or other proceeding seeking reorganization, liquidation or other relief with respect to itself, which proceeding is not dismissed within sixty (60) days after the date of filing; or Grantor's creditors shall file an involuntary petition in bankruptcy against Grantor, which proceeding is not dismissed within one sixty (60) days of the date of filing; or Grantor shall make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or Grantor shall fail generally to pay its debts as they become due; or a receiver shall be appointed to take possession of all or substantially all of Grantor's assets.

 (iii) Any representation or warranty made by Grantor herein is false or misleading when made.

 B. Default by Grantee

 If not cured pursuant to this Section 12.B or not curable, each of the following events shall constitute a "Default" of Grantee under this Covenant and Easement:

 (i) Grantee shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of Grantee contained herein, and such failure shall continue for thirty (30) days after writ-ten notice thereof from Grantor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the potential default is other than a failure to make a required payment hereunder and if the cure cannot reasonably be made within such 30-day period, so long as Grantor has commenced cure within such 30-day period and thereafter diligently pursues the cure and completes it within 120 days, Grantor shall not be in default.

 (ii) Any representation or warranty made by Grantee herein is false or misleading when made.

 Section 13. Remedies Upon Default

 A. In the event of a Default by Grantor, Grantee shall be entitled to either of the following remedies:

 (i) If after the commencement of the Use Period, specific performance of this Covenant and Easement, it being agreed that damages may not be an adequate remedy; or

 (ii) Damages equal to half of all Payments made by Grantee under this Covenant and Easement (including without limitation amounts paid for all extensions of the Initial Term) plus interest pursuant to Section 13.B, provided that the principal amount shall be multiplied by the ratio of the unused months of Use Period to the total months of Use Period if the Default occurs after the Use Period commences. Upon Grantor's payment of such amount, this Covenant and Easement shall terminate automatically.

 These remedies are mutually exclusive and judgment may not be entered requiring Grantor to perform both remedies. The choice between the remedies set forth above shall be in the sole discretion of Grantee.

 B. Interest shall accrue on the amount due under Section 13.A(ii) at the rates for the applicable amounts and time periods specified in Section 4.C. above. For purposes of this Section 13, the term "reimbursement" in Section 4.C shall be deemed to mean "payment of damages."

 C. In the event of a Default by Grantee, Grantor shall be entitled to either of the following remedies:

 (i) Specific performance of this Covenant and Easement, it being agreed that damages may not be an adequate remedy; or

 (ii) Termination of this Covenant and Easement without payment to Grantee.

 These remedies are mutually exclusive and judgment may not be entered requiring Grantee to perform both remedies. The choice between the remedies set forth above shall be in the sole discretion of Grantor.

 Section 14. Easement, Covenants and Obligations Run With Museum Unit

 The parties intend that this Covenant and Easement and the easements, covenants, restrictions and obligations contained herein shall, for the Term or until any earlier termination of this Covenant and Easement, be covenants running with the Museum Unit and equitable servitudes that touch and concern the Museum Unit, and shall be binding upon Grantor, its successors and assigns and all subsequent owners of the Museum Unit and their grantees, successors, heirs, devisees or assigns.

 Section 15. Force Majeure

 The time period or deadline required for performance of Grantor's obligations under this Covenant and Easement shall be extended for events of Force Majeure, and such extension shall be for such time period as such events shall continue. An event of "Force Majeure" shall mean (1) a strike, labor shortage or unavailability of materials, (2) a riot, insurrection or war, (3) a flood, earthquake, fire or other casualty or act of God, (4) a governmental order or decree, or (5) any other event or occurrence beyond the reasonable control of Grantor and which, by the exercise of due diligence, Grantor was unable to have avoided or overcome. Lack of or inability to procure funds to fulfill Grantor's obligations hereunder shall not be an event of Force Majeure. The Use Period and Term shall be extended by the length of the event of Force Majeure.

 Section 16. No Waiver

 No failure of a party to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant or obligation of this Covenant and Easement or to exercise any right or remedy upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any other covenant or obligation. In its sole discretion, a party may waive any of its rights or waive any covenant or obligation of the other party hereunder. No waiver shall alter this Covenant and Easement, and every term hereof shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequent breach thereof.

 Section 17. Entire Agreement

 This Covenant and Easement includes the Recitals and the Exhibits attached hereto. The provisions of this Covenant and Easement represent the entire agreement of Grantor and Grantee with respect to the subject matter hereof.

 Section 18. Construction

 The terms of this Covenant and Easement shall not be amended, revised or terminated except by an instrument in writing duly executed by the Grantee and Grantor and recorded. This Covenant and Easement shall be construed liberally to accomplish the public benefits intended hereby and shall not be construed strictly against the drafter. The captions used in this Covenant and Easement are for convenience only and do not control or affect the meaning or construction of any provisions of this Covenant and Easement.

 Section 19. Notices

 Any notices required or permitted hereunder shall be effective when hand-delivered during normal business hours or two (2) business days after mailed, postage prepaid, to a party at the address set forth below for such party, or such other address as such party may provide by written notice in accordance with this Covenant and Easement.

 Grantor: Historical Society of Seattle & King County

 2700 24th Avenue East

 Seattle, Washington 98112

 Attn: Leonard Garfield, Executive Director

 with a copy to: Preston Gates & Ellis LLP

 925 Fourth Avenue, Suite 2900

 Seattle, Washington 98104-1158

 Attn:: Shannon J. Skinner

 Grantee: The City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 100 Dexter Avenue North

 Seattle, Washington 98109

 Attn: Charles Ng, CBR

 Section 20. Governing Law; Venue

 This Covenant and Easement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Washington. Venue of any action hereunder shall be in King County, Washington.

 Section 21. Counterparts

 This Covenant and Easement may be executed in counterpart, and each such counterpart shall be deemed to be an original instrument, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one Covenant and Easement.

 Section 22. Attorneys' Fees

 If by reason of any default or breach under this Covenant and Easement by either Grantor or Grantee, it becomes necessary to institute suit, the prevailing party in such suit shall be entitled to recover, as part of any judgment, fees and costs incurred by its attorneys and paralegals in such suit (including any appeal) determined as follows: (a) if both Grantor and Grantee have used in- house counsel, the fees and costs reasonably incurred by attorneys and paralegals of the prevailing party shall be calculated at the actual rate of such employees; or (b) if one party has used outside counsel and the other party has used in-house counsel, (i) if the party using outside counsel prevails, the fees and costs reasonably incurred by its attorneys and paralegals shall be calculated at their actual rates; and (ii) if the party using in-house counsel prevails, the fees and costs reasonably incurred by its attorneys and paralegals shall be calculated at the rates charged by attorneys and paralegals in private practice in a downtown Seattle law firm, comparable in size to that party's internal Law Department, who have been working as such for approximately the same period of time as have the in-house attorneys and paralegals representing that party.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Covenant and Easement as of the day and year first above written.

 City/Grantee:

 MOHAI/Grantor:

 The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington

 By

 Kenneth R. Bounds

 Superintendent, Department of Parks and Recreation

 Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington nonprofit corporation

 By

 Leonard Garfield

 Executive Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of ____________, 2004, before me personally appeared Leonard Garfield to me known to be the Executive Director of HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF SEATTLE AND KING COUNTY, a Washington nonprofit corporation, the nonprofit corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said public corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day first above written.

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 Print Name:

 My commission expires .

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of ____________, 2004, before me personally appeared Kenneth R. Bounds, to me known to be the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day first above written.

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 Print Name:

 My commission expires .

 EXHIBIT A

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

 The Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in Volume 195 of condominiums, Page 30, according to the Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium, recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820, situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 EXHIBIT B GRANTEE ACCESS AND USE RIGHTS

 1. DEFINITIONS

 Eligible School: An accredited primary or secondary school located in Seattle.

 Eligible School Group: A group of not-to-exceed thirty (30) students, with accompanying teachers or other adults, from an Eligible School, attending the Facility as part of an organized Eligible School function.

 Occasion: A four (4) hour period (or any part thereof) during which Grantee uses or has reserved the right to use the portions of the Facility described in Section 2 below. Grantee may schedule use of the Facility for a full eight hour day as two (2) Occasions. For example, Grantee's use of two meeting rooms for one three (3) hour period would constitute one Occasion.

 Seattle Resident: A person whose primary residence is in Seattle.

 2. Grantee Functions and Events

 A. On ten (10) Occasions during each Use Year (with the number of Occasions prorated for Partial Use Years, rounded to the nearest whole number), upon making a reservation therefore, Grantee shall have the exclusive use of any conference rooms, meeting rooms, the auditorium/theater and similar rooms and other spaces in the Facility for City-sponsored functions and events.

 B. For each use of the Facility by the Grantee under this Exhibit Section 2 during the regular hours of operation of the Facility, Grantor will not charge Grantee for Grantor's normal operation (during Grantor's business hours) of or overhead (including without limitation utilities, taxes, assessments) on the Facility. Normal operations include but are not limited to turning on and off all lighting, adjusting climate controls, turning on and adjusting the public address system, providing access to the Facility and its public rooms, locking and unlocking doors, HVAC and other systems as necessary, providing janitorial service and securing the Facility after each such use, and providing all necessary information concerning the operations and policies of the Facility. If Grantee desires to use the Facility on an Occasion that does not occur during the Facility's regular hours of operation or if Grantee desires technical or specialized assistance that Grantor agrees to provide, Grantor may charge Grantee the rates that normally would be charged by the Grantor for such space or services under arms-length arrangements.

 C. Grantee shall observe rules adopted by Grantor respecting the manner of use of the Facility for all persons other than Grantor. Grantee shall be liable for any injury to persons, damage to the Facility or its contents, and any other claim, expense or liability incurred by Grantor, other than normal wear and tear, caused by the acts or omissions of Grantee, its agents, employees, contractors or invitees in connection with uses by Grantee pursuant to this Exhibit Section 2.

 D. The scheduling of Grantee functions and events at the Facility shall be arranged as follows:

 (i) Grantor shall, at least thirty (30) days in advance of the start of each Use Year or Partial Use Year, provide to Grantee a written schedule showing the dates and times when conference and meeting rooms in the Facility will be available for use by Grantee pursuant to this Exhibit Section 2. Such schedule is subject to reasonable change by Grantor. If Grantor desires to change the schedule, it shall promptly inform Grantee. Once Grantee has made a reservation as provided below, Grantor shall not enter into any agreements or commitments for the use of the Facility that, individually or in the aggregate, would preclude it from reasonably accommodating the Grantee's use rights under this Exhibit Section 2, and Grantor shall not rescind a scheduled date after it has been reserved by Grantee pursuant to Exhibit Section 2D(ii).

 (ii) The Grantee shall contact the Grantor before scheduling an event at the Facility, to confirm its availability. If the date, time and particular space are available, the Grantor shall confirm such availability and shall irrevocably reserve the date and time requested. If the date and time requested by the Grantee are not available, then unless otherwise agreed to by the Grantee, the Grantor shall offer an equivalent date and time within thirty (30) days after the date originally requested. Unless Grantee cancels its reservation at least thirty (30) days in advance, the reservation shall be considered an Occasion of use, whether or not Grantee actually uses the space.

 E. If Grantee uses the Facility on fewer than ten (10) Occasions in any Use Year or the proportionate number of Occasions in any Partial Use Year, the balance shall carry forward and shall increase the minimum number of uses to which the Grantee is entitled in the following Use Year, but in no event shall the total number of uses by the Grantee under this Exhibit Section 2 exceed twelve (12) Occasions per Use Year.

 3. Exhibits and Programs

 A. Seattle Government Exhibit

 For at least three (3) months of every two (2) Use Years throughout the Use Period, Grantor shall display at the Facility an exhibit (which may be part of a larger exhibit) on the governance of The City of Seattle, which exhibit shall be created and maintained by Grantor.

 B. Exhibit in City Hall

 If MOHAI becomes the Grantor hereunder, Grantor shall, at Grantee's request, prepare an exhibit for permanent display in Grantee's new City Hall, using materials belonging to Grantee or Grantor. The topic, size and content of such exhibit shall be as agreed to by Grantor and the Archivist of The City of Seattle.

 C. Cultural Diversity

 Grantor shall create and maintain at the Facility, throughout the Use Period, an ongoing exhibit (which may be part of a larger exhibit) or periodic programs on the cultural diversity of Seattle. Such exhibit may consist of one permanent exhibit or a series of temporary exhibits provided that there is an exhibit on diversity on display at all times (except for brief periods necessary to change or refurbish such exhibit). Alternatively, Grantor may provide educational programs on cultural diversity, so long as such programs occur at least four times during each Use Year.

 4. Use and Access by Seattle Residents and Schools

 A. Free Days for All Seattle Residents

 At least once a month throughout the Use Period, Grantor shall offer free all day admission (for the hours that the museum is open) to the Facility (including all open exhibits, but not including special private or fund-raising events) to all Seattle Residents. Grantor shall make good-faith efforts to publicize the free admission days. These efforts shall include, without limitation, prominently posting the schedule of free days at the Facility and including notice of free days in written museum advertising and literature. Free admission required under this Exhibit Section 4.A shall be in addition to all other obligations of Grantor under this Covenant and Easement.

 B. Free Access by Eligible School Groups

 (i) Throughout the Use Period Grantor shall offer half price admission (half the general public admission price for children of the same age) to the Facility to all Eligible School Groups, for up to and including five (5) such groups per day. If fifty percent (50%) of the students in an Eligible School meet the qualifications of the United States National School Lunch Program, there shall be no admission charge at any time.

 (ii) Reduced price or free admission to Eligible School Groups shall include access to all exhibits and activities during normal hours of operation of the Facility. It shall be the responsibility of Eligible Schools to make arrangements for such admission. Such admission shall be granted, on a "first come, first served" basis, provided that the total number of Eligible School Groups shall not exceed five (5) per day. Grantor shall make good-faith efforts to publicize reduced price and free admission for Eligible School Groups. These efforts shall include without limitation prominently posting notice of this service at the Facility, and including such in written advertising and literature. The free and reduced price admissions required under this Exhibit Section 5.B shall be in addition to all other obligations of Grantor under this Covenant and Easement.

 5. Donation Admission

 Throughout the Use Period, Grantor shall have a policy of donation- based access for persons unable to pay the full entrance fee. Such donation admission shall mean that any person seeking admission on any day that the museum is open to the public shall be able to pay only what that person can afford for admittance.

 ta

 EXHIBIT C

 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS

 Item 1. Nondelinquent General Real Property Taxes for the current year.

 Item 2. Nondelinquent Surface Water Tax Assessments for the current year.

 Item 3. Nondelinquent Conservation Tax for the current year.

 Item 4. Nondelinquent current assessment fees of King County Metro Tunnel Local Improvement District Tax Assessment for Parcel No. 0440- 066000-0875-03.

 Item 5. Nondelinquent current assessment fees of King County Metro Tunnel Local Improvement District Tax Assessment for Parcel No. 0440- 066000-0930-06.

 Item 6. Covenant imposed by Recording No. 9009250786.

 Item 7. Agreement for Drainage Control Plan Recording No. 9106100826.

 Item 8. Agreement for Release of Damages Recording No. 119641.

 Item 9. Memorandum of Drainage Control Plan Recording Nos. 9505080533.

 Item 10. Agreement for Indemnity Recording No. 1491075.

 Item 11. Agreement for Parking Lot Operation Recording No. 9207301494 and 9208070334.

 Item 12. Public Benefit Features Covenant Recording No. 9803201853.

 Item 13. Easement Agreement by and between Alper Northwest, Grantor and Washington State Convention and Trade Center, Grantee, Recording No. 9809140788.

 Item 14. Easement Agreement by and between Charles C. Andonian, Gregory Y. Andonian and Paul M. Andonian, Grantors, and Washington State Convention and Trade Center, Grantee, Recording No. 9902090160.

 Item 15. Declaration of the Northwest Block Condominium, Recording No. 20031222001820.

 Item 16. Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property, Recording No. 20011203002784; Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract concerning Real Property Recording No. 20031223001261.

 Item 17. Lease with Board of Trustees of Seattle Public Library dated September 28, 2000, a memorandum of which was recorded under Recording No. 20001013001165, as amended.

 Item 18. Deed of Trust from MOHAI to Bank of America, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association Recording No. 20031223001268.

 Item 19. Deed of Trust from MOHAI to The City of Seattle, Recording No. 20031223001269.

 Item 20. Property Use and Development Agreement between WSCTC and City of Seattle, Recording No. 20021219001862.

 ??

 Attachment A

 -15- Attachment A

 B-1 Attachment A

 B-5 Attachment A

 C-2 Attachment A

 Attachment B

 After recording return to:

 City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 100 Dexter Avenue North

 Seattle, WA 98109

 Attn: Charles Ng, CBR

 First Amendment to Deed of Trust

 Grantor: The Historical Society of Seattle and King County

 Grantee: The City of Seattle

 Legal description: Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium,

 a condominium recorded in Vol. 195 of condominiums, page 30, according to the Declaration thereof, recorded under King County Rec. No. 20031222001820

 Assessor's Tax Parcel No.: Ptn of 0660000875, 0660000885 & 0660000930

 Recording No. of Related Document: 20031223001269 (Deed of Trust)

 This First Amendment to Deed of Trust is made this _____ day of ___________, 2004, between The Historical Society of Seattle and King County, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Grantor"), whose address is 2700 24th Avenue East, Seattle, Washington, and The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("Beneficiary"), whose address for purposes of this Deed of Trust is Department of Parks and Recreation, 100 Dexter Avenue North, Seattle, Washington.

 Pursuant to that certain Deed of Trust dated December 23, 2003 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001269 (the "Deed of Trust"), Grantor previously granted a deed of trust lien for the benefit of Beneficiary on the following described real property in King County, Washington:

 The Museum Unit of the Northeast Block Condominium, a condominium recorded in Volume 195 of Condominiums, Page 30, according to the Declaration for the Northeast Block Condominium recorded under King County Recording No. 20031222001820, situate in Seattle, County of King, State of Washington (the "Museum Property").

 The Deed of Trust was granted for the purpose of securing certain obligations of Grantor contained in the Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property dated December 23, 2003 and recorded under King County Recording No. 20031223001261 (the "Prior Covenants"). The Prior Covenants have been amended and restated pursuant to that certain Second Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property dated on or about the date hereof and recorded contemporaneously herewith (the "Covenant and Easement"). Therefore, the Deed of Trust is hereby amended as follows:

 1. The first paragraph on page 2 of the Deed of Trust commencing with "This Deed of Trust is for the purpose..." is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

 This Deed of Trust is for the purpose of securing the obligation of Grantor to make a payment to Beneficiary in the amount of $1,000,000, plus interest as provided in the Covenant and Easement (as hereafter defined), to terminate the Covenant and Agreement under Section 4.B(ii) thereof if an Historical Museum is not open to the public in the Museum Property by January 1, 2017. The "Covenant and Easement" is the Second Amended and Restated Restrictive Covenant, Easement and Contract Concerning Real Property dated ___________________, 2004 and recorded under King County Recording No. ___________________ (the "Covenant and Easement").

 2. The date on the last line of Section 4, page 3 of the Deed of Trust is changed to January 1, 2017.

 Except as expressly stated herein, the Deed of Trust remains unchanged.

 Grantor:

 The Historical Society of Seattle and King County,

 a Washington nonprofit corporation

 By: __________________________

 Leonard Garfield, Executive Director

 Beneficiary:

 The City of Seattle, a municipal

 corporation of the State of Washington

 By________________________

 Kenneth R. Bounds

 Superintendent, Department of Parks

 and Recreation

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of ____________, 2004 before me personally appeared Kenneth R. Bounds, to me known to be the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day first above written.

 _________________________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington residing at ______________________.

 My commission expires ____________________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this __ day of __________, 2004 before me personally appeared Leonard Garfield, to me known to be the Executive Director of the Historical Society of Seattle and King County, the Washington nonprofit corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said nonprofit corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day first above written.

 __________________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at _______________.

 My commission expires _____________.

 1

 Attachment B

```
