

********

**Council Bill Number: 114885**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to regular property taxes; providing for the submission to the qualified electors of the City at a special election called on September 14, 2004, of a proposition authorizing the City to levy regular property taxes for up to seven years in excess of the 101% limitation and any other limitation on levies in Chapter 84.55 RCW for the purpose of providing City services, including providing Seattle School District public school students, Seattle youth, and their families with educational and developmental services; authorizing the creation of a new subfund; continuing an oversight committee; and authorizing implementing agreements.

**Status:** Retired March 27, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Note:** 2004 Families & Education Levy Proposal

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 26, 2004
   
**Committee:** Committee of the Whole
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** TAXES, PROPERTY-TAXES, ELECTIONS, SCHOOLS, EDUCATION, SCHOOL-DISTRICT-1, CHILDREN, YOUTHS, FAMILY

**Fiscal Note:**114885

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to regular property taxes; providing for the submission to the qualified electors of the City at a special election called on September 14, 2004, of a proposition authorizing the City to levy regular property taxes for up to seven years in excess of the 101% limitation and any other limitation on levies in Chapter 84.55 RCW for the purpose of providing City services, including providing Seattle School District public school students, Seattle youth, and their families with educational and developmental services; authorizing the creation of a new subfund; continuing an oversight committee; and authorizing implementing agreements.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Findings. The City Council makes the following findings:

 a. Providing City services, including the Educational and Developmental Services described in Section 5 of this ordinance, is a City purpose.

 b. The Educational and Developmental Services to be funded with Proceeds are intended to improve student academic achievement and are supplemental to the basic education financed by the State of Washington and will not displace or reduce state funding for the public schools in the Seattle School District.

 c. In 1990 and again in 1997, the voters of Seattle approved measures that provided funding for educational and developmental services to Seattle's children, youth, and families. These programs have proven successful at providing child care and out of school activities for more than 70,000 children and youth, providing parent education and support services to at least 110,000 families, providing academic support and intervention to more than 150,000 students, and other critical services aimed at keeping Seattle's children and youth safe, healthy, and ready to learn.

 d. An urgent need exists to continue the provision of City services, including Educational and Developmental Services, to be funded with proceeds of regular property taxes and its urgency requires submission to the qualified electors of The City of Seattle of a proposition authorizing regular property tax levies in excess of the levy limitations in Chapter 84.55 RCW, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, for up to seven years at a special election to be held in conjunction with the state-wide election on September 14, 2004.

 Section 2. Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words when capitalized have the following meanings:

 a. "City" means The City of Seattle.

 b. "Central Administrative Support" means the City's administration and oversight of the expenditure of Proceeds and monitoring the overall effectiveness of the Educational and Developmental Services funded with the Proceeds, and identifying unmet needs for future services.

 c. "Educational and Developmental Services" means the array of programs and activities referred to in Section 5, with such modifications as the City Council may from time to time authorize by ordinance.

 d. "Proceeds" means that portion of regular property taxes levied and collected as authorized by voter approval pursuant to this ordinance that are above the 101% limit on levies in RCW 84.55.010, and all interest and other earnings thereon, all of which shall be deposited in the 2004 Families and Education Subfund of the Educational and Developmental Services Fund.

 e. "Seattle School District" and "School District" mean Seattle School District No. 1.

 Section 3. Levy of Regular Property Taxes - Submittal. The City hereby submits to the qualified electors of the City a proposition as authorized by RCW 84.55.050 to exceed the limitations on regular property taxes contained in Chapter 84.55 RCW, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, for property taxes levied in 2004 through 2010 for collection in 2005 through 2011, respectively. In addition to funding regular City services without reduction in the regular tax levy, this proposition would allow raising $103,300,000 in aggregate over a period of up to seven years solely to provide Educational and Developmental Services for Seattle School District students, Seattle youth, and their families. The proposition shall be limited so that the City shall not levy in any year more than $14,762,000 in addition to the maximum amount of regular property taxes it could have levied within the 101% limit in RCW 84.55.010 in the absence of voter approval under this ordinance.  Pursuant to RCW 84.55.050(4), the maximum regular property taxes that may be levied in 2011 for collection in 2012 and in later years shall be computed as if the levy lid in RCW 84.55.010 had not been lifted under this ordinance.

 Section 4. Application of Proceeds. The Proceeds shall be deposited in the City Treasury into a special 2004 Families and Education Subfund (the "Subfund") within the previously established Educational and Developmental Services Fund. Moneys in the Subfund may be temporarily deposited or invested in such manner as may be lawful for the investment of City money and interest and other earnings shall be deposited in the Subfund. The principal Proceeds and any interest or other earnings from their deposit or investment shall be applied solely for Educational and Developmental Services.

 Section 5. Educational and Developmental Services. Educational and Developmental Services funded by Proceeds are services designed to help address the needs of Seattle's public school children and Seattle's youth and their families, with the intent of promoting learning, improving academic achievement , and increasing access to services, and the administration of those services. Initially, Educational and Developmental Services shall be provided through the following seven program components:

 1. Preschool and early childhood education. Plan and establish neighborhood-based early learning networks in low income areas of the city that take a systemic approach to helping children be ready to succeed in kindergarten. Major program elements include preschool for low-income four year olds; access for low-income families to high quality child care; school readiness support for children in home day-care situations, including home visits; preschool to kindergarten transition services.

 2. Family support. Major program elements include school-based family support functions for elementary schools.

 3. Family involvement services. Major program elements include community-based family involvement programs.

 4. Out-of-School activities. Major program elements include academically-focused after school programs for middle school students, middle school athletics and child care subsidies.

 5. Support for high-risk, middle and high school students. Major program elements include case management services for high-risk youth.

 6. Student health services. Major program elements include school- based student health clinics and nursing services at clinic sites.

 7. Evaluation of overall impacts and impacts of individual program elements on academic achievement and other measurable outcomes.

 These anticipated program component descriptions are only illustrative examples. In the annual City budget or by separate ordinance, the City shall from year-to-year determine the budget and allocations among the seven program components, add or delete program components or program elements within a program component, change the scope of activities or the emphasis, and, within a budget year in consultation with the Oversight Committee, reallocate unexpended and unencumbered funds from one program element or program component to another. Proceeds and appropriations unexpended at the end of any budget year shall automatically be carried over to the next budget year.

 Expenditures from the Subfund for Central Administrative Support by the City shall not in any budget year exceed a total of five percent of that year's total expenditure authority from the Subfund.

 Section 6. Oversight Committee. The Oversight Committee established pursuant to Ordinance 115289, as modified by Ordinance 116430 and as continued by Ordinance 120024, shall continue in operation to review the expenditure of Proceeds; to advise upon expenditures and allocations for the following year, and to make recommendations on the implementation of particular programs, and on any reallocations. The Oversight Committee shall consist of seven members: the Mayor, the Chair of the City Council's Parks, Neighborhoods and Education Committee or its successor with respect to education issues, a representative of the Seattle School Board, the Superintendent of the Seattle School District, and three Seattle citizens who shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. Appointed members shall serve for a period of three years, commencing at the respective dates of their appointments, subject to reappointment; appointed members shall be discharged from further service by two consecutive unexcused absences, by moving their residence from Seattle, and for other cause. Members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed their expenses, including payments for child care while attending meetings. The Oversight Committee may adopt rules for its own procedures, including the frequency of meetings.

 Section 7. Implementing Agreements. If this proposition is approved by the voters, the City may carry out the Educational and Developmental Services with City staff or by agreements with the Seattle School District, with Public Health Seattle-King County, and with such other agencies and persons as may be appropriate. The Mayor or the Mayor's designee is authorized to enter into such agreements, consistent with Section 8 below. The City will, when soliciting businesses for goods or services agreements, perform outreach to small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including those owned by women and minorities. City agreements with other public entities will encourage those entities to actively solicit bids for the subcontracting of any good or services, when such subcontracting is required or appropriate from qualified small businesses, including those owned by women and minorities. City agreements with businesses for goods and services and with other public entities and non-profits, will encourage these entities to employ a workforce reflective of the region's diversity. All City agreements for goods and services will require the contracting entities to comply with all then-applicable requirements for non- discrimination in employment in federal, state, and City of Seattle laws and regulations.

 Section 8. City of Seattle/Seattle School District Agreement. There shall be an agreement ("the Agreement") with the Seattle School District in which the responsibilities of the City and the School District are established. The Agreement will set forth the parties' responsibilities for achieving the Educational and Developmental Services' desired outcomes. It will outline, in a variety of areas, ways in which both the City and the School District will work collaboratively toward better results for children and youth. The Agreement will cover items including, but not limited to, data sharing necessary to implement program evaluations, standards for family support services, facility use, health service operating practices and development and implementation of an appropriate school-readiness measurement system.

 The City can not enter into the Agreement, or materially amend the Agreement, until the Agreement or the amendment, as the case may be, is approved by the Seattle City Council and the Seattle School Board. Proceeds may be spent on School District programs or functions only in accordance with an effective Agreement.

 The Agreement, and the actions contemplated by it, will be reviewed semi-annually by the Levy Oversight Committee, which will recommend amendments as appropriate.

 Section 9. Election - Ballot Title. The King County Director of Records and Elections, as ex officio supervisor of elections, is hereby requested to conduct a special election, which the City hereby calls pursuant to RCW 84.55.050, to be held in conjunction with the state-wide election on September 14, 2004, and to submit to the qualified electors of the City the proposition set forth below.

 The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed not less than forty-five days prior to September 14, 2004, to certify the proposition to the King County Director of Records and Elections in the following form or as modified by the City Attorney pursuant to RCW 29.27.066:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 PROPOSITION NUMBER _____

 REGULAR TAX LEVY INCLUDING

 FAMILIES AND EDUCATION

 The City of Seattle's Proposition __ concerns funding for services, including support to improve student academic achievement.

 This proposition would fund City services, including preschool, early-childhood education, out-of-school activities, support for high-risk youth, family support, family involvement, student health, and program evaluation, as provided in Ordinance ____. This vote approves, for up to seven years, regular property taxes higher than the limits in Chapter 84.55 RCW, beginning with 2005 total regular taxes limited to $3.07/$1,000 assessed value. Not more than $14,762,000 per year ($103,300,000 total) can be collected for the additional families and education purposes.

 Should this levy be approved?

 Levy, Yes

 Levy, No

 Those in favor shall vote "Yes;" those opposed shall mark their ballots "No."

 Section 10. Ratification. Certification of such proposition by the City Clerk to the King County Director of Records and Elections in accordance with law prior to the date of such election on September 14, 2004, and any other act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance, are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 11. Severability. In the event any one or more of the provisions of this ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision of this ordinance or the levy of the taxes authorized herein, but this ordinance and the authority to levy those taxes shall be construed and enforced as if such invalid provisions had not been contained herein; and any provision which shall for any reason be held by reason of its extent to be invalid shall be deemed to be in effect to the extent permitted by law.

 Section 12. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its approval by the Mayor or, if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, then on the eleventh (11th) day after its presentation to the Mayor or, if vetoed by the Mayor, then immediately after its passage over his veto.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 20__, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 20__.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 20__.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 20__.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 C. Swab-H. Marx/S. Cohen

 04 F&E ballot ordinance 14:

 04/12/04

 (Ver. 14)

 1

 Attachment

 Summary

 2004 Families and Education Levy Proposal Plan

 1. Summary

 2. Fund Sources and Spending

 3. Implementation

 4. Monitoring and Reporting

 5. Investment Areas

 6. Financial Summary

 Seven-year Plan Summary

 * Size and term of the levy1: The levy collects $103,300,000 in tax revenues from 2005 through 2011.

 * Impact on the average homeowner in an average year: $58/year (for a $336,000 home); $406 total over seven years; 15 cents per $1,000 of assessed value.

 * Goal: the 2004 Families & Education Levy will support positive child, youth, and family programs that will help all of Seattle's children become school ready, be healthy, and succeed academically.

 * Relationship to previous levies: 1990 levy - $69.2 million; 1997 levy - $69.0 million; 2004 proposed levy package - $103.3 million.

 Fund Sources and Spending Summary

 The levy provides $105,500,000 in total resources (levy proceeds plus interest) over seven years (2005-2011) to support the following seven investment areas: Early Learning, Family Involvement, Family Support, Out-of-School Time, Student Health Services, and Support for High- Risk, Middle- and High-School-Age Youth, as well as administration and evaluation.

 Table 1 summarizes the anticipated sources and uses of funds.

 Implementation of Levy Programming

 It is the intention of the Executive to develop implementation plans for each proposed investment area and for the overall management and evaluation of the levy. These plans will identify responsible departments or outside agencies and staff needed to implement the programs. Procurement methods will be identified; outcomes and interim milestones to be accomplished will be finalized. Plans will receive in-depth review by the Levy Oversight Committee. Throughout this process, the City Council will receive timely briefings and updates on implementation planning and levy progress. Other implementation issues and assumptions include:

 * Assuming voter approval in September 2004, the levy will begin generating revenue in January 2005.

 * This levy assumes a phasing-in period for the Early Learning and Out-of-School Time programs.

 * Some of the services recommended for funding will go through a Request for Proposals (RFP) process in order to determine who will deliver the services.

 * The Office for Education will continue to provide oversight, direction and evaluation of levy programs.

 * Each investment area will be evaluated for how it meets specific outcomes. Monitoring will be rigorous; tested and effective programs will be used when feasible. Overall effectiveness of the levy and individual components will be evaluated.

 Monitoring & Reporting

 * The Levy Oversight Committee will meet monthly and will monitor the financial performance and program success of the levy.

 * The Levy Oversight Committee will review and evaluate the Families & Education Levy budget on an annual basis; the Levy Oversight Committee will make budget and program recommendations to the Mayor for consideration in the Proposed Budget on an annual basis.

 * Seattle City Council will review the Families & Education Levy budget as part of its annual review of the Mayor's Proposed Budget.

 * As outlined in the ordinance, the City and the Seattle Public Schools will develop an agreement in order to carry out the goals of the levy and to report on the impact of the levy on the stated populations and outcomes. The agreement will require City Council approval.

 * Should a program prove unsuccessful, the Levy Oversight Committee may recommend redirecting funds to other services.

 * The Office for Education will report annually on the progress of the Families & Education Levy.

 Please see Table 1 for financial information.

 Table 1: Planned 2004 Families and Education Levy Sources and Uses of Funds

 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total

 Sources

 Levy Proceeds 1 $14,762,000 $14,762,00 $14,762,00 $14,762,00 $14,762,00 $14,762,00 $14,762,000 $103,334,00 0 0 0 0 0 0

 Estimated amount $14,397,000 $14,613,00 $14,664,00 $14,700,00 $14,704,00 $14,705,00 $14,705,000 $308,000 $102,796,00 to be collected2 0 0 0 0 0 0

 Interest $79,812 $249,569 $317,519 $395,163 $491,977 $463,865 $422,898 $293,324 $2,714,127 Earnings3

 Total Sources $14,476,812 $14,862,56 $14,981,51 $15,095,16 $15,195,97 $15,168,86 $15,127,898 $601,324 $105,510,12 9 9 3 7 5 7

 Uses

 Early Learning1 $888,785 $2,423,959 $3,231,946 $4,039,932 $4,100,531 $4,162,039 $4,224,470 $3,215,877 $26,287,539

 Family $125,000 $507,500 $515,113 $522,839 $530,682 $538,642 $546,722 $416,192 $3,702,689 Involvement2

 Family Support3 $531,250 $2,125,000 $2,125,000 $2,125,000 $2,125,000 $2,125,000 $2,125,000 $1,593,750 $14,875,000

 Out-of-School $666,750 $2,157,100 $2,763,250 $3,146,500 $3,193,698 $3,241,603 $3,290,227 $2,504,685 $20,963,813 Time4

 Support for $312,500 $1,268,750 $1,287,781 $1,307,098 $1,326,704 $1,346,605 $1,366,804 $1,040,480 $9,256,722 High-risk Youth5

 Student Health $887,500 $3,450,000 $3,300,000 $3,349,500 $3,399,743 $3,450,739 $3,502,500 $2,666,278 $24,006,259 Services6

 Levy $167,562 $680,301 $690,505 $700,863 $711,376 $722,046 $732,877 $557,903 $4,963,432 Administration7

 Evaluation8 $50,000 $200,000 $200,000 $200,000 $200,000 $200,000 $200,000 $200,000 $1,450,000

 Total Uses $3,629,347 $12,812,61 $14,113,59 $15,391,73 $15,587,73 $15,786,67 $15,988,600 $12,195,16 $105,505,45 0 5 2 3 4 5 4

 Sources

 1. The Families and Education Levy is evenly loaded at $14,762,000 per year. Because of this, the millage rate varies over the seven years. The average millage rate is 15 cents per $1000 of assessed value.

 2. A revenue collection rate of approximately 99 percent is assumed.

 3. Interest is figured on the unspent balance each year; using CPI projections, the average interest rate over the seven years is 4.47 percent.

 Summary of Financial Assumptions

 Because spending from the 1997 levy continues through August of 2005, continuing program funds, administration, and evaluation funds are budgeted at 25 percent of cost in 2005. Similarly, in 2012, programs are funded at 75 percent of cost in order to continue funding programs through August 2012.

 * The Office for Education is funded at an average of 4.7 percent of the Proceeds.

 * An inflation factor of 1.5 percent is built into the model with the exception of the Family Support investment area. Funding for this program is provided evenly at $2.125 million from 2006 through 2011 each year.

 * Should the ballot measure pass, a new subfund will be created to receive the collected tax dollars and interest.

 * Due to the phase-in approach, costs are higher at the end of the levy.

 Uses

 1. Because it is a new program, funding for Early Learning is phased in - full funding won't be in place until 2008. Fund phasing assumptions for Early Learning are as follows: 44 percent in 2005, 60 percent in 2006, and 80 percent in 2007. After the first year of full funding (2008), budget figures are inflated at 1.5 percent (see financial assumptions above).

 2. A full year of funding for Family Involvement is $500,000. As per the financial assumptions above, costs are budgeted for 25 percent of the total for a full year of funding. Inflation of 1.5 percent begins in 2006.

 3. A full year of funding for Family Support is $2,125,000. As per the financial assumptions above, costs are budgeted for 25 percent of the total for a full year of funding.

 4. Because of start up for the new portions of the Out-of-School time program, funding is phased in - full funding of $3,100,000 (plus 1.5 percent inflation) won't be in place until 2008. Fund phasing assumptions for Out-of School Time are as follows: 25 percent in 2005, 58 percent in 2006, and 85 percent in 2007.

 o Many of the existing Community Learning Centers are funded through federal and Gates Foundation grants that last until 2008. The phase- in schedule would enable the levy to pick up the costs once these programs expire if the programs are recommended for continued funding at that time.

 o The amount budgeted for Out-of-School time includes $250,000 for middle-school athletics and associated transportation costs.

 5. A full year of funding for Support for High-risk Youth is $1,250,000. As per the financial assumptions above, costs are budgeted for 25 percent of the total for a full year of funding. Inflation of 1.5 percent begins in 2006.

 6. Student Health Services funding will be phased down until 2007, when the program will reach its new funding level of $3,300,000 per year (inflated at 1.5 percent starting in 2008). The funding will be stepped down gradually to allow two years to begin bringing in revenue from billing.

 o In 2005, $250,000 is added to the new levy amount of $3,300,000 in order to gradually reduce the past levy levels; as per the financial assumptions above, costs are budgeted for 25 percent of the total for a full year of funding.

 o In 2006, $150,000 is added to the new levy amount.

 o In 2007, student health services reaches its new funding level.

 7. Central Administration is calculated based on one full year of all programs up and running ($14,314,932) and is 4.7 percent of that amount.

 8. Evaluation is budgeted at $200,000 per year. Evaluation will include assessing program effectiveness and the impact of program elements on academic achievement and other measurable outcomes.

 Investment Areas

 Following are the seven investment areas in the Mayor's proposed 2004 Families and Education Levy package.

 EARLY LEARNING

 Annual expenditure level once fully phased in: $4,039,932

 The levy provides $4,039,932 for the first year of full programming. Funds are phased in over the first three years of the levy to allow new programs time to start up.

 Program Components:

 Establish two neighborhood-based early learning networks in low- income areas of the city to provide:

 * pre-school for 400 four-year-old children;

 * child care;

 * family support;

 * health screenings;

 * parent education;

 * kindergarten transition; and

 * parent-child home visits.

 This program will be for children of families at or below 300 percent of the federal poverty level.

 Outcomes will be determined based on recommendations from the Levy Oversight Committee, and may include:

 * 85 percent of children will have the cognitive, emotional and social skills necessary to enter kindergarten;

 * Children will read at grade level in first grade;

 * Children will write at grade level in second grade;

 * 75 percent of families in early learning networks will participate in parent education or be otherwise involved in their child's learning; and

 * Parents will read to their children more often.

 All outcomes will apply to each population served.

 FAMILY INVOLVEMENT

 Annual expenditure level: $500,000

 Program Components:

 The investments in family involvement will support community organizations in developing strategies to boost family involvement in schools and in their children's education.

 Outcomes will be determined based on recommendations from the Levy Oversight Committee, and may include:

 * Improved student attendance;

 * Fewer discipline problems and suspensions/expulsions;

 * Increase in student achievement; and

 * Number of families actively supporting their children's education both at home and at school.

 FAMILY SUPPORT

 Annual expenditure level: $2,125,000

 Program Components:

 Family support services will improve academic achievement by investing in elementary school family support workers who work with students and their families in schools. Family support services should strengthen the student/family/school interaction in ways that support student academic performance.

 Family support connects services, families and schools by:

 * Regularly visiting the homes of students' families;

 * Creating connections with community services that help families access health care, jobs, housing and other basic needs;

 * Referring families to relevant services; and

 * Following up on referrals to make sure families obtain services.

 Outcomes will be determined based on recommendations from the Levy Oversight Committee, and may include:

 * Increased family connection to resources, including the resources accessible through Help For Working Families;

 * Improved attendance;

 * Reduced discipline rates;

 * Reduced truancy rates; and

 * Increased family connection to children's education and school.

 OUT-OF-SCHOOL TIME (OST)

 Annual expenditure level once fully phased in: $3,100,000

 Funds are phased in over the first three years of the levy to allow new programs time for planning before they are fully funded.

 Components:

 There are three components to the Out-of-School time investment area. Partnerships for Student Success (PSS) is the largest component which will focus on after-school academic programs for children and youth with greatest needs. The other two areas would be available to children and youth who are not participating in PSS.

 1. Partnerships for Student Success (PSS): Provide after-school programming to serve middle schools and high-need elementary schools, located in schools or communities, similar to existing Community Learning Centers. Twenty PSS sites will be designed to improve student academic performance and help close the achievement gap. PSS will offer activities such as:

 * Homework support and completion;

 * Enriching, hands-on science and math programs;

 * An array of literacy programs to build and reinforce reading and writing skills (using story boards and drawing skills, street poetry, media, etc.);

 * Technology and computer classes;

 * Community service learning and civic engagement projects (e.g. environmental projects);

 * WASL preparation;

 * A variety of drama, photography, pottery, dance, music, and other arts programs;

 * A broad assortment of fitness, recreation, and athletic activities;

 * Practical/experiential application of learning standards;

 * Chess clubs and other activities;

 * Hot topics discussion groups;

 * Career exploration; and

 * Problem-solving skills, life skills (e.g., financial management).

 2. After-School Activities for Middle-School Students: Provide after-school activities for middle-school students who are not served by the PSS program, located in schools or communities, that are safe, high-quality, aligned with the school curriculum, and reflect student culture(s). Includes middle-school athletics.

 3. Subsidies for Child Care and After-School Activities: Provide financial subsidies to pay for low-income families to access high- quality, after-school programs, and to fund agencies that provide culturally specific after-school programs for immigrants, refugees, and homeless children.

 Outcomes will be determined based on recommendations from the Levy Oversight Committee, and may include:

 * Improved attendance.

 * Students stay in school.

 * Students advance with grade level.

 * Improved academic performance.

 * Improved graduation rates.

 * Families are more connected with schools.

 * The number of families and students access the school-and community-based resources they need.

 STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES

 Annual expenditure level once fully phased in: $3,300,000

 Student health services are funded at $3,550,000 for the last quarter of year one, with a gradual decrease to $3,300,000 by year three. This allows the School-Based Health Centers to begin to bill Medicaid and private insurance for reimbursable services.

 Program Components:

 Access to Primary Health and Mental Health Care Services: Continue to fund School-Based Health Centers (SBHCs) at 10 comprehensive high schools and four middle schools. The 14 sites that have already been established with support from the 1990 and 1997 Families and Education Levies, and 1992 Children and Youth Action Plan will receive continuing funding. However, a detailed analysis and assessment will be completed prior to the beginning of the new levy to ensure that resources are being deployed appropriately based on student need and utilization at each site. Based on this review, there may be opportunities to decrease, share or transfer resources among the existing sites depending on capacity and demand. This assessment will be done every 2-3 years to ensure the most effective deployment of the levy's limited student health resources. The 14 schools that currently have a School-Based Health Center include:

 * Ballard High School

 * Cleveland High School

 * Franklin High School

 * Garfield High School/NOVA Alternative School

 * Ingraham High School

 * Nathan Hale High School/Summit Alternative School

 * Rainier Beach High School

 * Roosevelt High School

 * Sealth High School

 * West Seattle High School

 * Aki Kurose Middle School

 * Denny Middle School

 * Madison Middle School

 * Washington Middle School

 Each School-Based Health Center will offer a core set of services that will include prevention, early screening and identification, and treatment. More specifically, each site will offer:

 * Increased access and utilization of preventive care (family planning, well-child exams, immunizations);

 * Primary and acute health care assessment, diagnosis, treatment and referral;

 * Age-appropriate reproductive health care;

 * STD screening and treatment;

 * Mental health screening, counseling, case management and referral;

 * Health education and health promotion; and

 * Care coordination and referral for drug/alcohol services and dental care

 Outcomes will be determined based on recommendations from the Levy Oversight Committee, and may include:

 * Increased access to preventive and primary health and mental health care services for students;

 * Reduction in teenage pregnancies by active SBHC users;

 * Increased screening for sexually transmitted illnesses;

 * Reduction in risky behaviors and increase in health-promoting behaviors and social competency skills (e.g., anger management, conflict resolution, etc);

 * Goal attainment towards improved mental health functioning (e.g., suicide, depression, eating disorders, etc.);

 * Improved student attendance; and

 * Increased indicators of positive school climate (reduction in bullying/harassment, fighting, etc.)

 SUPPORT FOR HIGH-RISK, MIDDLE- AND HIGH-SCHOOL-AGE YOUTH

 Annual expenditure level: $1,250,000

 Program Components:

 Provide coordinated case management for high-risk, middle- and high- school students and youth who are at risk of dropping out or who have dropped out of school.

 Outcomes will be determined based on recommendations from the Levy Oversight Committee, and may include:

 * Improved attendance;

 * Improved grade point average;

 * Improved graduation rates; and

 * Reduced suspensions, expulsions, and disciplinary issues.

 EVALUATION

 Annual expenditure level: $200,000

 The levy provides $200,000 each year to evaluate program effectiveness and the impact of program elements on academic achievement and other measurable outcomes.

 1 Throughout, the word "levy" refers only to the portion of the voter-approved regular property tax levy that would be above the 101% limit (known as the levy lid) in state law. The Council Bill submits this lid lift to voters as part of approval of the overall regular property tax levy.

 - 5 -

 2004 Families & Education Levy Proposal Plan 4/12/04

```
