

********

**Council Bill Number: 114945**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121531**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the execution of a five-year concession agreement with Gary Warhaftig, D/B/A Point of View Telescopes, to manage, maintain and provide coin-operated telescopes at various park facilities.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 12, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 16, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 16, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 28, 2004
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods and Education
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, LEASES, PARKS, DOWNTOWN, CENTRAL-WATERFRONT, MAGNOLIA, DISCOVERY-PARK, MYRTLE-EDWARDS-PARK, WATERFRONT-PARK, AQUARIUM, KERRY-PARK, VIEWPOINTS

**Fiscal Note:**114945

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the execution of a five-year concession agreement with Gary Warhaftig, D/B/A Point of View Telescopes, to manage, maintain and provide coin-operated telescopes at various park facilities.

 WHEREAS, coin-operated telescopes have been a popular feature in parks for many years; and

 WHEREAS, the Department publicly advertised and completed a Request for Proposals in 2001 for a coin-operated telescope concessionaire; and

 WHEREAS, Gary Warhaftig, D/B/A Point of View Telescopes, submitted the only proposal and its proposal was evaluated to be fully responsive to the RFP questionnaire; and

 WHEREAS, Point of View Telescopes has satisfactory experience providing coin-operated telescopes for the Department and other similar clients; and

 WHEREAS, the Department wishes to execute and finalize this Concession Agreement with Point of View Telescopes; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, or his designee, is hereby authorized to execute, deliver and perform for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a five (5) year Concession Agreement, substantially in the form of Attachment 1 to this ordinance, with Gary Warhaftig, D/B/A Point of View Telescopes. The Concession Agreement also authorizes a five (5) year extension term at the option of the Superintendent.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Coin Operated Concession Agreement Between The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation and Gary Warhaftig, D/B/A Point of View Telescopes

 Charles Ng/BF

 DPR Telescope Concession ORD

 June 1, 2004

 version #1a

 1

 Attachment 1: Coin Operated Concession Agreement Between The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation and Gary Warhaftig, D/B/A Point of View Telescopes

 Charles Ng/BF

 DPR Telescope Concession ORD

 June 1, 2004

 version #1a

 Attachment 1 to DPR Telescope Concession Ordinance

 COIN OPERATED TELESCOPE CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 Between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

 And

 GARY WARHAFTIG d/b/a POINT OF VIEW PUBLIC TELESCOPES

 THIS COIN-OPERATED TELESCOPE CONCESSION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into between The City of Seattle ("City"), operating through its Department of Parks and Recreation ("Department") and its Superintendent, and Gary Warhaftig, d/b/a Point of View Public Telescopes ("Concessionaire").

 In consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 PART A: SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND COVENANTS OF AGREEMENT

 A-1 GRANT OF CONCESSION.

 The Department hereby grants to the Concessionaire for the Term of this Agreement upon the conditions, limitations, reservations, and provisions herein, the right and privilege to conduct a business consisting of installation, maintenance, and operation of coin- operated telescopes at approved park locations that include, but are not limited to, the sites shown in Exhibit A (the "Telescope Sites"). Additional locations may be added from time to time with the Superintendent's approval, and in such event a new Exhibit A shall be appended hereto without the need for formal amendment of this Agreement, to reflect the additional locations.

 A-2 TERM OF AGREEMENT.

 This Agreement shall commence when executed by both parties, and shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on December 31, 2009, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof (the "Term"). This Agreement may be extended for one additional term of five (5) years, at the Superintendent's option. If the Superintendent decides to exercise the option to extend the Agreement, the Department shall send a written notification to the Concessionaire at least thirty (30 days) prior to the expiration date of the Agreement.

 A-3 TERMINATION.

 a. Termination for Cause.

 The Department may terminate this Agreement upon 30 days' written notice to the Concessionaire if the Concessionaire breaches any of the material terms of this Agreement and such breach has not been corrected to the City's reasonable satisfaction in a timely manner.

 b. Termination for Convenience.

 Either party may terminate this Agreement without cause by giving the other party ninety (90) days' written notice of its intention to so terminate.

 A-4 CONSIDERATION.

 The Concession right and privilege granted herein is given in exchange for the following:

 a. Concession Fee Payments.

 Throughout the Term of this Agreement Concessionaire shall pay the Department a monthly fee for each complete telescope installation on Department property equal to $30.00 or twenty-five percent (25%) of total monthly sales for each telescope, whichever is greater (the "Concession Fee"). With each Concession Fee payment, Concessionaire shall submit a Monthly Gross Receipt Report, as more fully described in A-6.f, below. For the purposes of calculating the monthly Concession Fee payment, a telescope placed on a Department-approved site for any portion of a calendar month shall be considered to have been on that location for that entire calendar month. With the Superintendent's approval, telescopes may be removed from their bases during the off-season, and in such event and for such telescopes, no Concession Fee will be charged.

 Washington State Leasehold Excise Taxes as defined in Part A-6.e. are not included in the Concession Fee and are the Concessionaire's responsibility. Payments for Washington State Leasehold Excise Tax shall not be combined with Concession Fees and shall be listed as a separate item on all accounting, billings, statements, and check stubs.

 b. Concession Equipment.

 The Concessionaire shall provide coin-operated telescopes, together with mounting bases and related maintenance services. Concessionaire shall not place or store on Department property any equipment unrelated to the installation, operation, and maintenance of the telescopes.

 A-6 PAYMENT SCHEDULE.

 a. Payment Due Dates.

 The Concessionaire shall pay the Department the monthly Concession Fee on or before the 10th day of each calendar month during the Term of this Agreement. The first payment shall be due on the 10th day of the second calendar month following commencement of the Term. The last payment will be due no later than the 10th day of the calendar month following expiration of the Term. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 b. Payment and Notice Locations.

 All notices, Concession Fee and Leasehold Excise Taxes payments shall be delivered to the Department at the following address:

 By mail: Hand delivered:

 The City of Seattle The City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation Dept. of Parks and Recreation

 Contract and Business Resources Contract & Business Resources

 Attention: Concessions Coordinator Attn: Concessions Coordinator

 P.O. Box 3443 800 Maynard Ave. South

 Seattle, WA 98114 Room 210

 Seattle, WA 98134-1335

 All notices to the Concessionaire shall be mailed or e-mailed to:

 Gary Warhaftig, President

 Point of View Public Telescopes

 Box 938

 Montara, CA 94037

 Telephone (650) 728-3806

 Fax (650) 728-3816

 Email: point-of-view@usa.net

 c. Administrative Charges Due to Late Payment.

 If any payment is not paid to the Department within ten (10) days after the due date, a late charge of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shall be added to the payment amount, and the total sum shall become immediately due and payable.

 d. Taxes, Levies and Assessments.

 The Concessionaire shall be responsible for, and shall pay before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments of any nature and kind whatsoever that at any time hereafter may be levied, assessed, or otherwise imposed upon the Concessionaire's activities, including its use or occupancy of the Telescope Sites. Such taxes may include but are not limited to taxes arising out of the activity or business conducted on park property such as the rental or sale of goods or services; taxes levied on Concessionaire's property, equipment, and improvements on park property; and taxes on the Concessionaire's interest in this Agreement and any leasehold interest deemed to have been created thereby under Chapter 82.29A RCW.

 e. Washington State Leasehold Excise Taxes.

 The Concessionaire shall remit to the Department with each Concession Fee payment the appropriate payment for Washington State Leasehold Excise Taxes. These Leasehold Excise Taxes payments shall be the current lawful percentage of the Concession Fee payments made to the Department and shall be listed separately on each Monthly Gross Receipt Report referenced in Sections A 4-a and A6-f. The Leasehold Excise Tax rate at the time this Agreement was executed was 12.84% of the Concession Fees paid to the Department.

 f. Monthly Gross Receipt Report.

 The Concessionaire shall complete and send to the Department a Monthly Gross Receipt Report in accordance with operating periods and due dates as specified herein. Concessionaire shall submit the Monthly Gross Receipt Report even for months in which Concessionaire earned no revenue because telescopes have been removed from their bases, and the reports for such months shall so state. The Monthly Gross Receipt Report will be on a form provided by the Department and will contain concession fee and Washington State Leasehold Excise Tax calculations. The report form may be modified from time to time by the Department.

 A-7 CONCESSIONAIRE OPERATION AND SERVICES.

 a. Provision of Equipment.

 The Concessionaire shall install and maintain sufficient telescopes to meet the public need as determined by the Superintendent. The Concessionaire shall maintain the telescopes in good working condition at no cost to the Department. All equipment needed to maintain and operate the Concession Telescope Sites shall remain the property of the Concessionaire.

 b. Painting Telescopes.

 The Department may require the Concessionaire to paint periodically, at no expense to the City, some or all telescopes according to a color schedule developed by the Department.

 c. Installation and Removal of Equipment.

 i. Installation of Equipment.

 All equipment shall be installed only in locations previously approved by the Department. All installations shall be done in an appropriate manner consistent with Department standards and so as to pose no threat of injury. The Concessionaire shall repair all mounting holes or other damage caused by the installation of the equipment to the Department's satisfaction.

 ii. Interim Installations and Removals.

 The Department may authorize the Concessionaire to either install telescopes for a portion of a month prior to the start of a season or allow existing telescopes to remain in place for a portion of a month after the end of a season. If the Department agrees to these seasonal installations, then the Department may also waive Concession Fees for these interim months. The Concessionaire, with the Superintendent's approval, may also remove telescopes that are not generating revenues or are not heavily used under certain circumstances, including low use periods during the off-peak season, such as the fall and winter months (from October through March), or unpopular park locations, throughout the Term of the Agreement.

 iii. Removal of Equipment at End of Term.

 At least ten (10) days prior to the expiration of the Term of this Agreement, the Concessionaire shall remove, at its sole expense, all telescope equipment, mounting bases, and other related personal property owned and placed in or on approved park locations by the Concessionaire. When removing its personal property the Concessionaire shall take due care not to damage the park location and shall repair any and all damage to the site as necessary to return the site to its condition immediately prior to the installation. In the event of earlier termination, the Concessionaire shall have ten (10) days from notice of termination to completely remove its property from the Telescope Sites. In no event shall the Concessionaire make any claim or demand upon the Department, nor shall the Department be liable, for any inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, or loss of business or any other damage suffered by the Concessionaire arising from such removal.

 PART B: GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 B-1. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.

 The Concessionaire shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States of America and the State of Washington; the Charter and ordinances of the City of Seattle, including but not limited to SMC Chapter 14.10, Fair Contracting Practices; and rules and regulations of each of them and with orders and directives of public officials implementing the same.

 B-2. NON-DISCRIMINATION.

 The Concessionaire agrees to comply with all state and local laws prohibiting discrimination with regard to creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical handicap.

 B-3 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT

 a. The Concessionaire shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, creed, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Concessionaire shall take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity, or the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Concessionaire shall post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices as provided by the City setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause. The Concessionaire will take affirmative action to ensure that all of its employees, agents, and subcontractors adhere to these provisions; provided nothing herein shall prevent an employer from giving preference in employment to members of his/her immediate family.

 b. The Concessionaire shall furnish to the Director of Executive Administration (or his/her designee), upon request and on such form as may be provided therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the Concessionaire in implementing the requirements of this section, and will permit access to the Concessionaire's records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data, and records requested by the Director of Executive Administration for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with the requirements of this section.

 c. If, upon investigation, the Director of Executive Administration finds probable cause to believe that the Concessionaire has failed to comply with any of the requirements of this section, the Concessionaire and the Superintendent of the Department of Parks & Recreation ("Superintendent") shall be so notified in writing. The Superintendent shall give the Concessionaire an opportunity to be heard, after ten-calendar days' notice. If the Superintendent concurs in the findings of the Director of Executive Administration, he/she may suspend or terminate the Agreement and evict the Concessionaire in accordance with law.

 d. Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be material breach of this Agreement.

 e. The foregoing provisions of this section shall be inserted in all subcontracts entered into under this Agreement.

 B-4 ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

 This Agreement contains all the terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties. All items incorporated by reference are attached. No other understandings, oral or otherwise, may modify the text or an attachment to this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 B-5 LICENSES.

 The Concessionaire shall provide a copy of its current City of Seattle business license to the Department prior to placing any equipment on park property. The Concessionaire shall keep all licenses current throughout the Term of this Agreement and shall supply copies of these licenses so that they are timely received by the Department at the address shown herein.

 B-6 BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION.

 The Concessionaire shall provide information requested by the Department about the Concessionaire's personnel for the purposes of a background investigation required by law for all Concessionaire staff and subcontractors working on or about the Telescope Sites.

 B-7 INSURANCE.

 Prior to the commencement of use of the Telescope Sites and pursuant to this Agreement, the Concessionaire shall secure and maintain, at no expense to the Department, policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below. Evidence of such insurance shall be delivered to the address shown in this Agreement. Said policy(ies) (1) shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager as to company, form, and coverage, and primary to all other insurance the City may secure, and (2) must protect the City from any and all claims and risks in connection with any activity performed by the Concessionaire by virtue of this Agreement or any use and occupancy of the Telescope Sites authorized by this Agreement.

 a. Commercial General Liability Insurance.

 A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an occurrence form, including all the usual coverages known as:

 1. Premises/Operations Liability,

 2. Products/Completed Operations,

 3. Personal/Advertising Injury,

 4. Contractual Liability,

 5. Owners and Contractors Protective Liability, and

 6. Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability.

 Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $1,000,000 each occurrence

 $1,000,000 annual aggregate

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager.

 Coverage and/or limits may be altered or increased as necessary, to reflect type of or exposure to risk. Said insurance policy(ies) and subsequent renewals must be maintained in full force and effect, at no expense to the City, throughout the entire period of the Agreement. The following documents and verbiage must be provided as evidence of insurance coverage:

 1. A copy of the policy's declaration pages showing the policy effective dates, limits of liability, and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 2. A copy of the endorsement naming the City of Seattle as an Additional Insured, showing the policy number and signed by an authorized representative on Form CG2026 (ISO) or comparable.

 3. A copy of the "Endorsements Form" to the policy that shows endorsements issued on the policy and which include any company- specific or manuscript endorsements.

 4. A copy of an endorsement stating that "The coverages provided by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced, or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City of Seattle."

 5. A copy of "Separation of Insureds" or "severability of interests" clause stating essentially that "except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought. "

 b. Business Automobile Liability Insurance.

 A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles. Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage- -

 $1,000,000 per person

 $1,000,000 per occurrence

 c. Worker's Compensation Insurance.

 A policy of Worker's Compensation to comply with all applicable workers' compensation, occupational disease, and occupational health and safety laws, statutes, and regulations to the full extent possible. Such workers' compensation and occupational disease requirements shall include coverage for all employees suffering bodily injury (including death) by accident or disease which arises out of or in the connection with the performance of this Agreement.

 All policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager as to company (must be rated A- VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the state of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker), form and coverage, and primary to all other insurance. The Concessionaire waives immunity as to the City only pursuant to Title 51 RCW as to claims brought hereunder by any of the Concessionaire's employees.

 B-8 INDEMNIFICATION

 The Concessionaire shall indemnify the City for and against any liability, claim, damage, cost, or expense (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs) arising from or relating to (i) Concessionaire's use and occupancy of the Telescope Sites and any portion thereof, or that of any officer, employee, agent, contractor, or volunteer, and (ii) any act or omission of the Concessionaire or any of its officers, employees, agents, contractors, or volunteers on or about the Telescope Sites or in the performance of this Agreement. If any suit or action is brought against the City, the Concessionaire, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at no cost and expense to the City and shall promptly satisfy any final judgment adverse to the City or to the City and the Concessionaire jointly; provided, that if the City determines that one or more principles of governmental or public law are involved, the City retains the right to participate in such action.

 The above liability shall not be diminished by the fact, if it be a fact, that any such liability, claim, damage, cost, or expense may have been, or may be alleged to have been, contributed to by the negligence of the City or its officers, employees, or agents; Provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall be construed as requiring the Concessionaire to indemnify the City against liability for damage arising out of bodily injury to a person or damage to property caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the City or any of its officers, employees, or agents.

 With regard to claims of indemnity, the Concessionaire waives immunity under Title 51 as to the City only, as to claims brought against the City by any of the Concessionaire's employees.

 The indemnification and defense obligations of the Concessionaire hereunder shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 B-9 ASSIGNMENT OF AGREEMENT PROHIBITED; BINDING AGREEMENT.

 The Concessionaire shall not assign or transfer this Agreement or otherwise convey any concession right or privilege granted hereunder or any part of the Telescope Sites unless the Superintendent's written approval is first obtained. Unless otherwise provided, the terms, covenants, and conditions in this Agreement shall apply to and bind any and all heirs, successors, executors, administrators, and assigns of the parties, all of whom shall be jointly and severally liable with the original contracting party.

 B-10 STANDARDS.

 The Concessionaire and its agents and employees shall render courteous service to the public with a goal of adding to the public use and enjoyment of the Telescope Sites. The Concessionaire shall operate and conduct the facilities on the Concession Telescope Sites in a businesslike manner, and will not permit any acts or conduct on the part of the Concessionaire's employees or agents that could be detrimental to the City's operation of the Telescope Sites.

 B-11 FAILURE TO REMOVE PROPERTY.

 If, after termination or expiration of this Agreement, the Concessionaire has not removed its property and fixtures within the time allowed, the Department may, but need not, remove Concessionaire's personal property and hold it for the Concessionaire, or place the same in storage, all at the Concessionaire's expense and risk, and Concessionaire shall reimburse the Department for any expense it incurs in connection with such removal and storage. The Department shall have the right to sell such stored property, without notice to Concessionaire, after it has been stored for a period of thirty (30) days or more, the proceeds of such sale to be applied first, to the cost of sale; second, to the payment of the charges for storage; and third, to the payment of any other amounts which may then be due from the Concessionaire to the Department; the balance, if any, shall be paid to the Concessionaire.

 B-12 LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES.

 The Concessionaire shall keep the Telescope Sites free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising or growing out of their use and occupancy. At the Department's request, the Concessionaire shall furnish the Department with written proof of payment of any item which would or might constitute the basis for such a lien on the Telescope Sites if not paid.

 B-13 WAIVER.

 No action other than a written document from the Department so stating shall constitute the Department's waiver of any breach or default by Concessionaire, nor shall such a document waive the Concessionaire's full compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge the Department may have of such breach, default, or non-compliance. The Department's failure to insist upon full performance or any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed as consent to or acceptance of such incomplete performance in the future.

 B-14 CAPTIONS.

 Captions are for convenient reference only, and do not limit or amplify the language of the paragraph(s) following.

 B-15 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.

 The Department's prior written approval is required for all signs and advertisements on park property.

 B-16 CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS.

 No amendment to this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties.

 B-17 SUPERINTENDENT'S APPROVALS.

 The Superintendent's granting of approval, consent, or permission or the taking of any other action pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement does not constitute the taking of any official action, including the granting of approval, by any other City department or official where such action is required by law, ordinance, resolution or rule or regulation, before Concessionaire may rightfully commence, maintain, or terminate any particular undertaking under this Agreement.

 B-18 CONDITION OF PREMISES.

 The Department and Concessionaire acknowledge that they have jointly examined the park locations approved for telescope service, and the Concessionaire accepts the locations in their present condition as of the date of commencement of this Agreement.

 B-19 SEVERABILITY.

 Should any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this Agreement or any provision of any document incorporated by reference be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement which can be given effect without the invalid provision, and to this end, the remainder shall continue in full force and effect.

 B-20 NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED.

 The Department shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate, or joint venturer of the Concessionaire or any party associated with the Concessionaire. The Concessionaire shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the Department or bind the Department in any manner.

 B-21 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.

 The Concessionaire shall promptly submit any information the City reasonably requests for evaluation and monitoring of this Agreement, and shall at all times during the Term of this Agreement and for three years thereafter, keep records available in King County, Washington, for audit and inspection by an authorized representative of the City. Specifically, the Concessionaire shall:

 a. maintain a separate set of books, records, documents, and other evidence reflecting all business activity conducted at the Telescope Sites, including counter readings and any other such data which in the sole opinion of the Superintendent sufficiently and properly reflect the receipt of funds by Concessionaire from all sources and applicable taxes collected and remitted. These records shall be subject to inspection by the City, with or without notice, and to review and audit by the Department, the City, the Office of the State Auditor, and other officials so authorized by law, rule, regulation, or contract. The Concessionaire shall ensure that this right of inspection, audit and copying is a condition of any agreement or other arrangement under which any person or entity other than Concessionaire is permitted to carry on a business activity in, on or from the Telescope Sites.

 b. upon the request of the City, the Concessionaire shall promptly provide, at Concessionaire's expense, all data determined by the City to be reasonably necessary to enable the City to fully comply with any and every requirement of the State of Washington or the United States of America for information or reports relating to this Agreement and to the Concessionaire's use of the Telescope Sites. Such data shall include, if required, a detailed breakdown of the Concessionaire's receipts and expenses.

 c. not commingle the funds or records of the Concession business permitted under this Agreement with records of any business conducted at a location outside the Telescope Sites.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Concession Agreement to be executed by their respective representative(s):

 CONCESSIONAIRE, GARY WARHFTIG D/B/A POINT OF VIEW PUBLIC TELESCOPES

 _____________________________________ ____________, 2004

 Gary Warhaftig, President Date

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

 ______________________________________ ____________, 2004

 Kenneth R. Bounds Date

 Superintendent, Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 EXHIBITS: A-APPROVED PARK SITES FOR TELESCOPES

 EXHIBIT A TO THE COIN OPERATED TELESCOPE CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 Initial Locations For Coin Operated Telescopes:

 Alki Beach

 Seacrest Park (Pier)

 Magnolia Bluff Viewpoint

 Discovery Park

 Myrtle Edwards park

 Waterfront Park

 The Seattle Aquarium

 Kerry Park

 Page 18

 Attachment 1 to DPR Telescopes Concession ORD

```
