

********

**Council Bill Number: 114989**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121575**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department declaring a portion of the Duwamish Substation Property surplus to the City's utility needs for a future south distribution site; approving its sale for $1,600,000 to Delta Marine Industries, Inc.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 7, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 13, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 13, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 16, 2004
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, CITY-LIGHT

**Fiscal Note:**114989

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department declaring a portion of the Duwamish Substation Property surplus to the City's utility needs for a future south distribution site; approving its sale for $1,600,000 to Delta Marine Industries, Inc.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle is the owner of certain real property located at 9600 West Marginal Place South, King County, WA; and

 WHEREAS, said property was purchased for a future south-end City Light distribution substation and said property purchase was divided into north and south portions by the reopening of Hamm Creek; and

 WHEREAS, the north portion of said property was leased in 1989 to Delta Marine Industries, Inc., and City Light has determined that said property, being a separate parcel no longer being contiguous with the south portion, is surplus to its future needs; and

 WHEREAS, Delta Marine Industries, Inc., has a continuous need for use of the said northern portion to expand its business and provide additional jobs; and

 WHEREAS, Delta Marine Industries, Inc., has offered to purchase said northern portion; and

 WHEREAS, the location, shape and size of said northern portion makes its unlikely that another suitable purchaser will be found; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 35.94.040 and after a public hearing, the following described real property in King County, Washington has been found to be no longer required for municipal utility service and is hereby declared surplus to the City's needs:

 Those portions of Tracts 1, 2, 3, and 4, Moore's Five Acre Tracts, as recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 28, Records of King County, Washington, lying northerly of the South line of Section 33, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., and lying southerly of the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road.

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of Vacated 17th Avenue South, as vacated under Vacation Ordinance 3428, lying northerly of the South line of Section 33, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., and lying southerly of the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road.

 EXCEPT that portion of said Tract 1 lying easterly and northerly of the following described line;

 Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of said Tract 1 with the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road;

 thence South 30 degrees 05' 44" W 249.82 feet;

 thence North 83 degrees 01' 10" E to the westerly margin of the Duwamish Waterway and the terminus of said line.

 Section 2. As requested by the Superintendent of City Light and recommended by the Mayor, the Superintendent of City Light, or his designee, is authorized to sell the property identified in Section 1, for a price of One Million Six Hundred Thousand and 00/100 dollars ($1,600,000.00), and in accordance with the terms of a Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.

 Section 3. Proceeds from the sale of the Property shall be deposited in the Light Fund.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit A: Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Charlie Hampton/ch

 SCL Delta Marine Duwamish Sale ORD

 July 20, 2004

 version #3

 ATTACHMENT 1

 TO AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 Legal Description

 Those portions of Tracts 1, 2, 3, and 4, Moore's Five Acre Tracts, as recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 28, Records of King County, Washington, lying northerly of the South line of Section 33, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., and lying southerly of the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road.

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of Vacated 17th Avenue South, as vacated under Vacation Ordinance 3428, lying northerly of the South line of Section 33, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., and lying southerly of the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road.

 EXCEPT that portion of said Tract 1 lying easterly and northerly of the following described line;

 Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of said Tract 1 with the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road;

 thence South 30 degrees 05' 44" W 249.82 feet;

 thence North 83 degrees 01' 10" E to the westerly margin of the Duwamish Waterway and the terminus of said line.

 Attachment 1 to Exhibit A

 ATTACHMENT 3

 TO AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 Quit Claim Deed

 THE GRANTOR, The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, for and in consideration of One Million Six Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars in hand paid, conveys and quit claims to Delta Marine Industries, Inc., all its right, title and interest in the following described real estate located in King County, Washington to wit:

 Those portions of Tracts 1, 2, 3, and 4, Moore's Five Acre Tracts, as recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 28, Records of King County, Washington, lying northerly of the South line of Section 33, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., and lying southerly of the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road.

 TOGETHER WITH that portion of Vacated 17th Avenue South, as vacated under Vacation Ordinance 3428, lying northerly of the South line of Section 33, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., and lying southerly of the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road.

 EXCEPT that portion of said Tract 1 lying easterly and northerly of the following described line;

 Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of said Tract 1 with the South margin of Hamm & Schmitz Road;

 thence South 30 degrees 05' 44" W 249.82 feet;

 thence North 83 degrees 01' 10" E to the westerly margin of the Duwamish Waterway and the terminus of said line.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The City of Seattle has caused this instrument to be executed by the Superintendent of City Light Department pursuant to Ordinance _________________. Dated this _____ day of ___________________, 2004.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 ________________________________

 Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 (ACKNOWLEGDEMENT)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that JORGE CARRASCO signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as Superintendent of City Light Department of The City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date: ______day of _______________, 2004

 _______________________________________

 _______________________________________

 Print Name

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at ______________________________

 My Commission Expires:___________________

 - 1 - Attachment 3 to Exhibit A

 EXHIBIT A

 AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE

 This Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Agreement") is made and entered into by and between Delta Marine Industries, Inc. ("Buyer"), and the City of Seattle, by and through its City Light Department, a municipal corporation ("Seller").

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set forth below, and for valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Seller and Buyer agree as follows:

 1. Property. Seller agrees to sell and convey to Buyer and Buyer agrees to purchase from Seller, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the real property located in Seattle, Washington, legally described on Attachment 1 and graphically shown in Attachment 2, both attached hereto and incorporated herein together with all improvements and other rights appurtenant to the real property ("Property").

 2. Earnest Money. Upon execution of this Agreement by both Seller and Buyer, Buyer shall execute and deliver to _____________________, as escrow agent for the closing of this transaction, One Hundred Sixty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($160,000.00) (the "Earnest Money") in part payment of the purchase price of the Property. The Earnest Money shall be held in escrow for the benefit of the parties pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. Interest will accrue on the Earnest Money for the benefit of the Buyer; provided, however, that if Buyer forfeits the Earnest Money to Seller pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, then all interest accrued on the Earnest Money will be paid to Seller.

 3. Purchase Price. The total purchase price for the Property is One Million Six Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($1,600,000.00) (the "Purchase Price"), of which the Earnest Money is a part. The Purchase Price, including the Earnest Money, will be paid to Seller in cash through escrow at Closing.

 4. Conditions Precedent.

 4.1 Conditions Precedent to Buyer's Obligations. The obligations of Buyer hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the Closing Date (as defined in Section 6.1), which conditions are for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived only in writing by Buyer, as follows:

 4.1.1 Compliance with Obligations. Seller shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Seller.

 4.1.2 Title and Survey Matters.

 (a) Title Binder. The Seller authorizes Buyer to apply for, within five (5) days after the execution and delivery of this Agreement, a preliminary commitment for a 1970-B ALTA owner's extended title insurance policy issued by a title company acceptable to Buyer describing the Property, showing all matters pertaining to the Property, listing Buyer as the prospective named insured and showing the Purchase Price as the policy amount. At the same time, the title company shall also deliver to Buyer true, correct and legible copies of all documents (the "Title Documents") referred to in such title commitment as conditions or exceptions to title to the Property (such title insurance policy commitment and the Title Documents are collectively referred to herein as the "Title Binder"). Buyer shall immediately deliver a copy of the Title Binder to Seller.

 (b) Title Objections. Buyer shall have until five (5) days after delivery to Buyer of the Title Binder, to approve or disapprove of the Title Documents, in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion by written notice to Seller. If Buyer fails to give the Seller written notice of its approval or disapproval, Buyer shall be deemed to have approved the Title Documents. If Buyer gives written notice of disapproval of any special exception, then Seller shall have 30 days to notify Buyer whether Seller shall remove such special exception. If Seller notifies Buyer that Seller will not remove such special exception, then Buyer may either terminate this Agreement by delivery of a notice thereof to the Seller and Escrow Agent, in which event all of the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall terminate, or close the purchase of the Property subject to such special exception, in which event such exception shall be deemed to be a "Permitted Exception" and shall be included as an exception in the Title Policy to be delivered to Buyer at Closing.

 4.1.3. Property Inspection. Buyer shall have inspected and approved, in its sole and absolute discretion, the physical condition of the Property (the "Property Inspection"), including, without limitation, structural studies and review of fire, safety, toxic and hazardous waste studies. If the Property Inspection indicates, in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion, that the Property is not suitable for Buyer's intended purposes, then Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by sending written notice to the Seller, and neither Buyer nor Seller shall have any further liability to the other under this Agreement. Buyer shall complete the Property Inspection and make such determination within fifteen (15) days from the execution of this Agreement.

 In connection with Buyer's Property Inspection, Seller shall make available for Buyer's inspection within ten (10) days of the execution of this Agreement complete copies of all plans, studies, specifications, surveys, soils reports, and hazardous waste investigations in the possession or control of Seattle City Light's Real Estate Services Section or its Environmental Management and Compliance Section.

 4.2 Conditions Precedent to Seller's Obligations. The obligations of Seller hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the Closing Date, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 4.2.1 Compliance with Obligations. Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material respects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Buyer.

 4.2.2 Approval. The Seattle City Council shall have approved this Agreement by ordinance and the ordinance shall be in full force and effect. If Seattle City Council approval has not been obtained on or before October 31, 2004, (this date may be mutually extended by Buyer and Seller), this Agreement shall terminate.

 5. Representations, Warranties and Covenants.

 5.1 Seller's Representations, Warranties and Covenants. As additional consideration for this sale, Seller represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive Closing and shall not be merged in any deed delivered by Seller to Buyer at Closing.

 5.1.1 Brokerage Fees. Seller has incurred no finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with the sale of the Property. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees.

 5.1.2 Leases. Delta Marine Industries holds a lease on the property.

 5.1.3 No Options. No person or entity has any right of first refusal or option to acquire any interest in the Property or any part thereof, and Seller has not sold or contracted to sell the Property or any portion thereof or interest therein other than as set forth herein, other than agreements that are now null and void and are of no further force or effect.

 5.1.4 Marketable Title. Seller owns a good and marketable title to the Property.

 5.2 Buyer's Representations, Warranties and Covenants. As additional consideration for this purchase, Buyer represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive closing.

 5.2.1 Brokerage Fees. Buyer represents, warrants, and covenants that Buyer has not employed any broker or finder in connection with the purchase of the Property. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees.

 5.2.2 Corporate Status and Authority. Buyer is a public corporation duly organized and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington and the ordinances of the City of Seattle. The execution and delivery on behalf of the Buyer of this Agreement and all documents contemplated hereunder, and the performance by Buyer of its obligations under this Agreement and all such documents, have been duly authorized by all necessary action and the individual executing this Agreement for Buyer has been duly authorized to do so. This Agreement constitutes the valid binding obligation of Buyer enforceable in accordance with its terms.

 6. Closing.

 6.1 Time for Closing. This sale will be closed in the office of an escrow agent selected by Buyer no later than thirty (30) days after approval of this transaction as set forth in Section 4.2.2. Buyer and Seller will deposit in escrow all instruments, documents and monies necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, "Closing" or "Date of Closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for disbursement to Seller in accordance with is Agreement.

 6.2 Prorations, Closing Costs. Taxes, assessments and drainage service fees for the current year will be prorated as of the Date of Closing. Buyer will pay the premium for its owner's title insurance policy, the cost of recording the quit claim deed, and one half of the escrow fee. Seller shall pay for costs of clearing title (if any) and one-half of the escrow fee. This transaction is exempt from real estate excise tax by virtue of WAC 458-61-420.

 6.3 Closing Documents. At Closing, Seller will execute and deliver to Buyer (a) a Quit Claim Deed in substantially the form of Attachment 3, conveying Seller's interest in the Property, (b) a real estate excise tax affidavit, and (c) the Lease referenced in Section 3.1.2.

 6.4 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession on closing.

 7. Default. If Seller's conditions precedent are satisfied or waived, Buyer gives timely notice of a date for Closing and tenders all funds and documents required for Closing, and Seller fails or refuses to close this transaction through no fault of Buyer, Buyer may seek specific performance of this Agreement or such other remedies as Buyer may elect. If title to the Property is insurable subject only to the Permitted Exceptions, Buyer's conditions precedent are satisfied or waived and if Buyer fails or refuses to close this transaction through no fault of Seller, then Seller may seek specific performance of this Agreement or such other remedies as Seller may elect.

 8. Notices. All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, telecopied, or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed received (a) upon receipt if hand delivered or telecopied, or (b) on the earlier of actual receipt or two (2) days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer at the address set forth below:

 Buyer: Ivor Jones, President

 Delta Marine Industries, Inc.

 1608 S. 96th St.

 Seattle, WA 98108

 Seller: Seattle City Light - Real Estate Services

 Seattle Municipal Tower

 700 Fifth Avenue

 Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 Attention: Charlie Hampton, Manager

 Telecopier: (206) 233-2760

 Notice of change of address shall be given by written notice in the manner detailed above.

 9. General Provisions. This is the entire agreement of Buyer and Seller with respect to the Property and supersedes all prior agreements between them, written or oral. This Agreement may be modified only in writing, signed by Buyer and Seller. Any waivers under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default will not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. This Agreement is for the benefit of, and binding upon, Buyer and Seller and their heirs, personal representative, successors and assigns. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.

 10. Release and Indemnity. Seller makes no representation or warranty as to the environmental condition of the Property. Buyer hereby irrevocably releases and waives any and all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs and expenses, including attorney, contractor and consultant fees, that Buyer has or may have against Seller with respect to the condition of the Property or arising from the presence or suspected presence of hazardous substances in, on, beneath, or emanating from the Property for the period subsequent to the commencement of Buyer's possession of the property pursuant to lease with the Seller, on September 1, 1989. Buyer shall also defend, indemnify and hold Seller, and its agents and employees, harmless from and against all damages, claims, suits, strict liabilities, judgments, costs and fees of any kind, relating to hazardous substances in, on, beneath or emanating from the Property or any improvements thereon for the period subsequent to the commencement of Buyer's possession of the Property, pursuant to lease with Seller, on September 1, 1989. Buyer's duties under the preceding sentence shall apply even if Buyer is not culpable, negligent or in violation of any law. Seller shall have the right to defend itself, and seek from Buyer recovery of such defense costs, if there are damages, claims, suits, strict liabilities or costs and Buyer does not accept unconditionally Seller's tender to Buyer of the duty to defend and indemnify. This indemnification of Seller by Buyer includes, without limitation, costs incurred in connection with any of the following:

 (a) any investigative or remedial action involving the presence of Hazardous Material on or about the Property or releases of Hazardous Material from the Property;

 (b) any allegations made by any governmental authority or environmental private citizen or entity or group of citizens or entities as to the violation of any Environmental Laws involving the Property or the operations conducted thereon; and/or

 (c) any injury or harm of any type to any person or entity or damage to any property arising out of, in connection with, or in any way relating to (i) the generation, manufacture, refinement, transportation, treatment, storage, recycling, disposal or release, or other handling of Hazardous Material on or about the Property or pursuant to the operations conducted thereon; and/or (ii) the violation of any Environmental Laws; and/or (iii) the contamination of the Property.

 "Hazardous Substance" is defined as follows:

 Any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material defined as such in (or for purposes of) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, the Washington Model Toxics Control Act, as amended, any so-called Superfund or Super lien law, or any other federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order or decree regulating, relating to or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material as now in effect, and any other chemical, material or substance, exposure to which is prohibited, limited or regulated by any federal, state or local government authority pursuant to any environmental health and safety or similar law, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, order or decree and which may or could pose a hazard to the health and safety of occupants or users of the Property or any part thereof.

 11. Environmental Issues. Buyer hereby assumes responsibility for all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs, and expenses, including attorney, contractor and consultant fees, arising from the presence or suspected presence of Hazardous Substances on the Property or migrating off the Property, unless (1) such Hazardous Substances were brought onto the Property by Seller prior to Buyer's period of occupancy as lessee, and (2) Seller, in bringing such Hazardous Substances onto the Property, failed to comply with all material Environmental Laws.

 12. Disclaimer. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT: (A) BUYER ACCEPTS THE PROPERTY "AS IS" AND "WHERE IS"; (B) SELLER MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AND SHALL NOT IN ANY WAY BE LIABLE FOR OR WITH RESPECT TO THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY OR ANY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES OR IMPROVEMENTS THEREON FOR BUYER'S INTENDED USE OR ANY USE WHATSOEVER; AND (C) BUYER ASSUMES THE RESPONSIBILITY AND RISKS OF THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY. BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT BUYER WILL BE RELYING ON ITS OWN INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY, EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SECTION 4.1.3.

 13. Binding Effect. The Agreement shall not be binding upon Buyer until executed by both Seller and Buyer.

 14. Attorneys' Fees and Costs of Suit. In the event that either party hereto brings an action or proceeding for a declaration of the rights of the parties under this Agreement, for injunctive relief, or for an alleged breach or default of, or any other action arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing party in such action shall be entitled to all costs and expenses incurred in such action, including attorneys' fees, paralegal fees and expert fees, in addition to any other damages or relief awarded, regardless of whether such action proceeds to final judgment. If the Seller is the prevailing party and is represented by the City Attorney's Office, the hourly rate to be paid by Buyer for attorney and paralegal time shall be the hourly rate charged by attorneys and paralegals of similar experience in downtown Seattle law firms.

 Signed in duplicate original.

 DELTA MARINE INDUSTRIES, INC. THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: ______________________________ By: ______________________________

 Ivor Jones, President Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 Dated: ____________________ Dated: ____________________

 Attachment 1: Legal Description

 Attachment 2: Map

 Attachment 3: Quit Claim Deed

 - 1 - Exhibit A to Ordinance

```
