

********

**Council Bill Number: 114993**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121579**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with The Women's Basketball Club of Seattle, LLC for the use of KeyArena for Professional Women's Basketball.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 7, 2004
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 13, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 13, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Seattle Storm KeyArena Lease

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 16, 2004
   
**Committee:** Parks, Neighborhoods and Education
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, COLISEUM, BASKETBALL, SEATTLE-CENTER

**Fiscal Note:**114993

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with The Women's Basketball Club of Seattle, LLC for the use of KeyArena for Professional Women's Basketball.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director or her designee is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with The Women's Basketball Club of Seattle, LLC, substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "FACILITY USE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND THE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CLUB OF SEATTLE, LLC FOR THE USE OF KEYARENA FOR PROFESSIONAL WOMEN'S BASKETBALL" (Attachment 1) regarding the use of KeyArena for the playing of Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) games for the 2004 through 2006 seasons.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: FACILITY USE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND THE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CLUB OF SEATTLE, LLC FOR THE USE OF KEYARENA FOR PROFESSIONAL WOMEN'S BASKETBALL

 Exhibits to Attachment 1:

 Exhibit 1 - Premises Licensed for Use on Home Game Dates

 Exhibit 2 - Projected Per Game WNBA Expenses

 Exhibit 3 - Personnel Rates Addendum

 Exhibit 4 - Equipment and Services Addendum

 Exhibit 5 - Insurance Addendum

 Exhibit 6 - Agreement between The Women's Basketball Club of Seattle, LLC and The City of Seattle Concerning the Use of KeyArena Over Labor Day Weekend

 Exhibit 7 -- Broadcast Rights Waiver for Bumbershoot

 Ned Dunn/nd

 Storm Ordinance

 July 5, 2004

 version #1

 Attachment 1

 FACILITY USE AGREEMENT BETWEEN

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND

 THE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CLUB OF SEATTLE, LLC

 FOR THE USE OF KEY ARENA

 FOR PROFESSIONAL WOMEN'S BASKETBALL

 AGREEMENT made and entered into this ____ day of ________,2004, by and between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("CITY"), a Washington municipal corporation, acting by through its Seattle Center Director ("Director"), and THE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CLUB OF SEATTLE, LLC ("Licensee"), a Washington limited liability company.

 I. DEFINITIONS

 All words in this Agreement bearing initial capitals, other than proper nouns, section headings or words required to be capitalized for proper usage, are defined terms and shall have the meanings specifically assigned to them in the following subsections and elsewhere in this Agreement. Unless otherwise expressly provided, use of the singular includes the plural and vice versa.

 A. Approval.

 "Approval" means the prior written consent of a party hereto or a designated representative thereof.

 B. Gross Ticket Receipts.

 "Gross Ticket Receipts" means the total income Licensee receives from the sale of tickets for admission to any Home Game played at KeyArena pursuant to this Agreement, whether for cash, barter, exchange or credit or any other method; mail or telephone orders for tickets received or filled on or from the Premises; all deposits not refunded to purchasers; and orders for tickets taken although filled elsewhere. "Gross Ticket Receipts" does not include money refunded to, and not merely credited to the account of customers who return or do not accept services sold by or for Licensee; the Washington State Sales Tax; and any other tax imposed by any government agency directly on admission to a Home Game.

 C. Home Game.

 "Home Game" means any professional women's basketball game for which the

 Seattle Franchise is the host team.

 D. KeyArena.

 "KeyArena" means the multi-purpose, public performance facility located at Seattle Center, together with all City-owned equipment and other appurtenances incorporated therein.

 E. Premises.

 "Premises" mean those portions of the KeyArena that are licensed and made available to Licensee for its use and occupancy under Subsection VI.A. of this Agreement.

 F. Seattle Franchise.

 "Seattle Franchise" means the WNBA team owned or operated by Licensee.

 G. WNBA.

 "WNBA" means the Women's National Basketball Association and its successor or successors, the professional women's basketball league or organization of which the Seattle Franchise is a member.

 I. H. Scheduling Window.

 The window of time each year during this Agreement in which the City is required to deliver dates according to the terms of this Agreement.

 II. USE

 Subject to the terms and conditions herein, the City hereby grants to Licensee the right to occupy and use the Premises for the presentation and broadcasting of Seattle Franchise Home Games; for Seattle Franchise practice sessions; and for two additional events, annually, that shall be sponsored by a non-profit organization or to which the general public shall be admitted free of charge. The Director reserves the right to reschedule such two additional events upon not less than thirty (30) days' notice to Licensee in order to book a commercial event at the KeyArena. Licensee shall promptly pay Seattle Center for all costs associated with the presentation of any additional events. The City agrees that Licensee shall be the sole person or entity entitled to use and occupy the Premises for the presentation of professional women's basketball games for the duration of this Agreement.

 The City also hereby grants Licensee the exclusive right to directly, or indirectly through one or more third parties, sell WNBA and National Basketball Association ("NBA") novelties at all Seattle Franchise Home Games in the specific location(s)that the Director designates from time to time, without additional compensation being payable to the City. For purposes of this Agreement, WNBA and NBA novelties means merchandise, goods, and publications bearing the symbol, mark or name of the WNBA, the Seattle Franchise or any other WNBA or NBA team or association, including team pictures or pictures of players or other team personnel, only. Licensee may engage in the sale of non-WNBA novelties with the Director's Approval.

 III. LICENSEE'S OBLIGATION TO USE KEYARENA

 Except as otherwise agreed to by both parties, in writing, for the duration of this Agreement, Licensee shall schedule and ensure that the Seattle Franchise plays at least three-fourth's (3/4's) of its regular season Home Game schedule in KeyArena and all of any post- season Home Games in the KeyArena; provided, however, that if the City does not specifically guarantee certain dates, outside of the scheduling window, for games acceptable to the WNBA, then Licensee may, in its sole discretion, contract with alternative venues for such games.

 IV. TERM OF AGREEMENT

 This Agreement shall commence May 1, 2004, and expire November 30 2006, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof. Each party must notify the other in writing by November 30 of each year during the term of this Agreement (November 30, 2004 and November 30, 2005) of its decision to continue with this Agreement for the following year. Either party may decide after the first year under this agreement or after the second year under this agreement on or before November 30 of each year to terminate this Agreement effective November 30 for the remainder of the Agreement. If and once a written commitment is sent to continue this Agreement for either the second or third year, the Agreement shall be in full force and effect for the entire year.

 V. SCHEDULING OF SEATTLE FRANCHISE HOME GAMES AND PRACTICES

 A. WNBA Scheduling Window

 Schedule requests for the WNBA season including pre-season, regular season and post-season (playoff) games will only be Approved for games that fall between the third Thursday in May through the second weekend in September of any year under this Agreement. This is referred to as the "Scheduling Window". If the WNBA season moves outside of this Scheduling Window, the City shall not be required to deliver dates to the Licensee for games, but will make efforts to accommodate Licensee where possible and practical relative to existing scheduling commitments, potential event bookings and business needs, at the City's discretion.

 B. Selection of Regular Season Home Game Dates.

 1. By October 1 of the year immediately preceding each WNBA season that is subject to this Agreement, the Director shall provide Licensee with a list of a minimum of twenty-eight (28) potential "regular season" Home Game dates occurring between the third Thursday in May and the last Monday in August. The list of regular season Home Game dates shall include six (6) Fridays, two (2) Mondays, and six (6) Saturdays, with no more than four (4) of the Fridays and Saturdays consecutive with each other.

 2. If the WNBA increases the number of regular season games, then the number of potential available dates shall be increased to accommodate such expansion as long as the increased regular season games fall within the Scheduling Window.

 3. By December 1 of each year for the following season or immediately after the WNBA finalizes the schedule for the relevant season, whichever occurs later, Licensee shall notify the Director, in writing, of those dates on the Director's list on which it wishes to license the KeyArena for a regular season Home Game. Such dates shall be known as "Confirmed Dates". Any dates not selected by Licensee as Confirmed Dates shall be deemed relinquished and shall be available for use by other facility licensees.

 C. Selection of Pre-Season Home Game Dates.

 At any time, Licensee may ask the Director to hold potential dates for pre-season Home Games. As soon as reasonably practicable after the receipt of such request, the Director shall determine whether any of the requested dates is being held for or is contractually committed for use by another licensee. If no conflict exists with respect to any requested date within the Scheduling Window, the Director shall advise Licensee of the availability of the KeyArena on such date and shall hold the same for Licensee's use until Licensee confirms or releases each such date. Dates requested outside of the Scheduling Window will be treated as described in Section V.A. At the earliest possible opportunity, but not less than sixty (60) days prior to each potential pre-season Home Game date, Licensee shall confirm its intention to use the KeyArena for such date(s). Any dates not so confirmed shall be deemed released and available for licensing by third parties. Prior to such confirmation, the Director shall notify Licensee of any third- party requests for use of KeyArena for any date being held for Licensee. Licensee shall have seventy-two (72) hours from the time of the notification to confirm or release the date.

 II. D. Scheduling of Playoff and Championship Home Game Dates.

 Immediately after the WNBA advises Licensee of the scheduling of playoff games or championship Home Games, Licensee shall notify the Director of all additional dates that have been tentatively scheduled or which the WNBA or Licensee desire for such games occurring during the current season. Provided such dates are within the Scheduling Window and that the KeyArena has not been contractually committed to a third party, the Director shall schedule and reserve the KeyArena for Licensee's use for such designated dates within the Scheduling Window. Dates requested outside of the Scheduling Window will be treated as described in Section V.A. Licensee shall have the right to schedule and use the KeyArena for such playoff or championship games for Labor Day Weekend (defined as Friday through Monday of Labor Day Weekend) only in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in Exhibit 6. At the earliest possible opportunity, Licensee shall confirm its intention to use the KeyArena for any designated date(s). Upon confirmation or, in the absence of same, upon Licensee's use of KeyArena for a post-regular season game, each such date shall become a Confirmed Date hereunder. The parties acknowledge that a list of potential post-season Home Game dates has been provided to Licensee for the 2004 season.

 E. Director's Endorsement.

 The Director shall prepare and issue a written "use date endorsement notice" to Licensee for each Confirmed Date.

 F. Use of KeyArena for Seattle Franchise Practice Sessions.

 Licensee may request the use of some or all of the KeyArena basketball floor for a Seattle Franchise practice session on days when no Home Game is scheduled provided the request is made no more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date of the proposed practice. Such requests shall be granted if: (i) no other user or event has been scheduled to use the portions of the KeyArena necessary for the practicing of professional basketball on such day; (ii) the City does not need to do maintenance or repair work on the KeyArena that would be interfered with by such use or that would interfere with such use; and (iii) the KeyArena does not need to be prepared in any respect on such day for any user or event scheduled for any subsequent day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall have the right to cancel a scheduled practice session at any time in order to schedule a revenue-generating activity in the KeyArena. In approving a request for a practice session, the Director may impose reasonable restrictions or conditions on Licensee's use and occupancy of the Premises. Licensee shall pay all costs incurred by the City in making the Premises available for any practice session, including ancillary costs, e.g., for security personnel.

 G. Use of KeyArena for Fan-Generating Activity.

 Licensee may request the use of some or all of KeyArena including the basketball floor for two (2) Seattle Franchise fan- generation/appreciation events on days when no Home Game is scheduled provided the request is made at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the proposed event and the City will confirm the event no more than 45 days prior to the event. Such an event must be for the purpose of increasing fan awareness and generating ticket sales for the Seattle Franchise and the public must be admitted free of charge . Commercial events not directly related to this purpose or for-profit events are expressly prohibited. Requests for a fan- generating/appreciation event shall be granted only if: (i) no other user or event has been scheduled to use the portions of the KeyArena necessary for the fan-generating/appreciation event; (ii) the City does not need to do maintenance or repair work on the KeyArena that would be interfered with by such use or that would interfere with such use; and (iii) the KeyArena does not need to be prepared in any respect on such day for any user or event scheduled for any subsequent day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall have the right to cancel a scheduled fan-generating/appreciation event at any time before thirty- (30) day's prior in order to schedule a revenue- generating activity in the KeyArena. In approving a request for a fan- generating/appreciation event, the Director may impose reasonable restrictions or conditions on Licensee's use and occupancy of the Premises. Licensee shall pay all costs incurred by the City in making the Premises available for any fan-generating/appreciation event, including building conversion costs and ancillary costs, e.g., for security personnel and laborers.

 VI. PREMISES AVAILABLE FOR USE BY LICENSEE

 A. Premises-Licensed for Use by Licensee.

 1. Premises Licensed for Use on Home Game Dates.

 On each Home Game date, Licensee shall have the right to use and to authorize others to use for the presentation and broadcasting of Seattle Franchise Home Games, those portions of the KeyArena that are reasonably necessary for the playing, exhibition, and viewing of, and attendance at, a professional basketball event. Such portions include the audience seating areas (other than suites); the basketball floor and scoreboard, and the areas listed on Exhibit 1 hereto.

 On each Home Game date, Licensee shall also be permitted to use KeyArena box office spaces not reserved for exclusive use by third parties, for ticket selling. Licensee shall not make any alterations to existing ticketing equipment without the Director's Approval and any such changes as may be approved by the Director shall be implemented at Licensee's sole cost and expense.

 2. Permitted Hours of Use.

 The Premises shall be available to Licensee during the following periods:

 a) On any Home Game day on which the KeyArena does not have to be converted to or from a non-basketball use, Licensee shall be permitted to the Premises beginning at 9:00 a.m. and ending at 11:59 p.m. of that same day.

 b) On any Home Game day on which the KeyArena must be converted on that same day to a basketball use from a different use. Licensee shall be permitted to use the Premises beginning two (2) hours before the starting time of the Home Game or practice scheduled on that day or such earlier time on that same day as the Director shall specify; provided, that for Home Games, the general public shall not be admitted to the KeyArena until one and one-half

 (1 1/2) hours before the starting time for such Home Game; and provided, further, that on such days, no practice session shall commence prior to 11:00 a.m.

 c) On any Home Game day on which the KeyArena must be converted on that same day from a basketball use to a different use, Licensee shall be permitted to use the Premises until one (1) hour after any scheduled Home Game or practice session, or such later time on that same day as the Director shall specify; provided, that any practice session scheduled for such a day shall conclude by 9:00 p.m.

 d) Licensee shall ensure that no Home Game commences before 12:00 p.m.

 B. Limited Use of Common Areas.

 Licensee is hereby granted the right to use the common areas of the KeyArena (including but not limited to all lobby, entry, vestibule, balcony, mezzanine, corridor, concourse, passage, ramp, stair, landing, vomitory, elevator and public restroom areas) in common with authorized third parties to access those areas of the KeyArena that have been specifically licensed for use by it under this Agreement. Neither Licensee nor any of its officers, employees, invitees, contractors or any of their subcontractors shall use any portion of Seattle Center not specifically granted to Licensee for its use and occupancy hereunder for any purpose, without the Director's Approval.

 C. Public Address Facilities.

 For each Seattle Franchise Home Game the City shall provide Licensee with exclusive access to, and control of, the public address facilities in the KeyArena, which right shall not permit Licensee to use or allow others to use such public address facilities for any political purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City reserves the right to use the public address facilities at all times for general safety, health, and legal announcements including but not limited to those for emergency or crowd control purposes.

 VII. TICKET ADMINISTRATION

 A. ADA

 The parties agree that the City will no longer automatically rope off or vacate rows of seats in front of all wheelchair sections for Licensee games. Licensee agrees to conduct its ticket sales according to the method that Seattle Center uses in KeyArena for concerts. This includes holding one percent (to be adjusted with any changes in the applicable Federal or State ADA laws) of remaining sellable capacity up to game time for ADA seating, in all pricing levels, leaving vacant two rows of seats in front of the following ADA sections:

 103/104/106/107/108/110/111/117/118/120/121/122/124/125/202/203/204/20 5/206/208/209/210/211/212/216/217/218/219/220/222/223/224/225/226, and leaving vacant one row of seats vacated in front of ADA sections 114/127, when being used as wheelchair/disabled accessible seating sections.

 The City reserves the right to return to the previous practice of automatically vacating and roping off rows of seats in front of designated ADA sections if it determines that Licensee is unable to adequately manage ticket sales in compliance with the practice outlined in this ADA section. The City will take this action only after advising Licensee that its ticket sale management has not been adequate to handle wheelchair/disabled patron requests and after giving Licensee the opportunity to correct its ticket sale management.

 B. Licensee's Responsibilities.

 Other than what is contained in paragraph VII.A, Licensor shall have no rights, authority or responsibility with respect to the sale of tickets to Seattle Franchise Home Games, including but not limited to the printing and distribution of tickets; the undertaking and conducting of group, season, and special package sales; the establishing of any and all prices for basic admission to Licensee's events and activities at Seattle Center and any service charge(s) thereon; the collecting and counting of receipts; and accounting.

 C. Admissions.

 Licensee shall take reasonable steps to ensure that no person with a primary purpose of viewing a Seattle Franchise Home Game is admitted to any such Home Game at the KeyArena without first presenting an admission ticket.

 D. Box Office Statement Provided to Director.

 At the end of each Home Game, Licensee shall deliver to the Director a box office statement prepared in connection therewith, showing for each such game the number of tickets distributed, by price category, and certified as to accuracy by an authorized employee of agent of Licensee.

 VIII. RECOGNITION OF SEATTLE CENTER LOCATION

 Licensee, to the extent practicable, shall ensure that the words "KeyArena at Seattle Center" appear in or on all tickets and advertising material (including but not limited to brochures, signs, and logos) imprinted, published or otherwise produced by or on behalf of Licensee that makes reference to the Seattle Franchise.

 IX. SERVICES AND FACILITIES

 A. Services and Facilities to be Provided by City for Seattle Franchise

 Home Games.

 In consideration of the License Fee required by Subsection XI of this Agreement, the City shall provide Licensee with the following services for each Home Game basketball presentation: Seattle Center Event Service Representative(s); set-up and removal of basketball game- associated equipment; peer security for bag checking only; a public first-aid facility in the KeyArena; KeyArena admissions, stage and sound personnel; building technical staff and security; and cleaning staff. The Director shall determine the necessary level of service after consultation with Licensee; provided that for the year 2004, the parties agree that the services shall be as stated on Exhibit 2. The City and Licensee shall endeavor to jointly develop operating standards for Home Games in an effort to provide high levels of customer service while also controlling operational cost; however, in the event of any disagreement pertaining to operational issues, the decision of the Seattle Center Director shall be final.

 B. Services and Facilities to be Provided by Licensee.

 The License Fee does not include and Licensee shall provide at its sole expense or pay the costs of the following, together with any other personnel or services not specifically enumerated in Subsection IX.A: scoreboard operators; staff required for television and radio broadcasts; Seattle Center staff required for installation and/or removal of the upper bowl vertical curtain system; scorers; paramedics; ticket sellers; and game officials. Licensee shall also secure and pay for whatever number of off-duty Seattle Police Department law enforcement officers as License determines are necessary for player, coach, bench or courtside security. Licensee shall not engage any other public or private security personnel for the Premises without the Director's Approval.

 C. Pre-, Mid- and Post-Home Game Activities.

 The City is not obligated under this Agreement to provide at any pre-, mid-, or post-Home Game activity at KeyArena any services beyond those reasonably required for the actual playing of a basketball game and the support needed to reasonably accommodate spectators in watching that game . Licensee may schedule such activities upon reasonable prior notice to the Director provided they occur within the hours of Licensee's authorized occupancy of KeyArena, as described in Subsection VI.A.2, above. Licensee shall pay all costs the City incurs for personnel, services, and equipment that the Director determines is necessary to facilitate each such activity, except that the City shall provide labor and available in-house equipment necessary to help the Licensee distribute promotional items (e.g. Bobble Heads, T-Shirt) to fans prior to the game. The City shall invoice Licensee for costs incurred in connection with such activities at the rates shown in the then-current Personnel Rates Addendum and Equipment and Services Addendum, attached hereto as Exhibits 3 and 4, any successor document(s) or, in the absence of such a document, for actual costs. Payment shall be made as provided in Subsection XII.B. of this Agreement. Examples of this include, but are not limited to, pre/post- game events, concerts or exterior event set-ups. Labor and rent will be charged for equipment for such activities.

 D. Seat Assignment Activities.

 Licensee shall have the right to admit season ticket-holders into the KeyArena for the purpose of assigning seat locations at a time mutually agreeable to the parties. Licensee may undertake such seat assignment activities only with the Director's Approval. If the Director approves such activity, the City shall retain the right, without liability of any kind, to reschedule or cancel any such event or activity in order to license the Premises for a commercial event. In addition, Licensee shall not be permitted to reserve the Premises for such purposes more than thirty (30) days prior to the proposed event date. Licensee shall pay any and all expenses incurred by the City in making the facility available for such purpose upon receipt of an invoice therefore.

 E. Utilities.

 The License Fee shall include electricity, water, ventilation, sewer and solid waste removal reasonably required for Licensee's use of the KeyArena as contemplated herein. For the 2004 season, Licensee shall secure, at no expense to the City and with the Director's Approval, such telephone and data service as Licensee desires to and from the KeyArena. Starting with the 2005 season, Licensee shall use the services of the City's in-house telephone and data provider (currently, CCPI) for telephone and data services in conjunction with the playing of Seattle Franchise games, including phone and data services for the media and team sponsors, so long as the provider can deliver services at competitive prices. Phone and data services that the Basketball Club of Seattle provides directly to the Seattle Franchise exclusively for its business use and using Basketball Club of Seattle equipment already available at KeyArena are excluded from the operation of the foregoing provision. The City shall repair any malfunction or failure of any utility service provided by the Seattle Center Department but shall not be liable for any interruption or impairment of Licensee's use, enjoyment and occupancy of the KeyArena resulting from any such utility system malfunction or failure to repair.

 F. Basketball Floor.

 The City will supply a basketball floor, which Licensee may utilize. All costs associated with painting, re-painting, finishing, re- finishing, preparing and adding logos to the floor, as well as any changes needed to accommodate the accompanying baskets, courtside seating, etc., for WNBA purposes shall be the sole responsibility of Licensee. Licensee shall ensure that any floor that is utilized contains the words "KeyArena at Seattle Center" in a prominent and television-viewable location unless such display is expressly prohibited by the WNBA.

 X. CONCESSION REVENUE

 The City confirms that Licensee's rights to engage in concession sales of food at the KeyArena are governed by a separate agreement between the City and The Basketball Club of Seattle. So long as Licensee remains the owner of the Seattle Franchise, Licensee shall have the right to retain all revenue from KeyArena concession sales at Seattle Franchise Home Games.

 XI. CONSIDERATION DUE TO CITY FROM LICENSEE

 A. License Fee.

 Licensee shall pay the City the License Fee in 2004 set forth below for each Home Game played at the KeyArena:

 Attendance License Fee

 Lower Bowl Only $ 13,250

 Lower and Upper Bowl $ 15,250

 1. The above fees shall be adjusted annually prior to each season by the then-current percentage amount of the cost of living adjustment that the City pays to its represented employees. For example only, if the City raises labor compensation rates by 2.4% from the 2004 to 2005 calendar year, the above License Fee will increase by 2.4%, rounded up to the nearest dollar, in the 2005 season. There will be no reductions in Licensee Fees during the term of this Agreement without a reduction in service levels, which must be agreed to in writing by both parties to take effect.

 2. The License Fee described in this Subsection XI.A., above, is designed to cover the City's costs of providing the services and facilities described in Subsection IX.A. If the actual costs of said services exceed the amounts stated in Subsection XI.A. due to wage or cost of living increases, Licensee shall remit the additional amount to the City at the time of the annual reconciliation described in Subsection XII.C. If the actual costs are less than those stated in Subsection XI.A, sixty percent (60%) of the savings will be rebated to Licensee at the time of reconciliation.

 B. Percentage Fee.

 In addition to the License Fee, if Gross Ticket Receipts of all pre-, regular or post-season games in any given season exceed $3,200,000, the City shall receive ten percent (10%) of all Gross Ticket Receipts in excess of that amount. As an example, if Gross Ticket Receipts for the 2004 season total $3,450,000, the City shall be entitled to an additional fee of ten percent (10%) of $250,000, or $25,000, for that season.

 C. Cancellation Fee.

 Licensee shall pay the City a Cancellation Fee of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) for each confirmed pre- or regular season Home Game it cancels with less than sixty (60) days' notice to the City. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Cancellation Fee shall be due if the cancellation results from causes beyond the reasonable control of Licensee or the WNBA or any successor organization. If such a Home Game is cancelled on less than sixty (60) days' notice but the City is able to provide a replacement event at KeyArena for such cancelled Home Game date, the Cancellation Fee shall be reduced by the amount of the net license fee actually received by the City from such replacement event, but in no event shall Licensee's credit exceed $5,000.

 XII. Reporting, Invoicing and Timing of Payments.

 Licensee shall deliver to the City, in care of the Seattle Center Accounting Office, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington 98109, or such other address as the Director may specify from time to time, all sums due the City hereunder, together with an accounting worksheet in a form subject to the Director's Approval, that separately identifies the amount of each such payment and the source thereof by reference to the pertinent subsection of this Agreement requiring such payment.

 A. Payments Due Monthly Without Invoice.

 On or before the fifth (5th) day of each month during the Term hereof, Licensee shall remit the aggregate amount of the KeyArena fixed License Fees specified in Subsection XI above, that have become due and payable as a consequence of Licensee's use of KeyArena during the preceding calendar month.

 B. Payments Due After Invoice.

 Licensee shall pay all other amounts due the City pursuant to this Agreement within 20 days following receipt of the City's invoice therefore.

 C. Annual Reconciliation.

 On or before October 15 of each year under this Agreement, the Director shall provide Licensee with a summary sheet reflecting the actual total costs to the City for presenting a Seattle Franchise Home Game, and Licensee shall provide the City with the report of Gross Ticket Receipts described in Subsection XII.D., below. Thereafter, the Director shall perform a reconciliation, taking into consideration the actual costs to the City, of Seattle Franchise Home Games during that calendar year; the Gross Ticket Receipts; any cancellation fees due; and any outstanding miscellaneous charges otherwise due upon presentation of any invoice. The City shall pay Licensee any amount due in the form of a credit toward payments due for the succeeding calendar year hereunder, or for the last year of the Agreement, in cash, within thirty (30) days of, the reconciliation. Licensee shall pay the City any undisputed amounts within the same thirty- (30) day period.

 D. Licensee's Report of Revenues.

 On or before October 15 of each year under this Agreement, Licensee shall deliver to the Director a written report detailing the amount of Gross Ticket Receipts generated by Licensee from the sale of Seattle Franchise Home Game admission tickets in that calendar year. Said reports shall show revenues on both an aggregate and a per-Home Game basis.

 E. Delinquencies, Invoicing Service Charge & Interest.

 All payments shall be delinquent if not paid on the date due. The amount of each month's delinquency shall be subject to an invoicing service charge of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) and shall also bear interest at a rate of one percent (1%) per month from the date of the delinquency until it is paid. Payments made after a delinquency shall be applied first to accrued interest and then to the principle sum due.

 F. Books and Records; Audit.

 1. Obligation to Keep Records.

 a. Licensee's Obligation. Licensee shall keep true, accurate, complete and auditable records and receipts relating to revenues received by it pursuant to the activities Licensee is authorized to perform under this Agreement. Such records shall be separate from the records pertaining to other business activities of Licensee.

 b. City's Obligation. The City shall keep true, accurate, complete and auditable records and receipts relating to costs incurred in providing any service or performing any work for which compensation or reimbursement is sought hereunder. Such records shall be separate from the records pertaining to other business activities of Licensor.

 c. Records Retention. All records to be kept pursuant to this Agreement shall be retained in King County, Washington, for at least thirty-six (36) months after the close of the fiscal year in which they were generated or issued.

 2. City Audits.

 Licensee shall permit the State Auditor or the City, from time to time during regular City working hours, as the State Auditor, Director or City Auditor deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, all books and records of Licensee pertaining to the activities permitted hereunder, including but not limited to the numbers of complimentary tickets and credentials issued for admission to any KeyArena Home Game or special event and the amount of Gross Ticket Receipts received or receivable therefrom. Licensee shall supply the State Auditor or City with, or shall permit the State Auditor or the City to make, copies of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon the State Auditor's or the City's request.

 3. Licensee's Audits.

 The City shall permit Licensee's auditor, from time to time during regular City working hours, as Licensee's auditor reasonably deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, those Seattle Center books and records that pertain to revenues received and costs incurred and billed to Licensee pursuant to this Agreement. The City shall supply Licensee's auditor or Licensee with, or shall permit Licensee's auditor or Licensee to make, copies of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon Licensee's auditor's or Licensee's request.

 4. Over- & Underpayments.

 Each party shall notify the other Licensee of the amount of any overpayment or underpayment found during any audit. Any overpayments shall be applied, first, as a credit against any fees and charges subsequently due to the party giving notice or, if none, refunded.

 XIII. PARKING

 A. South KeyArena Parking Lot.

 Licensee, at no additional cost, shall be entitled to full use of the South KeyArena Parking Lot for parking for Licensee's players, staff and other special designees for parking on Home Game dates and when the driver or a passenger of the vehicle to be parked is on official business for Licensee with exceptions noted and agreed to in Exhibit 6 to accommodate the potential for shared use of the South KeyArena Parking Lot during Labor Day Weekend.

 B. First Avenue North Parking Garage.

 The Director shall issue to Licensee up to 371 permits authorizing parking by Licensee's players, staff and ticket holders in the City's First Avenue North Parking Garage on Home Game dates, only. Licensee shall be billed for each such permit at a rate calculated by multiplying the prevailing Seattle Center public parking rate by the number of Home Games. Licensee shall use its best efforts to ensure that no such parking permit is resold at more than the Seattle Center prevailing rate. Licensee shall be entitled to use 80 parking stalls per game, in the 1st Ave. N. Garage at no additional cost in consideration for promoting Seattle Center Parking at Storm games in accordance with an annual marketing plan agreed to by both parties.

 XIV. NO NUISANCES OR OBJECTIONABLE ACTIVITY

 Licensee shall not permit any excessive or objectionable noise, odor, dust, vibration, or similar substance or condition to remain on or be emitted from the Premises and shall not create any nuisance in or adjacent to the Premises and the City shall not knowingly permit or create the same. Neither the City, in or about the licensed Premises on any Home Game date, nor Licensee shall do anything on the Premises that will create a danger to life or limb, except such dangers as are the usual and necessary result of ball playing or practicing.

 XV. IMPROVEMENTS, ADDITIONS, AND ALTERATIONS TO PREMISES BY OR FOR LICENSEE

 A. Vertical Curtain System.

 The cost of any required alterations to the Vertical Curtain System to accommodate changes in Licensee requirements is the responsibility of the Licensee. The Licensee shall pay all labor costs associated with the lowering and/or raising or the Vertical Curtain for its games. The City has the unrestricted right to use the Vertical Curtain System and permit others to use this system at non-WNBA events at no cost.

 B. No Representation Created by Approval.

 The Director's Approval of Licensee's vertical curtain system design shall not constitute an opinion or representation by the City as to its compliance with any law, code or ordinance.

 XVI. MAINTENANCE

 A. City Maintenance Responsibilities.

 The City shall maintain the Premises and City-owned equipment therein, in a neat, clean, safe and sanitary condition, and in a good state of repair that is at least the equivalent of other WNBA venues.

 B. Licensee's Maintenance Responsibilities.

 The City shall not be responsible for providing or performing any maintenance, repair or servicing of any of Licensee's improvements, equipment or other personal property, and the maintenance, repair or servicing of all of the same shall be 'Licensee's sole responsibility and shall be undertaken at Licensee's sole expense.

 C. Licensee's Responsibility for Damage.

 Neither Licensee nor any of its officers, employees, contractors, agents or invitees shall damage or in any manner deface any portion of the Premises or cause or allow anything to be done whereby any portion of the Premises is defaced or damaged in any manner. If such damage or defacement occurs, then the City will notify Licensee of the same and if the City elects to perform maintenance, repair, or renovation occasioned thereby, it shall invoice Licensee for the reimbursement of such expenses, which reimbursement shall be paid as provided in Subsection XI.B.2. hereof.

 XVII. CITY'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

 A. City's Control of KeyArena.

 The City shall at all times maintain overall supervision and control of the KeyArena, including the Premises. The Director shall have the right to use whatever means that the Director deems proper to enter the Premises at any time and for any purpose, without liability to Licensee except for any failure to exercise due care for Licensee's property.

 B. City's Control of Other Seattle Center Buildings and Grounds.

 The City reserves the exclusive right, without liability of any kind, to do any and all of the following throughout the term of this Agreement:

 1. Increase, reduce, and change in any manner whatsoever the number, appearance, dimensions, and locations of the Seattle Center walks, buildings, landscaping, parking, and service areas, and make improvements, alterations, and additions to the Seattle Center facilities.

 2. Regulate all traffic within and adjacent to the Seattle Center.

 3. Impose a reasonable charge for admission to the Seattle Center.

 4. Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events to occur in and on the Seattle Center grounds, buildings, and facilities including the Premises.

 5. Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle Center.

 6. Determine the days and hours the Seattle Center and various

 business operations conducted thereon shall be open to the public.

 7. Determine the size, number, and type and identity of concessions, stores, businesses and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center other than as set forth herein and to operate and authorize others to engage in any and all forms of concession activity at the Seattle Center and in any facility thereof, as the Director deems appropriate.

 XVIII. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 The Licensee, at its sole cost and expense, shall conform and comply with, and shall take reasonable precaution to ensure that every person it admits to any Seattle Center facility abides by and complies with, all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle; rules and regulations of the Seattle Center, Fire, and Police Departments, and the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, and their respective successors; and licenses, permits and any directives issued by any authorized official thereof. Specifically, Licensee shall comply with all of the following requirements:

 A. Licenses.

 Licensee shall obtain all licenses, permits and authorizations required by law and conform to all applicable requirements of any authorized person acting in connection therewith.

 B. Taxes.

 Licensee shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities in, on, or involving occupancy and use of the Premises including, but not limited to, taxes arising out of the occupancy of, or activity or business conducted in or from the Premises; taxes levied on Licensee's property, equipment, improvements on or made to the Premises or any portion thereof; and taxes levied on Licensee's interest in this Agreement and any leasehold interest recognized by Ch. 82.29A of the Revised Code of Washington, and if the State of Washington makes any demand upon the City for the remittance of leasehold excise taxes payable by Licensee as a consequence of Licensee's occupation of the Premises or withholds funds due to the City to enforce collection of such

 leasehold excise taxes, Licensee shall immediately pay the same together with all interest and penalties accessed in connection therewith, or, at its sole expense, shall contest such action and indemnify the City for all sums expended by, or withheld by the State from, the City in connection with such taxation; provided that Licensee shall not be deemed to be in default as long as Licensee, in good faith, is contesting the validity or amount of any such taxes.

 C. Nondiscrimination.

 Licensee shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the Sate of Washington, and The City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC"), notably SMC 20.44 and the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 D. Attendance and Safety Standards.

 The Seattle Fire Chief or his/her designee shall have the authority to determine, in the reasonable exercise of his/her discretion, the number of persons that may be admitted to, and safely and freely move about in the Premises. The Licensee shall not sell or issue Home Game tickets or credentials for admission to KeyArena in an aggregate number that exceeds the Seattle Fire Chiefs determined number for the same. The City shall not admit to KeyArena more people than the number so determined by the Seattle Fire Chief. No sidewalk, grounds area, entry, passage, vestibule, hall, elevator, abutting street, doorway, or any other way of access to the Premises shall be obstructed by Licensee or used for any purpose other than for ingress and egress to the Premises.

 E. Enforcement.

 If Licensee or its authorized representative is informed of any violation of any law, Charter provision, ordinance, rule, regu1ation, license, permit, or authorization committed by Licensee or any person admitted to a Home Game, Licensee immediately shall desist from and/or take reasonable measures to prevent or correct such violation.

 XIX. SURRENDER OF PREMISES

 A. Surrender and Delivery.

 Upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement, Licensee shall surrender and promptly deliver to the Director all keys Licensee and any of its officers, agents, and employees may have acquired in the course of performing this Agreement.

 IX. Removal of Licensee's Property.

 1. Prior to the expiration of the Term of this Agreement or, if this Agreement is terminated, within seven (7) days after the termination date, Licensee shall remove, at its sole expense, all trade equipment and personal property owned or installed by Licensee on or in the Premises. Except as may be required by the Director, improvements, additions and alterations made or provided to the Premises' by or on behalf of Licensee shall not be removed.

 2. In removing any trade equipment or personal property, Licensee shall take due care to not injure or damage the Premises. If any damage or injury occurs, Licensee shall be liable to, and shall reimburse the City for, the cost of making such repairs to the Premises as may be necessary to restore the same to their condition as of the commencement date of this Agreement ordinary wear and tear, excepted, which reimbursement shall be paid as provided in Subsection XII.B, hereof.

 C. Storage of Licensee's Property.

 If Licensee fails to remove trade equipment and other personal property owned by Licensee on or by the time specified in Subsections XIX.A and XIX.B hereof, the City may, but shall not be required to, remove such material from the Premises and store the same, all at Licensee's expense; and if the City removes or arranges for the storage of such material, Licensee shall reimburse the City for all costs incurred in connection with such removal or storage, including any administrative costs, which reimbursement shall be paid as provided in Subsection XII.B hereof.

 XX. SUBCONTRACTING, ASSIGNMENTS AND TRANSFERS OF OWNERSHIP

 INTERESTS

 A. Subcontracting and Assignments.

 Licensee shall not subcontract or assign any of its responsibilities or obligations under this Agreement to another person or entity without the Director's Approval, which approval may be withheld or conditioned based solely upon the Director's reasonable concerns as to the financial condition of the assignee or transferee. Any subcontract or assignment shall be subject to all terms and provisions of this Agreement.

 B. Transfer Of Ownership Interest.

 1. Licensee's Delivery of Instrument of Assumption and Agreement. In the event of the sale, assignment or other transfer of any ownership interest in the Seattle Franchise to any third party or parties, Licensee shall cause to be delivered to the Seattle Center Director, immediately after such assignment, sale, or transfer, an instrument, in writing, executed by the assignee, grantee, purchaser or transferee, in which such person agrees to assume and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement to the extent the same are then unperformed.

 2. Release of Licensee upon Total Assumption of Licensee's Obligations by Other Party. Upon the delivery by Licensee of an instrument of assumption and agreement as contemplated in Subsection XX.B.1, hereof, executed by the assignee, grantee, purchaser, or transferee acquiring one hundred percent (100%) of Licensee's interest in the Seattle Franchise and provided the Director has approved such transfer, this Agreement, each and every obligation of Licensee hereunder shall become null and void as to Licensee and Licensee shall have no further direct or indirect liability or obligation hereunder to the extent of that assumption.

 3. Joint & Several Liability of Licensee and Other Party Where Licensee's Obligations Are Not Totally Assumed. If less than one hundred percent (100%) of Licensee's interest in the Seattle Franchise and/or this Agreement is assigned, granted, purchased by, or transferred to, one or more other persons or entities, Licensee shall remain jointly and severally liable with such other persons or entities for the performance of all obligations hereunder.

 XXI. WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS

 Licensee hereby warrants to and specially covenants with the City that Licensee is the holder of a valid effective WNBA franchise that permits and authorizes Licensee to operate a professional women's basketball team in and from the Seattle Center and that Licensee is authorized to enter into this Agreement.

 XXII. MEDIATION

 If a dispute shall arise between the parties to this Agreement, and the parties are unable to settle the dispute between themselves, it is hereby agreed that the dispute hen be referred to a mutually agreeable mediator for resolution within thirty (30) days of a written request for mediation submitted by either party. The parties agree to participate in at least three hours of mediation in an effort to resolve their dispute and to equally share the costs of the mediation process.

 XXIII. DEFAULT AND REMEDIES THEREFOR

 A. Default by Licensee.

 1. Event of Default. Licensee's material breach of any covenant, warranty or representation contained herein shall constitute a default of this Agreement.

 2. Notice to Cure. The Director shall notify Licensee of any event of default and Licensee shall have a reasonable period to cure such default,

 which period shall not exceed ninety (90) days from the date of such notice unless such default is not susceptible of cure within said ninety- (90) day period, in which event Licensee shall not be in default provided Licensee commences to cure the default within said ninety- (90) day period and diligently pursues the same to completion.

 3. City's Rights Upon Licensee's Breach. In addition to any other remedies available to it under this Agreement or in law, the City may immediately terminate this Agreement upon fifteen (15) days' notice to Licensee and without any further proceedings under any of the following circumstances. In such event, the City shall have the right to declare Licensee in default, to re-enter the Premises, and to lease and license the Premises to others for any date and receive rent and license fees therefore, all as if this Agreement has not been made.

 a) Licensee fails to cure any default of which it had notice within the time specified by the City.

 b) Licensee fails to comply with all of the requirements of Section XXIII hereof (including Exhibit 5), regarding insurance.

 c) Licensee fails to pay the City, in a timely manner, any undisputed amount due under this Agreement.

 B. Default by City.

 1. Event of Default. The City's material breach of any covenant,

 warranty or representation contained herein shall constitute a default of this Agreement.

 2. Notice to Cure. Licensee shall notify the Director of any event of default and the City shall have a reasonable period to cure such default, which period shall not exceed ninety- (90) days from the date of such notice unless such default is not susceptible of cure within said ninety- (90) day period, in which event the City shall not be in default provided the City commences to cure the default within said ninety- (90) day period and diligently pursues the same to completion.

 3. Licensee's Rights Upon Failure to Cure Default. In addition to any other remedies available to it under this Agreement or in law, Licensee may terminate this Agreement upon fifteen (15) days' notice to the City and without any further proceedings under any of the following circumstances.

 a) The City fails to cure any default of which it had notice within the time specified by Licensee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee shall not have a right of termination if the Director reasonably determines that more days than those specified by Licensee are required for performance and the City commences performance within the period specified by Licensee and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 b) The City fails to pay Licensee, in a timely manner, any

 undisputed amount due under this Agreement.

 XXIV. LIABILITY FOR BODILY INJURY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE

 Licensee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect throughout the term of this Agreement, and shall otherwise fully comply with requirements of Exhibit 5.

 XXV. INDEMNIFICATION

 A. Licensee to Indemnify City.

 Licensee shall indemnify and hold the City and its officers, employees and agents harmless from, any and all losses, claims, actions, and damages suffered by any person or entity arising out of: any negligent, reckless, or intentional act or omission of Licensee or any of its agents, employees, invitees, concessionaires, contractors and any of their subcontractors in connection with Licensees use or occupancy of the Premises; any grant of advertising rights for display advertising within the KeyArena; and from any damages arising out of any breach or default in the performance of any obligation on Licensee's part to be performed under the terms of this Agreement or any breach of any representation or warranty made by licensee hereunder. If, as a result of any such act, omission or breach, any suit or action is brought against the City, Licensee, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at no cost and expense to the City, and promptly satisfy any final judgment adverse to the City; provided, that if the City determines that one or more principles of governmental or public law are involved, the City retains the right to participate in such action. Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as requiring Licensee to indemnify the City against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from negligence, reckless or intentional conduct attributable solely to the City or its officers, employees, or agents. The indemnification provided in this subsection shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 B. City to Indemnify Licensee.

 The City shall indemnify and hold Licensee harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, and damages suffered by any person or entity arising out of any negligent, reckless, or intentional act or omission of the City or any of its agents, employees, invitees, or contractors and any of their subcontractors in connection with the City's use or occupancy of the Premises and from damages arising out of a breach or default in the performance of any obligation on the City's part to be performed under the terms of this Agreement or any breach of any representation or warranty made by the City hereunder. If, as a result of any such act or omission or breach, any suit or action is brought against Licensee, the City, upon notice of he commencement thereof, shall defend the same at no cost and expense to Licensee, and promptly satisfy any final judgment adverse to Licensee. Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as requiring the City to indemnify Licensee against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from negligent reckless or intentional conduct attributable solely to Licensee or any of its officers, employees, concessionaires, contractors, or agents. The indemnification provided for in this subsection shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 XXVI. FORCE MAJEURE

 Whenever a party's performance under this Agreement is prevented by an act of nature; war-like operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including a strike or walkout, but not a lockout; sabotage; Federal or State regulation or control; or other unforeseeable conditions beyond reasonable control of such party, performance of such affected obligation shall be suspended for the duration of such condition but shall not be excused except by agreement of the parties.

 XXVII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

 A. Captions.

 The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 B. Amendments.

 No modification or amendment of the provisions of this Agreement shall be

 effective unless written and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement from time to time by mutual agreement.

 C. Remedies Cumulative.

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; any failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. Each party shall also have any other remedy given by the law. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 D. No Waiver.

 No action other than a notice by one party to the other specifically stating that such notice has the effect of a waiver, shall constitute a waiver of any particular breach or default of such other party, and only the Director, personally, shall be authorized to provide such a notice for or on behalf of the City. No such notice shall waive Licensee's failure to fully comply with any other term, condition, or provision of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any the City officer, employee, or agent may have of any breach or default of, or noncompliance with, such other term, condition, or provision. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of fees or charges for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 E. Limited Effect of Approval by Director.

 Action of the Director pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official action by any other City department or official that may be required by law, City Charter, ordinance, rule or regulation before Licensee may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking.

 F. No Relationship.

 In no event shall the City be construed to be a partner, associate, joint venturer of Licensee, or any party associated with Licensee, with respect to the undertakings authorized by this Agreement. Licensee is not an agent of the City for any purpose whatsoever hereunder. The Licensee shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the City or bind the City in any manner.

 G. Power of City.

 Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be considered to diminish the

 governmental or police powers of the City.

 H. Binding Effect.

 The provisions, covenants and conditions of this Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal representatives, successors, and assigns.

 I. Invalidity of Particular Provisions.

 Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this Agreement or the application thereof be held to be inoperative, invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement or the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect.

 J. Applicable Law; Venue.

 This Agreement shall be construed under the Law of the State of Washington. Venue for any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County, Washington.

 K. Incorporation of Exhibits; Entire Agreement.

 This Agreement, including the exhibits attached hereto and forming a part hereof, as well as the various periodic use date endorsement notices issued by the City, all of which, by this reference, are incorporated herein, constitute all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions between the parties regarding the terms and conditions of Licensee's use of the KeyArena under this Agreement.

 XXVIII. NOTICES

 Any notices or communication to be given by one party to the other under this Agreement must be in writing. Such notices or communications shall be delivered or sent to the following respective addresses or to such other addresses as the parties, from time to nay specify in writing:

 If to the City: If to Licensee:

 Seattle Center Director Mr. Wally Walker

 The City of Seattle Seattle Sonics and Storm

 305 Harrison Street 351 Elliott Ave. W., Suite 500

 Seattle, WA 98109 Seattle, WA 98119

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by having their authorized representatives affix their signatures in the spaces below.

 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CLUB OF SEATTLE, LLC. THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: By: _________________________

 Title: Virginia Anderson

 Seattle Center Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , 2004, before me personally appeared ________________________, to me known to be the ____________of The Women's Basketball Club of Seattle, LLC, the limited liability company that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said company, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and further that said officer has the authority to sign on behalf of said corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 ____________________________________ _________________________________________

 (Signature) (Print or type name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at ___ .

 My appointment expires .

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , 2004, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Virginia Anderson, to me known to be the Seattle Center Director, who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledge said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle, for the uses and purposes herein mentioned, and on oath stated that she authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 ___________________________________ _________________________________________

 (Signature) (Print or type name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at ___ .

 My appointment expires .

 24

 Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance

 July 2, 2004

 EXHIBIT 1

 Premises Licensed for Use on Home Game Dates

 All areas identified as "media lounge", "media workroom"; and Rooms E14H (Visiting Team Locker Room), E15A (Training), E15B (Vest./lnterv.), E14C (Office) and E15E (Visiting Team Shower and Toilet Rooms), and E140 (the adjoining Passage); Rooms E01A, E01B, E01C, E01D, E01E, EO1F, E01G (toilet/shower), E01H , E01J (performer dressing/visiting team locker room), E02A, E02B, E02C, E02D, E02F, E30A, E30C, E30D, L13C, L13D, L13F, L16G.

 Exhibit 1 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance

 July 2, 2004

 EXHIBIT 2

 Projected Per Game WNBA Expenses

 Attendance per game Admissions ESR Stage Sound Peer TFM turnover Tech staff Total

 Lower Bowl $5,500 $500 $1,200 $600 $575 $4,275 $600 $13,250 Upper & Lower Bowl $7,000 $500 $1,200 $600 $575 $4,775 $600 $15,250

 * SPD only used sporadically for WNBA events.

 Costs are ESTIMATES only based on 2003 actual expenses with 2% increase for COLA where applicable.

 Exhibit 2 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance July 2, 2004

 EXHIBIT 3

 PERSONNEL RATES ADDENDUM

 To Licensing Agreement

 PERSONNEL requirements will be determined by Seattle Center in accordance with established policies and procedures. Consideration will be given to the nature of the Event and the estimated attendance for the Event. Arrange for all Seattle Center or Peer Group Security personnel with your Event Service Representative (ESR) a minimum of 15 days prior to your Event. Unless otherwise indicated, the cost for these services is not included with the room rental.

 The following rates are effective January 1, 2004

 ADMISSIONS/MEDICS/SEATTLE POLICE PERSONNEL RATES

 Overtime &

 Holiday

 Hourly Rate Hourly Rate

 Minimum Minimum

 4 Hr. Call 4 Hr. Call

 Admissions Guard $16.75 $24.25

 Door Attendant 14.75 21.25

 Ticket Seller, Gen'l Admission 15.75 21.25

 Ticket Splitter 14.75 21.25

 Usher 13.25 20.00

 Assistant Head Usher 17.50 25.75

 Head Usher 20.50 30.75

 Paramedics, Seattle Fire Dept. 55.82 55.82

 Seattle Police: Contact your ESR for information on police staffing requirements and rates of pay. Seattle Police bills are subject to a 10% accounting fee.

 NOTE: Head Ushers may perform the duties of a Door Attendant but must be paid a Head Usher's rate.

 SUPPORT PERSONNEL RATES

 Overtime &

 Holiday

 Hourly Rate Hourly Rate

 Minimum Minimum

 4 Hr. Call 4 Hr. Call

 Carpenter $42.25 $63.75

 Electrician 43.25 66.00

 Engineer 44.25 67.00

 ESU Security Officer 31.00 43.25

 Senior Event Service Rep 49.75 57.25

 Event Service Rep 43.75 51.25

 Janitor 29.00 40.75

 Laborer 31.25 44.50

 Painter 42.25 63.75

 Parking Attendant 29.75 31.50

 Plumber 45.25 68.50

 Sound Operator 37.50 61.00

 Stage Supervisor 37.00 55.00

 Stage Rigger 36.00 52.00

 Stagehand 30.25 43.00

 Stage Grip 27.00 39.50

 If peer group security is required, your ESR will make the arrangements. Contemporary Services Corporation provides crowd control and peer group security in all Seattle Center commercial facilities at the time of this publishing. Hourly rates are listed and there is a four hour minimum call. Your ESR will discuss services and staffing requirements with you.

 Regular

 Usher $13.95

 Crowd Control Attendants 13.95

 Admissions Control Attendants 13.95

 Pass Door Attendants 13.95

 Supervisor 16.50

 Event Manager 16.50

 Seattle Center equipment and facilities are operated by Seattle Center personnel.

 ALL PERSONNEL RATES ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE Revised 01/02/04

 Exhibit 3 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance

 July 2, 2004

 Exhibit 3 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance

 July 2, 2004

 EXHBIT 4

 EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES ADDENDUM

 To Licensing Agreement

 The following Seattle Center equipment can be rented, as available. Seattle Center personnel are required to set and/or operate this equipment; see the Personnel Rates Addendum for charges. Your Event Service Representative (ESR) will arrange for this equipment, as available, at your request. If you need equipment not available through Seattle Center, our Vendors and Regulatory Agencies List contains information for some suppliers.

 All prices are for run of event, unless otherwise noted, and include sales tax. Prices are subject to change. Equipment damaged or not returned will be charged to you at replacement cost. This is considered an appropriate charge against any contingency fee paid.

 TABLES

 8' x 30" $9.50 each

 6' Rounds $9.50 each

 6' Rounds at a plated or buffet meal event.$2.50 each White Linens $4.00 each

 White Paper Covers $3.00 each

 CHAIRS

 Padded Chairs.....................................$1.50 each

 (NW Rooms & Fisher Pavilion Only)

 READERBOARDS

 Per face for the 1st day $75.00

 Per face/day for 2nd-7th days $40.00

 Per face/day thereafter $60.00

 KEYS AND CORES

 Room Cores Changed $20.00 each

 No charge for facility keys during the event.

 Unreturned Keys $50.00 each

 STAGE EQUIPMENT

 Platforms $20.00 each

 Platform Sizes

 4' x 8' x (21" or 31")

 4' x 8' x (24" or 32" carpeted)*

 4' x 8' x (48"- 60" in 4" increments)*

 6' x 8' x (10-1/2" or 42")

 6' x 8' x (48"- 72" in 8" increments)*

 4' x 8' x (8", 16", 24" or 32")*

 6' x 8' x (8" for Northwest Rooms only)*

 Northwest Rooms: for Platforms over 8" in height

 $200.00 minimum

 3-row Fold Out Risers $30.00 per unit

 Barricade Sections $15.00 each

 KeyArena Rolling Stage $600.00

 *Platform Skirting Available $1.50 linear foot

 Installation labor extra $25.00 minimum

 LIFTING / MOVING EQUIPMENT

 Forklift

 Non-stage work $75.00 per hour

 For stage work* $100.00 per day

 Genie Lift* $75.00 per day

 *Cost of operator additional

 SOUND EQUIPMENT

 In/Outputs $15.00 each per day

 (wired microphones, direct input boxes, press boxes)

 Wireless Microphone:

 (hand held, lavalier and/or headset)

 for Meeting Rooms* $50.00 each per day

 for On Stage* $50.00 each per day

 Portable Sound System*

 Small $65.00 per day

 (2 speakers, mixer,amplifier, 2 microphones)

 Large $100.00 per day

 (4 speakers, mixer,amplifier, 6 microphones)

 Monitor Speaker System $25.00 per day

 (1 monitor, amplifier, equalizer -- when used with

 portable sound system.)

 Playback and Recording

 CD Players $25.00 each per day

 Cassette Decks $20.00 each per day

 DAT Recorders $50.00 each per day

 MiniDisc Recorders $35.00 each per day

 Intercom Headsets $15.00 each

 (to locations without dry lines)

 *Cost of operator additional

 For festival systems or custom configurations contact your ESR for a quote.

 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT

 Spotlights:

 Xenon Bulb* $100.00 each / performance

 (KeyArena only; no charge for first 4)

 Autoyoke with Source 4

 and DMX Irises $70.00 each

 100' 4-aut Feeder Cable $100.00

 (with tails)

 *Cost of operators additional

 BIKE BARRICADE

 Bike Barricade $8.00 per piece

 KEYARENA DRAPES AND CURTAINS

 Pipe and Drape (3' or 8') $2.00 per foot

 South End Black Drape $500.00

 Upper Bowl Curtain $2,000.00

 SINKS

 Three-Compartment Portable $250.00 each

 EQUIPMENT INCLUDED WITH RENTAL OF FACILITY*

 U.S. and Washington State Flags

 Chalkboards

 Coat Racks

 Easels

 Lecterns

 *Subject to availability

 OTHER SERVICES

 ELECTRICAL AND WATER HOOKUPS TO BUSES, TRAILERS AND CAMPERS

 $75.00/unit per run of show

 (limited availability - KeyArena courtyard only)

 EXCESSIVE CLEANUP

 Materials plus labor costs; see Personnel Rates Addendum for hourly rates and minimums

 POWER CONSUMPTION

 Assessed and billed at $.061/KWH based on an averaging system of usage determined by the type of event.

 Rates effective January 1, 2003.

 1 Exhibit 4 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance July 2, 2004 Attachment 1 2 Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance July 2, 2004 7 Exhibit 4 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance July 2, 2004

 EXHIBIT 5 INSURANCE ADDENDUM To Licensing Agreement

 GENERAL Licensee shall obtain and thereafter maintain continuously throughout the term of this Agreement, at no expense to the City, a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below. Acceptable proof of such coverage shall be sent to the City at least ten days prior to the first event.

 Failure of the Licensee to fully comply with the insurance requirements will be considered a material breach of the Agreement. The insurance shall protect the City from any and all claims and risks in connection with any activity performed by the Licensee by virtue of this Agreement or any use and occupancy of the premises authorized by this Agreement. REQUIRED COVERAGES The insurance shall contain the following types of coverages and minimum dollar limits: 1. Commercial General Liability Insurance: A policy of Commercial General Liability insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01) or equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as: a. Premises/Operations Liability b. Products/Completed Operations c. Personal/Advertising Injury d. Contractual Liability e. Independent Contractors Liability f. Stop Gap/Employers Contingent Liability Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum coverage limits: Bodily Injury, Property Damage, Personal Injury and Advertising Injury a. $ 1,000,000 General Aggregate b. $ 1,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate c. $ 1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury d. $ 1,000,000 Each Occurrence e. $ 100,000 Fire Damage Legal Stop Gap/Employers Liability a. $ 1,000,000 Each Accident b. $ 1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit c. $ 1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee 2. Business Automobile Liability: A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent, and as specified by Insurance Services Office Symbol 1 (any auto). The policy must provide a $1,000,000 per accident minimum liability limit. 3. Excess Insurance: A policy in excess of the Commercial General Liability and Business Automobile Liability policies that will provide a total minimum limit of insurance of $2,000,000 each occurrence and in the aggregate where applicable. The excess policy must be at least as broad as the primary policies. 4. Worker's Compensation: A policy of Worker's Compensation. As respects Workers' Compensation insurance in the state of Washington, the Licensee shall secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees, or the employees of any subcontractors who supply services under this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington. If the Licensee is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Licensee shall so certify to the City by submitting a letter signed by a corporate officer, indicating that it is a qualified self-Insurer, and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees; or any similar coverage required. Licensee hereby assumes all risk of damage to its property, or injury to its officers, directors, agents, contractors, or invitees, in or about the City's property from any cause, and hereby waives all claims against the City. The Licensee further waives, with respect to the City only, its immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial Insurance, of the Revised Code of Washington. 5. Alcohol: A policy of Liquor Liability insurance with minimum limits of $2,000,000 Each Common Cause, $2,000,000 Aggregate. 6. Pyrotechnics: If pyrotechnics are used for an Event, a permit is required from the Seattle Fire Marshall. Use of pyrotechnics must be specifically covered by the General Liability policy with a minimum limit of liability of $2,000,000 each occurrence. Such insurance as is provided under items 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 above, shall be endorsed to include the City of Seattle, its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as additional insured, and shall not be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City. In addition, Licensee's insurance shall be primary as respects the City. Any other insurance maintained by the City shall be excess and not contributing insurance with the Licensee's insurance. DEDUCTIBLES If the Licensee's insurance contains a deductible (or self-insured retention amount) the Licensee shall: 1. Disclose such amount. 2. Be responsible for payment of any claim equal to or less than the deductible (or self-insured retention amount). The City reserves the right to reject any insurance policy with a deductible (or self-insured retention amount) for which adequate financial strength of the Licensee cannot be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City. CONDITIONS The insurance policy or policies, endorsements thereto, and subsequent renewals shall: 1. Be subject to the City's Approval as to company, form and coverage. The insurance company shall be: a. Rated A- VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide. b. Licensed to do business in the State of Washington or be filed as surplus line by a Washington surplus line broker. 2. Include a provision (whether by endorsement or otherwise) indicating that, except with respect to the limits of insurance and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, the insurance shall apply: a. As if each party insured thereunder (whether as a named insured, additional named insured, or additional insured) were the only party insured by such policy; and b. Separately to each insured against whom a claim is made or a suit is brought. EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE In many cases, evidence of insurance may be demonstrated by submitting a copy (photocopy or facsimile acceptable) of the declarations pages of the policy, the endorsement forms list, and the additional insured endorsement. The declarations pages shall clearly show the insurer, policy effective dates, policy number, policy limits, and named insured. Any reference to premiums may be blacked out. However at the option of the City, the Licensee may be required to submit a copy of the insurance policy, all referenced endorsements, or both. Certificates of Insurance (ACORD forms) will not be accepted as evidence of insurance. Evidence of insurance for each policy shall be signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company, show the policy number and name of the insured on the endorsement, and comply with all of the requirements for insurance set forth in Required Coverages section above.

 5 Exhibit 5 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance July 2, 2004

 EXHIBIT 6

 Agreement between The Women's Basketball Club of Seattle, LLC and The City of Seattle Concerning the Use of KeyArena Over Labor Day Weekend

 In order to accommodate the needs of The City of Seattle ("City"), and The Women's Basketball Club of Seattle, LLC, ("Licensee") and accommodate the annual Bumbershoot Festival held on the Seattle Center Grounds during Labor Day Weekend the parties hereby agree to the following terms for the use of KeyArena over Labor Day Weekend as part and parcel of this Facility Use Agreement.

 Licensee shall have the right to schedule and use the KeyArena for playoff or championship games over Labor Day weekend (defined as Friday through Monday of Labor Day Weekend each year during the term of this Facility Use Agreement) only in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in Section V.D of this Facility Use Agreement and here in this Exhibit 6.

 1. Licensee shall use KeyArena only for events that are part of official WNBA playoff basketball games. If Licensee does not use KeyArena for the stated purposes during the applicable period, it shall not have any right to use the facility for any other event. If Licensee does not require the use of KeyArena for the specified purpose, the City shall have the unrestricted right to schedule the facility for other events, including but not limited to Bumbershoot events, and the City shall receive and retain all revenues therefrom. 2. 3. Licensee's use of KeyArena for playoff games is subject to all of the terms and conditions, including fees, as are contained in this Facility Use Agreement. 4. 5. WNBA playoff games over Labor Day Weekend are limited to lower bowl seating only and that portion of the Upper Bowl that can be opened with approval of the Fire Marshall without adversely affecting the Bumbershoot Festival grounds use plan. It is understood that any expansion of seating beyond the lower bowl on these dates will require mutual agreement between the City, Bumbershoot (One Reel, Inc.) and the Licensee since any expansion into the upper bowl will affect use of the grounds for the 2003 Bumbershoot Festival. If mutual agreement between the parties is reached to expand seating to the upper bowl and, as a result thereof, the City and/or Bumbershoot must perform landscape work or build alternate staging necessary to allow the placement of a stage over the current "planter area" in the Northwest Courtyard for the Bumbershoot Festival, Licensee shall pay any and all costs associated with this conversion. 6. 7. The Bumbershoot concert stage in the Northwest courtyard, or any other activity that they may plan, shall continue to operate during any and all WNBA playoff games. 8. 9. WNBA television crews and vehicles shall have access to the KeyArena and the South Courtyard Parking Lot during Labor Day weekend, but Licensee acknowledges and agrees that it will have to share the space with Bumbershoot for the staging of equipment or vehicles in the KeyArena South Courtyard Parking Lot and agrees to cooperate with the City and Bumbershoot staff to coordinate such usage. 10. 11. All entry to the KeyArena for the Labor Day Weekend WNBA playoff games shall be through the west side of the KeyArena unless a patron also holds a ticket to the Bumbershoot Festival. 12. 13. Egress from the KeyArena following the WNBA playoff games shall be through the west and south exits only, with patrons moving in a westerly direction and not onto Seattle Center grounds unless they hold a Bumbershoot ticket. WNBA patrons can exit the east side of the KeyArena if they purchase a Bumbershoot ticket. 14. 15. Licensee agrees to promote a special entry to Bumbershoot, unless some other offer is agreed to by the parties, through the following: distribution of flyers at entry gates at all WNBA games over Labor Day Weekend; video board with public address advertisement several times at each game over Labor Day Weekend to be spaced out such that they run before, during and after each game; live announcements; allowing for Bumbershoot to staff one interior east side booth to sell special entry tickets during and after each Labor Day Weekend game at no charge to Bumbershoot or the City. 16. 17. Licensee agrees to allow Bumbershoot to provide half-time entertainment (ie. a breakdance squad) to the Storm as part of a half-time promotion for Bumbershoot provided that the entertainment is approved by Licensee's management to meet quality standards and is in line with the usual and customary compensation for Licensee's halftime entertainment. 18.

 1 Exhibit 6 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance July 2, 2004

 EXHIBIT 7 Broadcast Rights Waiver for Bumbershoot Agreement between The City of Seattle and The Basketball Club of Seattle

 The Basketball Club of Seattle waives its first right of refusal, granted in the KeyArena Premise Use and Occupancy Agreement, for broadcast rights to the Bumbershoot Festival for any Bumbershoot events that may be held in KeyArena for the Year 2004, 2005 and 2006.

 Agreed to By:

 _________________________________ (Sign Name)

 _________________________________(Print Name)

 _________________________________(Title) For the Basketball Club Of Seattle

 Exhibit 7 to Attachment 1 to Seattle Storm Ordinance July 4, 2004

```
