

********

**Council Bill Number: 114933**
   
**Ordinance Number: 121521**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Building and Construction Codes: adding a new Chapter 22.150, the Seattle Residential Code, to the Seattle Municipal Code; adopting Chapters 2 through 10, 12 through 19, 22 through 24, and 43 of the 2003 International Residential Code; amending Chapters 2, Definitions, Chapter 3, Building Planning, Chapter 10, Chimneys and Fireplaces, Chapter 24, Fuel Gas, and Chapter 43, Referenced Standards; and adding a new Chapter 1 related to administration, permitting and enforcement.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 6, 2004
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 16, 2004
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 16, 2004
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 21, 2004
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 306759

**Fiscal Note:**114933

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Building and Construction Codes: adding a new Chapter 22.150, the Seattle Residential Code, to the Seattle Municipal Code; adopting Chapters 2 through 10, 12 through 19, 22 through 24, and 43 of the 2003 International Residential Code; amending Chapters 2, Definitions, Chapter 3, Building Planning, Chapter 10, Chimneys and Fireplaces, Chapter 24, Fuel Gas, and Chapter 43, Referenced Standards; and adding a new Chapter 1 related to administration, permitting and enforcement.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. A new Section 22.150.010 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 22.150.010 Adoption of International Residential Code.

 The Seattle Residential Code shall consist of the following portions of the 2003 edition of the International Residential Code as published by the International Code Council: Chapters 2 through 10, Chapters 12 through 19, Chapters 22 through 24 and Chapter 43, together with the adopted amendments and additions. One copy of the 2003 International Residential Code is filed with the City Clerk in C.F. 306759.

 Section 2. Chapter 1 of the 2003 International Residential Code is adopted to read as follows:

 Chapter 1

 ADMINISTRATION

 SECTION R101

 TITLE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE

 R101. 1 Title. This subtitle shall be known as the "Seattle Residential Code for One- and Two-family Dwellings" and may be so cited, and is referred to herein as "this code."

 R101.2 Purpose. The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, occupancy, location and maintenance of all buildings and structures within the City and certain equipment specifically regulated herein.

 The purpose of this code is to provide for and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public, and not to create or otherwise establish or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or should be especially protected or benefited by the terms of this code.

 R101.3 Scope. The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three stories above grade in height with a separate means of egress, and their accessory structures, including adult family homes, foster family care homes and family day care homes licensed by the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services.

 Existing buildings undergoing repair, alteration or additions, and change of occupancy and moved buildings shall comply with Chapter 34 of the Seattle Building Code. Existing mechanical systems shall comply with Section 104 of the Seattle Mechanical Code or Section 104 of the Seattle Fuel Gas Code.

 Note: The seismic design for wood-frame buildings with more than two stories above grade shall comply with the Seattle Building Code. See Sections R301.2.2.4 and Table R602.10.1.

 Interpretation R101.3a: Mixed use buildings, other than those containing home occupations, shall comply with the Seattle Building Code.

 Interpretation R101.3b: Buildings with dwellings above a common garage or other common space shall comply with the Seattle Building Code.

 R101.4 Internal Consistency. Where in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.

 [W] R101.5 Conflict with Ventilation Code. In the case of conflict between the ventilation requirements of this code and the ventilation requirements of Washington Administrative Code Chapter 51-13 the Washington State Ventilation and Indoor Air Quality Code (VIAQ), the provisions of the VIAQ shall govern.

 R101.6 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.

 Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing and manufacturer's instructions shall apply.

 R101.7 Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance.

 R101.8 Metric units. Wherever in this ordinance there is a conflict between metric units of measurement and English units, the English units shall govern.

 SECTION R102

 UNSAFE BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES OR PREMISES

 R102.1 Definition. For the purpose of this section, "unsafe buildings, structures or premises" shall be defined to include all buildings or structures, whether erected before or after the effective date of this code, and all premises immediately surrounding buildings or structures that are structurally unsound or unsafe or not provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or which in relation to existing occupancy constitute a hazard to safety, health or public welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance, deterioration, instability, dilapidation, obsolescence, damage by fire or other causes or abandonment as specified in this code or any other effective ordinance.

 R102.2 Emergency Orders. Whenever the building official finds that any building or structure, or portion thereof is in such a dangerous and unsafe condition as to constitute an imminent hazard to life or limb, the building official may issue an emergency order directing that the building or structure, or portion thereof be restored to a safe condition. The order shall specify the time for compliance. The order may also require that the building or structure, or portion thereof, be vacated within a reasonable time to be specified in the order. In the case of extreme danger, the order may specify immediate vacation of the building or structure, or may authorize disconnection of the utilities or energy source pursuant to the notice provisions of Section 104.6. No person shall occupy the building or structure, or portion thereof after the date on which the building is required to be vacated until the building or structure, or portion thereof, is restored to a safe condition as required by the order and this code. It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply with an emergency order issued by the building official.

 R102.3 Hazard Correction Order. Whenever the building official finds that an unsafe building, structure or premises exists, the building official may issue a hazard correction order specifying the conditions causing the building, structure or premises to be unsafe and directing the owner or other person responsible for the unsafe building, structure or premises to correct the condition. In lieu of correction, the owner may submit a report or analysis to the building official analyzing said conditions and establishing that the building, structure or premises is, in fact, safe. The building official may require that the report or analysis be prepared by a licensed engineer and may require compliance with Seattle Building Code Chapter 34. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with a hazard correction order as specified in this subsection.

 SECTION R103

 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES

 R103.1. Violations. It shall be a violation of this code for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, occupy, inspect or maintain any building or structure in the City, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.

 It shall be a violation of this code for any person, firm or corporation to knowingly aid, abet, counsel, encourage, hire, commend, induce or otherwise procure another to violate or fail to comply with this code.

 It shall be a violation of this code for any person, firm or corporation to use any material or to install any device, appliance or equipment which does not comply with applicable standards of this code or which has not been approved by the building official.

 R103.2. Notice of Violation. If, after investigation, the building official determines that standards or requirements of this code have been violated, the building official may serve a notice of violation upon the owner or other person responsible for the action or condition. The notice of violation shall state the standards or requirements violated, shall state what corrective action, if any, is necessary to comply with the standards or requirements, and shall set a reasonable time for compliance. The notice shall be served upon the owner or other responsible person by personal service, certified mail with return receipt requested or registered mail with return receipt requested or registered mail addressed to the last known address of such person. In addition, a copy of the notice may be posted at a conspicuous place on the property. The notice of violation shall be considered an order of the building official. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to limit or preclude any action or proceeding pursuant to Sections 102 or 104 of this code, and nothing in this section shall be deemed to obligate or require the building official to issue a notice of violation prior to the imposition of civil or criminal penalties in this section.

 R103.3 Civil Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with the provisions of this code shall be subject to a cumulative civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $500 per day for each violation from the date the violation occurs or begins until compliance is achieved. In cases where the building official has issued a notice of violation, the violation will be deemed to begin, for purposes of determining the number of days of violation, on the date compliance is required by the notice of violation. In any civil action for a penalty, the City has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that a violation exists or existed; the issuance of the notice of violation or of an order following a review by the Director is not itself evidence that a violation exists.

 R103.4 Criminal Penalty. Anyone who violates or fails to comply with any order issued by the building official pursuant to this code or who removes, mutilates, destroys or conceals a notice issued or posted by the building official shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 360 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation or failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense.

 Anyone violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this code and who within the past five years has had a judgment against them for civil penalties arising from a violation of the building code, shall upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation or failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense.

 R103.5 Additional Relief. The building official may seek legal or equitable relief to enjoin any acts or practices and abate any condition that constitutes a violation of this code when civil or criminal penalties are inadequate to effect compliance. In any such action, the City has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that a violation exists or will exist; the issuance of the notice of violation or of an order following a review by the Director is not itself evidence that a violation exists or will exist.

 R103.6 Notices. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, mutilate, destroy or conceal any notice issued or posted by the building official pursuant to the provisions of this code, or any notice issued or posted by the building official in response to a natural disaster or other emergency.

 The building official may record a copy of any order or notice with the Department of Records and Elections of King County.

 The building official may record with the Department of Records and Elections of King County a notification that a permit has expired without a final inspection after reasonable efforts have been made to provide a final inspection.

 R103.7 Review By The Director

 R103.7.1 Any person affected by a notice of violation issued by the Director pursuant to Section 103.2 may obtain a review of the notice by requesting such review in writing within ten days after service of the notice. When the last day of the period computed is a Saturday, Sunday, federal or City holiday, the period shall run until 5:00 p.m. of the next business day. Upon receipt of a request, the Director shall notify the person requesting the review of the date, time and place of the Director's review. The review shall be not less than ten nor more than twenty days after the request is received, unless otherwise agreed by the person requesting the review. Any person affected by the notice of violation may submit any written material to the Director for consideration on or before the date of the review.

 R103.7.2 The review will consist of an informal review meeting held at the Department. A representative of the Director who is familiar with the case and the applicable ordinances will attend. The Director's representative shall explain the reasons for the issuance of the notice of violation and will consider any information presented by the persons attending. At or after the review, the Director shall:

 1. Sustain the notice of violation; or

 2. Withdraw the notice of violation; or

 3. Continue the review to a future date; or

 4. Amend the notice of violation.

 R103.7.3 The Director shall issue a decision within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the review. The Director shall mail the decision by regular first class mail to the person or persons named in the notice of violation.

 SECTION R104

 ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT

 R104.1 Jurisdiction of Department of Planning and Development. The Department of Planning and Development is the code enforcement agency in the City of Seattle for this code. The Department is under the administrative and operational control of the Director of the Department of Planning and Development who is the building official.

 R104.2 Powers and Duties of the Building Official. The building official is authorized and directed to enforce this code, except where authority as elsewhere provided in this code is specifically vested in the Director of Public Health, the fire chief, the Director of Transportation or the Director of Seattle Public Utilities. Compliance with the requirements of this code is the obligation of the owner of the building, structure, or premises, the duly authorized agent of the owner, or other person responsible for the condition or work, and not of the City or any of its officers or employees.

 R104.3 Deputies. The building official may appoint such officers, inspectors, assistants and other employees as shall be authorized from time to time. The building official may deputize such employees as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the building official.

 R104.4 Right of Entry. With the consent of the owner or occupier of a building or premises, or pursuant to a lawfully issued warrant, the building official may enter a building or premises at any reasonable time to perform the duties imposed by this code.

 R104.5 Stop Orders. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, or in the event of dangerous or unsafe conditions related to construction or demolition, the building official may order the affected work stopped by a notice describing the violation in writing, posted on the premises or served on any person responsible for the condition or work. It is unlawful for any person to engage in or to cause any further work to be done until authorization from the building official is received.

 R104.6 Occupancy Violations. Whenever any building or structure is being occupied contrary to the provisions of this code, the building official may order such occupancy discontinued and the building or structure, or portion thereof, vacated by notice, posted on the premises or served on any person causing such occupancy to be continued.

 Any person occupying the building or structure shall discontinue the occupancy within 10 days after receipt or posting of such notice or shall make the building or structure, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this code; provided, however, that in the event of an unsafe building, Section 102 may apply. It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply with an order or notice issued by the building official.

 R104.7 Liability. Nothing contained in this code is intended to be nor shall be construed to create or form the basis for any liability on the part of the City, or its officers, employees or agents, for any injury or damage resulting from the failure of a building to conform to the provisions of this code, or by reason or in consequence of any inspection, notice, order, certificate, permission or approval authorized or issued or done in connection with the implementation or enforcement of this code, or by reason of any action or inaction on the part of the City related in any manner to the enforcement of this code by its officers, employees or agents.

 Neither the building official nor any employee charged with the enforcement of this code shall be personally liable for any damage that accrues to persons or property as a result of any act or omission committed in the discharge of their duties, provided that the building official or employee acted in good faith and without malice.

 This code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person owning, operating or controlling any building or structure for any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall the Department of Planning and Development or the City of Seattle be held to have assumed any such liability by reason of the inspections authorized by this code or any permits or certificates issued under this code.

 R104.8 Duties of the Fire Chief. The duties of the fire chief are as defined in the Fire Code.

 R104.9 Responsibilities of Parties. The responsibilities of the architect, structural engineer of record, contractor, plans examiner, and field inspector are as provided in the Seattle Building Code.

 R104.10 Modifications. The building official may modify the requirements of this code for individual cases provided the building official finds: (1) there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code; (2) the modification is in conformity with the intent and purpose of this code; and (3) the modification will provide a reasonable level of fire protection and structural integrity when considered together with other safety features of the building or other relevant circumstances. The building official may, but is not required to, record the approval of modifications and any relevant information in the files of the building official or on the approved permit plans.

 R104.11 Alternate Materials, Methods of Construction and Design. This code does not prevent the use of any material, design or method of construction not specifically allowed or prohibited by this code, provided the alternate has been approved and its use authorized by the building official.

 The building official may approve an alternate, provided he/she finds that the proposed alternate complies with the provisions of this code and that the alternate, when considered together with other safety features of the building or other relevant circumstances, will provide at least an equivalent level of strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety and sanitation. Certain code alternates have been pre-approved by the building official and are identified in this code as numbered code alternates.

 The building official may require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to reasonably substantiate any claims regarding the use or suitability of the alternate. The building official may, but is not required to, record the approval of modifications and any relevant information in the files of the building official or on the approved permit plans.

 R104.12 Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with any of the provisions of this code or evidence that any material or construction does not conform to the requirements of this code, the building official may require tests as proof of compliance to be made at no expense to the City.

 Test methods shall be specified by this code or by other recognized test standards. If there are no recognized and accepted test methods for the proposed alternate, the building official shall determine the test procedures. All tests shall be made by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall be retained by the building official.

 R104.13 Rules of the Building Official.

 R104.13.1 Authority of Building Official. The building official has the power to render interpretations of this code and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations supplemental to this code as may be deemed necessary in order to clarify the application of the provisions of this code. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformity with the intent and purpose of this code. The building official is authorized to promulgate, adopt and issue the following rules:

 1. "Building Construction Standards" to promulgate standards which are acceptable as a method or as an alternative design for meeting code-required performance criteria, to recognize new technical data affecting code requirements and to eliminate conflicts among code requirements.

 2. "Code Interpretations" to interpret and clarify conditions or language expressed in this code.

 3. Any other rule necessary for the administration of the purpose and intent of this code.

 R104.13.2 Procedure for Adoption of Rules. The building official shall promulgate, adopt and issue rules according to the procedures as specified in Chapter 3.02 of the Administrative Code, Seattle Municipal Code.

 R104.14 Appeals. Appeals from decisions or actions pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this code shall be addressed to the building official according to Seattle Building Code Section 104.18.

~~~~SECTION R105

 BUILDING PERMITS

 R105.1 Permits Required. It is unlawful to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, change the occupancy of, or demolish any building or structure in the City, or allow the same to be done, without first obtaining a building permit for each such building or structure from the building official. All work shall comply with this code, even where no permit is required.

 R105.2 Work Exempt from Permit. A building permit shall not be required for the work listed below. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of the City.

 1. Minor repairs or alterations which, as determined by the building official, cost the owner $4,000 or less in any 6-month period. Such repairs and alterations shall not include the removal, reduction, alteration, or relocation of any loadbearing support. Egress, light, ventilation, and fire-resistance shall not be reduced.

 2. Miscellaneous work including the following, provided no changes are made to the building envelope: patio and concrete slabs on grade, painting or cleaning a building, repointing a chimney, installing kitchen cabinets, paneling or other surface finishes over existing wall and ceiling systems, insulating existing buildings, abatement of hazardous materials, and in-kind or similar replacement of or repair of deteriorated members of a structure.

 3. One-story detached accessory buildings used for greenhouse, tool or storage shed, playhouse, or similar uses, provided:

 3.1 The projected roof area does not exceed 120 square feet; and

 3.2 The building is not placed on a concrete foundation other than a slab on grade.

 4. Fences not over 8 feet high which do not have masonry or concrete elements above 6 feet.

 5. Arbors and other open-framed landscape structures not exceeding 120 square feet in projected area.

 6. Retaining walls and rockeries which are not over 4 feet in height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, provided:

 6.1 There is no surcharge or impoundment of Class I, II or III-A liquids.

 6.2 Construction is not in a critical area or an environmentally sensitive area, nor supports soils in areas of geologic hazard, steep slope or having landslide potential as identified in the environmentally sensitive and critical area regulations contained in Chapters 25.05 and 25.09 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 6.3 Possible failure would likely cause no damage to adjoining property or structures.

 7. Platforms, walks and driveways not more than 18 inches above grade and not over any basement or story below.

 8. Window awnings supported by an exterior wall when projecting not more than 54 inches.

 9. Prefabricated swimming pools, spas and similar equipment accessory to a building subject to this code in which the pool walls are entirely above the adjacent grade and if the capacity does not exceed 5,000 gallons.

 10. Replacement of roofing materials and siding. This shall not include structural changes, replacement of sheathing or alterations to doors and windows. Existing roof sheathing may be replaced and roof structure may be repaired without permit provided no changes are made to the building envelope other than adding or replacing insulation, and the work is equivalent or better than the existing structure. See Energy Code Sections 101.3.2.5 and 1132.1 for insulation requirements for existing buildings.

 11. Private playground equipment including tree houses.

 12. Removal and/or replacement of underground storage tanks that are subject to regulation by a state or federal agency.

 Note: A Fire Department permit is required for removal, replacement and decommissioning of underground storage tanks.

 13. Installation of dish and panel antennas 6.56 feet (2 m) or less in diameter or diagonal measurement.

 14. Portable heating appliances, portable ventilating equipment, and portable cooling units, provided that the total capacity of these portable appliances shall not exceed 40 percent of the cumulative heating, cooling or ventilating requirements of a building or dwelling unit and shall not exceed 3 kW or 10,000 Btu input.

 15. Any closed system of steam, hot or chilled water piping within heating or cooling equipment regulated by this code.

 16. Minor work or the replacement of any component part of a mechanical system which does not alter its original approval and complies with other applicable requirements of this code.

 R105.3 Other Permits Required. Unless otherwise exempted by this or other pertinent codes, separate master use, plumbing, electrical and mechanical permits shall be required for the above exempted items.

 R105.4 Flood Hazard Areas. In addition to the permit required by this section, all work to be performed in areas of special flood hazard, as identified in the report entitled "Flood Insurance Study for King County, Washington and Incorporated Areas" and the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and filed in C.F. 295948, is subject to additional standards and requirements, including floodplain development approval or a Floodplain Development License, as set forth in Chapter 25.06, the Seattle Floodplain Development Ordinance.

 R105.5 Application for Permit

 R105.5.1 Application. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished by the Department of Planning and Development for that purpose. Every such application shall:

 1. Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which application is made.

 2. Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal description, property address or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.

 3. Provide the contractor's business name, address, phone number and current contractor registration number (required if contractor has been selected).

 4. Be accompanied by plans, and other data as required in Section 105.5.2.

 5. State the valuation of any new building or structure or any addition, remodeling or alteration to an existing building including cost breakdown between additions and alterations.

 6. Be signed by the owner of the property or building, or the owner's authorized agent who may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.

 7. Give such other data and information as may be required by the building official, including, but not limited to, master use and shoreline permits and building identification plans.

 8. Indicate the name of the owner and contractor and the name, address and phone number of a contact person.

 9. Substantially conform with the Land Use Code, critical areas regulations and residential code regulations in effect on the date that the application is submitted.

 R105.5.2 Plans and Specifications.

 R105.5.2.1 General. Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams and other data shall be submitted in two or more sets with each application for a permit.

 EXCEPTION: The building official may waive the submission of plans, calculations, diagrams and other data, if he/she finds that the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.

 R105.5.2.2 Preparation by Licensed Professionals. Plans, computations and specifications for all work shall be prepared and designed by or under the direct supervision of an architect or structural engineer licensed to practice under the laws of the State of Washington. Plans and specifications for work not involving structural design shall be prepared by a professional engineer or architect qualified in the proposed work. Each sheet of plans shall bear the seal and the signature of the licensee.

 EXCEPTION: When authorized by the building official, plans and specifications need not be prepared by an engineer or architect licensed by the State of Washington for the following:

 1. One- and two-family detached dwellings and accessory structures.

 2. New construction, additions, alterations or repairs of conventional light-frame construction, and nonstructural alterations having a total valuation of less than $30,000 excluding the value of electrical and mechanical systems, fixtures, equipment, interior finish and millwork

 3. The building official may accept the design of a licensed professional engineer for assembly line products or designed specialty structural products.

 4. Other work as specified in rules promulgated by the Director.

 R105.5.2.3 Clarity of Plans. Plans shall be drawn to a clearly indicated and commonly accepted scale upon substantial paper such as blueprint quality or standard drafting paper. Tissue paper, posterboard or cardboard will not be accepted. The plans shall be of microfilm quality and limited to a minimum size of 18 inches by 18 inches and a maximum size of 41 inches by 54 inches.

 EXCEPTION: The plans for metal plate connected wood trusses may be not less than 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches for detached single family structures and no less than 11 inches by 17 inches for all other structures.

 R105.5.2.4 Information Required on Plans. Plans shall include the following, as applicable:

 1. A plot plan showing the width of streets, alleys, yards and courts.

 2. The location, floor area, story, height, and use as defined by the Land Use Code of the proposed building and of every existing building on the property.

 3. Types of heating and air conditioning systems.

 4. Architectural plans, including floor plans, elevations and door and finish schedules showing location of all doors, windows, mechanical equipment, shafts, pipes, vents and ducts.

 5. Structural plans, including foundation plan and framing plans.

 6. Cross-sections and construction details for both architectural and structural plans including wall sections, foundation, floor and roof details, connections of structural members and types of construction material.

 7. Topographic plans, including original and final contours, location of all buildings and structures on and, when required by the building official, adjacent to the site, and cubic yards of cut and fill.

 A survey of the property prepared by a land surveyor licensed by the State of Washington is required for all new construction, and for additions or accessory buildings where the building official has reason to believe that there may be an intrusion into required open areas or over the property line.

 8. Where any building or structure is to be erected or constructed on property abutting an unimproved or partially improved street or alley, the plans shall also include a profile showing the established or proposed grade of the street or alley, based upon information obtained from the Director of Transportation relating to the proposed finished elevations of the property and improvements thereon.

 R105.5.2.5 Information on First Sheet. The first or general note sheet of each set of plans shall specify the following, as applicable:

 1. The building and street address of the work.

 2. The name and address of the owner and person who prepared the plans.

 3. Legal description of the property.

 4. Type of occupancy of all parts of the building as defined in this code including notation of fixed fire protection devices or systems.

 5. Zoning classification of the property and existing and proposed uses of the structure as defined in the Land Use Code.

 6. Number of stories above grade and the number of basements as defined in this code.

 7. Variances, conditional uses, special exceptions, including project numbers, approval and approval extension dates.

 R105.5.2.6 Structural Notes. Plans submitted for buildings with more than two stories, buildings of more than 4,500 square feet total floor area or buildings or other structures that are determined by the building official to embody hazards or complex structural concepts shall include applicable information including, but not limited to, the following:

 1. Design loads: Snow load, live loads and live load reductions and lateral loads.

 2. Foundations: Foundation investigations, allowable bearing pressure for spread footings, allowable load capacity of piles, pile driving formulas, lateral earth pressure;

 3. Soil fill and back fill: Type, compaction and drainage;

 4. Masonry: Type and strength of units, strength or proportions of mortar and grout, type and strength of reinforcement, method of testing, design strength;

 5. Wood: Species or species groups, and grades of sawn lumber, glued-laminated lumber, plywood and assemblies, type of fasteners;

 6. Concrete: Design strengths, mix designs, type and strength of reinforcing steel, welding of reinforcing steel, restrictions, if any;

 7. Steel and aluminum: Specification types, grades and strengths, welding electrode types and strengths;

 8. Assignment of responsibilities for inspection and testing during construction, and the degree of inspection and testing;

 9. Computations, stress diagrams, shop and fabrication drawings and other data sufficient to show the adequacy of the plans shall be submitted when required by the building official.

 In lieu of detailed structural notes the building official may approve minor references on the plans to a specific section or part of this code or other ordinances or laws.

 R105.6 Permit Issuance

 R105.6.1 General. The application, plans, specifications and other data filed by an applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the building official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of the City to check compliance with the laws and ordinances under their jurisdiction. The building official shall mail notice to or otherwise notify the applicant within twenty-eight days of application if additional information is required and what additional information is required before the application will be complete. Within fourteen days of receiving the additional information, the building official shall notify the applicant in writing whether the application is now complete or what additional information is necessary. An application shall be deemed to be complete if the building official does not notify the applicant in writing by the deadlines in this section that the application is incomplete. The Director shall approve, condition or deny the application within 120 days as that time period is calculated pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090. If the building official finds that the work as described in an application for permit and the plans, specifications and other data filed therewith substantially conforms to the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances and that the fees specified in the Fee Subtitle have been paid, he/she shall issue a permit therefore to the applicant who becomes the permit holder or authorized agent.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. The building official may issue a permit for the construction of part of a building or structure before complete plans for the whole building or structure have been submitted or approved, provided that the proposed project complies with the State Environmental Policy Act as adopted by the City (Chapter 25.05 Seattle Municipal Code) and as amended and the Land Use Code, as amended; and provided further that adequate information and plans have been filed and checked to assure compliance with all pertinent requirements of this and other pertinent codes. The holder of such a permit shall proceed at his/her own risk without the assurance that the permit for the entire building or structure will be granted.

 2. After approval of a Master Use Permit as required by the Land Use Code, a permit for excavation may be issued.

 The building official may condition a permit where he/she determines that risks associated with development, construction, ownership and occupation in areas of the city, including, but not limited to potential slide areas, can be reduced to an acceptable level. The building official may deny such permit where he/she determines that the risks cannot be reduced to an acceptable level.

 R105.6.2 Compliance with Approved Plans and Permit. When the building official issues a permit, he/she shall endorse the permit in writing and endorse in writing or stamp the plans APPROVED. Such approved plans and permit shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the building official, and all work shall be done in accordance with the approved plans and permit except as the building official may require during field inspection to correct errors or omissions.

 R105.6.3 Amendments to the Permit. When substitutions or changes are made during construction, approval shall be secured prior to execution. However, the building inspector may approve minor modifications to the plans for work not reducing the structural strength or fire and life safety of the structure. The building inspector shall determine if it is necessary to revise the approved plans. Substitutions, changes and clarifications shall be shown on two sets of plans which shall be submitted to and approved by the building official, accompanied by fees specified in the Fee Subtitle prior to occupancy. These substitutions and changes shall conform to the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances.

 R105.6.4. Cancellation of Permit Application. Applications may be cancelled if no permit is issued by the earlier of the following: (1) within twelve months following the date of application; or (2) within sixty days from the date of written notice of approval for issuance. Plans and other data submitted for review may thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed by the building official.

 The building official shall notify the applicant in writing at least thirty days before the application is cancelled. The notice shall specify a date by which a request for extension must be submitted. The date shall be at least two weeks prior to the date on which the application will be cancelled.

 At the discretion of the building official, applications for projects that require more than twelve months to complete may be extended for a period that provides reasonable time to complete the work, but in no case longer than twenty-four months from the date of application. No application shall be extended more than once. In order to renew action on an application after cancellation, the applicant shall submit a new application and pay a new fee.

 Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, applications may be extended where issuance of the permit is delayed by litigation, preparation of environmental impact statements, appeals, strikes or other causes related to the application that are beyond the applicant's control, or while the applicant is making progress toward issuance of a master use permit.

 See the Fee Subtitle for fee refunds.

 R105.7 Retention of Plans. One set of approved plans, which may be on microfilm, shall be retained by the building official. One set of approved plans shall be returned to the applicant and shall be kept at the site of the building or work at all times during which the work authorized is in progress for use by the inspection personnel.

 R105.8 Validity of Permit. The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or other pertinent laws and ordinances. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which it authorizes is lawful.

 The issuance of a permit based upon plans shall not prevent the building official from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in said plans or from preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this code or of other pertinent laws and ordinances of the City.

 The issuance of a building permit shall not prevent the building official from requiring correction of conditions found to be in violation of this code or other pertinent laws and ordinances of the City, nor shall the period of time for which any such permit is issued be construed to extend or otherwise affect any period of time for compliance specified in any notice or order issued by the building official or other administrative authority requiring the correction of any such conditions.

 R105.9 Expiration and Renewal.

 R105.9.1 Expiration. Permits and renewed permits shall expire eighteen months from the date of issuance.

 EXCEPTION: Permits which expire in less than eighteen months may be issued where the building official determines a shorter period is appropriate.

 R105.9.2 Renewal. Permits may be renewed and renewed permits may be further renewed by the building official provided the following conditions are met:

 1. Application for renewal shall be made within the thirty-day period immediately preceding the date of expiration of the permit; and

 2. If the permit has had an associated discretionary Land Use review,

 2.1 the Land Use application was approved for issuance five years or less before the date of the application for renewal; or

 2.2 the work authorized by the permit has been started and is substantially underway. "Substantially underway" means that work such as excavation, inspections, and installation of framing, electrical, mechanical and finish work is being completed on a continuing basis.

 3. If an application for renewal is made either more than eighteen months after the date of mandatory compliance with a new or revised edition of the building code or after the effective date of an amendment to applicable provisions of the Land Use Code or the Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas, the permit shall not be renewed unless:

 3.1 The building official determines that the permit complies, or is modified to comply, with the code or codes in effect on the date of application renewal; or

 3.2 The work authorized by the permit is substantially underway and progressing at a rate approved by the building official. "Substantially underway" means that work such as excavation, inspections, and installation of framing, electrical, mechanical and finish work is being completed on a continuing basis.

 Permits may also be renewed where commencement or completion of the work authorized by the permit is delayed by litigation, appeals, strikes or other causes related to the work authorized by the permit, beyond the permit holder's control.

 Note: In addition to satisfying the provisions of this section, an applicant seeking to renew a building permit for new or additional development in a landslide-prone area, as described in the Environmentally Critical Areas (ECA) Ordinance, (SMC 25.09), must satisfy Section 25.09.345 of the ECA Ordinance, Permit Renewals in Landslide-prone Areas.

 R105.9.3 Reestablishment. A new permit shall be required to complete work where a permit has expired and was not renewed.

 EXCEPTION: A permit which has been expired for less than one year may be reestablished upon approval of the building official provided it complies with Section 105.9.2, Items 2 and 3 above.

 R105.9.4 Suspension or Revocation. The building official may, by written order, suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any provisions of this code.

 SECTION R106

 FEES

 A fee for each building permit and for other activities related to the enforcement of this code shall be paid as set forth in the Fee Subtitle.

 SECTION R108

 INSPECTIONS

 R108.1 General. All construction or work for which a permit is required is subject to inspection by the building official.

 A survey of the lot may be required by the building official to verify compliance of the structure with approved plans.

 R108.2 Inspection Requests. It is the duty of the owner of the property or the owner's authorized agent, or the person designated by the owner/agent to do the work authorized by a permit, to notify the building official that work requiring inspection as specified in this section is ready for inspection.

 It is the duty of the person requesting any inspection required by this code to provide access to and means for proper inspection of such work. It is the duty of the permit holder to cause the work to be accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved by the building official. Neither the building official nor the City shall be liable for expense entailed in the required removal or replacement of any material to allow inspection.

 R108.3 Inspection Record. Work requiring a permit shall not be commenced until the permit holder or his/her agent has posted an inspection record in a conspicuous place on the premises and in a position which allows the building official to conveniently make the required entries thereon regarding inspection of the work. This record shall be maintained in such a position by the permit holder until final approval has been granted by the building official.

 R108.4 Approvals Required. No work shall be done on any part of the building or structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the written approval of the building official. Such written approval shall be given only after an inspection has been made of each successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the inspections required in Section 108.5.

 There shall be a final inspection and approval of all buildings when completed and ready for occupancy.

 Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of other pertinent laws and ordinances of the City. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other pertinent laws and ordinances of the City shall not be valid.

 R108.5 Required Inspections.

 R108.5.1 General. No required reinforcing steel or structural framework of any part of any building or structure shall be covered or concealed in any manner whatsoever without first obtaining the approval of the building official.

 EXCEPTION: Modular homes and commercial coaches identified by State of Washington stickers as specified in Section 106.10.3 of the Seattle Building Code and placed upon a permanent foundation approved and inspected by the building official.

 The building official, upon notification by the permit holder or his/her agent, of the property address and permit number, shall make the following inspections and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify the permit holder or his/her agent where the construction fails to comply with the law.

 R108.5.2 Site Inspection: To be made at the time land-disturbing activity begins, following installation of erosion control measures and fencing of required slope, riparian or other buffer delineations which may restrict land disturbance.

 Note: The purpose of this inspection is to verify the erosion control method, location and proper installation. Approved drainage plan requirements and site plan conditions will also be verified.

 R108.5.2 Foundation Inspection: To be made after trenches are excavated and forms erected and when all materials for the foundation are delivered on the job. Where concrete from a central mixing plant (commonly termed "ready mix") is to be used, materials need not be on the job.

 R108.5.3 Concrete Slab or Under-floor Inspection: To be made after all in-slab or under-floor building service equipment, conduit, piping accessories and other ancillary equipment items are in place but before any concrete is poured or floor sheathing installed, including the subfloor.

 R108.5.4 Frame Inspection: To be made after the roof, all framing, fire-blocking and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys and vents are complete and the rough electrical, plumbing, and heating wires, pipes and ducts are approved.

 R108.5.5 Insulation Inspection: To be made after all insulation and vapor barriers are in place but before any gypsum board or plaster is applied.

 R108.5.6 Lath and/or Gypsum Board Inspection: For shear walls, to be made after lathing and/or gypsum board, interior and exterior, is in place, but before any plastering is applied or before gypsum board joints and fasteners are taped and finished.

 R108.5.7 Final Inspection: To be made after finish grading and the building is completed and before occupancy.

 R108.6 Other Inspections. In addition to the called inspections specified above, the building official may make or require any other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances which are enforced by the building official.

 Where work for which any permit or approval is required, is commenced or performed prior to making formal application and receiving the building official's permission to proceed, the building official may make a special investigation inspection before a permit may be issued for such work. Where a special investigation is made, a special investigation fee may be assessed in accordance with the Fee Subtitle.

 R108.7 Reinspections. The building official may require a reinspection when work for which inspection is called is not complete, corrections called for are not made, the inspection record is not properly posted on the work site, the approved plans are not readily available to the inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is requested, or when deviations from plans which require the approval of the building official have been made without proper approval.

 For the purpose of determining compliance with Seattle Building Code Section 3402 the building official or the fire chief may cause any structure to be reinspected.

 The building official may assess a reinspection fee as set forth in the Fee Subtitle for any action listed above for which reinspection may be required.

 In instances where reinspection fees have been assessed, no additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees have been paid.

 R108.8 Approval for Occupancy. Except for alterations and additions, no building or structure subject to this code shall be occupied until approved for occupancy after final inspection. Final inspection shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or other pertinent laws and ordinances of the City. Certificates presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other pertinent laws and ordinances of the City shall not be valid.

 Section 3. Section R202 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 The following terms and definitions are added and amended

[W] ADULT FAMILY HOME means a dwelling in which a person or persons provide personal care, special care, room and board to more than one but not more than six adults who are not related by blood or marriage to the person or persons providing the services.

[B] BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with the administration and enforcement of this code.

Interpretation R202.B: The building official is the Director of the Department of Planning and Development. As used in this code, the term includes authorized representatives of the Director of the Department of Planning and Development.  BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION, FULLY COMPLETE, is an application which the building official has judged to meet the requirements of Section 105.5. It shall be the application for all the architectural and structural parts of a building, except when the building official allows application for portions of buildings the application shall be at least the complete structural frame.

 [W] CHILD DAY CARE means the care of children during any period of a 24 hour day.

 [W] CHILD DAY CARE HOME, FAMILY is a child day care facility, licensed by the state, located in the dwelling of the person or persons under whose direct care and supervision the child is placed, for the care of twelve or fewer children, including children who reside at the home.

 CITY. The City of Seattle.

 DIRECTOR. See "building official."

 FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE. The distance measured from the building face to the closest interior lot line, to the ~~centerline~~opposite side of a street, alley or public way, or to an imaginary line between two buildings on the property. The distance shall be measured at right angles from the lot line.

 JURISDICTION. The ~~governmental unit that has adopted this code under due legislative authority~~City of Seattle.

 LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY is any activity that results in a movement of earth, or a change in the existing soil cover (both vegetative and nonvegetative) or the existing topography. Land-disturbing activities include, but are not limited to, clearing, grading, filling, excavation or addition or replacement of impervious surface.

 [B] MEZZANINE, LOFT. An intermediate level or levels between the floor and ceiling of any story with an aggregate floor area of not more than ~~one-third~~one-half of the area of the room or space in which the level or levels are located.

 [B] STORY ABOVE GRADE. Any story having its finished floor surface entirely above grade, except that a basement shall be considered as a story above grade where the finished surface of the floor above the basement is:

 1. More than 6 feet (1829 mm) above grade plane~~.~~;

 2. More than 6 feet (1829 mm) above the finished ground level for more than 50 percent of the total building perimeter~~.~~; or

 3. More than 12 feet (3658 mm) above the finished ground level ~~at any point~~for more than 25 feet (7620 mm) of the perimeter. Required driveways up to 22 feet (6706 mm) shall not be considered in calculating the 25 foot distance if there is at least 10 feet (3048 mm) between the driveway and all portions of the 25-foot area. See Figure R202.

UNUSUALLY TIGHT CONSTRUCTION. Construction meeting the following requirements:

 1. Walls comprising the building thermal envelope have a continuous water vapor retarder with a rating of 1 perm [57.4 ng/(s - m2 - Pa)] or less with openings therein gasketed or sealed.

 2. Doors and openable windows meet the air leakage requirements of IECC Section 502.1.4.1; and

 3. Caulking or sealants are applied to areas such as joints around window and door frames between sole plates and floors, between wall- ceiling joints, between wall panels, at penetrations for plumbing, electrical and gas lines, and at other openings.

[W] 4. Buildings built in compliance with the 1986 or later editions of the Washington State Energy Code chapter 51-11 WAC, Northwest Energy Code, or Super Good Cents weatherization standards or equivalent.  Interpretation R202.U: Buildings in compliance with the 1986 or later edition of the Seattle Energy Code or Built Smart weatherization standards are considered unusually tight construction.

 WATER HEATER. Any heating appliance or equipment that heats potable water and supplies such water to the potable hot water distribution system.

Interpretation R202.W: "Water heater" includes only those appliances which do not exceed pressure of 160 pounds per square inch, volume of 120 gallons and a heat input of 200,000 Btu/hr.

 a + b = 25'

 Lowest level may be a basement below grade if all these are met

 c = 10'

 d = 22'

 Figure R202

 Section 4. Subsection Table R301.2(1) is amended as follows:...

 TABLE R301.2(1)

 CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA

 GROUND WIND SEISMIC SUBJECT TO DAMAGE FROM WINTER ICE FLOOD AIR MEAN SNOW SPEEDe DESIGN SHIELD HAZARDSh FREEZING ANNUA LOAD DESIGN TEMPf UNDER- INDEXj L (mph) CATEGOR LAYMENT TEMPk Yg REQUIREDi

 Weather Fros Termi Decayd inga t tec line

 dept hb

 25 85 D2 moderat 12" none slight 24 degrees No (a) 1989 250 52.8 psf e to to (b) May 16, sligh moderat 1995 t e

 For SI: 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479 kN/m2, 1 mile per hour = 1.609 km/h.

 a. Weathering may require a higher strength concrete or grade of masonry than necessary to satisfy the structural requirements of this code. The weathering column shall be filled in with the weathering index (i.e., "negligible", "moderate" or "severe") for concrete as determined from the Weathering Probability Map [Figure R301.2(3)]. The grade of masonry units shall be determined from ASTM C 34, C 55, C 62, C 73, C 90, C 129, C 145, C 216 or C 652.

 b. The frost line depth may require deeper footings than indicated in Figure R403.1(1). The ~~jurisdiction shall fill in the~~ frost line depth ~~column with~~is the minimum depth of footing below finish grade.

 c. The ~~jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with "very heavy," "moderate to heavy," "slight to moderate," or "none to slight"~~termite damage criteria is determined in accordance with Figure R301.2(6) depending on whether there has been a history of local damage.

 d. The ~~jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with "moderate to severe," "slight to moderate," or "none to slight"~~ decay criteriais determined in accordance with Figure R301.2(7) depending on whether there has been a history of local damage.

 e. The ~~jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the~~ wind speed is from the basic wind speed map [Figure R301.2(4)]. Wind exposure category shall be determined on a site- specific basis in accordance with Section R301.2.1.4.

 f. ~~The outdoor design dry-bulb temperature shall be selected from the columns of 971/2-percent values for winter from Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code. Deviations from the Appendix D temperatures shall be permitted to reflect local climates or local weather experience as determined by the building official.~~The winter design temperature is derived from the Seattle Energy Code.

 g. The ~~jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the~~ Seismic Design Category is determined from Section R301.2.2.1.

 h. ~~The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with~~Item (a) is the date of ~~the jurisdiction's~~ Seattle's entry into the National Flood Insurance Program (date of adoption of the first code or ordinance for management of flood hazard areas), and Item (b) is the date(s) of the currently effective FIRM and FBFM, or other flood hazard map adopted by the community, as may be amended.

 i. In accordance with Sections R905.2.7.1, R905.4.3, R905.5.3, R905.6.3, R905.7.3 and R905.8.3, for areas where the average daily temperature in January is 25 degrees F ( -4 degrees C ) or less, or where there has been a history of local damage from the effects of ice damming, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with "YES". Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with "NO".

 j. The ~~jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with~~~~the~~ 100-year return period air freezing index (BF-days) is determined from Figure R403.3(2) or from the 100-year (99%) value on the National Climatic Data Center data table "Air Freezing Index- USA Method (Base 32 degrees Fahrenheit)" at www.ncdc.noaa.gov/fpsf.html.

 k. The ~~jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the~~ mean annual temperature is determined from the National Climatic Data Center data table "Air Freezing Index-USA Method (Base 32 degrees Fahrenheit)" at www.ncdc.noaa.gov/fpsf.html.

 Section 5. Subsection R302.1 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R302.1 Exterior walls. Exterior walls with a fire separation distance less than 3 feet (914 mm) shall have not less than a one-hour fire- resistive rating with exposure from both sides. Projections shall not extend to a point closer than 2 feet (610 mm) from the line used to determine the fire separation distance.

 Exception: Detached garages accessory to a dwelling located within 2 feet of a lot line shall be permitted to have roof eave projections not exceeding 4 inches.

 Projections extending into the fire separation distance shall have not less than one-hour fire-resistive construction on the underside. The above provisions shall not apply to walls which are perpendicular to the line used to determine the fire separation distance.

 Exception: ~~Tool~~Greenhouses, tool and storage sheds, playhouses and similar structures exempted from permits by R105.2 are not required to provide wall protection based on location on the lot. Projections beyond the exterior wall shall not extend over the lot line.

Interpretation I302.1: For purposes of Section R302.1, gutters 6 inches or less in width  that are not an integral part of the structure are not considered projections.

 Section 6. A new subsection R302.4 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is added to read as follows:

 R302.4 Fire Service Features. Buildings shall comply with the provisions for fire department access and fire protection water supplies (hydrants) of Chapter 5 of the International Fire Code.

 Section 7. Subsections R303.1 through R303.5 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, are amended as follows:

 R303.1 Habitable rooms. All habitable rooms shall be provided with aggregate glazing area of not less than 8 percent of the floor area of such rooms. Ventilation shall comply with the Washington State Ventilation and Indoor Air Quality Code.~~Natural ventilation shall be through windows, doors, louvers or other approved openings to the outdoor air. Such openings shall be provided with ready access or shall otherwise be readily controllable by the building occupants. The minimum openable area to the outdoors shall be 4 percent of the floor area being ventilated.~~

 Exception~~s~~:~~~~~~1. The glazed areas need not be openable where the opening is not required by Section R310 and an approved mechanical ventilation system is provided capable of producing 0.35 air change per hour in the room or a whole-house mechanical ventilation system is installed capable of supplying outdoor ventilation air of 15 cubic feet per minute (cfm) (7.08 L/s) per occupant computed on the basis of two occupants for the first bedroom and one occupant for each additional bedroom.~~2.

 The glazed areas need not be provided in rooms where ~~Exception 1 above is satisfied and~~ artificial light is provided capable of producing an average illumination of 6 footcandles (6.46 lux) over the area of the room at a height of 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor level.

 R303.2 Adjoining rooms. For the purpose of determining light ~~and ventilation~~ requirements, any room shall be considered as a portion of an adjoining room when at least one-half of the area of the common wall is open and unobstructed and provides an opening of not less than one-tenth of the floor area of the interior room but not less than 25 square feet (2.32 m2).

 Exception: Openings required for light ~~and/or ventilation~~ shall be permitted to open into a thermally isolated sunroom addition or patio cover, provided that there is an openable area between the adjoining room and the sunroom addition or patio cover of not less than one-tenth of the floor area of the interior room but not less than 20 square feet (1.86 m2). ~~The minimum openable area to the outdoors shall be based upon the total floor area being ventilated.~~

 R303.3 Bathrooms. Bathrooms, water closet compartments and other similar rooms shall be provided with aggregate glazing area in windows of not less than 3 square feet (0.279 m2), one-half of which must be openable.

 Exception: The glazed areas shall not be required where artificial light ~~and a mechanical ventilation system are~~is provided. ~~The minimum ventilation rates shall be 50 cfm (23.6 L/s) for intermittent ventilation or 20 cfm (9.4 L/s) for continuous ventilation. Ventilation air from the space shall be exhausted directly to the outside.~~

~~R303.4 Opening location. Outdoor intake and exhaust openings shall be located in accordance with Sections R303.4.1 and R303.4.2.~~R303.4.1 Intake openings. Mechanical and gravity outdoor air intake openings shall be located a minimum of 10 feet (3048 mm) from any hazardous or noxious contaminant, such as vents, chimneys, plumbing vents, streets, alleys, parking lots and loading docks, except as otherwise specified in this code. Where a source of contaminant is located within 10 feet (3048 mm) of an intake opening, such opening shall be located a minimum of 2 feet (610 mm) below the contaminant source.

 For the purpose of this section, the exhaust from dwelling unit toilet rooms, bathrooms and kitchens shall not be considered as hazardous or noxious.

 R303.4.2 Exhaust openings. Outside exhaust openings shall be located so as not to create a nuisance. Exhaust air shall not be directed onto walkways.

 R303.5 Outside opening protection. Air exhaust and intake openings that terminate outdoors shall be protected with corrosion-resistant screens, louvers or grilles having a minimum opening size of 1/4 inch (6.4 mm) and a maximum opening size of 1/2 inch (12.7 mm), in any dimension. Openings shall be protected against local weather conditions. Outdoor air exhaust and intake openings shall meet the provisions for exterior wall opening protectives in accordance with this code.

 Section 8. Subsection R303.8 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R303.8 Required heating. ~~When the winter design temperature in Table R301.2(1) is below 60 degrees F (16 degrees C), e~~Every dwelling unit shall be provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a minimum room temperature of 68 degrees F (20 degrees C) at a point 3 feet (914 mm) above the floor and 2 feet (610 mm) from exterior walls in all habitable rooms, baths and toilet rooms at the design temperature specified in Table R301.2(1). The installation of one or more portable space heaters shall not be used to achieve compliance with this section.

[W] R303.8.1 Definitions. For the purposes of Sections 303.8.1 through 303.8.3 only, the following definitions apply.  DESIGNATED AREAS are those areas designated by a county to be an urban growth area in chapter 36.70A RCW and those areas designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as being in nonattainment for particulate matter.

 SUBSTANTIALLY REMODELED means any alteration or restoration of a building exceeding 60 percent of the appraised value of such building within a 12 month period. For the purpose of this section, the appraised value is the estimated cost to replace the building and structure in kind, based on current replacement costs.

 R303.8.2 Primary Heating Source. Primary heating sources in all new and substantially remodeled buildings in designated areas shall not be dependent upon wood stoves.

 R303.8.3 Solid Fuel Burning Devices. No used solid fuel burning device shall be installed in new or existing buildings unless such device is United States Environmental Protection Agency certified or a pellet stove either certified or exempt from certification by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.

 Exception: Antique wood cook stoves and heaters manufactured prior to 1940.

 Section 9. Subsection R304.1 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R304.1 Minimum area. Every dwelling unit shall have at least one habitable common room that shall have not less than 120 square feet (11.2 m2) of gross floor area. Every room which is used for both cooking and living or both living and sleeping quarters shall have a floor area of not less than 130 square feet (12 m2) if used or intended to be used by only one occupant, or of not less than 150 square feet (14 m2) if used or intended to be used by more than one occupant. Where more than two persons occupy a room used for sleeping purposes, the required floor area shall be increased at the rate of 50 square feet (4.6 m2) for each occupant in excess of two. In a dormitory, minimum floor area shall be 60 square feet (5.5 m2) per single or double bunk and aisles not less than 3 feet (914 mm) in width shall be provided between the sides of bunks and from every bunk to an exit or exit-access doorway.

 Section 10. Section R306 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R306.1 Toilet facilities. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with a water closet, lavatory, and a bathtub or shower.

 R306.2 Kitchen. Each dwelling unit shall be provided with a kitchen area and every kitchen area shall be provided with a sink, hot and cold running water, counter work space, cabinets for storage of cooking utensils and dishes, and stove and refrigerator or adequate space for the installation of the stove and refrigerator. Splash backs and counter tops shall have impervious surfaces.

 R306.3 Sewage disposal. All plumbing fixtures shall be connected to a sanitary sewer or to an approved private sewage disposal system.

 R306.4 Water supply to fixtures. All plumbing fixtures shall be connected to an approved water supply. Kitchen sinks, lavatories, bathtubs, showers, bidets, laundry tubs and washing machine outlets shall be provided with hot and cold water.

R306.5 Access to Water Closets. The only access from a bedroom to a bathroom shall not be through another bedroom. No water closet shall be housed in any room or space used for the preparation of food nor shall a water closet compartment open directly, without a door, into any such room or space.

 Section 11. Subsection R310.1 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R310.1 Emergency escape and rescue required. Basements with habitable space and every sleeping room shall have at least one openable emergency escape and rescue opening. Where basements contain one or more sleeping rooms, emergency egress and rescue openings shall be required in each sleeping room, but shall not be required in adjoining areas of the basement. Where emergency escape and rescue openings are provided they shall have a sill height of not more than 44 inches (1118 mm) above the floor. Where a door opening having a threshold below the adjacent ground elevation serves as an emergency escape and rescue opening and is provided with a bulkhead enclosure, the bulkhead enclosure shall comply with Section 310.3. The net clear opening dimensions required by this section shall be obtained by the normal operation of the emergency escape and rescue opening from the inside. Emergency escape and rescue openings with a finished sill height below the adjacent ground elevation shall be provided with a window well in accordance with Section R310.2.

Interpretation R310.1: Because emergency escape and rescue openings are defined as providing "means of escape", they shall open directly into a public street or alley, or to a yard or court that provides access to a public street or alley. The court shall be open on at least one side or end.

 Section 12. Subsection R311.1 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R311.1 General. Stairways, ramps, exterior exit balconies, hallways and doors shall comply with this section.

[W] EXCEPTION: Stairs or ladders used in the interior of individual dwelling units to gain access to areas 200 square feet (18.6 m2) or less which do not contain the primary bathroom or kitchen are exempt from the requirements of Section R311.

 Section 13. Subsection R311.6 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R311.6 Ramps.

 R311.6.1 Maximum slope. Ramps shall have a maximum slope of one unit vertical in eight units horizontal (12.5-percent slope).

 R311.6.2 Landings required. A minimum 3-foot-by-3-foot (914 mm by 914 mm) landing shall be provided:

 1. At the top and bottom of ramps,

 2. Where doors open onto ramps,

 3. Where ramps change direction.

 R311.6.3 Handrails required. Handrails shall be provided on at least one side of all ramps exceeding a slope of one unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (8.33-percent slope).

 R311.6.3.1 Height. Handrail height, measured above the finished surface of the ramp slope, shall be not less than 34 inches (864 mm) and not more than 38 inches (965 mm).

 R311.6.3.2 Handrail grip size. Handrails on ramps shall comply with Section R311.5.6.3.

 R311.6.3.3 Continuity. Handrails where required on ramps shall be continuous for the full length of the ramp. Handrail ends shall be returned or shall terminate in newel posts or safety terminals. Handrails adjacent to a wall shall have a space of not less than 1.5 inches (38 mm) between the wall and the handrails. At least one handrail shall extend in the direction of ramp run not less than 12 inches (305 mm) horizontally beyond the top and bottom of the ramp runs.

 Section 14. Section R312 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R312.1 Guards required. Porches, balconies or raised floor surfaces located more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below shall have guards not less than 36 inches (914 mm) in height. Open sides of stairs with a total rise of more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below shall have guards not less than 34 inches (864 mm) in height measured vertically from the nosing of the treads.

 Porches and decks which are enclosed with insect screening shall be provided with guards where the walking surface is located more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below.

 R312.2 Guard opening limitations. Required guards on open sides of stairways, raised floor areas, balconies and porches shall have intermediate rails or ornamental closures which do not allow passage of a sphere 4 inches (102mm) or more in diameter.

 Exceptions:

 1. The triangular openings formed by the riser, tread and bottom rail of a guard at the open side of a stairway are permitted to be of such a size that a sphere 6 inches (152 mm) cannot pass through.

 2. Openings for required guards on the sides of stair treads shall not allow a sphere 43/8 inches (107 mm) to pass through.

Code Alternate R312.2: Intermediate rails need not be provided at the glazed sides of stairs, ramps and landings provided the glazing complies with Section R308.3.

 Section 15. Subsection R313.2 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 [F] R313.2 Power source. In new construction, the required smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the building wiring when such wiring is served from a commercial source, and when primary power is interrupted, shall receive power from a battery. Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch other than those required for overcurrent protection and arc-fault protection. Smoke alarms shall be permitted to be battery operated when installed in buildings without commercial power or in buildings that undergo alterations, repairs or additions regulated by Section R313.1.1.

 Section 16. A new Subsection R313.3 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is added to read as follows:

[W] R313.3 Family child day care homes. In family child day care homes operable smoke alarms shall be located in all sleeping and napping areas. When the family child day care home has more than one story, and in family child day care homes with basements, an operable smoke alarm shall be installed on each story and in the basement. In family child day care homes where a story or basement is split into two or more levels, the smoke alarm shall be installed in the upper level, except that when the lower level contains a sleeping or napping area, an operable smoke alarm shall be located on each level. When sleeping rooms are on an upper level, the smoke alarm shall be placed at the ceiling of the upper level in close proximity to the stairway. In family child day care homes where the ceiling height of a room open to the hallway serving the bedrooms exceeds that of the hallway by 24 inches or more, smoke alarms shall be installed in the hallway and the adjacent room. Smoke alarms shall sound an alarm audible in all areas of the building.

 Section 17. Subsection R321.1 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R321.1 Premises identification. Approved numbers or addresses shall be provided for all new buildings in such a position as to be plainly visible and legible from the street or road fronting the property.  Premises identification shall be provided in compliance with Building Code Section 501.2

 Section 18. Subsection R323.1 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R323.1 General. Buildings and structures constructed in flood hazard areas (including A or V Zones) as established in Table R301.2 (1) shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the provisions contained in this section and Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 25.09, the Seattle Floodplain Development Ordinance.

 Exception: All buildings and structures in identified floodways as established in Table R301.2 (1) shall be designed and constructed as stipulated in the International Building Code.

 R323.1.1 Structural systems. All structural systems of all buildings and structures shall be designed, connected and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or permanent lateral movement due to structural loads and stresses from flooding equal to the design flood elevation.

 R323.1.2 Flood-resistant construction. All buildings and structures erected in areas prone to flooding shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.

 R323.1.3 Establishing the design flood elevation. The design flood elevation shall be used to define areas prone to flooding, and shall describe, at a minimum, the base flood elevation at the depth of peak elevation of flooding (including wave height) which has a 1 percent (100-year flood) or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.

 R323.1.4 Lowest floor. The lowest floor shall be the floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement, but excluding any unfinished flood-resistant enclosure that is useable solely for vehicle parking, building access or limited storage provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the building or structure in violation of this section.

 R323.1.5 Protection of mechanical and electrical systems. Electrical systems, equipment and components, and heating, ventilating, air conditioning and plumbing appliances, plumbing fixtures, duct systems, and other service equipment shall be located at or above the design flood elevation. If replaced as part of a substantial improvement, electrical systems, equipment and components, and heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and plumbing appliances, plumbing fixtures, duct systems, and other service equipment shall meet the requirements of this section. Systems, fixtures, and equipment and components shall not be mounted on or penetrate through walls intended to break away under flood loads.

 Exception: Electrical systems, equipment and components, and heating, ventilating, air conditioning and plumbing appliances, plumbing fixtures, duct systems, and other service equipment are permitted to be located below the design flood elevation provided that they are designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components and to resist hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the occurrence of flooding to the design flood elevation in compliance with the flood-resistant construction requirements of the International Building Code. Electrical wiring systems are permitted to be located below the design flood elevation provided they conform to the provisions of the electrical part of this code for wet locations.

 R323.1.6 Protection of water supply and sanitary sewage systems. New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems in accordance with the plumbing provisions of this code. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into systems and discharges from systems into floodwaters in accordance with the plumbing provisions of this code and Chapter 3 of the International Private Sewage Disposal Code.

 R323.1.7 Flood-resistant materials. Building materials used below the design flood elevation shall comply with the following:

 1. All wood, including floor sheathing, shall be pressure preservatively treated in accordance with AWPA C1, C2, C3, C4, C9, C15, C18, C22, C23, C24, C28, P1, P2 and P3 or decay-resistant heartwood or redwood, black locust, or cedars.

 2. Materials and installation methods used for flooring and interior and exterior walls and wall coverings shall conform to the provisions of FEMA/FIA-TB-2.

 R323.1.8 Manufactured housing. New or replacement manufactured housing shall be elevated in accordance with Section R323.2 and the anchor and tie-down requirements of Sections AE604 and AE605 of Appendix E shall apply. The foundation and anchorage of manufactured housing to be located in identified flood ways as established in Table R301.2(1) shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the applicable provisions in the International Building Code.

 R323.1.9 As-built elevation documentation. A registered design professional shall prepare and seal documentation of the elevations specified in Section R323.2 or R323.3.

 Section 19. New subsections R324 through R329 are added to the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, to read as follows:

[W] SECTION R324

 ADULT FAMILY HOMES

 R324.1 General. This section applies to all newly constructed adult family homes and all existing single family homes being converted to adult family homes. This section shall not apply to those adult family homes licensed by the state of Washington Department of Social and Health Services prior to July 1, 2001.

 R324.2 Submittal Standards. In addition to those requirements in Section 105, the submittal shall identify the project as a Group R-3 Adult Family Home Occupancy. A floor plan shall be submitted identifying the means of egress and the components in the means of egress such as stairs, ramps, platform lifts and elevators. The plans shall indicate the rooms used for clients and the sleeping room classification of each room.

 R324.3 Sleeping Room Classification. Each sleeping room in an adult family home shall be classified as:

 1. Type S-where the means of egress contains stairs, elevators or platform lifts.

 2. Type NS1-where one means of egress is at grade level or a ramp constructed in accordance with R311.6 is provided.

 3. Type NS2-where two means of egress are at grade level or ramps constructed in accordance with R311.6 are provided.

 R324.4 Types of Locking Devices. All bedroom and bathroom doors shall be openable from the outside when locked. Every closet shall be readily openable from the inside.

 R324.5 Smoke Alarm Requirements. All adult family homes shall be equipped with smoke alarms installed as required in Section R313. Alarms shall be installed in such a manner so that the fire warning will be audible in all parts of the dwelling upon activation of a single device.

 R324.6 Escape Windows and Doors. Every sleeping room shall be provided with emergency escape and rescue windows as required by Section R310.

 R324.7 Fire Apparatus Access Roads and Water Supply for Fire Protection. Adult family homes shall be served by fire apparatus access roads and water supplies meeting the requirements of the Seattle Fire Code.

 [W] SECTION R325

 FAMILY CHILD DAY CARE HOMES

 R325 Family Child Day Care Homes. For family child day care homes with more than six children, each floor level used for family child day care purposes shall be served by two remote means of egress. Exterior exit doors shall be operable from the inside without the use of keys or any special knowledge or effort.

 Basements located more than 4 feet below grade level shall not be used for family child day care homes unless one of following conditions exist:

 1. Stairways from the basement open directly to the exterior of the building without entering the first floor; or

 2. One of the two required means of egress discharges directly to the exterior from the basement level, and a self closing door is installed at the top or bottom of the interior stair leading to the floor above; or

 3. One of the two required means of egress is an operable window or door, approved for emergency escape or rescue, that opens directly to a public street, public alley, yard or exit court; or

 4. A residential sprinkler system is provided throughout the entire building in accordance with National Fire Protection Association Standard 13D.

 Floors located more than 4 feet above grade level shall not be occupied by children in family day care homes.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. Use of toilet facilities while under supervision of an adult staff person.

 2. Family child day care homes may be allowed on the second story if one of the following conditions exists:

 2.1 Stairways from the second story open directly to the exterior of the building without entering the first floor; or

 2.2 One of the two required means of egress discharges directly to the exterior from the second story level, and a self-closing door is installed at the top or bottom of the interior stair leading to the floor below; or

 2.3 A residential sprinkler system is provided throughout the entire building in accordance with National Fire Protection Association Standard 13D.

 Every sleeping or napping room in a family child day care home shall have at least one operable window for emergency rescue.

 EXCEPTION: Sleeping or napping rooms having doors leading to two separate means of egress, or a door leading directly to the exterior of the building.

 Rooms or spaces containing a commercial-type cooking kitchen, boiler, maintenance shop, janitor closet, laundry, woodworking shop, flammable or combustible storage, or painting operation shall be separated from the family child day care area by at least one-hour fire-resistive construction.

 EXCEPTION: A fire-resistive separation shall not be required where the food preparation kitchen contains only a domestic cooking range, and the preparation of food does not result in the production of smoke or grease laden vapors.

 SECTION R326

 METHANE REDUCTION MEASURES

 R326.1 Applicability. This section applies to all construction activities on or within 1,000 feet (305 m) of an active, closed or abandoned landfill that has been identified by the building official to be generating levels of methane gas on-site at the lower explosive limits or greater levels. The distance shall be calculated from the location of the proposed structure to the nearest property line of the active or former landfill site. The building official may waive these requirements if technical studies demonstrate that dangerous amounts of methane are not present on the site.

 R326.2 Protection of Structures. All enclosed structures to be built within the 1,000 foot (305 m) landfill zone shall be protected from potential methane migration. The method for insuring a structure's protection from methane shall be addressed in a report prepared by a licensed civil engineer and submitted by the applicant to the department for approval. The report shall contain a description of the investigation and recommendations for preventing the accumulation of explosive concentrations of methane gas within or under enclosed portions of the building or structure. At the time of final inspection, the civil engineer shall furnish a signed statement attesting that, to the best of the engineer's knowledge, the building or structure has been constructed in accordance with the recommendations for addressing methane gas migration.

 SECTION R327

 Security from Criminal Activity

 327.1 Building entrance locks. Building entrance doors, including garage doors, shall be capable of locking. They shall be equipped with a dead-locking latch bolt with at least a 1/2-inch throw which penetrates the striker not less than 1/4 inch. Building entrance doors shall be openable from the inside without use of a key or special knowledge or effort.

 EXCEPTION: Garage-to-exterior doors may be equipped with an electronically-operated remote control device for opening and closing in lieu of a dead-locking latch bolt. When garage-to-exterior doors are equipped with remote control devices, garage-to-building doors need not be capable of locking.

 327.2. Observation Ports. Every building entrance door, other than garage doors, shall have a visitor observation port or glass side light. Observation ports shall be installed at a height of not less than 54 inches and not more than 66 inches from the floor.

 327.3. Windows and Sliding Doors. Dead bolts or other approved locking devices shall be provided on all sliding doors and openable windows. The lock shall be installed so that the mounting screws for the lock case are inaccessible from the outside.

 EXCEPTION: Windows whose sills are located 10 feet or more above grade, or 10 feet or more above a deck, balcony or porch that is not readily accessible from grade except through a housing unit need not have operable inside latching devices.

 327.4 Alternate security devices. Subject to the approval of the building official, alternate security devices may be substituted for those required by this section. Alternate devices must have equal capability to resist illegal entry. The installation of the device must not conflict with other requirements of this code and other ordinances regulating the safety of exiting.

 SECTION 328

 SOUND TRANSMISSION CONTROL

 R328.1 General. Wall and floor-ceiling assemblies separating dwelling units shall provide airborne sound insulation for walls, and both airborne and impact sound insulation for floor-ceiling assemblies.

 Joints in the perimeter of such separating wall or floor-ceiling assemblies shall be acoustically sealed with a permanent resilient material approved for such purpose. The separating wall or floor- ceiling assembly shall extend completely to and be sealed to another separating assembly or an exterior wall, roof or floor assembly.

 Conduits, ducts, pipes and vents within such wall or floor-ceiling assemblies causing vibration shall be reasonably isolated from the building construction at points of support by means of resilient sleeves, mounts or underlayments. All other openings through which such conduits, ducts, pipes or vents pass shall have the excess opening fully sealed with insulative and permanently resilient materials approved for such purpose.

 Design and materials for sound transmission control shall not impair the fire-resistive integrity of separating walls or floor-ceiling assemblies required to be of fire-resistive construction.

 R328.2 Airborne Sound. Airborne sound insulation for wall and floor- ceiling assemblies shall meet a Sound Transmission Class (STC) rating of 45 when tested in accordance with ASTM E 90.

 Electrical outlet boxes shall not be placed back-to-back and shall be offset by not less than 12 inches (305 mm) from outlets in the opposite wall surface. The back and sides of boxes shall be sealed with one-eighth-inch resilient sealant and backed by a minimum of 2- inch thick material fiber insulation or approved equivalent.

 R328.3 Structural-borne sound. Floor/ceiling assemblies between dwelling units or between a dwelling unit and a public or service area within a structure shall have an Impact Insulation Class (IIC) rating of not less than 50 when tested in accordance with ASTM E 492. Floor covering may be included in the assembly to obtain the required ratings.

~~~~EXCEPTION: Floor assemblies in bathrooms are not required to meet the IIC rating of 50 where structural concrete floor systems are used.

 R328.4 Tested Assemblies. Field- or laboratory-tested wall or floor- ceiling designs having an STC or IIC of 50 or more may be used without additional field testing when, in the opinion of the building official, the tested design has not been compromised by flanking paths. Tests may be required by the building official when evidence of compromised separations are noted. Wall or floor-ceiling designs field tested by ASTM E 336 having a minimum FSTC or FIIC rating of 45 may be used.

 R328.5 Field Testing and Certification. Field testing, when permitted to determine airborne sound transmission or impact sound insulation class, shall be done in accordance with ASTM E 492 under the supervision of an acoustical professional who is experienced in the field of acoustical testing and engineering and who shall forward certified test results to the building official that minimum sound insulation requirements stated above have been met.

 R328.7 Sound Transmission Control Systems. Generic systems as listed in GA 600-00 may be accepted where a laboratory test indicates that the requirements of Section 1206 are met by the system.

 SECTION R329

 FLOATING HOMES

 R329.1 Definitions. Certain words and terms used in this chapter, unless clearly inconsistent with their context, are defined as follows:

 FLOATING HOME is a building constructed on a float used in whole or in part for human habitation as a single-family dwelling which is moored, anchored or otherwise secured in waters.

 FLOATING HOME MOORAGE is a waterfront facility for the moorage of one or more floating homes and the land and water premises on which such facility is located.

 FLOATING HOME SITE is a part of a floating home moorage, located over water, and designed to accommodate one floating home.

 GARBAGE is all discarded putrescible waste matter, including small dead animals weighing not over 15 pounds (6.8kg), but not including sewage or human or animal excrement.

 SEWAGE is all water-carried waste discharged from the sanitary facilities of buildings occupied or used by people.

 R329.2 Moorage Location. Every floating home moorage shall be located on privately-owned or privately-controlled premises in accordance with the Land Use Code.

 R329.3 Land Access. Every floating home moorage shall have not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) of land frontage abutting a public street sufficiently improved for automobile travel.

 R329.4 Moorage Walkways. Every floating home moorage shall have firm and substantial walkways with a net width of not less than 4 feet (1219 mm) and extending from land to every floating home site in the moorage.

 R329.5 Moorage Lighting. Every floating home moorage and the walkways to every floating home site shall be illuminated to provide safe access. All luminaires shall be listed for the use.

 R329.6 Fire Protection. Floating home moorages shall be provided with fire extinguishing equipment as follows:

 1. Portable Fire-protection Equipment. One fire extinguisher, 2A, 20- B:C rating minimum, shall be provided in each required hose station. The fire chief shall designate the type and number of all other fire appliances to be installed and maintained in each floating home moorage.

 2. Standpipes. All portions of floats exceeding 250 feet (76 500 mm) in distance from fire apparatus access and marine service stations shall be provided with an approved wet standpipe system installed according to Section 905 and the Fire Code.

 2.1. Hose stations shall be spaced to provide protection to any portion of floats, floating homes or floating vessels. Hoses shall be mounted on a reel or rack and enclosed within an approved cabinet. Hose stations shall be labeled FIRE HOSE-EMERGENCY USE ONLY. All equipment shall meet the approval of the fire chief.

 2.2. At the shore end, the waterline shall be equipped with a single 2-1/2 inch (64 mm) fire department connection.

 2.3. Waterlines shall normally be dry where the area is subject to freezing temperatures.

 R329.7 Water Service Connections. Every floating home moorage shall have a water service connection and shall provide water service piping securely fastened and stabilized above water from such water service connection to an outlet connection at each floating home site on a floating home moorage. The water piping in every floating home in a floating home moorage shall be connected to the water service outlet serving such floating home and such connection shall be securely fastened and stabilized above high water line. Water service connections and water service piping shall be constructed, installed and maintained in accordance with applicable standards established by or pursuant to ordinance.

 R329.8 Public Sewer Connection. Every floating home moorage any part of which is within 300 feet (91 440 mm) of a public sewer and every floating home moorage on Shilshole Bay, Salmon Bay, Lake Washington Ship Canal, Lake Union, Portage Bay, Union Bay and that portion of Lake Washington lying within the City limits of Seattle shall have a lawfully-installed connection to a public sewer.

 R329.9 Local Side Sewer System. Every floating home moorage within the limits specified in Section R329.8 shall provide a local side sewer system for the collection of sewage from every floating home in the moorage. The local side sewer system shall be connected to the public sewer, shall have an inlet connection at each floating home site and shall be constructed, installed and maintained in accordance with this and all other applicable ordinances regulating the construction, alteration, repair and connection of side sewers.

 R329.10 Connection to Local Side Sewer System. Every floating home in a floating home moorage which is required under Section R329.8 to be connected to a public sewer shall be connected to the local side sewer system. Owners and operators of floating home moorages shall not permit any floating home to be moored at any moorage under their control unless the floating home is connected to the local side sewer system. It is unlawful for any person to use, occupy or let any floating home for human habitation within the limits specified in Section R329.8 unless it is connected to the sewer system.

 A reconnection permit shall be required for any floating home which is relocated from its original site of connection to a local side sewer system. Such reconnection shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Seattle Public Utilities as to compliance with this chapter.

 R329.11 Sewer Installation Fees. The fee for the installation of any side sewer serving a floating home moorage is the fee provided by law for the connection to the public sewer of side sewers serving mobile home parks.

 R329.12 Plumbing Systems. All plumbing and plumbing systems in every floating home shall meet the requirements of the Seattle Plumbing Code except as otherwise approved by the Director of Public Health in accordance with the Plumbing Code.

 R329.13 Garbage Disposal. Every floating home moorage shall be provided with adequate garbage storage and collection facilities which shall be located in an accessible place on the moorage site. No garbage or refuse shall be thrown or dumped into the waters.

 R329.14 Electrical Service and Wiring. Electrical service to floating homes and floating home moorages shall be provided as approved by the City Light Department. Electrical wiring and equipment in every floating home shall conform to requirements of the Electrical Code. No floating home shall be permitted to connect or reconnect to the electric utility's distribution system unless approved for such connection by the building official in accordance with the Electrical Code.

 R329.15 New Construction. All new construction of floating homes or major alterations thereto and all floating homes moved into city waters, excluding the structural members used for flotation, shall conform to the requirements for dwellings as set forth in this code and all other applicable codes and ordinances regulating the design, construction, use and occupancy of such buildings and the required installations therein.

 R329.16 Housing Standards for Existing Floating Homes. Every floating home shall comply with the minimum housing standards as set forth in the Seattle Housing and Building Maintenance Code except as otherwise approved by the building official in accordance with the Housing and Building Maintenance Code.

 R329.17. Property Lines. The boundaries of floating home moorage sites shall be considered the lot line for determining compliance with Section R302.

 Interpretation R329.17: For the purposes of determining the required wall and opening protection and roof-covering requirements, distance shall be measured to the exterior wall of the home, and not to the float.

 R329.18 Approval of Moorage Site Plan Required. Every floating home moorage shall continuously conform to a moorage site plan which has been approved by the building official. Such approval shall be obtained as follows: Three copies of the site plan, drawn to scale and completely dimensioned, and setting forth the address and legal description of the property on which the moorage is located and the name and address of the owner or operator of the moorage, shall be filed with the building official.

 The moorage site plan shall show:

 1. The dimensions of the floating home moorage site;

 2. The location of abutting public waterways;

 3. The location and dimensions of private waterways and land access to the moorage;

 4. The location and identification of individual floating home sites;

 5. The location and dimensions of off-street parking spaces;

 6. The location and dimensions of walkways and any accessory structures or facilities;

 7. The water service system;

 8. The local side sewer system; and

 9. The electrical service and lighting system.

 The site plan shall be examined by the building official, the fire chief, the Director of Public Health, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, and the Director of Transportation. Upon approval of a floating home moorage site plan by the fire chief, the Director of Public Health, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, and the Director of Transportation and upon being satisfied that the plan conforms to the requirements of this code and other applicable ordinances and is otherwise lawful, the building official shall approve such plan. One copy of the approved site plan shall be retained in the office of the building official, one copy in the office of the Director of Public Health, and one copy, which shall be maintained on the premises of the floating home moorage, shall be returned to the owner or operator.

 R329.19 Moorage Register of Ownership. Every owner or operator of a floating home moorage shall maintain a current register of every floating home moored on the premises, such register to record the name and address of the legal owner of each floating home and the registration number assigned to it by the King County Assessor. A copy of said register shall be made available upon request to any City department head referred to in this chapter or to his/her representative.

 Section 20. Subsections R1003.5 and R1003.6 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, are amended as follows:

 R1003.5 Firebox walls. Masonry fireboxes shall be constructed of solid masonry units, hollow masonry units grouted solid, stone or concrete. When a lining of firebrick at least 2 inches (51 mm) in thickness or other approved lining is provided, the minimum thickness of back and side walls shall each be 8 inches (203 mm) of solid masonry, including the lining. The width of joints between firebricks shall not be greater than 1/4 inch (6.4 mm). When no lining is provided, the ~~total minimum~~ thickness of back walls shall be not less than 8 inches, and the thickness of side walls shall be not less than~~10~~7 inches ~~254~~178 mm) of solid masonry. Firebrick shall conform to ASTM C 27 or C 1261 and shall be laid with medium duty refractory mortar conforming to ASTM C 199.

 R1003.6 Firebox dimensions. The firebox of a concrete or masonry fireplace shall have a minimum depth of 20 inches (508 mm). The throat shall not be less than 8 inches (203 mm) above the fireplace opening. The throat opening shall not be less than 4 inches (102 mm) in depth. The cross-sectional area of the passageway above the firebox, including the throat, damper and smoke chamber, shall not be less than the cross-sectional area of the flue.

 Exception: Rumford fireplaces shall be permitted provided that the depth of the fireplace is at least 12 inches (305 mm) and at least one-third of the width of the fireplace opening, that the throat is at least 12 inches (305 mm) above the lintel and is at least 1/20 the cross-sectional area of the fireplace opening.

Interpretation R1003.6: The depth of the firebox is measured from the back of the firebox to the finished face of the fireplace

 Section 21. Subsection R1003.9 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R1003.9 Hearth and hearth extension. Masonry fireplace hearths and hearth extensions shall be constructed of concrete or masonry, supported by noncombustible materials, and reinforced to carry their own weight and all imposed loads. No combustible material shall remain against the underside of hearths and hearth extensions after construction. The hearth slab shall be lined with at least 21/2 inches (64 mm) of firebrick and shall not beless than 6 inches (152 mm) in total thickness

 Section 22. Subsection R1004.4 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 R1004.4 Unvented gas log heaters. An unvented gas log heater shall not be installed in a factory-built fireplace unless the fireplace system has been specifically tested, listed and labeled for such use in accordance with UL 127.

[W] R1004.1.1 Emission Standards for Factory-built Fireplaces. After January 1, 1997, no new or used factory-built fireplace shall be installed in Washington state unless it is certified and labeled in accordance with procedures and criteria specified in the Washington State Building Code Standard 31-2.  To certify an entire fireplace model line, the internal assembly shall be tested to determine its particulate matter emission performance. Retesting and recertifying is required if the design and construction specifications of the fireplace model line internal assembly change. Testing for certification shall be performed by a Washington state department of ecology (DOE) approved and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) accredited laboratory.

 R1004.1.2 Emission Standards for Certified Masonry and Concrete Fireplaces. After January 1, 1997, new certified masonry or concrete fireplaces installed in Washington state shall be tested and labeled in accordance with procedures and criteria specified in the Washington State Building Code Standard 31-2.

 To certify an entire fireplace model line, the internal assembly shall be tested to determine its particulate matter emission performance. Retesting and recertifying is required if the design and construction specifications of the fireplace model line internal assembly change. Testing for certification shall be performed by a Washington state department of ecology (DOE) approved and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) accredited laboratory.

 Section 23. Subsection G2401.1 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 G2401.1 (101.2) Application. This chapter covers those fuel- gas piping systems, fuel-gas utilization equipment and related accessories, venting systems and combustion air configurations most commonly encountered in the construction of one- and two-family dwellings and structures regulated by this code.

 Exceptions:

1. As an alternative to the provisions of this code, fuel-gas piping systems, fuel-gas utilization equipment and related accessories in existing buildings that are undergoing repairs, alterations, changes in occupancy or construction of additions shall be permitted to comply with ~~the provisions of the International Existing Building Code~~Section 104 of the Seattle Fuel Gas Code.

[W] 2. The standards for liquefied petroleum gas installations shall be NFPA 58 (Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code) as amended and ANSI Z223.1/NFPA 54 (National Fuel Gas Code).

Coverage of piping systems shall extend from the point of delivery to the outlet of the equipment shutoff valves (see "Point of delivery"). Piping systems requirements shall include design, materials, components, fabrication, assembly, installation, testing, inspection, operation and maintenance. Requirements for gas utilization equipment and related accessories shall include installation, combustion and ventilation air and venting and connections to piping systems.

 The omission from this chapter of any material or method of installation provided for in the International Fuel Gas Code shall not be construed as prohibiting the use of such material or method of installation. Fuel-gas piping systems, fuel-gas utilization equipment and related accessories, venting systems and combustion air configurations not specifically covered in these chapters shall comply with the applicable provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code.

 Gaseous hydrogen systems shall be regulated by Chapter 7 of the International Fuel Gas Code.

 This chapter shall not apply to the following:

 1. Liquified natural gas (LNG) installations.

 2. Temporary LP-gas piping for buildings under construction or renovation that is not to become part of the permanent piping system.

 3. Except as provided in Section G2412.1.1, gas piping, meters, gas pressure regulators, and other appurtenances used by the serving gas supplier in the distribution of gas, other than undiluted LP-gas.

 4. Portable LP-gas equipment of all types that is not connected to a fixed fuel piping system.

 5. Portable fuel cell appliances that are neither connected to a fixed piping system nor interconnected to a power grid.

 6. Installation of hydrogen gas, LP-gas and compressed natural gas (CNG) systems on vehicles.

 Section 24. Subsection G2415.8 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 G2415.8 (404.8) Protection against corrosion. Metallic pipe or tubing exposed to corrosive action, such as soil condition or moisture, shall be protected in an approved manner, and cathodically protected in accordance with NACE RP-01-69. Zinc coatings (galvanizing) shall not be deemed adequate protection for gas piping underground. Ferrous metal exposed in exterior locations shall be protected from corrosion in a manner satisfactory to the code official. Where dissimilar metals are joined underground, an insulating coupling or fitting shall be used. Piping shall not be laid in contact with cinders.

 G2415.8.1 (404.8.1) Prohibited use. Uncoated threaded or socket welded joints shall not be used in piping in contact with soil or where internal or external crevice corrosion is known to occur.

 G2415.8.2 (404.8.2) Protective coatings and wrapping. Pipe protective coatings and wrappings shall be approved for the application and shall be factory applied.

 Exception: Where installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions, field application of coatings and wrappings shall be permitted for pipe nipples, fittings and locations where the factory coating or wrapping has been damaged or necessarily removed at joints.

 Section 25. Subsection G2417.4 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 G2417.4 (406.4) Test pressure measurement. ~~Test pressure shall be measured with a manometer or with a pressure-measuring device designed and calibrated to read, record, or indicate a pressure loss caused by leakage during the pressure test period. The source of pressure shall be isolated before the pressure tests are made. Mechanical gauges used to measure test pressures shall have a range such that the highest end of the scale is not greater than five times the test pressure.~~ G2417.4.1 (406.4.1) Test pressure. The test pressure to be used shall be not less than one and one-half times the proposed maximum working pressure, but not less than 3 psig (20 kPa gauge), irrespective of design pressure. Where the test pressure exceeds 125 psig (862 kPa gauge), the test pressure shall not exceed a value that produces a hoop stress in the piping greater than 50 percent of the specified minimum yield strength of the pipe.

 G2417.4.2 (406.4.2) Test duration. The test duration shall be not less than 10 minutes.

The test pressure for gas piping systems less than 14 inch (356 mm) water column shall be fifteen psig. The test gauge shall have a pressure range of 30 psig. The test pressure shall be held for a length of time satisfactory to the code official, but in no case less than fifteen minutes, with no perceptible drop in pressure.  For welded pipe and for pipe carrying gas at pressures in excess of 14 inch (356 mm) water column, the test pressure shall be 60 psig (413.4 mm). The test gauge shall have a pressure range of 100 psig. The test pressure shall be held for a length of time satisfactory to the code official, but in no case less than 30 minutes.

 Section 26. Subsection G2439.5 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended as follows:

 G2439.5 (614.6) Clothes dryer ducts. Exhaust ducts for domestic clothes dryers shall be constructed of metal and shall have a smooth interior finish. The exhaust duct shall be a minimum nominal size of 4 inches (102 mm) in diameter. The entire exhaust system shall be supported and secured in place. The male end of the duct at overlapped duct joints shall extend in the direction of airflow. Clothes dryer transition ducts used to connect the appliance to the exhaust duct system shall be metal and limited to a single length not to exceed 8 feet (2438 mm) in length and shall be listed and labeled for the application. Transition ducts shall not be concealed within construction.

 G2439.5.1 (614.6.1) Maximum length. The maximum length of a clothes dryer exhaust duct shall not exceed 25 feet (7620 mm) from the dryer location to the outlet terminal. The maximum length of the duct shall be reduced 21/2 feet (762 mm) for each 45 degree (0.79 rad) bend and 5 feet (1524 mm) for each 90 degree (1.6 rad) bend.

 Exception: Where the make and model of the clothes dryer to be installed is known and the manufacturer's installation instructions for such dryer are provided to the code official, the maximum length of the exhaust duct, including any transition duct, shall be permitted to be in accordance with the dryer manufacturer's installation instructions.

 G2439.5.2 (614.6.2) Rough-in-required. Where a compartment or space for a clothes dryer is provided, an exhaust duct system shall be installed.

G2439.5.3 Protection required. Clothes dryer exhaust ducts shall be protected by a steel plate or clip not less than 1/16 inch (1.59 mm) in thickness and of sufficient width to fully protect the duct. Plates or clips shall be placed on the finish face of all framing members which the clothes dryer exhaust duct passes through when there is less than 1 1/4 inch (32 mm) of framing material between the duct and the finish face. Plates or clips shall also be placed where nails or screws from finish or other work are likely to penetrate the clothes dryer exhaust duct.

 Section 27. Chapter 43 of the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition, is amended by adding referenced standards as follows:

 ASTM E90-99 Test Method for Laboratory Measurement of Airborne Sound Transmission Loss of Building Partitions and Elements AK102

 ASTM E336-97 Standard Test Method for Measurement of Airborne Sound Insulation in Buildings

 ASTM E 492-90 (1996)e Specification for Laboratory Measurement of Impact Sound Transmission through Floor-ceiling Assemblies Using the Tapping Machine AK103

 Section 28. The Director of the Department of Planning and Development shall for a period of 60 days following the effective date of this ordinance, approve applications that comply with either the requirements of this Ordinance or with the provisions of Ordinance 119079 as amended by Ordinance 120379.

 Section 30. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Maureen Traxler/mt

 IRC Ordinance.doc

 4/`21/2004

 version #1

 1

```
