

********

**Council Bill Number: 114976**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing amendments to two of the City's residential and commercial waste collection contracts and the City's yard waste processing agreement in order to implement new recycling and collection services desired by the City.

**Status:** Retired March 27, 2006
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Note:** Rabanco and US Disposal Collection Contracts

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 26, 2004
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, WASTE-DISPOSAL, SOLID-WASTE, CONTRACTS, RECYCLING

**Fiscal Note:**114976

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing amendments to two of the City's residential and commercial waste collection contracts and the City's yard waste processing agreement in order to implement new recycling and collection services desired by the City.

 WHEREAS, the City has a commercial service agreement with Rabanco Ltd. that ends in 2008 with options for two additional years; a residential service agreement with U.S. Disposal (a Rabanco company) that ends in 2007 with options for two additional years; and a composting service agreement with Cedar Grove Composting that ends in 2008 with options for two additional years; and

 WHEREAS, the City has negotiated with these service providers to expand recycling service to Seattle businesses, introduce public place recycling throughout the City, and begin commercial food waste recycling; and

 WHEREAS, these new recycling services were proposed in the City's 1998 Solid Waste Plan and reiterated in the 2003 Plan to Reaffirm Seattle's Leadership in Recycling; and

 WHEREAS, the City has also negotiated with these service providers to reduce night collections and neighborhood traffic, reward increased apartment recycling participation, enforce litter can service, implement new City recycling requirements, and provide options for residential yard waste cart service and residential food waste service; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to execute, substantially in the form of the attached, amendments to the Commercial Waste Collection Contract with Rabanco, Ltd., the Residential Collection and Processing Contract with U.S. Disposal, and the Yard Waste Processing Contract with Cedar Grove Composting.

 Section 2. The amendments to the collection contracts expand recycling opportunities and provide other service enhancements. The amendment to the composting contract reduces payments for yard waste and food waste composting and extends the contract termination from 2008 to 2013 with two additional one-year City options.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2004.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachments:

 1. Amendment No. 1 to The Contract between the City of Seattle and Rabanco, Ltd., for the Collection of Commercial Waste

 2. Amendment No. 1 to The Solid Waste Collection and Processing Contract between the City of Seattle and U.S. Disposal II

 3. Amendment No. 1 to The Yard Waste Processing Contract between the City of Seattle and Cedar Grove Composting, Inc.

 AMENDMENT NO. 1

 TO

 The Contract Between the City of Seattle

 and Rabanco, LTD. for the Collection of Commercial Waste

 THIS AMENDMENT is made on this ___ day of ______, 200__, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE and RABANCO, LTD., amending the Contract for the Collection of Commercial Waste between the above parties executed February 5, 2001, pursuant to City Ordinance 120241 ("Contract").

 WHEREAS, the parties desire to negotiate changes and make additions to the Contract;

 IN CONSIDERATION of the terms and conditions herein, the parties agree to amend the Contract as follows:

 Section 1. Purpose and Intent of Contract., is deleted and a new Section 1 is substituted in its place as follows:

 The purpose of this Contract is to provide for the collection of Commercial Waste by the City through this Contract with Contractor, and through a similar contract with another commercial collection company. The City intends for the Contractor and the other commercial collection company to be the only providers of Commercial Waste Collection services in the City. However, Compostable Waste, Recyclables and Street Side Litter Collection is not exclusive and may be provided by other service providers. Contractor shall collect MSW, Compostable Waste and Recyclables from Commercial Establishments and provide Street Side Litter Collection in a Primary Collection Area defined below in Section 100, and, when requested by the City, in a Secondary Collection Area defined below in Section 105.

 Section 30. Definitions., is amended by adding the following five new definitions:

 Commercial Recyclable Waste means Compostable Waste and/or Recyclables collected from Commercial Establishments within the City.

 Container means a metal or plastic receptacle used for Commercial Waste or Commercial Recyclable Waste collection.

 Food Waste means vegetable and other food scraps, including meat, dairy products, grease and bones; paper which has been contaminated with food, fat or grease; and compostable paper including paper towels, paper plates, tissue and waxed paper.

 Recyclables means mixed waste paper (including corrugated), newspaper, tin and aluminum cans, glass bottles and jars, plastic bottles, jars and tubs, plastic bags, polycoated paper, aseptic packaging and ferrous scrap. Plastic bags shall be contained within a plastic bag. Ferrous scrap shall not exceed sixteen (16) inches long by sixteen (16) inches wide by twelve (12) inches deep. The City may add textiles to this definition at any time during this Contract. If textiles are added to the definition, textiles shall be contained within a plastic bag.

 Residential Waste means MSW collected from residential structures, under separate contract, within the City.

 Section 30. Definitions., is further amended by adding the following to the end of definition for Commercial Waste:

 and/or waste from Street Side Litter containers.

 Section 30. Definitions., is further amended by deleting the definitions for Container Collection and Roll-off Collection and substituting new definitions for Container Collection and Roll-off Collection as follows:

 Container Collection means collection of Commercial Waste or Commercial Recyclable Waste from Cans, Carts, and Detachable Containers.

 Roll-off Collection means the collection of Commercial Waste or Commercial Recyclable Waste by means of a Drop Box.

 Section 60. Contractor Responsibilities., d. is deleted and the following Section 60 d. is substituted in its place as follows:

 d. Assisting Commercial Waste and Commercial Recyclable Waste customers with service issues under this Contract;

 Section 60. Contractor Responsibilities., h. is deleted and the following Section 60 h. is substituted in its place as follows:

 h. Transferring customer payments for City collection services (including rental, collection, A&E Services and disposal or processing payments for MSW and Commercial Recyclable Waste collected under this Contract; and rental, collection, and A&E Services for CDL collection, and taxes thereon; but excluding CDL disposal and taxes thereon, and excluding recycling services provided outside of this Contract, and taxes thereon) to the City in accordance with this Contract; and

 Section 90. Control of Waste., is deleted and the following Section 90 is substituted in its place as follows:

 Pursuant to its authority under Washington State law, the City by this Contract authorizes the Contractor to act as its agent for the collection and delivery of Commercial Waste and Compostable Waste from Commercial Establishments in the City, or any other agreed upon location, to Disposal Facilities as directed by the City. The City's rights of ownership and control over the Commercial Waste and Compostable Waste collected under this Contact vest upon the collection of the Commercial Waste and Compostable Waste; provided, however, that the original owner has the right of recovery to any valuable items inadvertently discarded that can be reasonably retrieved prior to final disposal. Collected Recyclables shall be the property of the Contractor, subject to the right of a customer to claim lost property of value.

 Section 115. Excluded Services., a. is deleted and the following Section 115 a. is substituted in its place as follows:

 a. The Contract does not include collection or disposal of Special Waste or Unacceptable Waste.

 Section 123. Public Place Recycling Collection., is deleted and the following Section 123 is substituted in its place as follows:

 a. The Contractor shall collect Recyclable Materials from 250 City provided public place recycling containers located within the Contractors Primary Collection Area. One hundred fifty of these containers shall be collected weekly and 100 shall be collected semi- weekly. The Operations Plan contains protocols for service delivery. The City has the option to add additional locations above the 250 noted above. The City shall have the option to exclude any Recyclable Material (such as glass) from collection from public place recycling containers

 b. Any special or additional collections from the 250 containers, or collections of any additionally located containers in the Contractors Primary or Secondary Collection Areas shall be paid at the rate of $1.59 per pickup. Any Sunday collections will be paid at the Special Pickup rate of $35.83 per hour with a four (4) hour minimum. These payment terms will be adjusted annually according to the provisions of Section 470.

 c. The City will be responsible for the repair and maintenance (including repainting) of all public place recycling collection containers, with the exception of containers damaged through the negligence of the Contractor. The City may elect to (1) have the Contractor perform the repair and maintenance at the City's expense, except in cases of Contractor negligence, (2) perform the work with City forces, (3) contract with another firm for the repair and maintenance, or (4) perform any combination of (1), (2) or (3). The Contractor's shop rate for the repair and maintenance of these containers shall be included in the Operations Plan.

 d. The Contractor shall be responsible for picking up any Containers in need of repair (for whatever reason) and delivering replacement Containers within five (5) business days of notification by the City. If the City elects to repair containers, or contracts with another firm for container repair, containers requiring repair or maintenance will be picked up from the Contractor's service yard. Repaired or reconditioned containers will be delivered to the Contractor's service yard.

 e. The Contractor shall replace or repair all public place recycling containers damaged due to the Contractor's negligence. The Contractor and the City shall attempt to jointly determine the cause of any container damage. However, the decision of the City concerning Contractor's negligence shall be final and binding. Any charges for container repair or replacement due to Contractor negligence shall be deducted from the Contractor's monthly payment.

 f. Any public place recycling containers that are contaminated with unacceptable material shall be collected and billed as Street Side Litter Collection.

 g. The Contractor shall be prohibited from disposing of any Recyclables collected under this Contract or marketing materials that the Contractor knows will be disposed of. Violation of this Contract provision may be cause for termination.

 h. The Contractor shall provide the City on a monthly basis, per Section 495, the location and number of the collections of public place recycling containers as well as the number, location and date of any public place recycling containers collected as Street Side Litter Collection containers.

 Section 130. MSW Transfer/Disposal., the first sentence in a. is deleted and the following sentence is substituted in its place as follows:

 a. For the first seven years of the Contract, the City will direct to the Contractor's 3rd & Lander Transfer Station no less than the greater of the following guaranteed quantities, measured percentage shares of actual tonnage or first Contract year tonnage of MSW, including Residential Waste collected by the Contractor under this Contract or other contracts:

 Section 130. MSW Transfer/Disposal., is further amended by deleting the first sentence in c. and substituting the following sentence in its place:

 c. In addition to the guaranteed amounts set forth in subsection (a) above, the City may, with the consent of the Contractor, direct any Commercial or Residential MSW collected in the City in excess of the amounts defined by Subsection (a) above to the Contractor's 3rd & Lander Transfer Station throughout this Contract.

 Section 140. Compostable Waste Collection., is added to the Contract as follows:

 a. The Contractor shall provide Compostable Waste collection services to all Commercial customers at Commercial Establishments who request such service in the Contractor's Primary Collection Area (and in the Contractor's Secondary Collection Area when directed to do so by the City pursuant to Section 105).

 b. Commercial Compostable Waste Container Collection services shall be provided at any service level then in effect under the City's codified service levels, so long as the requested service level can reasonably be accommodated at the customer's premise. Any Cart or Detachable Container may be owned by the customer as long as it is in good and serviceable shape and is compatible with Contractor's equipment; except as so provided by the customer, all Carts and Detachable Containers shall be owned and provided by Contractor.

 c. Roll-off Compostable Waste collection services shall be provided to customers requesting such service so long as the requested service can reasonably be accommodated at the customer's premise. The Drop Box may be owned by the customer as long as it is in good and serviceable shape and is compatible with Contractor's equipment; except as so provided by the customer, all Drop Boxes shall be owned and provided by Contractor, for which the Contractor may charge the customer a Drop Box security deposit.

 d. The Contractor shall make every reasonable effort to accommodate a customer's request for service and to provide customers with the level and type of service which is most convenient and economical to the Compostable Waste customer. However, service shall be no less than weekly unless authorized by the City.

 e. The Contractor shall not collect as Compostable Waste unsegregated Garbage, or Compostable Waste that is contaminated by fecal matter, hazardous substances or other ineligible material. If material is left uncollected, the Contractor will leave an explanation along with a brochure, to help the customer correct the problem and avoid it in the future.

 f. For each truck route, the Contractor shall only collect contract Compostable Waste. Non-contract Compostable Waste shall not be collected in the same truck load as contract tonnage.

 g. The Contractor shall deliver all Compostable Waste collected under this Contract to the Rabanco Transfer Station located at 3rd Avenue South and South Lander Street, or such other location within the City of Seattle as directed by the City.

 h. The Contractor shall be prohibited from disposing of any Compostable Waste collected under this Contract. Violation of this Contract provision may be cause for termination.

 i. Specific operational conditions for Compostable Waste collection such as scheduling of collections, collections during inclement weather, missed collections, container placement and repair, routing information, etc., are contained in Attachment C, Operations Plan.

 j. The City will provide the Contractor at least three (3) months advance notice prior to the beginning of this service.

 k. The City retains an option to discontinue Compostable Waste collection service by providing the Contractor with at least a minimum of three (3) months advance notice prior to discontinuing this service.

 Section 145. Compostable Waste Public Information., is added to the Contract as follows:

 a. The City and the Contractor shall jointly develop a public information and notification plan to inform eligible customers of the availability of Compostable Waste collection service. The public information plan shall include the schedule and timing of informing customers, the rate of program implementation and any ongoing public information.

 b. At a minimum the Contractor is responsible for the development, production and/or mailing of all public information (including producing and mailing sign-up brochures), receiving and processing sign-up cards, and answering all customer calls and inquiries regarding the program. Public information developed and supplied by the Contractor shall include customer instructions for preparation and set-out of material, collection calendars, and any other relevant public information.

 c. On a monthly basis, the Contractor shall supply the City with information on commercial businesses participating in the program. Information shall include and name and address of the business served, a contact name and phone number, collection schedule information, number and type of Containers provided, and other information as mutually agreed.

 d. The City shall approve all customer information materials, promotion and educational activities and materials developed by the Contractor in advance of their production or implementation. All public information material will conform to City promotional guidelines and include the City's program identity.

 Section 150. Recycling Collection., is added to the Contract as follows:

 a. The Contractor shall provide biweekly Recyclables collection services to all Commercial customers at Commercial Establishments who request such service in the Contractor's Primary Collection Area (and in the Contractor's Secondary Collection Area when directed to do so by the City pursuant to Section 105).

 b. Collected Recyclables shall be delivered to the Contractor's processing facility at 3rd Avenue South and South Lander Street.

 c. The Contractor shall provide up to two 96 gallon Carts and glass inserts or to all Commercial customers requesting Recyclables collection service. The Contractor has the option of delivering Detachable Containers in lieu of Carts to better meet a customer's needs. Containers shall be delivered within 5 business days of a customers request.

 d. Lidlockable Carts and Detachable Containers shall be provided to customers who request this service. There shall be no additional charge to either the customer or the City for supplying and servicing lidlockable Carts and Detachable Containers.

 e. The Contractor shall affix the customer's address to each Container prior to delivery. Along with the Containers, the Contractor shall deliver an instruction sheet on materials that can be recycled and how material is to be prepared as well as a collection calendar indicating the customer's collection day. The Contractor's customer service phone number shall be placed on all Carts and Detachable Containers and shall appear on all public information and instruction sheets.

 f. The City shall pay the Contractor $19 for every Container delivery. Containers for Recyclables collection become the property of the City at the conclusion of the Contract.

 g. The Contractor shall be prohibited from disposing of any Recyclables collected under this Contract or marketing materials that the Contractor knows will be disposed of. Violation of this Contract provision may be cause for termination.

 h. Specific operational conditions for Recyclables collection such as scheduling of collections, collections during inclement weather, missed collections, container placement and repair, routing information, etc., are contained in Attachment C, Operations Plan.

 Section 155. Recycling Customer Service., is added to the Contract as follows:

 The Contractor shall provide all the customer service requirements required to provide Recyclables collection service to commercial customers. Specific customer service conditions are contained in Attachment C, Operations Plan.

 Section 160. Recycling Publicity., is added to the Contract as follows:

 a. The City and the Contractor shall jointly develop a public information and notification plan to inform eligible customers of the availability of this new service. The public information plan shall include the schedule and timing of informing customers, the rate of program implementation and any ongoing public information.

 b. At a minimum the Contractor is responsible for the development, production and/or mailing of all public information (including producing and mailing sign-up brochures), receiving and processing sign-up cards, and answering all customer calls and inquiries regarding the program. Public information developed and supplied by the Contractor shall include customer instructions for preparation and set-out of material, collection calendars, and any other relevant public information.

 c. On a monthly basis, the Contractor shall supply the City with information on commercial businesses participating in the program. Information shall include and name and address of the business served, a contact name and phone number, collection schedule information, number and type of Containers provided, and other information as mutually agreed.

 d. The City shall approve all customer information materials, promotion and educational activities and materials developed by the Contractor in advance of their production or implementation. All public information material will conform to City promotional guidelines and include the City's program identity.

 Section 220. Night Collection., is amended by adding the following to the end of the first sentence:

 however, except as specifically authorized by the City, the Contractor is prohibited from collecting from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. in any residential district, as defined in SMC 25.08, or from either side of parallel streets or alleys bordering a residential district, as defined in SMC 25.08.

 Section 360. Recycling., is deleted and the following Section 360 is substituted in its place as follows:

 The City reserves the right to promote and contract for Recycling of any other component of the Commercial Waste stream at any time during the term of the Contract. The City shall be under no obligation to contract with the Contractor for the collection of any other such Recyclable Materials. The City reserves the right to establish rates for Commercial Recyclable Waste collection.

 Section 370. Rates for Compostable Waste Collection., is added to the Contract as follows:

 Rates for Compostable Waste collection shall be established by City ordinance for both the Primary and Secondary Collection Areas. Customers shall be charged for Compostable Waste collection pursuant to Rates established by City ordinance.

 Section 401. Compensation for Compostable Waste Collection., is added to the Contract as follows:

 a. The City will compensate the Contractor on a monthly basis for Compostable Waste collection from all Commercial customers receiving Compostable Waste Container Collection service. Payment will on a per unit collection basis equal to 1.1 times the MSW per unit payment rates established in Section 400, d. and Section 410.

 b. The City will compensate the Contractor on a monthly basis for any A&E Services for Compostable Waste per Section 403.

 c. The City guarantees the Contractor and U.S. Disposal II a combined minimum monthly payment of $6,000 for Compostable Waste collection, tipping and transfer. This minimum payment will begin when the Contractor begins performing the services, after the minimum 3-month advance notice by the City. Terms and conditions for transfer and tipping of collected Compostable Waste is included in the Solid Waste Collection and Processing Contract Between the City of Seattle and U.S. Disposal II as amended.

 d. The format for Contractor reporting of monthly Compostable Waste collection services, and overall customer billing procedures are set forth in Sections 500 through 540.

 Section 438. Compensation for Recycling Collection in Secondary Collection Area., is added to the contract as follows:

 The City will compensate the Contractor $3.09 per pickup for Recycling Collection in the Contractor's Secondary Collection Area as authorized by the City under Section 150. This payment rate will be adjusted annually according to the provisions of Section 470.

 Section 440. Compensation Adjustment for Revised Average Round-trip Haul Times., is amended by adding the following after the first sentence in e.:

 Provided however, the first compensation adjustment shall be effective April 30, 2005, covering the period April 1, 2004 - March 31, 2005.

 Section 490. Compensation for MSW Transfer and Short Haul., is deleted and a new Section 490 is substituted in its place as follows:

 a. For transfer and short-haul of the guaranteed tonnage described in Section 130 to the long-haul transfer and disposal loading point designated by the City, the City will compensate the Contractor according to the payment schedule defined in Attachment H, Section A: "Guaranteed Share of Tonnage."

 b. For transfer and short-haul by the Contractor of any additional commercial MSW or Residential Waste tonnage described in Section 130 to the long-haul transfer and disposal loading point designated by the City, the City will compensate the Contractor according to the payment schedule defined in Attachment H, Section B: "Additional Tonnage."

 c. Commercial MSW co-collected with residential waste will be estimated based on commercial cubic yards co-collected and the average weight per cubic yard of 149.33 pounds established under Section 404.

 d. Non-contract waste co-collected with commercial or residential waste, as authorized by the City, will be estimated based on non- contract cubic yards co-collected and the average weight per cubic yard of 149.33 established under Section 404.

 e. The per-ton payments for tonnage transferred at the Contractor's 3rd & Lander Transfer Station will be adjusted annually according to the CPI adjustment terms defined in Attachment H.

 f. The City's payments to the Contractor for transfer and short haul defined in this section will be made on a monthly basis.

 g. The Contractor shall maintain the following data and transmit it to the City as back-up for transfer payments:

 1. Date of transfer service;

 2. Truck type and truck number delivering each load;

 3. Route identification for the truck's regularly assigned route;

 4. Disposal Facility location;

 5. Inbound time and weight;

 6. Outbound time and weight;

 7. Summary of co-collected cubic yards and estimated tons; and

 8. Any additional information as may be reasonably necessary to track transfer delivery, tonnage and costs.

 h. The contractor will provide a quarterly electronic listing of all co-collected routes, including trip weights, customers' accounts for those routes, cubic yards collected for each customer, and relevant service detail.

 Section 495. Payment Mechanism., is amended by deleting the third sentence in a. and substituting the following sentence in its place:

 This invoice will be at a level of detail that will allow the City to determine the type (i.e., MSW, CDL, or Compostable Waste), container size, frequency and per unit compensation associated with each service.

 Section 710. Default of Contractor.; is amended by deleting a. and substituting the following a. in its place:

 a. The Contractor may be held in default of the Contract in the event the Contractor:

 1. Fails to perform ninety percent (90%) of the collections required by this Contract and appears, to the City, to have abandoned the work, or to be unable to resume collections within forty-eight hours; or

 2. Has failed on three or more occasions of three (3) working days duration each, in any year, or fifteen (15) days in a calendar year to perform the collections required by the Contract; or

 3. Disposing of any Recyclables or Compostable Waste collected under this Contract or marketing materials that the Contractor knows will be disposed of, or

 4. Repeatedly neglects, fails, or refuses to comply with any of the material terms of the Contract, after having received notice of its obligation to do so.

 Section 750. Liquidated Damages.; is amended by deleting 2. and substituting the following 2. in its place:

 2. Failure to collect missed Commercial Waste Container Collection, Street Side Litter Container Collection, public place recycling Container Collection, Compostable Waste Container Collection or Recyclables Container Collection within one business day (including Saturday) after a make-up request is given to the Contractor by the City or the customer.

 Attachment E. Initial Contract Year Payments - Ancillary Service Compensation.; is amended by adding:

 Type of Service

 Contractor Compensation per Unit

 Deliveries

 Bag purchase and delivery

 $0.25

 Effective Date. This Amendment shall become effective on the first day of the month following its execution by both parties.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Contract Amendment by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 RABANCO LTD. THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By_________________________ By _________________________

 Signature Chuck Clark, Director

 Seattle Public Utilities

 ___________________________

 Type or Print Name _________________________

 Date

 ___________________________

 Title

 ___________________________

 Date

 Authorized by Ordinance Number ___________________

 Attachment 2

 AMENDMENT NO. 1

 TO

 The Solid Waste Collection and Processing Contract

 Between the City of Seattle and U.S. Disposal II

 THIS AMENDMENT is made on this ___ day of ______, 200__, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE and U.S. DISPOSAL II, amending the Solid Waste Collection and Processing Contract between the above parties executed October 14, 1999, pursuant to City Ordinance 119675 ("Contract").

 WHEREAS, the parties desire to negotiate changes and make additions to the Contract;

 IN CONSIDERATION of the terms and conditions herein, the parties agree to amend the Contract as follows:

 Section 20. Definitions., is amended by adding the following four new definitions:

 "Commercial Establishments" means any non-Residential location from which the Solid Waste is collected by firm under contract with the City, and includes the non-residential portion of Mixed Use Buildings.

 "Commercial Waste" means MSW and CDL collected from Commercial Establishments within the City.

 "Commercial Compostable Waste" means any organic waste materials that are source separated for processing or composting, such as Yard Waste and Food Waste generated by Commercial Establishments.

 "Compostable Waste" means any organic waste materials that are source separated for processing or composting, such as Yard Waste and Food Waste generated by any Residential Structure or Commercial Establishments.

 Section 20. Definitions., is further amended by deleting the last sentence from the definition for "Structure":

 Section 50. Vehicles Used in Collection., is amended by deleting the seventh paragraph and substituting the following new paragraph in its place:

 The Contractor's collection vehicles shall be used only on this Contract, except as such vehicles are authorized to collect Commercial Waste under the Contractor's commercial solid waste collection contract with the City. Recycling collection vehicles may also be used to collection Commercial Recycling in the Contractor's Secondary Collection Area as authorized by the City under the commercial collection contract. Yard Waste collection vehicles may be used to collect Commercial Compostable Waste as authorized under the commercial collection contract. The Contractor may use collection vehicles from other sources, or use Contract vehicles for other operations only with the prior written approval of the City.

 Section 103. Garbage Collection., is amended by adding the following two new paragraphs at the end of the section:

 Beginning January 3, 2005, the Contractor shall leave a City designed and produced tag (Recyclable Correction Notice, "RCN") on every Garbage Can that contains Recyclables. The Contractor shall approve the City designed tag. The intent of the RCN is to inform the resident that Recyclables are prohibited from being disposed of as Garbage. The Contractor shall transmit to the City, per the Exception List, Section 148, the address and account number of each such location. The Operations Plan contains a description of the type and amount of recyclables which must be present in the Garbage to warrant leaving a RCN.

 Beginning January 2, 2006, the Contractor shall not collect Garbage from Garbage Cans that contain Recyclables. The Contractor shall leave a City designed and produced tag (Recyclable Violation Notice, RVN) to inform the resident why the Garbage was not collected. The Contractor shall approve the City designed tag. The Contractor shall transmit to the City, per the Exception List, Section 148, the address and account number of each such location. The Operations Plan contains a description of the type and amount of recyclables which must be present in the Garbage to warrant non-collection and leaving a RVN.

 Section 105. Yard Waste Collection., is amended by deleting the following language from the end of the first sentence:

 March through November and monthly December through February.

 Section 105. Yard Waste Collection., is further amended by deleting the second sentence from the second paragraph and substituting the following new sentence in its place:

 The Contractor shall not collect as Yard Waste loose soils, Garbage, Food Waste (except as authorized below in this Section); plastics or synthetic fibers; lumber; any wood or tree limbs over four (4) inches in diameter or four (4) feet in length; human or animal excrement; or soil contaminated with hazardous substances.

 Section 105. Yard Waste Collection., is further amended by adding the following three new paragraphs at the end of the section:

 The City retains an option to lease Yard Waste Wheeled Containers from the Contractor for a monthly rate of $0.95 per container. The City will provide the Contractor at least six (6) months written notice prior to exercising this option. The Contractor shall deliver any such City leased Wheeled Containers to customers as directed by the City, within 5 business days.

 The City shall have the option to purchase all delivered Yard Waste Wheeled Containers at the end of the Contract period. The purchase price shall be equal to the book value of the Wheeled Containers, which is the acquisition cost less the accumulated depreciation, where the depreciable life of the Wheeled Container is 5 years.

 Beginning when Amendment 1 of this Contract is authorized, the Contractor shall also collect Compostable Waste (Yard Waste and Food Waste) from residents who are using Contractor or City of Seattle marketed Wheeled Containers. The Contractor shall continue to collect Yard Waste from Structures using resident supplied Yard Waste Containers.

 Section 120. Time of Collection., is amended by adding the following new paragraph at the end of the section:

 Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor may collect Detachable Containers located in commercial and industrial districts, as defined in SMC 25.08, 24 hours per day. However, the Contractor may not collect Detachable Containers from either side of parallel streets or alleys bordering commercial and industrial districts between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday.

 Section 123. Scheduling of Collection., is amended by deleting the second paragraph.

 Section 128. Collection of Excess Garbage and Excess Yard Waste., is amended by deleting the second paragraph and substituting the following new paragraph in its place:

 Excess Garbage and Yard Waste may be in either an additional Can, bag or a bundle which does not exceed 32 gallons in capacity and sixty (60) pounds (except excess Yard Waste may not be in a plastic bag). Each individual bag or bundle of excess Garbage or Yard Waste or additional Can shall be considered an excess unit. Garbage or Yard Waste piled above the rim of the Can or Detachable Container is excess Garbage or Yard Waste. The Operations Plan contains the specifications for the amount of Garbage or Yard Waste which can be above the rim of the Can or Detachable Container for the Contractor to record excess Garbage or Yard Waste.

 Section 130. Disposal at Transfer Station., is amended by deleting the first sentence of the third paragraph and substituting the following new sentence in its place:

 All Garbage and Yard Waste collected Monday through Saturday shall be delivered by 6:00 p.m. the same day.

 Section 198. Recycling and Yard Waste Publicity., is amended by adding the following to the end of 3):

 Effective per Amendment 1 of this Contract, the City will pay the Contractor $8.50 per unit for every new net Structure added to the Centralized Apartment Recycling program as recorded in the City's quarterly apartment recycling report.

 Section 610. Monthly, Quarterly and Annual Reports., is deleted and the following new Section 610 is substituted in its place:

 The Contractor shall submit monthly reports for the length of the Contract period commencing upon Contract signing. These reports shall be due within ten working days after the end of the month. The Contractor shall not receive their monthly compensation until all items required in the report are submitted to the City. Commercial MSW co-collected with residential waste will be estimated based on commercial cubic yards co-collected and the average weight per cubic yard established in the Commercial Contract. The contractor will provide quarterly electronic listing of all co-collected routes, including trip weights, customers accounts for those routes, cubic yards collected for each customer, and supporting service detail. At a minimum, the reports shall include:

 1) Summary of tonnages, and copies of individual weight receipts of all collected material, including any Commercial Compostable Waste collected;

 2) A listing of all repeat collection complaints received by the Contractor the previous month (a repeat collection complaint is an initial collection complaint that was not resolved, or a reoccurrence of a collection complaint at the same address during a six (6) month period). This listing shall be sorted by collection route and shall include a description of steps taken by the Contractor to ensure that these particular repeat complaints are not repeated;

 3) Number of Structures setting out Recyclables [and Residential Food Waste and/or Commercial Compostable Waste] on each route;

 4) Listing of cubic yards serviced and estimated tons for any co- collected commercial MSW, Compostables, or Recyclables;

 5) Summary of tonnages of all processed material sold, by type of product;

 6) Summary of tonnages of all materials sold, by material;

 7) Summaries of weight of materials collected and disposed of due to contamination;

 8) Average market prices based on actual sales of each material sold that month;

 9) Status of all complaints or Contract violation notices forwarded to the Contractor by letter from the City or from customers during the month including, but not limited to:

 * replacement of Containers

 * employee misconduct

 * Contractor responses to citizen's damage claims; and

 10) Description of progress in meeting the implementation schedule including any problems encountered and how they were resolved.

 Commercial MSW co-collected with residential waste will be estimated based on commercial cubic yards co-collected and the average weight per cubic yard of 149.33 pounds established in the Commercial Contract. The contractor will provide quarterly electronic listing of all co-collected routes, including trip weights, customers accounts for those routes, cubic yards collected for each customer, and supporting service detail.

 The Contractor shall submit a quarterly report within fifteen (15) working days of the close of the quarter, which shall include:

 1) Summary of monthly data;

 2) Detailed data to allow analysis of collection and processing efficiencies including average number of trucks used per day, average number of Structures collected per day, average tons processed per day, the practicality of making changes to the collection and/or processing system, and the strength of processing market; and

 3) Discussion of problems and noteworthy experience in program operation;

 4) Discussion of education and publicity efforts and their results; and

 5) Contractor recommendations for improvements.

 The Contractor shall submit an annual report on or before April 30th of the Contract year. At a minimum, the reports shall include:

 1) A collated summary of the detailed revenue information contained in the quarterly reports, and a summary of participation rates and recovered materials for the year;

 2) A discussion of public awareness activities and their impact on participation and recovered volumes;

 3) A discussion of highlights and problems and measures taken to resolve problems and increase efficiency and household participation; and

 4) The Contractor and the City will cooperatively work on annual reports to the Seattle City Council dealing with implementation and operational issues.

 Section 700. Payment for Collection Services in 2000., is amended by deleting 3) and the following new 3) is substituted in its place:

 3) Yard Waste and Commercial Compostable Waste Tipping and Hauling: During the first year of collections (April 1, 2000 - March 31, 2001), an amount equal to $16.05 per ton, multiplied by the number of tons delivered to the Contractor's transfer facility at 3rd Avenue South and South Lander from the Contractor's residential and Commercial Compostable Waste collection routes within the City of Seattle and including additional tons delivered to the Contractor's transfer facility from other contracted or non-contracted Commercial or Residential sources as authorized by the City.;

 The Contractor shall deliver the Yard Waste and Compostable Waste received at the 3rd Avenue South and South Lander Street facility to the Cedar Grove yard waste processing facility located in Maple Valley, or such other alternate yard waste processing facility as the City may designate. If the City directs the Contractor to an alternate yard waste processing facility the City will adjust the Contractor's payment as follows:

 * The City shall measure the distance from the 3rd and Lander Street facility to the Cedar Grove yard waste processing facility, in miles, one way, along the most direct route on streets usable by transfer trucks;

 * The City shall measure the distance from the 3rd and Lander Street facility to the alternate or new yard waste processing facility, in miles, one way, along the most direct route on streets usable by transfer trucks;

 * The City shall then multiply the difference in those two distances by the number of tons of Yard Waste collected under this Contract and actually delivered to the alternate or new processing facility; and

 * The City shall then multiply the ton-miles by the rate of $.67 per ton-mile;

 Effective Date. This Amendment shall become effective on the first day of the month following its execution by both parties.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Contract Amendment by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 U.S. DISPOSAL II THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By_________________________ By _________________________

 Signature Chuck Clark, Director

 Seattle Public Utilities

 ___________________________

 Type or Print Name _________________________

 Date

 ___________________________

 Title

 ___________________________

 Date

 Authorized by Ordinance Number ____________________

 ATTACHMENT 3

 AMENDMENT NO. 1

 TO

 The Yard Waste Processing Contract

 Between the City of Seattle and Cedar Grove Composting, Inc.

 THIS AMENDMENT is made on this ___ day of ______, 200__, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE and CEDAR GROVE COMPOSTING, INC., amending the Yard Waste Processing Contract between the above parties executed February 5, 2001, pursuant to City Ordinance 120243 ("Contract").

 WHEREAS, the parties desire to negotiate changes and make additions to the Contract;

 IN CONSIDERATION of the terms and conditions herein, the parties agree to amend the Contract as follows:

 Section 10. Purpose and Intent., is deleted and a new Section 10 is substituted in its place as follows:

 This Contract engages Contractor to process into a marketable product, at a facility(ies) identified in Sections 110 and 140, all Yard Waste/Food Waste that has been collected under separate City collection contracts or delivered to the City's transfer stations.

 Section 15. Contract Term., is deleted and a new Section 15 is substituted in its place as follows:

 This Contract is entered into as of this ____ day of ________, 2001. Actual Yard Waste processing services will begin April 1, 2001 and continue through March 31, 2013.

 The City, at its option, may extend this Contract for a two successive one-year periods to March 31, 2014 or March 31, 2015 by notifying the Contractor on or before June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2013, respectively. If the City extends this Contract, the same terms, conditions, and method of payment shall apply during the extension period.

 Section 20. Definitions., is amended by deleting the definition for "Unacceptable Waste" and substituting a new definition for "Unacceptable Waste" as follows:

 "Unacceptable Waste" means: (1) any material of which the handling of, transportation to, or disposal at the Contractor's facility would constitute a violation of any federal, state or local law, regulation, rule, code, permit or permit conditions; (2) any material that is now or hereafter defined by federal or Sate law as radioactive, dangerous, hazardous, or extremely hazardous; (3) vehicle tires, asbestos, roofing materials, plastic and other such non-compostable materials; (4) human or animal excrement; (5) tree limbs in excess of four inches in diameter and rocks in excess of two inches in diameter; and (6) material, whether or not compostable, outside the definitions of Yard Waste/Food Waste.

 Section 25. City Responsibilities., 3) and 4) are deleted and the following 3) and 4) are substituted in their place as follows:

 3) Maintaining its collection contracts and Yard Waste/Food Waste program;

 4) Ensuring that all commingled Yard Waste/Food Waste collected under separate City contracts, or accepted at City transfer stations is delivered to the Contractor's processing facility (the City reserves the right to contract separately for source separated commercial food waste); and

 Section 60. OSHA/WISHA, Health and Environmental Laws., the second paragraph is deleted and the following paragraph is substituted in its place as follows:

 The Contractor is also responsible for meeting all regulations, and standards applicable to processing Yard Waste/Food Waste, including without limitation environmental and health laws, regulations and standards.

 Section 100. Yard Waste Processing., is deleted and the following Section 100. Yard Waste/Food Waste Processing., is substituted in its place as follows:

 The Contractor shall process Yard Waste/Food Waste into a marketable product such as soil amendment product, animal feed product or anaerobic digestion gaseous byproducts, and shall not deposit Yard Waste/Food Waste as Garbage at a landfill or incinerator. Marketing of the product is at the Contractor's risk, expense and profit (or loss).

 The Contractor may arrange to use the facilities and equipment of another Yard Waste/Food Waste processor or establish its own permitted processing facility. In either event, the processing facility shall conform to applicable zoning, Health Department and, if applicable, Puget Sound Air Pollution Control Agency regulations and any other rules, regulations, or ordinances.

 The Contractor's arrangements for processing Yard Waste/Food Waste, at both the primary and back-up Yard Waste/Food Waste processing facilities, shall be subject to review and approval before the Contractor begins processing Yard Waste/Food Waste, and the facilities shall be subject to inspection by City staff during business hours to determine compliance with this Contract and all the rules and regulations pertaining to processing.

 Section 110. Primary Yard Waste Processing Facility., is deleted and the following Section 110. Primary Yard Waste/Food Waste Processing Facility., is substituted in its place as follows:

 The Contractor's primary processing facility shall be its existing Maple Valley composting facility, 17825 Cedar Grove Road S.E., Maple Valley, Washington 98038. The processing facility shall accept Yard Waste/Food Waste from the City, or any City collection contractor, Monday through Saturday, 7:00 am to 7:00 pm March through October and Monday through Friday, 7:00 am to 7:00 pm November through February, unless the City and the Contractor make alternate arrangements.

 The processing facility shall contain a truck scale for weighing all trucks in and out of the facility. Tare weights shall not be used for billing the City.

 Section 120. Back-up Yard Waste Processing Facility., is deleted and the following Section 120. Back-up Yard Waste/Food Waste Processing Facility., is substituted in its place as follows:

 To avoid disruption of the Yard Waste/Food Waste collection program through a temporary shutdown in processing, the Contractor shall have an agreement with another permitted processing facility(s) for processing Yard Waste/Food Waste. The Contractor represents and warrants that as of the date hereof each of the following facilities is so permitted and that each has agreed to process Yard Waste as a back-up facility pursuant to this Section 120:

 Cedar Grove Composting

 Smith Island

 Everett, Washington

 Yard Waste/Food Waste

 Bailey Compost

 Springhetti Road

 Snohomish, Washington 98296

 Yard Waste

 Pacific Topsoils

 Maltby, Washington 98012

 Yard Waste

 If the Contractor is unable to meet Health Department regulations or other pertinent state, local or other regulations, or is unable for any reason whatsoever to accept Yard Waste/Food Waste for processing at its specified primary processing facility, the Contractor, at its own initiative or upon notification from the City, shall direct the City to one of the back-up Yard Waste/Food Waste processing facilities identified above.

 The Contractor shall be responsible for payments required to contract for use of the back-up facility. The City shall adjust Contractor payments for any changes to the Yard Waste/Food Waste transport costs as a result of delivery to a back-up facility. The City shall bill the Contractor for any additional City operational costs as a result of the City delivering Yard Waste/Food Waste to the back-up facility. The City will document these operational costs.

 Changes in transport mileage from Rabanco's 3rd and Lander Street facility will be calculated at the rate of $.67 per ton mile, one way. Any cost changes will be calculated as follows:

 1) The City shall measure the distance from Rabanco's 3rd and Lander Street facility to the Cedar Grove Yard Waste/Food Waste processing facility located in Maple Valley, in miles, one way, along the most direct route on streets usable by transfer trucks;

 2) The City shall measure the distance from Rabanco's 3rd and Lander Street facility to the back up Yard Waste/Food Waste processing facility, in miles, one way, along the most direct route on streets usable by transfer trucks;

 3) The City shall then multiply the difference in those two distances by the number of tons of Yard Waste/Food Waste actually delivered by Rabanco to the back up Yard Waste/Food Waste processing facility;

 4) The City shall then multiply the ton-miles by the rate of $.67 per ton mile; and

 5) If the back up facility is closer to the 3rd and Lander Street facility, the City will credit the Contractor with the result from 4) above. If the back up facility is farther away from the 3rd and Lander Street facility, the City will charge the Contractor with the result from 4) above.

 Section 130. Food Waste/Vegetative Food Waste Processing., is deleted.

 Section 180. Food Waste Customer Education., is added to the Contract as follows:

 The Contractor shall provide the following customer education services to help implement Food Waste collection:

 1) Visit each new commercial business signing up for Food Waste collection to assist the business in implementing the program, answering any questions, and providing advice and technical assistance.

 2) Contact each above commercial business six (6) months after start- up to monitor their separation operations, answer any questions, and provide advice and technical assistance.

 3) Provide on-call assistance visits to any commercial business requesting such assistance.

 4) Visit each commercial business with contamination problems identified by the City or the collection contractors within one (1) week of notification. Provide assistance to resolve the contamination problems.

 5) Visit 25% of participating commercial businesses on an annual basis to monitor their separation operations, answer any questions, and provide advice and technical assistance.

 6) Support marketing efforts performed by the City and the collection contractors. Attend monthly public information meetings between the City and the collection contractors to discuss marketing efforts and public information needs.

 7) Support and assist the City and the collection contractors in recruiting commercial businesses to participate in Food Waste separation and composting.

 8) Review and comment on all customer information materials developed by the City and the collection contractors in support of residential and commercial Food Waste services.

 Section 300. Payment for Processing Services., is deleted and the following paragraph is substituted in its place as follows:

 The City shall pay the Contractor monthly for all tons of Yard Waste/Food Waste delivered to the Contractor's receiving facility during the month documented per Section 210. From April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2002, the City will pay the Contractor a rate of $22.50 per ton adjusted by the annual adjustment in Section 310.

 Section 310. Adjustments in Subsequent Contract Years., is amended by adding the following paragraph to the end of the Section:

 Beginning the first full month following execution of Amendment 1 of this Contract, the per ton payment rate for processing Yard Waste/Food Waste will be reduced by $1.25/ton.

 Section 510. Default of Contractor., 1) is deleted and the following 1) is substituted in its place as follows:

 1) Is unable to accept, for more than a 24 hour period of time, excluding Sunday, Yard Waste/Food Waste for processing at the primary or back-up processing facility; or

 Effective Date. This Amendment shall become effective on the first day of the month following its execution by both parties.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Contract Amendment by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 CEDAR GROVE COMPOSTING, INC. THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By____________________________ By_________________________

 J. Stephan Banchero, Jr Chuck Clark, Director

 President Seattle Public Utilities

 Date:_______________________ Date:_______________________

 Authorized by Ordinance Number ____________________

 1

 ATTACHMENT 3

```
