

********

**Council Bill Number: 19896**
   
**Ordinance Number: 32064**
********

 An ordinance accepting a deed from the Hunter Tract Improvement Company, t the City of Seattle, dated the 3rd day of May, 1913, to that portion of block 70, of the "Replat of Lots 4 to 7 inclusive of block 33, and block 34, and lots 1 to 19 inclusive of block 70 of Mt. Baker Park, an addition to the City of Seattle", lying northeasterly of the following described line: beginning at a point on the north line of lot 5, said point being 7,954 feet southwest along a line bearing N. 45? 51 ` 15" W a distance of 104.63 feet; thence southeast along a line bearing N. 37? 31' 35" W a distance of 232.00 feet; thence southeast along a line bearing N. 29? 12' 3" W. a distance of 109.05 feet, thence southeast along a line bearing N. 21? 48' 15" W. a distance of 223.25 feet; thence southeast along a line bearing N. 11? 21' 15" W. a distance of 124.27 feet to the southeast corner of lot 19 of said block 70, all in the City of Seattle.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 3, 1913
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 4, 1913
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 4, 1913
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 19, 1913
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, MOUNT-BAKER, RAINIER-VALLEY

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_
********

_No text for this document is available on-line. You may view this document at [the Office of the City Clerk](http://www.seattle.gov/leg/clerk/contactUs.htm). If you are unable to visit the Clerk's Office, you may request a copy or scan be made for you by Clerk staff. Scans and copies provided by the Office of the City Clerk are subject to [copy fees](http://clerk.seattle.gov/~public/clerkfees.htm), and the timing of service is dependent on the availability of staff._

