

********

**Council Bill Number: 112003**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118845**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, declaring property known as Columbia Substation located in Seattle Washington, surplus to the City's needs and not required for providing continued public utility services; and authorizing the sale to Southeast Effective Development, Inc., a Washington nonprofit corporation, and Homesight, a Washington nonprofit corporation. (P.M.#240422-2-301)

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 8, 1997
   
**Vote:** 7-0; CHONG, CHOE
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 16, 1997
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 15, 1997
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 1, 1997
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, NON-PROFIT-ORGANIZATIONS, SALES, COLUMBIA-CITY, SUBSTATIONS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, declaring property known as Columbia Substation located in Seattle Washington, surplus to the City's needs and not required for providing continued public utility services; and authorizing the sale to Southeast Effective Development, Inc., a Washington nonprofit corporation, and Homesight, a Washington nonprofit corporation. (P.M.#240422-2-301).

 WHEREAS, the City Light Department has determined that the Columbia Substation is surplus to its needs; and

 WHEREAS, the fair market value of Columbia Substation property has been determined by an independent appraiser and established to be $210,000.00; and

 WHEREAS, Southeast Effective Development, Inc. and Homesight desire to purchase the Columbia Substation for the site of their corporate headquarters; and

 WHEREAS, a Purchase and Sale Agreement has been approved by Southeast Effective Development Inc. and Homesight and will be executed at their Board meeting on the first week of December 1997; and

 WHEREAS, the Superintendent of City Light has recommended in the attachments hereto the sale and conveyance of Columbia Substation to Southeast Effective Development Inc. and Homesight; NOW, THEREFORE

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to the provision of RCW 35.94.040 and after a public hearing, the following described real property, in Seattle, Washington, known as Columbia Substation:

 All of Tracts 29 and 30, Morningside Acre Tracts, as recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 64, records of King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT the north 150.00 feet of Tract 30;

 EXCEPT the west 100.25 feet of Tracts 29 and 30;

 AND EXCEPT the south 20 feet of Tract 29.

 is hereby found and declared to be no longer required for providing public utility service and to be

 surplus to the City's needs.

 Section 2. The appraised value of said property is hereby found and declared to be Two

 Hundred Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($210,000.00).

 Section 3. As requested by the Superintendent of City Light and recommended by the

 Mayor in the attachments hereto, said Superintendent is authorized to sell said surplus property to

 Southeast Effective Development, Inc., a Washington nonprofit corporation, and Homesight, a

 Washington nonprofit corporation, for and in consideration of Two Hundred Ten Thousand and

 No/100 Dollars ($210,000.00), and in accordance with the terms of the Real Estate Purchase and

 Sale Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "A", and to execute a Special

 Warranty Deed, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "B". Said consideration shall

 be deposited in the Light Fund.

 Section 4. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective

 date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of____________, 19____, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of_____________, 19____.

 President Jan Drago of the Seattle City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of_____________, 19____.

 Mayor Norman B. Rice Filed by me this ____ day of____________, 19____.

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 DF:df November 24, 1997 columbia.ord (Ver 2) EXHIBIT A

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 This Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Agreement") is made and entered into by and between SOUTHEAST EFFECTIVE DEVELOPMENT, a Washington nonprofit corporation, and HOMESIGHT, a Washington nonprofit corporation (collectively, "Buyer"), and the CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation ("Seller"). Seller agrees to sell, convey, transfer, and assign to Buyer and Buyer agrees to purchase from Seller the real property located in Seattle, Washington, legally described on Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein together with all improvements and other rights appurtenant to the real property ("Property") subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement as follows:

 1. Purchase Price. The purchase price for the Property is Two Hundred Ten Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($210,000.00) ("Purchase Price"). The Purchase Price will be paid in cash at Closing.

 2. Conditions Precedent.

 2.1 Conditions Precedent to Buyer's Obligations. The obligations of Buyer hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the Closing Date (as defined in Section 5.1), which conditions are for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived only in writing by Buyer, as follows:

 2.1.1 Compliance with Obligations. Seller shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Seller.

 2.1.2 Title and Survey Matters.

 (a) Title Binder. The Seller authorizes Buyer to apply for within twenty (20) days after the execution and delivery of this Agreement, a preliminary commitment for a 1970-B ALTA owner's extended title insurance policy issued by a title company acceptable to Buyer describing the Property, showing all matters pertaining to the Property, listing Buyer as the prospective named insured and showing the Purchase Price as the policy amount. At the same time, the title company shall also deliver to Buyer true, correct and legible copies of all documents (the "Title Documents") referred to in such title commitment as conditions or exceptions to title to the Property (such title insurance policy commitment and the Title Documents are collectively referred to herein as the "Title Binder"). Buyer shall immediately deliver a copy of the Title Binder to Seller.

 (b) Title Objections. Buyer shall have until fifteen (15) days after delivery to Buyer of the Title Binder, to approve or disapprove of the Title Documents, in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion by written notice to Seller. If Buyer fails to give the Seller written notice of its approval or disapproval, Buyer shall be deemed to have approved the Title Documents. If Buyer gives written notice of disapproval of any special exception, then Seller shall have 30 days to notify Buyer whether Seller shall remove such special exception. If Seller notifies Buyer that Seller will not remove such special exception, then Buyer may either terminate this Agreement by delivery of a notice thereof to the Seller and Escrow Agent, in which event all of the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall terminate, or close the purchase of the Property subject to such special exception, in which event such exception shall be deemed to be a Permitted Exception and shall be included as an exception in the Title Policy to be delivered to Buyer at Closing.

 2.1.3 Property Inspection. Buyer shall have inspected and approved, in its sole and absolute discretion, the physical condition of the Property (the "Property Inspection"), including, without limitation, structural, fire, and safety studies, and all reports relating to the presence or remediation of hazardous substances on the Property ("Environmental Studies"). If the Property Inspection indicates, in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion, that the Property is not suitable for Buyer's intended purposes, then Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by sending written notice to the Seller, and neither Buyer nor Seller shall have any further liability to the other under this Agreement. Buyer shall complete the Property Inspection and make such determination within (30) days from the receipt of the Environmental Studies.

 2.1.4 Financing Contingency. Buyer shall have 45 days from execution of this Agreement to obtain financing for its planned renovations to the Property. Buyer may terminate this Agreement by notifying Seller in writing within this 45 day period of Buyer's inability to obtain such financing. Buyer will be deemed to have waived this contingency if it does not provide such notice within 45 days.

 2.2 Conditions Precedent to Seller's Obligations. The obligations of Seller hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the Closing Date, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 2.2.1 Compliance with Obligations. Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material respects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Buyer.

 2.2.2 Approval. On or before February 15, 1998, the Seattle City Council shall have approved this Agreement by ordinance and the ordinance shall be in full force and effect.

 3. Representations, Warranties and Covenants.

 3.1 Seller's Warranties. As additional consideration for this sale, Seller represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive Closing and shall not be merged in any deed delivered by Seller to Buyer at Closing.

 3.1.1 Brokerage Fees. Seller has incurred no finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with the sale of the Property. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees.

 3.2 Buyer's Warranties. As additional consideration for this purchase, Buyer represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive closing.

 3.2.1 Brokerage Fees. Buyer represents, warrants, and covenants that Buyer has not employed any broker or finder in connection with the purchase of the Property. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees.

 4. Earnest Money. At the time Buyer executes this Agreement, Buyer shall provide as earnest money a Promissory Note payable to Seller in the amount of $10,000. Such Note shall be due and payable in cash upon Closing or in event of Buyer's default. Buyer's payment of the Note shall be counted toward the purchase price.

 5. Closing.

 5.1 Time for Closing. This sale will be closed in the office of an escrow agent selected by Buyer, no later than ninety (90) days after approval of this transaction by the City Council as set forth in Section 2.2.2. Buyer and Seller will deposit in escrow all instruments, documents and monies necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, "Closing" or "Date of Closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for disbursement to Seller in accordance with is Agreement.

 5.2 Prorations, Closing Costs. Taxes, assessments and drainage service fees for the current year will be prorated as of the Date of Closing. Buyer will pay the premium for its owner's title insurance policy, the cost of recording the Deed and one half of the escrow fee. Seller shall pay for costs of clearing title (if any) and one-half of the escrow fee.

 5.3 Closing Documents. At Closing, Seller will execute and deliver to Buyer (a) a special warranty deed deed conveying Seller's interest in the Property, and (b) a real estate excise tax affidavit.

 5.4 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property at closing.

 6. Default. If Seller's conditions precedent are satisfied or waived and Seller fails or refuses to close this transaction through no fault of Buyer, Buyer may seek specific performance of this Agreement or such other remedies as Buyer may elect. If title to the Property is insurable subject only to the Permitted Exceptions, Buyer's conditions precedent are satisfied or waived. In the event Buyer fails, without legal excuse, to complete the purchase of the property, the Promissory Note tendered as Earnest Money shall be forfeited and be immediately due and payable to Seller as the sole and exclusive remedy available to Seller for such failure.

 7. Notices. All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, telecopied, or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed received (a) upon receipt if hand delivered or telecopied, or (b) on the earlier of actual receipt or two (2) days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer at the address set forth below:

 Buyer: Southeast Effective Development

 3405 South Alaska Street

 Seattle, WA 98118

 Telecopier: (206) 723-7137

 Attention: Earl Richardson

 Homesight

 3405 S. Alaska St.

 Seattle, WA 98118

 Attn: Tony To

 Seller: Seattle City Light

 Real Estate Services

 Key Tower

 700 Fifth Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Attention: David Flores

 Telecopier: (206) 233-2760

 Notice of change of address shall be given by written notice in the manner detailed above.

 8. General Provisions. This is the entire agreement of Buyer and Seller with respect to the Property and supersedes all prior agreements between them, written or oral. This Agreement may be modified only in writing, signed by Buyer and Seller. Any waivers under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default will not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. This Agreement is for the benefit of, and binding upon, Buyer and Seller and their heirs, personal representative, successors and assigns. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision. This agreement may be assigned by Buyer to an entity owned and controlled by both of the entities comprising Buyer. Such assignment shall not relieve Southeast Effective Development or Homesight of any duties they have under this Agreement.

 9. Limited Release and Indemnification.

 9.1 Duties of Buyer & Seller - Hazardous Substances. Seller makes no representation or warranty as to the environmental condition of the Property. Buyer agrees to be responsible for the cost of handling, removing, transporting, treating and/or disposing any hazardous substances after the closing of this sale; provided, however, that Seller agrees to reimburse Buyer for Additional Environmental Costs, defined as the difference between: 1) costs incurred by Buyer prior to January 1, 2001, for handling, removing, transporting, treating and/or disposing of materials or soil containing Hazardous Substances exceeding MTCA cleanup levels which Buyer excavates in the normal course of Buyers development of the Property; and 2) the cost of handling, removing, transporting, treating and/or disposing of soil or materials which do not contain Hazardous Substances. In the preceding sentence, "normal course of Buyer's development" includes the enumerated costs that are necessary to accomplish the remodeling of the existing building, but shall not include additional remedial or response costs. As a condition of Seller's obligation to reimburse Additional Environmental Costs, Seller shall be notified by telephone at least five (5) days prior to Buyer incurring such costs. If Seller proposes a treatment, transport or disposal option that is legal, technically feasible and less expensive than that which Buyer intends to utilize, Buyer may opt to reject Seller's proposal but in that event Buyer's reimbursement obligation shall be limited to the cost of its less expensive option. Notification under this paragraph only shall be provided to Jennie Goldberg (206-684-3167) or, if Ms. Goldberg is not available, Terry Kakida (206-386-4582).

 9.2 Release. Buyer hereby agrees to release Seller from all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, attorney, contractor and consultant fees, and all costs and expenses, including environmental cleanup expenses whether incurred voluntarily or pursuant to an Order or enforcement action, arising from the presence or suspected presence of hazardous substances in, on, beneath or emanating from the Property; provided, however, that Buyer does not release Seller from such liabilities or expenses that arise from any of the following: (1) environmental cleanup costs and expenses where the cleanup is required because of Hazardous Substances existing on the Property prior to the closing and is mandated by the Enforcement Order of any regulatory agency or entity with jurisdiction over the Property; (2) Additional Environmental Costs described in Paragraph 9.1 above; (3) environmental damage or injury to the property of any third party (other than the Property) arising from, or alleged by such party to have arisen from, the release of Hazardous Substances from the Property or any improvements thereon, prior to the closing of this sale; and (4) claims involving bodily injury arising from, or alleged by the claimant to have arisen from, exposure to Hazardous Substances present on the Property prior to the closing of this sale.

 9.3 Indemnification. Buyer shall also defend, indemnify and hold Seller, and its agents and employees, harmless from and against all damages, claims, suits, strict liabilities, judgments, costs and fees of any kind, relating to Hazardous Substances in, on, beneath or emanating from the Property or any improvements thereon; provided, however, that Seller shall defend, indemnify and hold Buyer, and its agents and employees, harmless from and against such damages, claims, suits, strict liabilities, judgments, costs and fees, if they arise from any of the following: (1) environmental cleanup costs and expenses where the cleanup is required because of hazardous substances existing on the Property prior to the closing and is mandated by the Enforcement Order of any regulatory agency or entity with jurisdiction over the Property; (2) environmental damage or injury to the property of any third party (other than the Property) arising from, or alleged by such party to have arisen from, the release of Hazardous Substances from the Property or any improvements thereon, prior to the closing of this sale; and (3) claims involving bodily injury arising from, or alleged by claimant to have arisen from, or exposure toHazardous Substances present on the Property prior to the closing date of this sale. The parties' duties under the preceding sentence shall apply even if one or both parties are not culpable, negligent or in violation of any law. Seller shall have the right to defend itself, and seek from Buyer recovery of such defense costs, if there are damages, claims, suits, strict liabilities or costs and Buyer does not accept unconditionally Seller's tender to Buyer of the duty to defend and indemnify. Buyer shall have the right to defend itself, and seek from Seller recovery of such defense costs, if there are damages, claims, suits, strict liabilities or costs and Seller does not accept unconditionally Buyer's tender to Seller of the duty to defend and indemnify. The indemnities contained in the paragraph shall survive the closing of this sale and the delivery of any deed hereunder.

 9.4 Hazardous Substances Defined. "Hazardous Substance" is defined as follows:

 Any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material defined as such in (or for purposes of) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, the Washington Model Toxics Control Act, as amended, any so-called Superfund or Super lien law, or any other federal. state or local statute, law, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order or decree regulating, relating to or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material as now in effect, and any other chemical, material or substance, exposure to which is prohibited, limited or regulated by any federal, state or local government authority pursuant to any environmental health and safety or similar law, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, order or decree and which may or could pose a hazard to the health and safety of occupants or users of the Property or any part thereof.

 10. Disclaimer. (A) BUYER ACCEPTS THE PROPERTY "AS IS" AND "WHERE IS"; (B) SELLER MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AND SHALL NOT IN ANY WAY BE LIABLE FOR OR WITH RESPECT TO THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY OR ANY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES OR IMPROVEMENTS THEREON FOR BUYER'S INTENDED USE OR ANY USE WHATSOEVER; AND (C) BUYER ASSUMES THE RESPONSIBILITY AND RISKS OF THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY. BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT BUYER WILL BE RELYING ON ITS OWN INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY, AS PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.1.3

 11. Binding Effect. The Agreement shall not be binding upon Buyer until executed by both Seller and Buyer.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 Dated:_____________ By: _______________________________

 Gary Zarker, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 SOUTHEAST EFFECTIVE DEVELOPMENT, INC.

 Dated:_____________ By: ________________________________

 Earl Richardson, Executive Director

 HOMESIGHT

 Dated:______________ By: _________________________________

 Dorothy L. Lengyel, Executive Director

 columbi3.doc

 Page 1 of 7

```
