

********

**Council Bill Number: 112095**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118956**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to the City's Deferred Compensation Plan; providing for the commencement of distribution upon separation from City service and providing two elections to defer the date for commencement of distribution; adopting administrative provisions; amending and clarifying sections of the Plan in response to the 1996 amendments to Section 457 of the Internal Revenue Code; and adding, amending, repealing and recodifying various sections of Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 4.38.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 6, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 15, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 6, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 16, 1998
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEFERRED-COMPENSATION, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to the City's Deferred Compensation Plan; providing for the commencement of distribution upon separation from City service and providing two elections to defer the date for commencement of distribution; adopting administrative provisions; amending and clarifying sections of the Plan in response to the 1996 amendments to Section 457 of the Internal Revenue Code; and adding, amending, repealing and recodifying various sections of Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 4.38.

 WHEREAS, amendments to the City's Deferred Compensation Plan Document to redefine the Plan ceiling at SMC 4.38.204 and provide for in-service cash out at SMC 4.38.425 are authorized by 1996 amendments to Section 457 of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC" or "Code");

 WHEREAS, the 1996 amendments to Section 457 of the Code allows the City to create an additional election for participants to select a payout date ("distribution commencement date") for benefits;

 WHEREAS, adoption of an additional election to defer the distribution commencement date also requires implementation of an initial election period for participants to defer their commencement date;

 WHEREAS, the adoption of a distribution commencement date upon separation from City service and the adoption of two election periods to defer a participant's distribution commencement date preserves the integrity of the City's plan, avoids adverse tax consequences to participants, and improves the administration of the Plan;

 WHEREAS, amending the Plan at SMC 4.38.401(C) as now allowed by the revised Code (IRC 457(d)(2) and IRC 409(a)(9)(A)(B)(C allows participants to defer their distribution commencement date beyond the date currently allowed by the Plan (in SMC 4.38.404);

 WHEREAS, amending the Plan at SMC 4.38.403 to provide a process for selection of method of distribution and a default method of distribution would further clarify the Plan document;

 WHEREAS, placing the "normal retirement age" provision (which is now in a separate section, SMC 4.38.402) into the "catch up" section of SMC 4.38.204 would clarify the Plan and assure consistency with Federal Treasury regulations;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Section 4.38.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.010 Adoption of Deferred Compensation Plan.

 The City of Seattle hereby adopts the following deferred compensation plan for City officers and employees (called the "Plan Document"):

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE VOLUNTARY

 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

 Plan Overview

 If you enroll in this Plan, The City of Seattle (called the "City") will retain ("defer" paying) a part of your salary or wages. The ~~City will then deposit or invest the~~ money retained (called the "deferred amounts") will be deposited or invested in accord with agreements of the City made from time to time with a custodian, Plan administrator, insurance company, investment underwriter, and/or financial institution. [26 U.S.C. section 457(g).] After you leave the service of the City, retire or die, the Plan will pay you, or your beneficiaries, benefits based on the invested value of the deferred amount. If you change your employment to another Washington government with an eligible plan, the City may transfer your amounts to your new employee's Plan. The invested value will be based on the amount deferred, less  administrative fees and expenses, plus gain or minus losses  from market fluctuations, and, when applicable deductions for withdrawal ("surrender") fees. An earlier withdrawal may only occur if you suffer an unforeseeable financial emergency or if you are eligible for an in-service cash out as provided by this Plan. ~~All deferred amounts will belong to the City until benefits are paid.~~Your right to commence payment of benefits and the manner and timing of benefit payments will be governed by the provisions of this Plan, the Internal Revenue Code, its applicable regulations, and the administrative rules adopted by the City which may be changed from time to time.

 Section Section 4.38.204 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.204 Limits on annual deferrals.

 A. You may defer as much under the Plan in any year as Code section 457 allows for an eligible deferred compensation plan. Unless the "catch-up" provision of Code section 457 applies, the most you may now defer of your compensation for any taxable year prior to January 1, 1998 is the lesser of Seven Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($7,500.00) or one-third (1/3) of your "includable compensation", and for any taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1998, the lesser of Eight Thousand Dollars ($8,000.00) or such larger amount as determined periodically by the Secretary of the Treasury, or one-third (1/3) of your "includable compensation" (see ~~Section 10.05~~SMC 4.38.1005. This amount is called the "plan ceiling."

 B. Under the "catch-up" provision, ~~during~~for one or more of your last three (3) years before the year in which you reach "normal retirement age"~~(see Section 4.38.402 )~~ , you may defer the lesser of Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000.00), or the amount of the "plan ceiling" for the current year plus so much of the "plan ceiling" for earlier taxable years as you failed to use. Any deferral during the year you made under another eligible deferred compensation plan established under Code section 457 will be counted in applying these limits. You may use the "catch-up" provision only once; you cannot invoke the higher limits a second time by resetting your retirement age or returning to City service after you retire [regs. section 1.457-(f) 2~~(e)(3)~~].

 C. "Normal retirement age" for the purpose of determining the three year "catch-up" period, means a retirement age selected by you from the range of ages ending not later than when you reach seventy and one-half (70 1/2) and not sooner than the time when you have the right to retire without the City' s consent, and to immediately receive unreduced retirement benefits under the City Employees' Retirement System, the Law Enforcement Officers' and Fire Fighters' Retirement System, or the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System, whichever may be applicable to you; or, if none apply, the time you would have been eligible for unreduced retirement benefits had you joined the City Employees' Retirement System. If you continue to work beyond this age, you may set a later date or age; the later date or age must come not later than the last date for beginning distribution established by SMC 4.38.4031, provided you may only use the catch up provision once under this Plan. [Code sections 457 (d)(2)(A) and 401 (A)(9)(c); Regs. section 1.457-2(f)(4)].

 Section Section 4.38.205 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.205 Investment selections.

 When enrolling, you need to make an investment selection or selections from among the investment alternatives offered by the Plan which shall be selected by the City~~offered~~chosen by the City for this Plan. ~~Your selection will serve as an index to measure the current value of your account (see Section 4.38.302).~~It is your responsibility throughout your participation in this Plan to direct the investment of your deferred amounts to the Plan's investment options. You may change your investment selection from time to time. Your investment directions must be given according to the procedure or form required by the Plan Administrator and may be subject to reasonable restrictions imposed by the Plan Administrator as to the frequency with which you and all other participants may give investment directions. The City, its custodian, Plan Administrator, or any person deemed to be a fiduciary of the Plan shall have no liability of any kind for any damage, loss, or claim which may arise from the participant or the beneficiary's investment direction or the failure of the participant or the beneficiary to exercise investment direction.

 Section Section 4.38.206 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.206 Investment transfers.

 You may transfer amounts already deferred from one investment ~~selection~~option to another as authorized by ordinance. A transfer will be based on the current value of the previous investment selection, including any gains or less any losses that had already been credited or debited to your account (see Section 4.38.302) and may involve a fee or charge.

 Section Section 4.38.207 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.207 Forms and methods.

~~To enroll, to change or stop a deferral, or to make an investment selection, you need to sign and file a written form.~~An ordinance, administrative rule, or the Plan Administrator will provide for the manner in which enrollment, deferral changes, and investment selections are to be conducted and implemented. Your authorization and your investment selection continue in effect for future pay periods until you direct otherwise ~~by signing and filing another written form~~in the manner established by ordinance, administrative rule, or by the Plan Administrator. ~~An ordinance or administrative rules will provide for the forms, their filing, and when authorizations take effect.~~

 Section Section 4.38.208 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.208 ~~Transfers within an investment selection in the City's Deferred Compensation Plan~~Investment options and transfers between options.

~~Securities (mutual funds, money market accounts annuities):~~The Plan's investment options shall include investment alternatives chosen by the City pursuant to the Plan's investment policy, and may include such investment options such as securities, mutual funds, money market accounts, and annuities. From time to time the City may change, add to or remove investment options from the Plan, and the City may employ professional investment advisors for the purpose of reviewing the investment options offered through this Plan. If an investment option is removed from the Plan, your deferred amounts shall be transferred to similar replacement investment options according to administrative procedures adopted for their transfer unless you direct otherwise in the manner established by the City. Losses may be incurred as a result of a transfer from one investment option to another due to market fluctuations, among other reasons. A participant, or after a participant's death, a beneficiary, may transfer funds between the investment options offered by the Plan.~~securities and annuities within an investment selection orally or by computer communication subject to written confirmation~~Transfers must be made in accordance with ordinance, administrative rule, or as required by the Plan Administrator in the manner that securities transactions are conducted under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or the National Association of Securities Dealers, and subject to the terms and conditions for crediting ~~sub~~account values in the City's contract with the Plan Administrator. For cause, the Plan Administrator may require that transfers be authorized in writing in advance.

 Section Section 4.38.301 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 Article III Administration, Accounts and Reports

 4.38.301 Administration.

 To carry out the Plan, the City will deposit or invest the deferred amounts and any earnings from them in a manner authorized by state law and the Washington Constitution. The City may in its discretion assign functions to one or more City officials, establish a committee to make decisions or exercise powers, contract with a plan administrator or custodian to manage day-to-day operations and keep records, deposit or invest funds with an insurance company, an investment underwriter or financial institution, and delegate any or all duties or responsibilities under the Plan (except making the deferral, itself), to any or all of them.

 Section Section 4.38.302 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.302 Accounts.

 An account will be kept for everyone who participates in the Plan. Like all others, your account will be credited with a sum equal to the amounts deferred from your salary or wages; it will be adjusted to reflect the current market performance of~~as if the deferred amounts were invested according to~~ your investment selection(s); and your account will be reduced by fees charged to your account as authorized by Section 4.38.303 or emergency withdrawals under Section 4.38.407. The adjustment will reflect interest, dividends, and other distributions received; gains or losses from market fluctuations; investment losses; and/or any default by an investment underwriter, each if and when occurring, and, if applicable, a withdrawal ("surrender") fee. The current value of your account will determine the amount of benefits paid under Article IV.

 Section Section 4.38.303 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.303 Fees.

 The costs of carrying out the Plan will be borne by those participating through reasonable fees set by ordinance for administrative, recordkeeping, investment and other services performed and for appropriate expenses incurred. Your deferred amounts will be subject to fees charged by the City, its custodian, or the Plan Administrator for the administrative cost and expenses of the Plan. The administrative fees charged to the participants may include the costs and expenses of services rendered by a third party administrator, custodian, recordkeeper, or services rendered by a professional investment advisor, accountant, or legal counsel. A fee may take the form of an assessment calculated as a percentage of the current value of your account, a deduction measured by a payment or transaction, and/or a fixed charge for a service, among other reasonable methods.

 Section Section 4.38.401 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 Article IV Benefits

 4.38.401 ~~Earliest payment allowed.~~Timing for distribution of benefits.

~~The Plan will not pay or make benefits available before the earliest of the following events: you retire from City service on or after you reach "normal retirement age" (see Section 4.38.402 ); you make a permanent separation from City service; the start of the calendar year in which you reach age seventy and one-half (70through); or you die. (Section 4.38.408 provides for temporary departures.) An earlier payment may be authorized for an "unforeseeable emergency" (see Section 4.38.407 ) [Code section 457(e)(9); Regs. section 1.457-2(h)].~~

A. Earliest availability of benefits. Except for hardship withdrawals and in-service distributions allowed under Seattle Municipal Code Sections 4.38.412 and .414, the payment of your benefits under this Plan shall begin not earlier than sixty one (61) days after your permanent separation from City service. [Code section 457(d)(1)(A) and (e)(9); Regs. section 1.457-2(h)].Your permanent separation from City service is the earliest of the following events: your resignation, retirement, the termination of your employment with the City, or your death.

B. Distribution commencement date. Unless you (or your beneficiary) elect to defer your distribution commencement distribution date or you transfer your account to another eligible government 457 plan, your distribution commencement date under this Plan shall be sixty one (61) days after the date of your permanent separation, and the actual payment of your benefits shall commence within the next monthly payment cycle.

C. Last date to commence distribution of benefits. Your distribution commencement date shall not be later than the last date for beginning distribution under this Plan, which shall be April 1st of the calendar year following the calendar year in which you reach age 70 1/2, and, if you continue your service with the City beyond age 70 1/2, your distribution commencement date shall be no later than April 1st of the calendar year following the calendar year in which you leave City service.[Code 457(d)(a) and 401(a)(9)(B)(C).]

 Section Section 4.38.402 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.402 ~~Normal retirement age.~~Election to defer distribution commencement date.

~~"Normal retirement age" means the range of ages ending not later than when you reach seventy and one-half (701/2) and not sooner than the time when you have the right to retire without the City' s consent, and become eligible by age, length of service, or both to retire and receive immediate retirement benefits without actuarial or similar reduction because of retirement before some later specified age, under the City Employees' Retirement System, the Law Enforcement Officers' and Fire Fighters' Retirement System, or the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System, whichever be applicable to you; or, if none apply, the time you would have been eligible for unreduced retirement benefits by age, length of service, or both had you been eligible for and had you joined the City Employees' Retirement System. If you continue to work beyond this age, you may set a later date or age; the later date or age must come not later than the calendar year in which you reach age seventy and one-half (701/2) or you leave City service, which is later [Code sections 457 (d)(2)(A) and 401 A 9 (c); Regs. section 1.457-2(f)(4)].~~The Plan allows two election periods for you to postpone, but not accelerate, your distribution commencement date. A. First election period. You (or your beneficiary(ies may elect to defer your distribution commencement date to a fixed future calendar date which is not later than the last date for beginning distribution under SMC 4.38.401. Your election to defer the commencement of the benefit payment(s) must be made in the manner designated by the City and must be received by the City not later than sixty (60) days after the date of your permanent separation from City service. During this first election period ending sixty (60) days after your separation, you may change your elected distribution commencement date any number of times. The last election that you make within this sixty (60) day election period will be considered your first election, and this election may not be revoked unless you choose to exercise your second election under subsection B. [Reg. 1.457-1(b).]

B. Second election. After your first sixty (60) day election period has passed, you may have one additional election to defer your distribution commencement date to a fixed future date no later than the last date for beginning distribution under SMC 4.38.401(C). You may only exercise this second election to defer one time, and the second election must be made in the manner designated by the City and must be received by the City no later than thirty (30) days before your benefit payments would otherwise begin. Once you make your second election to defer, it is irrevocable. [Code 457(e)(9)(B).]

 Section Section 4.38.403 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.403 ~~Benefit selections.~~Election of benefit distribution method.

~~A. You may select the method of payment from among alternatives made available by ordinance in the case of your retirement or an earlier separation from City service before payment benefits commence; if you should die your beneficiary may select a death settlement from among the alternatives offered before benefits are paid.~~

~~B. You (or your beneficiary) may postpone making your selection as long as your choice is made in the time and manner authorized by ordinance and before any benefits become available. You may not revoke a selection after benefits commence [Regs. section 1.457-1].~~

A. Election of method of distribution. Your benefits may be paid in a lump sum or in periodic payments or such other method allowed by administrative rule, the Code, and its implementing regulations. You must elect the method of distribution of benefits in writing no later than thirty (30) days before your scheduled (your elected distribution date or the default date designated by the Plan) distribution commencement date. You may not revoke your election of a method of distribution after payments commence, nor can you accelerate your payments after your payments commence. If your beneficiary elects a method of distribution, the period of time and the manner in which the benefits are distributed is governed by administrative rule. If you (or your beneficiary) do not chose a method of distribution within the time specified in this section, the Plan will use the applicable default method of distribution.

B. Default method of distribution. If you (or your beneficiary) do not elect a method of distribution thirty (30) days before your scheduled distribution commencement date and the current market value of your account is equal to or greater than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000), the Plan will distribute your benefits in monthly installments over a period of one hundred twenty (120) months or in such other periods or amounts as may be required by the minimum payout requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. If you do not elect a method of distribution within the required time period and the current market value of your account is less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000), the Plan will distribute the total amount of your benefits in one lump sum payment. If your beneficiary is an estate, trust or other entity the distribution of your benefits will be governed by administrative rule.

C. Minimum distribution requirements. If your benefits are distributed in periodic payments under this Plan, the amount and timing of such payments shall be governed by administrative rule and the minimum distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and its applicable regulations. [26 U.S.C. 457(d)(2) and 401(a)(9).] Your benefit payments must commence no later than the last date for beginning distribution under SMC 4.38.401. The payment of benefits must be scheduled so that the amounts do not increase substantially after the first year; at least one (1) payment occurs every year; and most of the payments will go to you over your life expectancy or over the joint life expectancy of you and your beneficiary. [Code 401(a)(9)(B).]

 Section Section 4.38.404 of the Seattle Municipal Code is repealed:

~~4.38.404 Scheduling benefits.~~

~~Payment of benefits shall begin on or before the later of the end of sixty (60) days after the end of the calendar year in which you (a) reach (or would have reached) "normal retirement age" (see Section 4.38.402 ) or (b) leave City service permanently. The payment of benefits must be scheduled so that the amounts do not increase substantially after the first year; at least one (1) payment occurs every year; and most of them will go to you rather than your beneficiary. For example, at the time payment of benefits begin, the present value of scheduled payments to you over your life expectancy must exceed sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the total present value of all payments due [Code section 457 (d)(2); Regs. section 1.457-2(I)]~~.

 Section Section 4.38.406 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.406 Payments to beneficiaries.

 If you die before drawing benefits or before all benefits are paid, benefits shall be paid to your beneficiary in the manner provided by administrative rule,~~over a period of fifteen (15) years or less, or if your beneficiary is your surviving spouse, for his/her life or any shorter period~~ [Regs. section 1.457-2(i)(3)]. Payments must be sufficiently rapid to satisfy the requirements of Code section 457(d)(2) and Code section 401(a)(9) [Code section 457(d)(2)]. To qualify for benefits your beneficiary must survive ten (10) days after your death.

 Section Section 4.38.407 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.407 Unforeseeable emergency.

 Upon application, the City may authorize a payment to you in an amount reasonably needed to meet an "unforeseeable emergency." An "unforeseeable emergency" is a severe financial hardship to you resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident to you or a dependent, loss of your property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond your control. No payment can be made to the extent that your hardship may be relieved through reimbursement, compensation by insurance or otherwise; a sale of your assets without causing severe financial hardship; or suspending your deferrals. The payment may not exceed the lesser of the current value of your account (see Section 4.38.302 ) or the amount required to satisfy your emergency need [Regs. section 1.457-2(h)(4-5)]. Your account will be reduced by an amount equal to any payment made; and any balance remaining in your account after the payment will be paid as benefits in accordance with Section 4.38.401. This is ~~the only~~one of two ways in which payment of deferred amounts~~,~~may be authorized by the City prior to your permanent separation from~~which the City may authorize while you are below your retirement age in~~ active City service. You may also receive an "in-service cash out election" payment if the conditions of Section 4.38.425 are satisfied.

 Section Section 4.38.408 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.408 Temporary interruption of service.

 Unless you declare and make your departure from City service  permanent or you become permanently separated from City service as defined by the Plan and/or administrative rule~~Section 4.38.406 applies~~, your account will continue to be maintained during the following absences although your  deferrals cease: A layoff of less than one year for lack of work; military service while reemployment rights are maintained; or an extended authorized leave of absence~~; and transfer to other employment while you maintain your membership within the City Employees' Retirement System or the Law Enforcement Officers' and Fire Fighters' Retirement System.~~

 Section A new Section 4.38.420 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

4.38.420 Distribution date for separated participants.

A participant who has separated from the City prior to the effective date of Ordinance ___________ [this ordinance] and who has not commenced distribution of benefits or previously elected a distribution commencement date shall elect a distribution commencement date in writing in the time and manner required by the City. If the separated participant does not elect a distribution commencement date as required by the City, the participant's distribution shall commence at age sixty-five (65). [Treas. Reg. 1.457-2(f)(4).] Those separated participants who receive a default distribution date of age sixty-five (65) may use the second election to postpone the distribution date to a future date as permitted by SMC 4.38.402(B).

A separated participant receiving a default distribution commencement date under this section may appeal the designation of a default distribution date by submitting a written appeal to the Deferred Compensation Committee giving a reasonable explanation why he/she failed to elect a distribution commencement date as required by this section and providing evidence that the participant is permanently separated from City service. The Deferred Compensation Committee shall allow the participant to elect a distribution date if the participant has stated reasonable cause for failing to elect a distribution date as required by notice under this section. Reasonable cause may include the failure to send or receive notice, the absence, death, or incapacity of a participant, or other circumstance preventing the participant (or beneficiary) from receiving notice under this section. All decisions of the Deferred Compensation Committee may be appealed to the Director of Personnel. The decision of the Director of Personnel shall be final.

 Section A new Section 4.38.425 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

4.38.425 In Service cash-out election before separation.

You may elect to receive a lump sum "in-service cash out" payment prior to your permanent separation from City service if you meet certain Code requirements which include the following: no deferrals have been made to your account for the previous twenty-four (24) month period, your account balance is less than the maximum amount allowed by Section 457 of the Code, and you have not previously received an in-service cash out distribution under this Plan. Payment will be made at least thirty (30) days after the City receives and approves your written request for payment. Only one in-service cash out election will be made available to you during your membership in this Plan. [Code onstruction457(e)(9)(A).

 Section Section 4.38.504 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.504 Transfers between government plans.

 This Plan will accept plan-to-plan transfers of deferred compensation accounts for employees who enter City service from another employer with an eligible deferred compensation plan established under Code section 457. Conversely, if you leave City service to take a position with another employer with an eligible deferred compensation plan under Code section 457, the City will automatically transfer your account to your new employer for deposit in its plan as long as the receiving plan accepts such transfers [Regs. section 1.457-2(k)]. If you wish to effect a plan to plan transfer, you must give notice to the City in writing no more than sixty (60) days after your separation date and identify the state or local government employer with whom you have accepted employment.

 Section Section 4.38.1005 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.1005 Includable compensation.

 "Includable compensation" means your compensation from the City reported to the United States Internal Revenue Service for federal income tax purposes, reduced by deferrals under this plan and payments made on your behalf for retirement system purposes under Ordinance 111992 and 26 U.S.C. section 414(h), and other non- taxable income. It is determined without taking into account Washington's community property laws [Code section 457(d)(5); Regs. section 1.457-2(e)(2)].

 Section Section 4.38.1007 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.1007 Normal retirement age.

 "Normal retirement age." See Section 4.38.~~402~~ 204(C).

 Section Section 4.38.1010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.1010 Plan administrator.

 "Plan administrator" means a City official or office, a custodian appointed by the City to act as Plan administrator, or an organization that manages the day to day operation of the Plan by providing such services as the following: Preparing informational material, presenting the Plan to City employees, enrolling participants, processing forms and keeping records and accounts, and providing information, answering questions, and giving advice about the Plan, making reports to participants, coordinating with investment underwriters, participating in selecting them, and overseeing their performance, and directing payment of benefits. This listing illustrates the type of tasks performed; a plan administrator may perform some, all, or other tasks, as determined by ordinance.

 Section Section 4.38.1011 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.38.1011 Plan ceiling.

 "Plan ceiling" is the lesser of Seven Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($7,500.00) and for any taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1998, the lesser of Eight Thousand Dollars ($8,000.00) (or such larger amount as determined periodically by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 457(e)(15  or one-third (1/3) of a participant's "includable compensation." See Section 4.38.204.

 Section This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1998. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1998. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1998. ___________________________________________ City Clerk BN:gh April 9, 1998 dc78final.doc

```
