

********

**Council Bill Number: 112124**
   
**Ordinance Number: 118970**
********

 AN ORDINANCE establishing titles, retitling, reclassifying, and setting compensation for certain positions in various City departments; creating a new title and salary in various City departments; retitling positions in various City departments resulting from classification reconsiderations subsequent to the adoption of the 1998 Budget; correcting titles as shown on Ordinance #118913, #118780 and #118777; recommending for 1998 exemption of some positions and approving all for inclusion in the Accountability Pay for Executives (APEX) or Strategic Advisor Compensation Program in City departments as recommended by the Management Compensation Review Committee and Executive Compensation Review Committee, effective 1/7/98; allocating certain classified service positions to the Manager Classification System, effective 1/7/98; amending S.M.C. 4.13.010 by a 2/3 vote of the Council to exempt additional positions from the classified services; and providing payment therefor.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 20, 1998
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: McIver, Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 24, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 23, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 6, 1998
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** WAGES-AND-SALARIES, EMPLOYMENT, EMPLOYEE-BENEFITS, CITY-EMPLOYEES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE establishing titles, retitling, reclassifying, and setting compensation for certain positions in various City departments; creating a new title and salary in various City departments; retitling positions in various City departments resulting from classification reconsiderations subsequent to the adoption of the 1998 Budget; correcting titles as shown on Ordinances #118913, #118780 and #118777; recommending for 1998 exemption of some positions and approving all for inclusion in the Accountability Pay for Executives (APEX) or Strategic Advisor Compensation Program in City departments as recommended by the Management Compensation Review Committee and Executive Compensation Review Committee, effective 1/7/98; allocating certain classified service positions to the Manager Classification System, effective 1/7/98; amending S.M.C. 4.13.010 by a 2/3 vote of the Council to exempt additional positions from the classified services; and providing payment therefor.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 SECTION 1. RECLASSIFYING AND RETITLING OF POSITIONS. As recommended by the Personnel Director in Classification Determinations specified and attached hereto, positions in certain City employing units are hereby retitled, or otherwise adjusted, effective as noted in respective Classification Determinations as shown below:

CITY LIGHT

 2 positions (#014089, #014090) of Electrical Engineering Design Specialist, Assistant III retitled to Electrical Engineer, Associate (Report #97-1280A).

 1 position (#013176) of Data Assistant retitled to Systems Programmer Analyst (Report #97-1360).

EXECUTIVE Office for Civil Rights

 1 position (#019095) of Civil Rights Analyst, Senior retitled to Civil Rights Analyst, Supervising (Report #97-1566).

EXECUTIVE Office of Intergovernmental Relations

 1 position (#015325) of Administrative Secretary (Exempt) retitled to Administrative Staff Assistant (Exempt) (Report #97-1561).

EXECUTIVE Office of Management and Planning

 1 position (#025513) of Director VIII, Exempt retitled to Strategic Advisor 2, Exempt (Report #97-1520A).

EXECUTIVE SERVICES

 1 position (#023939) of Contracting Services Administrator, Assistant retitled to Purchasing, Contracting and Risk Management Manager 1 (Report #97-1519).

 1 position (#014421) of Janitor, Senior-DAS/CL retitled to Janitor, Lead-DAS/CL (Report #98-1636).

 1 position (#023819) of Data Processing Systems Analyst retitled to Systems Analyst (Report #98-1645).

 2 positions (#015993, #024092) of Data Processing Systems Analyst, Senior retitled to Systems Analyst, Senior (Report #98-1646).

FIRE

 1 position (#006624) of Administrative Support Assistant-BU retitled to Administrative Specialist I-BU (Report #98-1643).

 1 position (#006629) of Administrative Specialist I retitled to Personnel Specialist, Assistant (Report 97-1644).

 1 position (#025185) of Industrial Hygienist, Certified retitled to Equal Employment Coordinator (Report #98-1676).

HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES

 2 positions (#022740, #023616) of Accounting Technician II and 1 position (#015506) of Accounting Technician II ilo Accountant retitled to Finance Analyst, Assistant (Report #97-1349).

 1 position (#023243) of Grants and Contracts Specialist retitled to Human Services Coordinator (Report #97-1493).

MUNICIPAL COURT

 1 position (#011408) of Court Cashier retitled to Management Systems Analyst (Report #98-1670).

NEIGHBORHOODS

 1 position (#023943) of Administrative Specialist I retitled to Systems Programmer Analyst (Report #97-1285).

PARKS AND RECREATION

 1 position (#023675) of Installation Maintenance Worker retitled to Facilities Maintenance Worker (Report #97-1342A).

 1 position (#019291) of Truck Driver retitled to Construction and Maintenance Equipment Operator (Report #97-1560).

 1 position (#023999) of Public Information Specialist retitled to Public Relations Specialist (Report #98-1650).

 1 position (#019699) of Public Information Specialist, Senior retitled to Public Relations Specialist, Senior (Report #98-1652).

SEATTLE CENTER

 1 position (#025065) of Capital Projects Coordinator, Assistant retitled to Capital Projects Coordinator (Report #97-1613).

 1 position (#009029) of Administrative Specialist I-BU retitled to Administrative Specialist II-BU (Report #97-1619).

 1 position (#023536) of Maintenance Laborer retitled to Recycling Program Specialist (Report #97-1620).

 1 position (#022104) of Gardener, Senior retitled to Landscape Supervisor (Report #97-1622).

 1 position (#009019) of Events Service Representative retitled to Events Service Representative, Senior (Report #97-1623).

SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES

 1 position (#011884) of Administrative Specialist I-BU retitled to Administrative Specialist II-BU (Report #97-1585).

 1 position (#016771) of Data Entry Operator retitled to Accounting Technician I-BU (Report #97-1586).

 1 position (#023101) of Civil Engineering Specialist, Assistant II retitled to Civil Engineering Specialist, Associate (Report #97-1587).

 1 position (#011699) of Management Systems Analyst retitled to Systems Analyst, Senior (Report #97-1596).

 1 position (#008439) of Environmental Field Specialist Supervisor retitled to Environmental Field Supervisor (Report #97-1599).

 1 position (#024675) of Systems Analyst retitled to Systems Analyst, Senior (Report #97-1607).

 1 position (#008039) of Civil Engineer, Senior retitled to Capital Projects Coordinator (Report #97-1608).

 2 positions (#015518, #023899) of Naturalist retitled to Public Education Program Specialist (Report #97-1615).

TRANSPORTATION

 1 position (#023598) of Administrative Specialist I-BU retitled to Administrative III-BU (Report #97-1387).

 1 position (#018618) of Administrative Specialist II-BU retitled to Administrative Specialist III-BU (Report #97-1391).

 1 position (#023366) of Civil Engineering Specialist, Assistant I (filled in lieu of as Personnel Specialist, Assistant) retitled to Personnel Specialist, Assistant (Report #97-1392).

 1 position (#023259) of Research and Evaluation, Assistant retitled to Transportation Planner, Assistant (Report #97-1393).

 1 position (#015788) of Civil Engineer, Associate (filled in lieu of as Traffic Control Supervisor, Assistant) retitled to Civil Engineer, Senior (Report #97-1398).

 1 position (#008868) of Accounting Technician I retitled to Accounting Technician II (Report #97-1489).

 1 position (#007878) of Accounting Technician II-BU retitled to Signal Electrician (Report #98-1638).

 1 position (#018761) of Warehouse Supervisor retitled to Bridge Operations Crew Chief (Report #98-1666).

 SECTION 2. NEW TITLE AND SALARY. As recommended by the Personnel Director, the following title and salary rate are established, effective as of the date shown in respective reports, letters, or memoranda of understanding/agreement.

DepartmentNew Title1997 Salary Rate

Housing and Assistant Finance $15.94-16.57-17.22-17.86-18.55 (Range 27.0A)

 Human Services Analyst Effective July 8, 1997

 (Report #97-1487)

 SECTION 3. CLASSIFICATION RECONSIDERATIONS - 1998 BUDGET RECOMMENDATIONS. As recommended by the Personnel Director pursuant to classification reconsiderations and classification recommendations made subsequent to the adoption of the 1998 Budget, the following positions legislated in the 1998 Budget Ordinance are retitled, to reflect the correct Classification Determinations effective January 1, 1998.

EXECUTIVE Office of Management and Planning

 5 positions (#025766, #025793, #025794, #025835, #025836) TBD classified to Policy and Management Analyst (Report #98-1651). LEGISLATIVE

 1 position (#025831) TBD (Legislative Analyst was requested) classified to Strategic Advisor-Legislative (Report #98-1653).

MUNICIPAL COURT

 1 position (#025840) TBD classified to Finance, Budgeting and Accounting Manager 2 (Report #98-1654). PARKS AND RECREATION

 1 position (#025383) TBD classified to Recreation Leader (Report #98-1668).

 1 position (#025386) TBD classified to Bio-Technician (Report #98- 1669).

 SECTION 4. TITLE CORRECTION. The following is submitted to correct the title as shown in Section 13, page 14 of Ordinance #118913.

DepartmentTitle As ShownCorrect Title

Police Manager 2, Exempt Manager 3, Exempt

 Position #023667 Position #023667

 SECTION 5. TITLE CORRECTIONS. The following are submitted to correct titles as shown in Section 2 of Ordinance #118780.

DepartmentTitle As ShownCorrect Title

Executive Finance, Budget & Finance, Budget &

 Services Accounting Manager 2 Accounting Manager 3

 Position #016323 Position #016323

 Police General Government Manager 3, Exempt

 Manager 3 Position #015422

 Position #015422

 Public Safety General Government Manager 2, Exempt

 Civil Service Manager 2 Position #017433

 Commission Position #017433

 Seattle Engineering & Plans Civil Engineer, Senior

 Public Review Manager 3 Position #019835

 Utilities Position #019835

 SECTION 6. TITLE CORRECTION. The following is submitted to correct the title as shown in Section 3 of Ordinance #118777.

DepartmentTitle As ShownCorrect Title

 Seattle Strategic Advisor 1, Exempt Assistant to Superintendent

 Public Position #022568 Position #022568

 Utilities

 SECTION 7. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION REVIEW COMMITTEE TITLES RECOMMENDATION. As recommended by the Executive Compensation Review Committee (ECRC), the following positions have been evaluated, recommended for exemption in 1997, and approved for inclusion in the Accountability Pay for Executives (APEX) effective January 7, 1998. Pay rates will be determined in accordance with the Program, and as authorized by Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.20.380.

 Title/ New Title/ Final APEX

 Position Number/ Position Number/ Title and Department

Former Salary RangeNew Salary Range Position #

Executive- TBD Director VIII, Exempt

 Office of Position #025513 Position #025513

 Management Salary Range: N/A Salary Range: 43.5A

 and Planning Effective 1/1/97

 (formerly OMP)

 Transportation Manager XII Director X Executive 1

 Position #007946 Position #007946 Position #007946

 Salary Range: 42.0A Salary Range: 44.5A Effective 1/7/98

 Effective 1/1/97

 Transportation Manager XII Director X Executive 2

 Position #024196 Position #024196 Position #024196

 Salary Range: 42.0A Salary Range: 44.5A Effective 1/7/98

 Effective 1/1/97

 Transportation Manager XII Director X Executive 1

 Position #008848 Position #008848 Position #008848

 Salary Range: 42.0A Salary Range: 44.5A Effective 1/7/98

 Effective 1/1/97

 New APEX Title/

DepartmentTitle/Position NumberPosition Number

 Seattle Center Executive 1 Executive 2

 Position #009041 Position #009041

 Effective 1/7/98 Effective 1/7/98

 Seattle Center Executive 1 Executive 2

 Position #020146 Position #020146

 Effective 1/7/98 Effective1/7/98

 Section 8. The following classified service positions have been evaluated and allocated to the Manager Classification System effective January 7, 1998.

Department

Job Title

Pos. #

Classification

 Arts Commission

 Arts Specialist, Senior 008905 General Government Manager 1

 Arts Specialist, Senior 022010 General Government Manager 1

 Seattle Center Personnel Specialist, Supervising 018339 General Government Manager 2

 SECTION 9. EXEMPT POSITIONS. As recommended by the Personnel Director in response to requests from customer departments to render certain positions in employment exempt from the classified service, S.M.C. 4.13.010 (known as the Exemptions Ordinance), Sections A - W, is hereby amended as follows:

Employing UnitTitles of Exempt Positions

A. All Employing Units Administrative Secretary

 Assistant to the Superintendent

 Executive Assistant/Secretary

 All legal advisors and associate legal advisors to

 employing units

 Executive 1

 Executive 2

 Executive 3

 Executive 4

 Manager 1, Exempt

 Manager 2, Exempt

 Manager 3, Exempt

 Office/Maintenance Aide

 Strategic Advisor 1, Exempt

 Strategic Advisor 2, Exempt

 Strategic Advisor 3, Exempt

 B. Arts Commission ~~Executive Director--Arts Commission~~

~~Deputy Director--Arts Commission~~

 C. City Light ~~Account Services Director--City Light~~

 Accounting Director--City Light

~~Chief Engineer--City Light~~

 Chief Engineer--City Light, Assistant to

~~City Light Superintendent, Deputy~~

~~Civil Engineering Director--City Light~~

 Customer Information System Project Director

~~Customer Relations DirectorSCL~~

 Data Processing Systems Manager

~~Distribution Engineering Director--Seattle City Light~~

~~Electric Services Director--City Light~~

~~Electrical Operations Director~~

~~Energy Management Services Director~~

~~Energy Planning and Forecasting Director~~

~~Environmental Health & Safety Director--City Light~~

~~Facilities Management Director--City Light~~

~~Financial Planning Director--City Light~~

~~Human Resources Director--City Light~~

 Hydroelectric Manager

~~Mechanical Engineering Director--City Light~~

~~Power Generation Director~~

~~Power Management Director--City Light~~

~~Power Systems and Substation Engineering~~

~~Director~~

~~Project Management Director--City Light~~

~~Strategic Technology & Planning Director--City~~

~~Light~~

 Civil Service Commission Executive Director - Civil Service Commission

 Construction and

 Land Use ~~Code Development and Community Relations~~

~~Director~~

~~Construction Inspection Director~~

~~Finance and Administrative Services Director~~

~~DCLU~~

~~Housing and Zoning Enforcement Director~~

~~Land Use Director~~

~~Permits and Plans Examination Director~~

~~Principal EngineerDCLU~~

~~Special Projects FacilitatorDCLU~~

 F. Executive Administrative Staff Analyst (OMP)

 Administrative Staff Assistant (OED)

 Administrative Staff Assistant (OCR)

Administrative Staff Assistant (OIR)

 All directors of offices in the Executive Department

 All positions in the Office of the Mayor, except clerical

 positions classified in the Office Assistant and

 Accounting Support Assistant class series

 Budget Analyst (OMP)

 Budget Analyst, Senior (OMP)

 Budget Analyst, Supervising (OMP)

 Budget Analyst Trainee (OMP)

~~Budget Director, Assistant (OMP)~~

~~Budget Director, Deputy (OMP)~~

~~Business Development and Contract Services~~

~~Director (OED)~~

~~Deputy DirectorOIR~~

 Director IV (OCR)

~~Director VIII (OMP)~~

 Enforcement Manager (OCR)

 Financial Economist (OMP)

 Intergovernmental Relations Coordinator (OIR)

 International Community Programs Coordinator (OIR)

 International Specialist, Chief (OIR)

~~Lobbyist~~

~~Lobbyist, Senior~~

~~Management and Planning Director, Assistant~~~~(OMP)~~ ))

~~Manager IV (OMP)~~

~~Manager VIII (OMP)~~

~~Manager IX (OMP)~~

~~Manager X (OMP)~~

 Planning and Development Specialist II (OMP)

 Planning and Development Specialist, Senior (OMP)

 Policy and Management Analyst (OMP)

 Public Information Specialist, Senior (OMP)

~~Regional Transit Authority Director (OMP)~~

 Transportation Planner, Associate (OMP)

 Transportation Planner, Senior (OMP)

 Urban Design Planner, Senior (OMP)

 Urban Economist (OMP)

 G. Executive Services ~~Accounting Services Director~~

~~Administrative Services Director~~

~~Administrative Services Deputy Director~~

 Administrative Staff Assistant (PosNo. 025346)

~~Architectural Services Director~~

~~Building Operations Director~~

~~Classification Director~~

 Communication Director

~~Communications and Network Services Director~~

 Compliance Manager/Deputy Director

 Computer Services Manager

~~Contracting Division Director~~

~~Contracting Services Administrator~~

~~Data Processing Applications Director~~

 Debt Management Coordinator

 Director I

~~Director IV~~

 Director VIII

~~Director X~~

~~Director XII~~

 Economist--Dept. of Finance

~~Emergency Preparedness Administrator~~

~~Employee Services Administrator~~

~~Employment Services Director~~

~~Finance Director~~

~~Fleet Services Director~~

~~Hearing Examiner, Deputy~~

~~Information Systems Director--Administrative~~

~~Services~~

 Investment Officer

 Investment Officer, Assistant

~~Labor Relations Director~~

~~Management Planning and Support Director~~

 Manager V (PosNo. 025018)

 Manager VIII--#011162

~~Municipal Facilities Administrator~~

~~PPS Replacement Project Director~~

~~Personnel Director~~

~~Personnel Services Administrator~~

 Planner, Senior

~~Planning Director, Assistant~~

~~Policy Development Director~~

~~Purchasing Manager~~

~~Risk Manager~~

 SFMS Project Specialist I

 SFMS Project Specialist II

 Strategic Technology Planner

~~System Services Director~~

~~Technology Officer, Chief~~

~~Telecommunications Director~~

~~Treasury Director~~

~~Vehicle Maintenance Director~~

 H. Fire All positions included in the Public Safety Civil Service

 Administrative Staff Assistant (PosNo. 007954)

~~Fire Personnel Director~~

~~Fiscal Administration DirectorFire~~

~~MIS/Communications Systems DirectorFire~~

 I. Hearing Examiner,

 Office of All positions in the Office of Hearing Examiner, except clerical positions classified in the Office

 Assistant and Accounting Support Assistant

 class series

 J. Housing and

 Human Services ~~Deputy Director, DHHS~~

~~Director, Division on Aging~~

~~Director for Education~~

~~Family and Youth Services Director~~

~~Housing and Community Service Director~~

~~Program Support Director~~

 Law All positions in the Law Department, except clerical

 positions classified in the Office Assistant and

 Accounting Support Assistant class series

 Legislative All positions in the Legislative Department, except

 clerical positions classified in the Office

 Assistant and Accounting Support Assistant

 class series

 Municipal Court All Municipal Judges, Magistrates, and

 Commissioners

 All positions in the Probation Counselor class series

 Administrative Staff Assistant (PosNo. 021316,

 011448)

 Administrative Specialist I (PosNo. 023563)

 Administrative Specialist II (PosNo. 011478)

 Bailiff

 Bailiff, Chief

~~Chief Clerk--Municipal Court~~

~~Director II~~

~~Director X~~

~~Manager VIII~~

~~Municipal Court Administrator~~

 Municipal Court Marshal

 Municipal Court Marshal, Senior

 Municipal Court Marshal, Supervisor

~~Personnel Manager~~

~~Planning and Budget Director--Municipal Court~~

~~Probation Service Director~~

 N. Neighborhoods ~~Community Service Centers Division Director~~

~~Citizens Service Bureau Division Director~~

~~Neighborhood Programs Division Director~~

~~Urban Conservation Supervisor~~

 O. Parks and Recreation ~~Aquarium Director~~

~~Environmental Programs Director~~

~~Facilities Maintenance and Development Director~~

 Major Projects and Planning Director--Parks

~~Management DirectorParks~~

~~Operations DirectorParks~~

~~Parks and Recreation Services DirectorCitywide~~

~~Parks and Recreation Services Director~~

~~Special Events Coordinator~~

~~Zoo Director~~

 P. Planning Commission

 Office of the ~~Planning Commission Director~~

 Q. Police Administrative Assistant to Chief of Police

 Administrative Staff Assistant

 All positions included in the Public Safety Civil

 Service

~~Community Policing Director~~

 Director V

~~Emergency Preparedness Administrator~~

~~Fiscal and Property Management DirectorPolice~~

 Police Department Clinical Psychologist

~~Police Personnel Director~~

 Warrant Officer

 Warrant Officer, Senior

 Warrant Officer, Supervisor

 R. Public Safety Civil

 Service Commission Secretary and Chief Examiner

 S. Retirement Executive Director--Retirement System

 T. Seattle Public Utilities ~~Branch Executive--Seattle Public Utilities~~

~~Director V~~

~~Director VI~~

~~Director VIII~~

~~Director X~~

~~Director XII~~

~~Drainage and Wastewater Utility Director,~~

~~Assistant~~

~~Strategic Policy Director~~

~~Water Operations Director~~

 Seattle Center ~~Finance and Administration Director--Seattle~~

~~Center~~

~~Manager X #025158~~

~~Redevelopment Director--Seattle Center~~

~~Seattle Center Director, Deputy~~

 V. Seattle Ethics and

 Elections Commission All positions in the office of the Seattle Ethics and

 Elections Commission

 W. Transportation Administrative Staff Assistant (PosNo. 007689)

~~Director XII~~

~~Street Maintenance Director~~

~~Transportation Services Director~~

~~Engineering Director, AssistantTraffic~~

 SECTION 10. The heads of respective departments affected by this ordinance are hereby authorized to use unexpended and unencumbered funds accumulating in their respective 1998 Budgets to pay the compensation authorized herein.

 SECTION 11. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 SECTION 12. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by a two-thirds (2/3's) vote of the members of the City Council the _______ day of _________________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of ________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 President..........of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day _______________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Sarah Welch/Lidia Santiesteban

 1Q98.doc

 March 18, 1998

 Version: 1

```
