

********

**Council Bill Number: 112155**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119011**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the traffic code, amending Sections 11.14.670, 11.20.347, 11.23.400, 11.27.020, 11.34.020, 11.52.100, 11.53.440, 11.55.060, 11.55.100, 11.55.120, 11.58.195 and 11.72.065 and adding sections to Chapters 11.14. 11.22, 11.31, 11.52 and 11.56 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** PASS
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 26, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 1, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 29, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 4, 1998
   
**Committee:** Public Safety, Health & Technology
   
**Sponsor:** PODLODOWSKI
   
   
**Index Terms:** PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, TRAFFIC, PARKING, DISABLED-PERSONS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 108200, 115040, 115895, 118105, 111861, 111835

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the traffic code, amending Sections 11.14.670, 11.20.347, 11.23.400, 11.27.020, 11.34.020, 11.52.100, 11.53.440, 11.55.060, 11.55.100, 11.55.120, 11.58.195 and 11.72.065 and adding sections to Chapters 11.14, 11.22, 11.31, 11.52 and 11.56 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Chapter 11.14 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, as amended) is further amended to add the following section:

 11.14.532 Roadway construction zone.

 "Roadway construction zone" means an area where construction, repair, or maintenance work is being conducted by public employees or private contractors on or adjacent to any public roadway. (RCW 46.61.527(1))

 Section 2. Section 11.14.670 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200 2 (11.14.935)) is amended to read as follows:

 11.14.670 Transit coach.

 "Transit coach" includes every vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) persons and used for the transportation of persons by  King County's Metro Transit, Snohomish County's Community Transit, Pierce County's Pierce Transit and the Regional Transit Authority.

 Section 3. Section 11.20.347 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 115040 1(part), as amended by Ordinance 115895 3) is further amended to read as follows:

 11.20.347 Scope of financial responsibility sections.

 The provisions of Sections 11.20.340 and 11.20.345 ~~and 11.20.347~~ shall not govern:

 1. The operation of a motor vehicle registered under RCW  46.16.305(1)~~46.16.310 or 46.16.315~~, governed by RCW 46.16.020, or registered with the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission as common or contract carriers; or

 2. The operation of a motorcycle as defined in Section 11.14.340~~RCW 46.04.330~~, a motor-driven cycle as defined in Section 11.14.345~~RCW 46.04.332~~, or a moped as defined in RCW 46.04.304. (RCW 46.30.020(3))

 Section 4. Chapter 11.22 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, as amended) is further amended to add the following section:

 11.22.025 Transfer of ownership.

 Failure or neglect of a purchaser or transferee of a vehicle to make application to transfer the certificate of ownership and license registration of the vehicle within forty-five (45) days after the date of delivery of the vehicle is a misdemeanor. (RCW 46.12.101(6))

 Section 5. Chapter 11.22 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, as amended) is further amended to add the following section:

 11.22.070 Licenses and plates required -- Penalties -- Exceptions.

 A. It is unlawful for a person to operate any vehicle over and along a street or alley without first obtaining and having in full force and effect a current and proper vehicle license and displaying vehicle license number plates therefor as provided by RCW Chapter 46.16. Failure to make initial registration before operation on a street or alley is a misdemeanor, and any person convicted thereof shall be punished by a fine of no less than three hundred thirty dollars ($330.00), no part of which may be suspended or deferred. Failure to renew an expired registration before operation on a street or alley is a traffic infraction.

 B. The licensing of a vehicle in another state by a resident of this state, as defined in RCW 46.16.028, thereby evading the payment of any tax or license fee imposed in connection with registration, is a gross misdemeanor punishable as follows:

 1. For a first offense, up to one (1) year imprisonment and a fine equal to twice the amount of delinquent taxes and fees, no part of which may be suspended or deferred;

 2. For a second or subsequent offense, up to one (1) year imprisonment and a fine equal to four (4) times the amount of delinquent taxes and fees, no part of which may be

 suspended or deferred.

 C. This section shall not apply to vehicles exempt from RCW 46.16.010. (RCW 46.16.010)

 Section 6. Chapter 11.22 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, as amended) is further amended to add the following section:

 11.22.090 Vehicle trip permits -- Restrictions and requirements -- Penalty.

 A. Each trip permit issued under RCW 46.16.160 shall authorize the operation of a single vehicle at the maximum legal weight limit for such vehicle for a period of three (3) consecutive days commencing with the day of first use. No more than three (3) such permits may be used for any one (1) vehicle in any period of thirty (30) consecutive days, except that in the case of a recreational vehicle as defined in RCW 43.22.335, no more than two (2) trip permits may be used for any one (1) vehicle in a one-year period. Every permit shall identify, as the Washington Department of Licensing may require, the vehicle for which it is issued and shall be completed in its entirety and signed by the operator before operation of the vehicle on a street or alley. Correction of data on the permit such as dates, license number, or vehicle identification number invalidates the permit. The trip permit shall be displayed on the vehicle to which it is issued as prescribed by the Washington Department of Licensing.

 B. A violation of or a failure to comply with any provision of this section is a gross misdemeanor. (RCW 46.16.160)

 Section 7. Section 11.23.400 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200 2 (11.23.400), as last amended by Ordinance 118105 2) is further amended to read as follows:

 11.23.400 Disabled parking ~~-- Location~~ -- Enforcement.

A. Knowingly providing false information in conjunction with an application for a disabled parking permit is a gross misdemeanor. For purposes of this subsection, "knowingly" has the same meaning as in Section 12A.04.030 B.  B. Except as provided by subsection A of this section, it is a traffic infraction, with a monetary penalty of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00), for any person willfully to obtain a disabled parking placard, license plate, or photo identification card in a manner other than that established by RCW 46.16.381.

 C.

 The unauthorized use of a disabled parking~~person's~~ placard, ~~or~~ license plate, or photo identification card issued by the Washington State Department of Licensing under RCW 46.16.381 is a traffic infraction with a monetary penalty of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00)~~misdemeanor~~.

D. The court may not suspend more than one-half of any fine imposed under subsections B or C of this section. For a second or subsequent violation of subsections B or C of this section, in addition to a monetary penalty, a violator must complete a minimum of forty (40) hours of either community service for a nonprofit organization that serves the disabled community or persons having disabling diseases or any other community service that may sensitize the violator to the needs and obstacles faced by persons who have disabilities.  E.

 Any peace officer or parking checker finding any unauthorized use of such placard ~~,~~ or license plate shall issue and affix a notice indicating the unauthorized uses thereof in the form and in the manner required by Section 11.31.030.

 Section 8. Section 11.27.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200 2 (11.27.020)) is amended to read as follows:

 11.27.020 Collision reports.

A. Unless a report is to be made by a law enforcement officer under subsection B of this section, the~~The~~ operator of any vehicle involved in a collision resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to the property of any one (1) person to an apparent extent equal to or greater than the minimum amount established by rule adopted by the chief of the Washington State Patrol in accordance with RCW 46.52.030 (( ~~of Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) or more,~~ shall, within four (4) days~~twenty-four (24) hours~~ after such collision make a written report of such collision to the Chief of Police on forms furnished by him; the original of such report to be immediately forwarded by the Chief of Police to the Chief of the Washington State Patrol at Olympia, Washington, and the second copy of such report to be forwarded to the Department of Licensing at Olympia, Washington. The Chief of Police may require any operator of any vehicle involved in a collision, of which report must be made as provided in this section 11.27.020, to file supplemental reports whenever the original report in his opinion is insufficient and may likewise require witnesses of any such collision to render reports.

B. Any law enforcement officer present at the scene of a collision or in possession of any facts concerning a collision shall submit an investigator's report as required by RCW 46.52.070. (RCW 46.52.030)

 Section 9. Chapter 11.31 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, as amended) is further amended to add the following section:

 11.31.115 Monetary penalty doubled for certain traffic infractions.

 A person found to have committed a traffic infraction relating to speed restrictions in a school or playground crosswalk zone under Section 11.52.100 or a roadway construction zone under Section 11.52.110 or overtaking and passing a school bus under Section 11.53.440 A shall be assessed a monetary penalty equal to twice the penalty assessed under Section 11.31.120. This penalty may not be waived, reduced or suspended. (RCW 46.61.440(2); RCW 46.61.527(3); RCW 46.61.370(6))

 Section 10. Section 11.34.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200 (11.34.020), as last amended by Ordinance 118105 3) is further amended to read as follows:

 11.34.020 Penalties for criminal offenses.

 A. Any person convicted of any of the following offenses may be punished by a fine in any sum not to exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000.00) or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed one (1) year, or by both such fine and imprisonment:

 1. Section 11.22.070 B, Licenses and plates required -- Penalties -- Exceptions;  2. Section 11.22.090, Vehicle trip permits -- Restrictions and requirements -- Penalty;

 3. Section 11.23.400, Disabled parking -- Enforcement;

 4.

 Section 11.55.340, Vehicles carrying explosives, flammable liquids and poison gas, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and cryogenics must stop at all railroad grade crossings;

5.~~2.~~ Section 11.56.120, Reckless driving;

6. Section 11.56.130, Reckless endangerment of roadway workers;  7.

~~3.~~ Section 11.56.320 B, Driving while license is suspended or revoked in the first degree;

8.~~4.~~ Section 11.56.320 C, Driving while license is suspended or revoked in the second degree;

9.~~5.~~ Section 11.56.340, Operation of motor vehicle prohibited while license is suspended or revoked;

10.~~6.~~ Section 11.56.420, Hit and run (attended);

11.~~7.~~ Section 11.56.445, Hit and run (by an unattended vehicle);

12.~~8.~~ Section 11.56.450, Hit and run (pedestrian or person on a device propelled by human power);

13.~~9.~~ Section 11.60.690, Transportation of liquefied petroleum gas;

14.~~10.~~ Section 11.62.020, Flammable liquids, combustible liquids and hazardous chemicals;

15.~~11.~~ Section 11.62.040, Explosives;

16.~~12.~~ Section 11.80.140 B, Certain vehicles to carry flares or other warning devices (subsection B only);

17.~~13.~~ Section 11.80.160 E, Display of warning devices when vehicle disabled (subsection E only);

18.~~14.~~ Section 11.84.380, Fire extinguishers;

19.~~15.~~ Section 11.86.080, Flammable or combustible labeling;

20.~~16.~~ Section 11.86.100, Explosive cargo labeling;

21.~~17.~~ Section 11.34.040, with respect to aiding and abetting the foregoing criminal offenses.

 B. Any person convicted of any of the following offenses may be punished by a fine in any sum not to exceed One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment:

 1. Section 11.20.010, Driver's license required -- Exception -- Penalty, unless the person cited for the violation provided the citing officer with an expired driver's license or other valid identifying documentation under RCW 46.20.035 at the time of the stop and was not in violation of Section 11.56.320 or Section 11.56.340, in which case the violation is an infraction;

 2. Section 11.20.100, Display of nonvalid driver's license;

 3. Section 11.20.120, Loaning driver's license;

 4. Section 11.20.140, Displaying the driver's license of another;

 5. Section 11.20.160, Unlawful use of driver's license;

 6. Section 11.20.350 C, Providing false evidence of financial responsibility;

 7. Section 11.22.025, Transfer of ownership;  8. Section 11.22.070 A, Licenses and plates required -- Penalties -- Exceptions;

 9.

~~Section 11.23.400, Unauthorized use of a disabled person's parking placard or license plate;~~8.

 Section 11.31.090, Failure to respond -- Written and signed promise;

10.~~9.~~ Section 11.31.100, Failure to respond -- Parked, stopped or standing notice;

11.~~10.~~ Section 11.32.100, Failure to appear;

12.~~11.~~ Section 11.40.430, Prohibited entry to no admittance area;

13.~~12.~~ Section 11.56.320 D, Driving while license is suspended or revoked in the third degree;

14.~~13.~~ Section 11.56.430, Hit and run (unattended vehicle) -- Duty in case of accident with unattended vehicle;

15.~~14.~~ Section 11.56.440, Hit and run (property damage) -- Duty in case of accident with property;

16.~~15.~~ Section 11.58.005 A, Negligent driving in the first degree;

17.~~16.~~ Section 11.58.190, Leaving minor children in unattended vehicle;

18.~~17.~~ Section 11.59.010, Obedience to peace officers, flaggers, and firefighters;

19.~~18.~~ Section 11.59.040, Refusal to give information to or to cooperate with officer;

20.~~19.~~ Section 11.59.060, Refusal to stop;

21.~~20.~~ Section 11.59.080, Examination of equipment;

22.~~21.~~ Section 11.59.090, Duty to obey peace officer -- Traffic infraction;

23.~~22.~~ Section 11.34.040, Aiding and abetting with respect to the criminal offenses in this subsection.

 Section 11. Section 11.52.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, 2 (11.52.100)) is amended to read as follows:

 11.52.100 Speed limit -- School or playground crosswalks.

Subject to Section 11.52.020 A, and except~~Except~~ in those instances where a lower maximum speed is provided by this subtitle, no person shall operate any vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty miles per hour~~the posted speed limit~~ when passing any marked school or playground crosswalk when such marked crosswalk is fully posted with school speed limit signs or playground speed limit signs. The speed zone at the crosswalk shall extend three hundred feet (300') in either direction from the marked crosswalk. (RCW 46.61.440)

 Section 12. Chapter 11.52 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, as amended) is further amended to add the following section:

 11.52.110 Speed limit in roadway construction zones.

 No person shall drive a vehicle in a roadway construction zone at a speed greater than that allowed by traffic control devices. (RCW 46.61.527(2))

 Section 13. Section 11.53.440 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, 2 (11.53.440)) is amended to read as follows:

 11.53.440 Overtaking and passing school bus.

 A. Except as provided in subsections C and D of this section, the ~~The~~ driver of a vehicle upon overtaking or meeting from either direction any school bus which has stopped on a roadway~~road~~ for the purpose of receiving or discharging any schoolchildren shall stop the vehicle before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the school bus a visual signal as specified in Section 11.82.520~~RCW 46.37.190~~ and the driver shall not proceed until such school bus resumes motion ~~or is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed~~ or the visual signals are no longer activated.

 B. The ~~visual signals shall be actuated by the~~ driver of  a~~the~~ school bus shall actuate the visual signals required by Section 11.82.520 only when the school bus is stopped on a roadway~~road~~ for the purpose of receiving or discharging schoolchildren ~~, unless:~~

~~1. The schoolchildren do not have to cross a road and the school bus is stopped completely off the main traveled portion of the road; or~~

~~2. The school bus is stopped at an intersection or place where traffic is controlled by a traffic officer or official traffic-control signal; or~~

~~3. The school bus is stopped at a school for the purpose of receiving or discharging schoolchildren, and schoolchildren are not required to cross the road~~.

 C. The driver of a vehicle upon a street divided into separate roadways as provided in Section 11.53.080 need not stop upon meeting ~~or passing~~ a school bus which is proceeding in the opposite direction and is stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging schoolchildren~~on a separate roadway or when upon a limited access street, and the school bus is stopped in a bus zone or a loading zone which is part of or adjacent to such street and where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway~~.

 D. The driver of a vehicle upon a street with three or more marked traffic lanes need not stop upon meeting a school bus which is proceeding in the opposite direction and is stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging schoolchildren.

E. The driver of a school bus may stop completely off the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children only when the school children do not have to cross the roadway. The school bus driver shall actuate the hazard warning lamps as defined in RCW 46.37.215 before loading or unloading school children at such stops.

F. No school bus shall stop on an arterial street at a location other than an intersection, except at designated bus zones, passenger load zones, school loading zones, or load and unload zones for the purpose of receiving or discharging schoolchildren; provided, that school buses receiving or discharging handicapped, impaired or disabled students may stop at the most advantageous location for loading and unloading.

~~E. For the purposes of this section and Section 11.53.460, "road" as distinguished from "roadway," means that portion of a street improved, paved, or designed for vehicular use, exclusive of the sidewalk or shoulders even though such sidewalk or shoulder is used by persons riding bicycles.~~ (RCW 46.61.370)

 Section 14. Section 11.55.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200 2 (11.55.060)) is amended to read as follows:

 11.55.060 Two (2) way left-turn lane.

 Upon a roadway where a center lane has been provided by distinctive pavement markings for the use of vehicles turning left from both directions, no vehicles shall turn left from any other lane. A vehicle shall not be driven in this center lane for the purpose of overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction. No vehicle shall travel further than three hundred feet (300') within the lane. A signal, either electric or manual, for indicating a left-turn movement, shall be made at least one hundred feet (100') before the actual left-turn movement is made. ~~Any maneuver other than a lane change into or out of this center lane or a left turn from or into this center lane will be deemed a violation of this section. No person shall drive a vehicle in the center lane for a distance greater than necessary to make said maneuvers in a reasonable, prudent, and safe manner.~~ (RCW 46.61.290(3)(c))

 Section 15. Section 11.55.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200 2 (11.55.100), as last amended by Ordinance 10887 1) is further amended to read as follows:

 11.55.100 Obedience to no-turn signs.

 Whenever ~~authorized~~ signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U turn is permitted, no person shall disobey the directions of any such signs; except~~provided~~, that at those intersections where there are authorized signs exempting  transit coaches~~Metro Transit vehicles~~ from the directions of a no-left-turn sign, the operators of taxicabs shall also be exempt from the directions of such sign; except that the above exception~~provision~~ shall not apply to the intersection of Northeast 45th Street and University Way.

 Section 16. Section 11.55.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200 2 (11.55.120)) is amended to read as follows:

 11.55.120 U turns -- Restrictions.

~~No person shall make a U turn at any point other than a street intersection or street end except where expressly permitted. No person shall make a U turn on any street in the downtown traffic- control zone as defined in this subtitle.~~ No person shall make a U turn unless such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U turn on any curve, or on the approach to or near the crest of a grade, unless the vehicle can be seen by the drivers of all other vehicles approaching from both directions within five hundred feet (500'). (RCW 46.61.295 ) ~~(UVC 11-602(a))~~

 Section 17. Chapter 11.56 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 108200, as amended) is further amended to add the following section:

 11.56.130 Reckless endangerment of roadway workers.

 A. A person is guilty of reckless endangerment of roadway workers if he or she

 1. drives a vehicle in a roadway construction zone in such a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any persons or property; or

 2. removes, evades, or intentionally strikes a traffic safety device or a traffic control device.

 B. Reckless endangerment of roadway workers is a gross misdemeanor.

 (RCW 46.61.527(4))

 Section 18. Section 11.58.195 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 111861 15) is amended to read as follows:

 11.58.195 Child passenger restraint required.

 A. Whenever a child who is less than ten (10) years of age is being transported in a motor vehicle that is in operation and that is required by RCW 46.37.510 to be equipped with a safety belt system in a passenger seating position, the driver of the vehicle shall keep the child properly restrained as follows:  1. If the child is less than three (3) years of age, the child shall be properly restrained in a child restraint system that complies with standards of the United States department of transportation and that is secured in the vehicle in accordance with instructions of the manufacturer of the child restraint system;

 2. If the child is less than ten (10) but at least three (3) years of age, the child shall be restrained either as specified in subsection A1 or with a safety belt properly adjusted and fastened around the child's body.

 B. A person violating this section may be issued a notice of traffic infraction under Chapter 11.31. If the person to whom the notice was issued presents proof of acquisition of an approved child passenger restraint system within seven (7) days to the court, the notice of traffic infraction shall be dismissed.

 C. This section does not apply to for hire vehicles, vehicles designed to transport sixteen (16) or fewer passengers, including the driver, operated by auto transportation companies as defined in RCW 81.68.010, or vehicles providing customer shuttle service between parking, convention, and hotel facilities, and airport terminals. (RCW 46.61.687)

~~The parent or legal guardian of any child less than five (5) years old operating his or her own motor vehicle registered under RCW Chapter 46.16 upon any street, alley, or way open to the public in the City, in which the child is a passenger, shall:~~1. Provide for each such child passenger a separate child passenger restraint device or for each such child, age one (1) through four (4) years, a properly adjusted, and fastened, seat belt approved by the appropriate agency of the United States Government; and

 2. Properly secure each such child in a manner approved by the State Commission of Equipment.

 B. A person who receives a notice of traffic infraction for violating subsection A of this section shall be subject to a penalty assessment of not less than Thirty Dollars ($30.00) if the person fails to present proof of acquisition of an approved child passenger restraint system to a judge or magistrate at a hearing on the infraction.

 C. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall not constitute negligence by a parent or legal guardian; nor shall failure to use a child restraint system be admissible as evidence of negligence in any civil action.

 Section 19. Section 11.72.065 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 111835 2) is amended to read as follows:

 11.72.065 Disabled parking --Violation.

 A. A parking space or stall for a physically disabled person shall be indicated by a~~:~~1. A painted white line, at least six inches (6") in width on the improved surface delineating the perimeter of the parking space or stall for off-street parking, or a painted white line, at least six inches (6") in width on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street for the full length of the designated parking stall for on- street parking; and

 2. a. A

 vertical sign, between thirty-six (36) and eighty- four inches (84")~~forty-eight (48) and sixty inches (60")~~ off the ground, with the international symbol of access, whose colors are white on a blue background, described under RCW 70.92.120 displaying the notice "State disabled parking permit required" and a warning that other vehicles without permits will be impounded.

~~b. This section shall not apply to vertical signs in use on the effective date of this act, except that within two (2) years of such date each vertical sign must display the notice "State disabled parking permit required" and a warning that vehicles without permits will be impounded.~~

 B. Any person who meets the criteria for special parking privileges under RCW 46.16 shall be allowed free of charge to park a vehicle being used to transport that person for unlimited periods of time in parking zones or areas including zones or areas with parking meters which are otherwise restricted as to the length of time parking is permitted. This section does not apply to those zones or areas in which the stopping, parking, or standing of all vehicles is prohibited or which are reserved for special types of vehicles. The person shall obtain and display a disabled parking placard~~special card, decal,~~ or license plate under RCW Chapter 46.16 to be eligible for the privileges ~~grounded~~ under this section.

 C. It is a parking infraction, with a monetary penalty of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00), for any person to~~No person shall~~ stop, stand or park a vehicle in a parking space or stall for a physically disabled person, whether the stall is indicated as required by subsection A of this section, by pavement markings or a sign indicating that the stall is reserved for disabled parking, for any purpose or length of time unless such vehicle displays a special placard or license plate ~~, card, or decal~~ indicating that the vehicle is being used to transport a disabled person as defined under Chapter 46.16 RCW. D. It is a parking infraction, with a monetary penalty of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00), for any person to make inaccessible the access aisle located next to a space reserved for physically disabled persons.

 E. The court may not suspend more than one-half of any fine imposed under subsections C or D of this section. For a second or subsequent violation of subsections C or D of this section, in addition to a monetary penalty, a violator must complete a minimum of forty (40) hours of either community service for a nonprofit organization that serves the disabled community or persons having disabling diseases or any other community service that may sensitize the violator to the needs and obstacles faced by persons who have disabilities.

 Section 20. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event another ordinance has heretofore been enacted that amended Section 11.34.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code amended or recodified herein, that earlier amendment should be effectuated with equal dignity to this ordinance if at all possible in the codification of the Seattle Municipal Code and by the courts, notwithstanding the use in this ordinance of an obsolete version of Section 11.34.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code on which to show intended amendments.

 Section 21. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event a subsequent ordinance refers to or amends Section 11.34.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code amended or recodified herein, but the later ordinance fails to account to the change made by this ordinance, the two sets of amendments should be given effect together if at all possible.

 Section 22. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1998.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 RG: RG April 22, 1998 98TRAFIC.DOC (Ver. )

```
