

********

**Council Bill Number: 112220**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119056**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 25.02, Commute Trip Reduction to be consistent with amendments to the Washington State Clean Air Act, RCW 70.94.521-551, made by the State Legislature during its regular session in 1997.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 22, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 26, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 25, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 15, 1998
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** TRANSPORTATION-DEMAND-MANAGEMENT, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, COMMUTERS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 25.02, Commute Trip Reduction to be consistent with amendments to the Washington State Clean Air Act, RCW 70.94.521-551, made by the State Legislature during its regular session in 1997.

 WHEREAS, the Washington State Clean Air Act, RCW 70.94.521-551, requires local governments to adopt ordinances and plans to reduce single-occupant vehicle commute trips and that are consistent with the guidelines established under RCW 70.94.537; and

 WHEREAS, in its regular 1997 session the Washington State Legislature adopted amendments to the Clean Air Act and the guidelines established under RCW 70.94.537; and

 WHEREAS, the City recognizes the importance of increasing individual citizens' awareness of air quality, energy consumption, traffic congestion, and the contribution individual actions can make towards addressing these issues;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Chapter 25.02 of the Seattle Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

 Chapter 25.02

 COMMUTE TRIP REDUCTION

 Sections:

 25.02.010 Title.

 25.02.020 Purpose.

 25.02.030 Definitions.

 25.02.040 Employer's commute trip reduction program.

 25.02.050 Employer's annual report.

 25.02.060 Commute trip reduction goals, zones and base-year values.

 25.02.070 Exemptions, credit, and adjustment to definition of affected employee.

 25.02.080 Appeal of Director's final decision.

 25.02.090 ViolationPenalties.

 25.02.100 Administration.

 Severability: If any provision of this ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance or the application of the provision to other persons or circumstances is not affected.

 (Ord. 116657 4, 1993.)

 25.02.010 Title.

 This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Seattle Commute Trip Reduction Ordinance."

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 25.02.020 Purpose.

 The purpose of this chapter is to implement the Washington State Clean Air Act, RCW 70.94.521 through 70.94.551.

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 25.02.030 Definitions.

 For the purposes of this chapter the following works or phrases are defined as described below.

 A. "Affected Employee" means a full-time employee who begins his or her regular work day at a single worksite between six a.m. (6:00 a.m.) and nine a.m. (9:00 a.m.) (inclusive) on two (2) or more weekdays.

 B. "Affected employer" means a private or public employer that for twelve (12) continuous months employs one hundred (100) or more full- time employees at a single worksite who are scheduled to begin their regular workday between six a.m. (6:00 a.m.) and nine a.m. (9:00 a.m.) (inclusive) on two (2) or more weekdays, even if the identity of the employees varies over time. This is equivalent to the term "major employer" used in RCW 70.94.521 through 70.94.551.

 C. "Alternative mode" means a method of commuting to work other than a single-occupant motor vehicle being the dominant mode, and may include telecommuting and compressed workweeks if those methods result in fewer commute trips.

 D. "Base year" means the calendar year from January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992. Goals for vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per employee and proportion of single-occupant vehicle trips (SOV) are based upon VMT and SOVs established in that year for the CTR zone.

 E. "Commute trips" means trips made from an employee's residence to a worksite for a regularly scheduled workday beginning between six a.m. (6:00 a.m.) and nine a.m. (9:00 a.m.) (inclusive).

 F. "CTR plan" means Seattle's commute trip reduction plan as set forth in this chapter.

 G. "CTR program" means an employer's strategy to reduce affected employee's SOV use and VMT per employee.

 H. "CTR zone" means an area, such as a census tract or combination of census tracts within Seattle, characterized by similar employment density, population density, level of transit service, parking availability, access to high-occupancy vehicle facilities, and other factors that affect the level of SOV commuting. One of the six (6) areas shown on Attachment A.1

 I. "Director" means the Director of Transportation.

 J. "Dominant mode" means the mode of travel used for the greatest distance of a commute trip.

 K. "Employee" means any person who works for an employer in return for financial or other compensation, and whose workload and schedule is subject to the control of the employer. Employee does not include independent contractors.

 L. "Equivalent survey information" means information that substitutes for the Washington State Department of Transportation ~~Washington State Energy Office~~ goal measurement survey, as determined by the City.

 M. "Full-time employee" means an employee, scheduled to be employed on a continuous basis for fifty-two (52) weeks for an average of at least thirty-five (35) hours per week.

 N. "Mode" means the type of transportation used by employees, such as single-occupant vehicle, rideshare, bicycle, walk, ferry, and transit.

 O. "Proportion of SOV trips" or "SOV rate" means the number of commute trips in the survey week made by affected employees in SOVs, minus any adjustments for telecommuting, bicycling, walking or compressed work schedules, divided by the total number of affected employee workdays during the survey week. An "affected employee workday" includes any day that an employee does not work due to a compressed work schedule.

 P. "Single-occupant vehicle (SOV)" means a motor vehicle occupied by one (1) employee for commute purposes, excluding motorcycles.

 Q. "Vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per employee" means the average commute trip length, in miles, made by affected employees over a set period, multiplied by the number of vehicle commute trips per affected employee during that period.

 R. "Worksite" means a building or group of buildings on physically contiguous parcels of land or on parcels separated solely by private or public roadways or rights-of-way. Construction worksites, when the expected duration of the construction project is less than two (2) years, are excluded.

 S. "Writing," "written" or "in writing" means original signed and dated documents. Facsimile (fax) transmissions are a temporary notice of action that must be followed by the original signed and dated document via mail or delivery.

T. "Good Faith Effort" means that an employer has met the minimum requirements identified in RCW 70.94.531 and this chapter, and is working collaboratively with the City to continue its existing CTR program or is developing and implementing program modifications likely to result in improvements to its CTR program over an agreed upon length of time.

 (Ord. 118409 217, 1996: Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 1. Editor's Note: Attachment A is on file with Ordinance 116657 in the City Clerk's office.

 25.02.040 Employer's commute trip reduction program.

 A. Program Submittal and Implementation.

 1. Application:

a. This chapter applies to any affected employer at any worksite within The City of Seattle. An affected employer must submit a CTR program to the Director within one hundred eighty (180) days of June 4, 1993, the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, regardless of whether the employer has received notice from the City that this chapter applies to the employer. The purpose of an employer CTR program is to help achieve the goals set forth in Section 25.02.060.

 b. An employer that becomes an "affected employer" after adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall develop and submit its initial CTR program to the Director within one hundred eighty (180) days of the first Washington State Department of Employment Security's Employer's Quarterly Report of Employee's Wages published after becoming an affected employer.

c. An affected employer is required to make a good faith effort, as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter, to develop and implement a CTR program that will encourage its employees to reduce VMT per employee and SOV commute trips.  dc

. An affected employer shall implement its approved CTR program within one hundred eighty (180) days after the initial program is submitted to the Director. Implementation is accomplished by carrying out all of the program measures contained in an employer's CTR program.

 2. Transportation Management Associations.

 a. In lieu of submitting an initial CTR program and annual report as described in Section 25.02.050, an affected employer may join a transportation management association ("TMA") or other organization that submits a single program or annual report on behalf of its members. In addition to describing program measures which are common to its members, the TMAs~~TMA's~~ CTR program and annual report shall describe specific program measures which are unique to individual members' worksites. The TMA, as an agent for its members, shall provide performance data for each worksite, as well as data aggregated from all TMA members, to the Director. A TMA is subject to the same time-period requirements as any single employer.

 b. Each employer is responsible for meeting the requirements of this chapter regardless of the employer's participation in a TMA. Program modifications shall be specific to an employer. If an employer elects to satisfy its CTR program requirements through a TMA program or annual report, the employer shall notify the Director in writing, designating the TMA as its agent.

 B. Program Content. Each employer CTR program shall include the following elements:

 1. Designation of Employee Transportation Coordinator. The employer shall designate a transportation coordinator to administer CTR program and act as liaison with the Director. An affected employer with multiple worksites may have one (1) transportation coordinator for all sites. The coordinator's and/or designee's name, location and telephone number must be displayed prominently at each affected work site;

 2. Distribution of Information. The employer shall provide a complete description of its CTR program to employees at least twice a year and to each new employee when he or she begins his or her employment. Each employer's program description and annual report must report the information to be regularly distributed and the method and frequency of distribution;

 3. CTR Program Measures. An employer's initial CTR program shall include at least two (2) of the following measures:

 a. Provide bicycle parking facilities and/or lockers, changing areas, and showers for employees who walk or bicycle to work,

 b. Provide commuter ride-matching services to facilitate employee ride-sharing for commute trips,

 c. Provide subsidies for transit fares,

 d. Provide employer vans or third-party vans for vanpooling,

 e. Provide subsidy for carpool and vanpool participation,

 f. Permit the use of the employer's vehicles for carpool and/or vanpool commute trips,

 g. Permit alternative work schedules such as a compressed work week that reduce commute trips by affected employees between six a.m. (6:00 a.m.) and nine a.m. (9:00 a.m.). A compressed workweek regularly allows a full-time employee to eliminate at least one workday every ~~workday every~~ two (2) weeks, by working longer hours during the remaining days, resulting in fewer commute trips by the employee,

 h. Permit Alternative work schedules such as flex-time that reduce commute trips by affected employees between six a.m. (6:00 a.m.) and nine a.m. (9:00 a.m.). Flex-time allows individual employees some flexibility in choosing the time, but not the number, of their working hours,

 i. Provide preferential parking for high-occupancy vehicles,

 j. Provide reduced parking charges for high-occupancy vehicles,

 k. Cooperate with transportation providers to provide additional regular or express service to the work site (e.g., a custom bus service arranged specifically to transport employees to work),

 l. Construct special loading and unloading facilities for transit, carpool and/or vanpool users,

 m. Provide and fund a program of parking incentives such as a cash payment for employees who do not use the parking facilities,

 n. Institute or increase parking charges for SOV's,

 o. Establish a program to permit employees to telecommute either part- or full-time, where telecommuting is an arrangement that permits an employee to work from home, eliminating a commute trip, or to work from a work center closer to home, reducing the distance traveled in a commute trip by at least half,

 p. Provide a shuttle between the employer's worksite and the closest park-and-ride lot, transit center, or principal transit street,

 q. Implement other measures designed and demonstrated to facilitate the use of non-SOV commute modes, which are agreed upon between the Director and the employer;

 4. A description of any additional program measures included in the employer's CTR program;

 5. Assignment of responsibilities for implementing the CTR program, evidence of commitment to provide appropriate resources to carry out the CTR program, and a schedule of implementation; and

 6. Description of employer's CTR worksite characteristics. The employer program must include:

 a. A general description of the affected employer worksite,

 b. A general description of the availability of transportation to the worksite,

 c. The total number of employees and affected employees at the worksite,

 d. Site or operational conditions which may affect an employee's choice of commute mode;

 7. Record-keeping~~Recordkeeping~~. The CTR program shall include a list of the records to be maintained by the employer in implementing the program. Employers will maintain all records listed in their CTR program for twenty-four (24) months.

 C. Program Review and Approval.

 1. a. The Director shall review each employer's initial CTR program to determine if it has met the minimum requirements of this CTR chapter.

 b. The Director shall complete review of each employer's initial CTR program and annual reports within ninety (90) days of the date the employer submits the program or report to the Director, and notify the employer in writing whether or not the program or report has been approved, and the reasons for approval or disapproval.

 2. No later than thirty (30) days before the initial CTR program description or annual report is to be submitted, an employer may request a thirty (30) day extension to submit that document. An extension shall be granted and shall not exceed thirty (30) days.

 3. Beginning in 1995, the Director shall review each employer's annual report to determine the employer's progress toward achieving its SOV and VMT goals.

 a. If an employer makes a good faith effort as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter and meets either or both goals for SOV and VMT, the employer has satisfied the objectives of the CTR plan and will not be required to modify the CTR program. The Director shall issue a decision approving an employer's CTR program.~~if the annual report demonstrates that either the SOV goal or VMT goal has been achieved for the current year, or the preceding year (if the current year is even-numbered).~~

 b. (I)If~~**If neither goal is met~~ If an employer makes a good faith effort, as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter, but has met or is likely to meet neither the applicable SOV nor VMT goal the employer shall, in its annual report, propose changes to its CTR program measures, and the schedule for implementing these measures, which it believes will help achieve the goals~~, provided that the revised program must include at least two (2) of the measures listed in subsection B3 of this section. The Director shall work with the employer to change its CTR program~~The city shall work collaboratively with the employer to make modifications to the CTR program. After~~and identify additional program measures and a schedule for implementing them, in furtherance of goal attainment.~~

 (ii)** the City and the employer agree on modifications, the employer shall submit a revised CTR program description to the City for approval within 30 days.  (ii)

When determining whether to approve changes to a CTR program, the Director shall consider the likelihood that the changes will help achieve the goals, based on the following criteria:

 E The extent to which the employer has implemented the program and attained the CTR goals;

 The extent to which the employer has demonstrated a commitment to implementing the program and achieving the goals;

 Diversity of modes and CTR strategies included in the program;

 Characteristics of pedestrian, bicycle, transit, ferry, road and HOV access, and facilities available to the employer's worksite;

 Expected benefit to be derived from a specific program element as well as its effect on the entire program;

 Effect on reducing the relative cost or improving the convenience of commuting by non-SOV modes versus by SOV.

c. If the Director approves the proposed program changes, then the Director shall issue a final decision, and the changes shall be made in the program and implemented by the employer.

 d. If the Director determines that the proposed program is insufficient, or unlikely to help achieve the goals, the Director shall recommend changes to the program which can reasonably be expected to be effective. The Director's preliminary decision shall be in writing, and mailed to the employer within ninety (90) days of the date the annual report is submitted.

 (I)An~~**An An~~affected employer may request that the Director reconsider a preliminary decision regarding its CTR program elements, except for the minimum requirements of subsection B of this section. The employer may apply in writing for reconsideration of the preliminary decision within fifteen (15) days of the date the Director's preliminary decision is mailed to the employer. The Director shall meet with the employer to discuss program changes if the application for reconsideration includes a request for a meeting. The Director shall give the employer a written response to the request for reconsideration.

 (ii) An~~**An~~An memployer who disagrees with a preliminary decision by the Director regarding the approval of the employer's CTR program or changes to the program, may ask the peer review panel to consider the issue in disagreement. The peer review panel shall make a recommendation to the Director following meeting with the employer, if the employer requests a meeting.

 (iii). If an employer fails to make a good faith effort as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter, and meets neither the applicable SOV nor the VMT reduction goal, the City shall work collaboratively with the employer to identify modifications to the CTR program and shall direct the employer to revise its program within 30 days to incorporate the modifications. In response to the recommended modifications, the employer shall submit a revised CTR program description, including the requested modifications or equivalent measures, within 30 days of certified return receipt. The City shall review the revisions and notify the employer of acceptance or rejection of the revised program. If a revised program is not acceptable, the City will send notice (certified return receipt) to that effect to the employer within 30 days and if necessary require the employer to attend a conference with program review staff for the purpose of reaching a consensus on the required program. A final decision on the required program will be issued in writing by the City within ten (10) working days of the conference. ~~(ivii)~~~~**The~~The Director shall make a final decision regarding changes to an employer's CTR program within sixty (60) days of making a preliminary decision, based upon consideration of the peer review panel recommendation and the preliminary decision.

 (iv)~~**Within~~Within thirty (30) days of written notification of the Director's final decision regarding required program modifications, an employer shall incorporate those modifications into its CTR program and submit a revised CTR program description, including the required modifications or equivalent measures, to the Director.

 4. If an affected employer does not submit an initial CTR program or an annual report, and no request for an extension or reconsideration is filed, the Director shall issue a final decision without issuing a preliminary decision.

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 25.02.050 Employer's annual report.

 A. Submittal.

 1. An affected employer shall submit an annual CTR report to the Director, beginning with the 1995 annual reporting date assigned by the Director after reviewing the employer's initial CTR program. Annual reports shall be due on the same date each year.

 2. At least thirty (30) days prior to the date an annual report is due an employer may request a thirty (30) day extension to complete its annual report. This extension shall not change the normal reporting date for subsequent years.

 B. Contents. The annual report shall include an annual review of employee commuting and of progress and good faith efforts toward meeting the SOV reduction goals. The annual report shall include:

 1. A description of each CTR program measure that was undertaken during the year;

 2. The number of employees participating in each of the CTR program measures;

 3. An evaluation of the effectiveness of the CTR program; and if necessary, a description of proposed revisions to the CTR program to help achieve the CTR goals;

 4. A description of the method and frequency by which the information required by the approved CTR program was distributed;

 5. A statement of the employer's method of measuring its VMT per employee, using either the average zonal trip length or the employer's average trip length from a survey;

 6. Data of employees' commuting behavior.

 a. Survey information or approved equivalent information must be provided in the 1995, 1997, and 1999, 2001, 2003, and 2005  reports. Employers whose work sites became affected after 1993 must provide survey data or approved equivalent information in the second, fourth, sixth, eighth, tenth, and twelfth years following initial program implementation. Employee surveys of commuting behavior will be the primary source of data about an employer's CTR program performance. Washington State Department of Transportation ~~Washington State Energy Office~~ goal measurement questionnaires shall be used to measure affected employer's progress towards goal attainment, unless the Director approves equivalent information which is provided by the employer.

 b. Instead of surveying all affected employees at a worksite, an employer may conduct a survey based on a sample of its affected employees if there are at least one~~five~~hundred (5100) affected employees at its worksite. The employer must demonstrate to the Director that the sampling method is in accordance with generally accepted methods before the sampling is undertaken.

 c. A minimum response rate of seventy percent (70%) of all affected employees in the population or seventy percent (70%) of the sample is required. When a seventy percent (70%) response rate is not achieved, an employer shall either:

 (I)~~**Provide~~Providesupporting information, approved by the Director, to document mode choice of affected employees. This information may include transit pass sales, records of rideshare subsidies, parking lot counts (where affected employees' actual commute trip behavior is measured between six a.m. (6:00 a.m.) and nine a.m. (9:00 a.m.)) when access and egress points are completely monitored; or

 (ii) ~~**Designate~~Designateall non-responses below seventy percent (70%) of the affected employee population or/ sample as SOV trips; or

 (iii)~~**Use~~Usea combination of options c(i) and c(ii) above, if approved by the Director.

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 25.02.060 Commute trip reduction goals, zones and base-year values.

 A. Employer CTR Goals.

 1. The goals for commute trip vehicle miles traveled per employee and proportion of single-occupant vehicles are a fifteen percent (15%) reduction by January 1, 1995, a twenty-five percent (205%) reduction by January 1, 1997, ~~and~~a twenty~~thirty-~~five percent (325%) reduction by January 1, 1999, and a thirty-five percent (35%) reduction by January 1, 2005,from the base-year value of the worksite or the commute trip reduction zone in which the worksite is located.

 22. An employer that becomes an affected employer after January 1, 1994 has two (2) years from the time it becomes affected to achieve a fifteen percent (15%) reduction~~meet the closest preceding reduction goal, and~~four (4) years to achieve a twenty percent (20%) reduction, six (6) years to achieve a twenty-five percent (25%) reduction, and twelve (12) years to achieve a thirty-five percent (35%) reduction~~meet the subsequent goal. For example, an employer who becomes an affected employer in July 1998 has until July 2000 to achieve a twenty-five percent (25%) reduction and until July 2002 to achieve a thirty-five (35%) reduction.~~

 a. If an affected employer drops below one hundred (100) affected employees and then returns to affected employer status within the same twelve (12) month period, that employer will be a reaffected employer, and will be subject to the same program goals that would have applied had it not dropped below one hundred (100) employees.

 b. If an affected employer drops below one hundred (100) affected employees and then returns to affected employer status after twelve (12) months, it will be deemed a newly affected employer and will be subject to the same goals as other newly affected employers.

 c. It is the responsibility of the employer to notify the Director and provide documentation of its change in status as an affected employer.

 B. CTR Zones. Commute trip reduction zones for affected employers are shown in Attachment A.

 C. Base-Year Values and Modifications. Base-year values for determining proportion of SOV trips and VMT per employee are identified in Attachment B1 for each CTR zone. An employer may modify its base-year values by meeting either of the following two (2) conditions:

1.Each employer must conduct a survey of employees as described in the Washington State Commute Trip Reduction Task Force Guidelines and in conformance with this chapter and achieve a seventy-percent (70%) response rate to be eligible to modify its base- year value. For example, if a CTR zone's base-year value for proportion of SOV is seventy-four percent (74%), and an employer's survey demonstrates that its proportion of SOV is ninety percent (90%), the employer may apply for a modification of its base-year value to conform with its survey results.

(Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 12. If an affected employer can demonstrate that its worksite is contiguous with a CTR zone boundary and that the worksite conditions affecting alternative commuting options are similar to those for employers in the adjoining CTR zone, the employer's worksite may be made subject to the base-year values for VMT per employee and SOV trips in the adjoining zone. The employer may only request this base- year value modification at least thirty (30) days prior to its initial CTR program submittal.

~~2. a. Beginning in 1995, if an affected employer can demonstrate that as a result of special characteristics of its business or its location, its SOV base-year value as determined by survey results is more than fifteen (15) percentage points higher than the base-year value for its zone, the affected employer may use its survey to apply for a modification of its SOV base-year value. If the modification is granted, the employer's surveyed proportion of SOV per employee will serve as the employer's SOV base-year value.~~b. The survey must be conducted in conformance with this chapter and a seventy-percent (70%) response rate shall be required for an employer to be eligible to modify its base-year value. For example, if a CTR zone's base-year value for proportion of SOV is seventy-four percent (74%), and an employer's survey demonstrates that its proportion of SOV is ninety percent (90%), the employer may apply for a modification of its base-year value to conform with its survey results.

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 D. At least one year after its initial CTR program implementation an affected employer may request a modification of the applicable CTR goals. Such requests shall be filed in writing at least 60 days prior to the date the worksite is required to submit its program description and annual report. The goal modification request must clearly explain why the worksite is unable to achieve the applicable goal. The worksite must also demonstrate that it has implemented all of the elements contained in its approved CTR program.  The City shall review and grant or deny an employer's goal modification requests pursuant to RCW70.94.534(6) and in a manner that is consistent with the guidelines developed by the CTR Task Force.

 1. Editor's Note: Attachment B is on file in the office of the City Clerk.

 25.02.070 Exemptions, credit, and adjustment to definition of affected employee.

 A.~~Exemptions. AnExemptions. Beginning in 1995, an affected employer may apply to the Director for an exemption from all CTR program requirements for a particular worksite. The Director may grant an exemption upon finding that, as a result of special characteristics of the employer's business or its location, the employer is unable to implement any requirements of Section 25.02.040. A request for an exemption must be made in writing no sooner than ninety (90) days after the employer's first annual report due date. The Director shall annually review all employer exemptions, and shall determine whether the exemption will be in effect during the following program year.~~affected employer may submit a request to the City to grant an exemption from all CTR Plan requirements for a particular worksite. The employer must demonstrate that due to the characteristics of its business, or its workforce or its location, that complying with the requirements of this chapter would cause undue hardship, such as bankruptcy. The City may grant an exemption if the employer can demonstrate undue hardship or that the employer is unable for economic reasons to implement any measures that could reduce the proportion of SOV trips and VMT per employee. The City may grant exemptions at any time based on written notice provided by the affected employer. The notice should explain clearly the conditions for which the affected employer is seeking an exemption from the requirements of the CTR Plan. The City shall review annually all employers receiving exemptions and shall determine if the exemption will be in effect during the following program year.

 B.

 B. Credit for Successful Transportation Demand Management Program.

 1. In either the initial CTR program description or any annual report, an affected employer who has already met both the VMT per employee and proportion of SOV trips goals for one (1) or more future goal years, may request a waiver from the requirement to submit the following year's annual report and from the required CTR program measures, except for the requirements to report performance in annual reports for the goal years. An employer receiving this waiver must commit in writing to continue its current CTR level of effort.

 2. If any of the goal-year annual reports indicates the employer does not satisfy the next applicable year's goal, the employer shall immediately become subject to all requirements of this chapter.

 3. Requests for credit shall include results from a survey of employees, or equivalent information that establishes the applicant's reduction of VMT per employee and reduction of proportion of SOV trips. The survey or equivalent information shall conform to all applicable standards established in this chapter.

 CC. Credit for Telecommuting, Bicycling, Walking and Compressed Workweek Schedules. Trips avoided by telecommuting and compressed workweek schedules, and trips made by bicycling and walking, shall be multiplied by two-tenths (0.2) and subtracted from the number of SOV commute trips when calculating the proportion of SOV vehicle trips and VMT per employee.

D.Credit for Schedule Changes Which Move Some or All Employees Outside of the Peak Commute Period. For purposes of counting commute vehicle trips, employers who have modified their employees' work schedules out of the 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. peak commute period in response to the CTR law or for impacts associated with the Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A) may apply for credit toward calculating SOV trips and VMT per employee. Such credit shall be two-tenths (0.2) of a trip reduced per employee whose work schedule has been shifted out of the 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. window. An employer who wants to claim such credit for changes implemented prior to 1998 shall provide the City with the following information: (a) an explanation of how the schedule change is related to provisions of the Growth Management Act of 1990 or a demonstration that the schedule change was an identified element of a previously approved CTR program, (b) the number of employees whose schedules were changed, (c) the date on which the schedule change became effective, and (d) the previous schedule for those employees for which the credit is being claimed.

 DE. Adjustment~~. Adjustment~~ to the Calculation of Affected Employee and Employee Exemptions. Specific employees or groups of employees who are required to drive alone to work as a condition of employment may be exempted from a worksite's CTR program.  Exemptions may also be granted for employees who work variable shifts throughout the year and who do not rotate as a group to identical shifts. The City will use the criteria identified in the CTR Task Force Guidelines to assess the validity of employee exemption requests. The City shall review annually all employee exemption requests and shall determine whether the exemption will be in effect during the following program year. Employers requesting exemptions or adjustments must do so at least thirty (30) days prior to conducting surveys of progress as described in SMC25.02.050 and SMC25.02.060.

 1. a. An affected employer may request an adjustment to the calculation of affected employee if the employer can demonstrate that it requires certain employees to use the vehicles they drive to work during the workday for work purposes. Any employee who needs frequent and regular access to the vehicle he or she drives to work, for which no reasonable alternative commute mode exists, will not be included in the calculations of proportion of SOV trips and VMT per employee used to determine the employer's progress toward program goals.

 b. The employer shall provide documentation indicating how many employees meet this condition and why.

 c. Seasonal agricultural employees, including seasonal employees of processors of agricultural products, are excluded from the count of affected employees.

 2. a. An affected employer may request an adjustment to the calculation of affected employee if it can demonstrate that it requires full-time employees to work varying shifts, so that these employees sometimes begin their shift between six a.m. (6:00 a.m.) to nine a.m. (9:00 a.m.) and at other times begin their shifts outside that time period. The employer shall provide documentation indicating how may employees meet this condition and must demonstrate that no reasonable alternative commute trip reduction program can be developed for these employees. Under this condition, the applicable goals will not be changed, but those full-time employees working varying shifts need not be included in the calculations of proportion of SOV trips and VMT per employee used to determine the employer's progress toward program goals.

 b. Adjustments to the calculation of affected employee shall not apply to full-time employees who rotate shifts together, as a group.

 3. An adjustment to the calculation of affected employee for the purpose of determining employer progress toward achieving the CTR goals does not change whether the employer is subject to this chapter.

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 25.02.080 Appeal of Director's final decision.

 A. An affected employer may appeal the Director's final decision regarding exemptions, changes to its CTR program measures, credits, adjustments to the calculation of affected employee, and violations to the CTR Appeals Board. The notice of appeal must be filed with the Director within fifteen (15) days after the Director's final decision is mailed to the employer.

 B. The Appeals Board shall review the appeal to determine if the Director's final decision is consistent with RCW Chapter 70.94 and this chapter. If the Appeals Board determines that the decision is inconsistent, it shall reverse or modify the decision as appropriate. If the Appeals Board determines that the decision is consistent, the Director's final decision shall be upheld.

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 25.02.090 ViolationPenalties.

 A. Civil Penalties.

 1. The Director shall notify the employer of his intent to impose a civil penalty for violation of this chapter. The Director may not impose a penalty until the completion of the administrative appeal authorized by SMC Section 25.02.080.

 2. An affected employer who commits any of the following acts is subject to a civil penalty as a Class I civil infraction pursuant to RCW 7.80.120, as provided herein:

 a. Failure to prepare andsubmit a completeCTR program or annual report to the Director within the time period and as prescribed~~as required~~by this chapter. Each day of failure to submit a CTR program or annual report shall constitute a separate violation and is subject to a civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) per day;

 b. Failure to implement an approved CTR program or change an unacceptable CTR program measure after the first goal year, after receiving notice of violation, unless the program elements that are carried out can be shown to meet or exceed VMT and SOV goals as specified in the chapter. Each day of failure to implement an approved CTR program or individual CTR program measure is a separate violation and is subject to civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall not exceed Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) per day and shall be based on the degree of failure to implement;

 c. Failure to make available to the Director any documentation supporting an annual report as required pursuant to subsection B.6. of Section 25.02.050. Each day of failure to provide required documentation is a separate violation and is subject to civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) per day.

 d. Failure to make a good faith effort, as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter. Each day of failure to make a good faith effort is a separate violation and is subject to civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) per day; or  e. Failure to revise a CTR program as prescribed in RCW 70.94.53(4) and this chapter. Each day of failure to revise a CTR program is a separate violation and is subject to civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) per day.

 B. Pursuant to RCW 70.94.534 (4), an employer shall not be liable for civil penalties if a violation was the result of an inability to reach agreement with a certified collective bargaining agent under applicable laws where the issue was raised by an employer and pursued in good faith. A unionized employer shall be presumed to act in good faith if it:

 1. Proposes to a recognized union any provision of the employer's CTR program that is subject to bargaining as defined by the National Labor Relations Act; and

 2. Advises the union of the existence of the statute and the mandates of the CTR program approved by the City, and advises the union that the proposal being made is necessary for compliance with state law (RCW 70.94.531).

 C. Criminal Penalties. An employer who submits a report pursuant to this chapter is subject to state and local laws making it a crime to submit false information. These laws include, but are not limited to, RCW 9A.76.020 and SMC Section 12A.16.040.

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 D. No major employer may be held liable for failure to reach the applicable SOV or VMT goal.

 25.02.100 Administration.

 A. Authority to Promulgate Administrative Rules. The Director is authorized to promulgate rules to implement this chapter.

 B. Peer Review Panel. The Director shall appoint five (5) public and private sector employers to a peer review panel.~~. Terms of appointment are two (2) years, and members may be reappointed.~~ The peer review panel may consider employer disagreements with preliminary decisions by the Director regarding exemptions, credits, applicability of this chapter to the employer, violations, calculations of affected employees, and approval of the employer's CTR program or changes to the program.

 C. Appeals Board. The three (3) members of the Appeals Board are a Director of a City Department designated by the Mayor, a member of the Seattle Planning ~~Cc~~ommission designated by the chair of the Planning Commission, and a private sector employer appointed by the City Council. Terms of appointment are two (2) years and members may be reappointed.

 (Ord. 116657 1(part), 1993.)

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 25.02.030 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION

 Cmn-ka

 2CTRord

 ver2

 6-11-98

 (Seattle 3-97)

 25.02.040 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION

 COMMUTE TRIP REDUCTION 25.02.040

 (Seattle 6-93)

 (Seattle 6-93)

 25.02.060 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION

 COMMUTE TRIP REDUCTION 25.02.060

 (Seattle 6-93)

 (Seattle 6-93)

 Cmn/ksa

 CTRord.doc

 5/11/98 V #2

 10

```
