

********

**Council Bill Number: 112201**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119051**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Downtown Concert Hall Project ("Benaroya Hall"); authorizing execution of a Second Amendment to the Master Agreement, & a First Amendment to and Restatement of the Lease and Concession Agreement, both with BH Music Center.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 22, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 25, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 25, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 8, 1998
   
**Committee:** Government, Education & Labor
   
**Sponsor:** DONALDSON
   
   
**Index Terms:** CONCERT-HALLS, LEASES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Downtown Concert Hall Project ("Benaroya Hall"); authorizing execution of a Second Amendment to the Master Agreement, and a First Amendment to & Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement, both with BH Music Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Executive Services Director and recommended by the Mayor, said Director is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a "Second Amendment to the Master Agreement" pursuant to which certain provisions of that agreement (which generally governs the design and construction of the Downtown Concert Hall Project, the product of which is now known as "Benaroya Hall"), that specifically relate to the sale of transferable development rights associated with the site of Benaroya Hall, the use of certain identified revenues including proceeds from the sale of such development rights, and the circumstances under which the Design/Builder under such agreement may require the City to remit certain additional funds to it to ensure the completion of construction of Benaroya Hall, and the City's right to offset an amount equal to such required City remittance against future Operations Reimbursements payable by the City to the tenant and concessionaire under the Lease and Concession Agreement governing the management, use and occupancy of Benaroya Hall, are all removed from the Amended Master Agreement.

 Section 2. As further requested by the Executive Services Director and recommended by the Mayor, said Director is also hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a "First Amendment to & Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement" with BH Music Center (the tenant and concessionaire under said Agreement) pursuant to which said Agreement is modified and restated to detail how revenues from the sale of transferable development rights associated with the site of Benaroya Hall are to be allocated between the City and the tenant and concessionaire, and expended; the circumstances under which the tenant and concessionaire may require the City to remit certain additional funds to the Design/Builder under the Amended Master Agreement to ensure the completion of construction of Benaroya Hall; and how City bond funds provided for the acquisition and construction of Benaroya Hall shall be used, and how the tenant and concessionaire shall use and operate Benaroya Hall, all to preserve the tax exemption for interest on such bonds; among other modifications.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1998.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 GBD: gbd ord4amd1&restmt. (Ver. 1 )

 FIRST AMENDMENT TO & RESTATEMENT OF LEASE AND CONCESSION AGREEMENT BETWEEN BH MUSIC CENTER & THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 Page

 1. DEFINITIONS. 2

 2. EFFECTIVE DATE, INITIAL TERM AND OPTION TO EXTEND. 5

 A. Effective Date. 5

 B. Initial Term. 5

 C. Option to Extend. 5

 D. Consideration During Any Extended Term. 6

 E. Right of Entry. 6

 3. PREMISES LEASED. 6

 4. CITY RESERVED POWERS. 6

 5. USE OF PREMISES. 7

 A. General Conditions. 7

 B. Use of Building for Performances by Seattle Symphony Orchestra or its Successor. 7

 C. Transit Station Entrance Surface Easement & Operating Agreement. 7

 D. Garden of Remembrance Conditions. 8

 E. Preservation of Tax Exemption for Concert Hall Bonds. 8

 F. Other Requirements. 8

 6. SALE OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS; CITY'S OBLIGATION TO MAKE "IN LIEU PAYMENT" TO TENANT; AND USE OF SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT REVENUES. 9

 A. Optional Delegation of Sale Authority to Tenant. 9

 B. Remittance of Premises TDR Sales Proceeds & "In Lieu Payment" 9

 C. Disposition of Open Space Donations & Money or Services for Development of Bus Tunnel Entrance or for Relocation of Utilities. 9

 D. Disposition of Proceeds from the Sale of Premises TDRs 9

 E. Disposition of Other Special Development Revenue 10

 F. Tenant's Payment of City's Interest Obligations Due to "In Lieu Payment" & Refinancing Costs 10

 G. Priority of Sale of Premises TDRs As Compared To Other TDRs Owned by City 11

 H. Schedule for Tenant Reimbursement of "In Lieu Payment" 12

 7. CITY USE OF PORTIONS OF PREMISES. 12

 8. RENT. 13

 9. CONCESSION. 13

 A. Grant of Concession and Payment. 13

 B. Annual Reconciliation of Concession Payment. 13

 C. Location for Payments of Concession Payment. 14

 10. PREPARATION & RETENTION OF RECORDS; OVERPAYMENT & UNDERPAYMENT; AUDIT 14

 A. Records to be Prepared & Retained by Tenant. 14

 B. Audit. 14

 C. Overpayment & Underpayment. 15

 11. PAYMENTS BY CITY. 15

 A. Operations Reimbursement. 15

 (1) Amount of Reimbursement. 15

 (2) Operations Reimbursement Offset. 16

 B. Garden Capital Trust Fund. 17

 C. Revision of Amount of City's Required Deposit into Garden Capital Trust Fund. 17

 D. Garden of Remembrance Maintenance & Operations Reimbursement. 17

 E. Supplemental Operations Reimbursement. 18

 12. PREMISES IMPROVEMENTS, ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS. 19

 A. Tenant Responsibility for Premises Alterations. 19

 B. Approval Process for Alterations. 19

 (1) Alterations Requiring Approval and Notice Thereof: 19

 (2) Approval Process: 19

 C. No Representation or Liability Created by Approval of Premises Alterations. 19

 D. Work Inconsistent with Approved Plans and Specifications. 20

 E. Construction Liability Insurance. 20

 F. Testing of Premises. 20

 G. Delivery of Final Record Drawings and Related Materials. 21

 13. ACCEPTANCE OF PREMISES. 21

 14. ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS. 21

 A. Definitions. 21

 B. Restrictions on Tenant Activities Involving Any Hazardous Substance. 22

 C. City Indemnification of Tenant. 22

 D. Correction of Violations. 22

 E. Testing. 23

 F. Reimbursement of City Costs. 23

 G. Indemnification by Tenant. 23

 15. MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION; INSPECTIONS. 24

 A. Tenant's Responsibility for Maintenance and Operation. 24

 B. City Access to Premises. 24

 C. Mayor's Appointee(s) as Member(s) of Tenant's Governing Body. 24

 D. Tenant's Manager. 25

 16. CAPITAL RENEWAL FUND. 25

 A. Creation and Investment. 25

 B. Tenant Deposit Obligations. 25

 C. Revision of Amount of Tenant's Required Deposit into Capital Renewal Fund. 26

 17. EXPENDITURES FROM CAPITAL RENEWAL FUND AND GARDEN CAPITAL TRUST FUND. 26

 A. Use of Money in Capital Renewal Fund and Garden Capital Trust Fund. 26

 B. Applicability of Public Works Requirements to Expenditures from Capital Renewal Fund and Garden Capital Trust Fund. 26

 (1) City-funded work: 26

 (2) Tenant-funded work: 27

 C. Tenant's Six (6)-Year Capital Plan. 27

 (1) Delivery of Tenant's Six (6)-Year Capital Plan to City Representative: 27

 (2) Tenant's Report on Accomplishment of and Deviations from Annual Plan Objectives. 27

 (3) Emergency Repairs & Changes in Circumstances: 28

 D. Facilities Committee. 28

 18. UTILITY SERVICES. 28

 19. PARKING. 29

 20. INDEMNIFICATION. 29

 A. Tenant Indemnification. 29

 B. City Indemnification. 29

 C. Indemnification Regarding Any Alteration. 30

 D. Survival of Indemnification Obligations. 30

 E. Waiver of Immunity and Limitations on Industrial Insurance Liability. 30

 21. INSURANCE. 30

 A. Minimum Insurance to be Secured and Maintained. 30

 B. General Requirements Regarding Tenant's Insurance; Adjustments. 32

 C. Evidence of Insurance. 33

 D. Address for Delivery of Evidence of Tenant's Insurance. 33

 E. Reconstruction Following Loss. 34

 F. Waiver of Subrogation. 34

 G. Mutual Defense Obligations. 34

 H. Assumption of Risk. 35

 I. City Right to Procure Insurance for Tenant. 35

 22. SIGNS. 35

 23. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING. 35

 A. Assignment. 35

 B. City's Consent Is No Waiver of Agreement Requirements. 36

 C. Subleases, etc., Permitted. 36

 D. Conditions Applicable to Subleases. 36

 24. OWNERSHIP OF PREMISES ALTERATIONS & PERSONAL PROPERTY. 37

 A. Delineation of Ownership Interests. 37

 B. Removal or Replacement of Personal Property. 38

 25. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW. 38

 A. Lawful Use. 38

 B. Licenses and Similar Authorizations. 39

 C. Taxes. 39

 D. Attendance & Safety Standards. 39

 E. Nondiscrimination in Employment. 40

 F. Women's and Minority Business Enterprise Utilization. 40

 (1) Incorporation of Ordinance: 40

 (2) Tenant's Obligations: 40

 (3) Liquidated Damages for Breach: 41

 G. Use of Banned Customer Service Serving Materials Prohibited. 41

 26. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES. 41

 27. DEFAULT. 41

 A. Default by Tenant. 41

 B. Default by City. 42

 C. Remedies; Notice of Intent to Terminate Agreement. 42

 D. Tenant Control of Capital Renewal Fund In Event of Termination. 43

 E. Assignment of Subleases and Gross Revenues. 43

 28. DISPUTE RESOLUTION. 44

 A. Policy. 44

 B. Initial Effort to Resolve Dispute Between City and Tenant. 44

 C. Mediation. 44

 D. Arbitration. 45

 E. Alternative Remedies. 46

 F. Survival of Rights and Remedies. 46

 29. SURRENDER OF PREMISES AND REMOVAL OF TENANT'S PROPERTY. 47

 A. Surrender of Premises. 47

 B. Condition of Premises Upon Surrender. 47

 C. Removal of Tenant Property. 47

 D. Disposition of Unremoved Property. 47

 30. TENANT'S OPTION TO PURCHASE. 47

 A. Value of Premises. 48

 B. Tenant's Response to Valuation. 48

 C. Closing. 49

 31. NO WAIVERS. 49

 32. BINDING EFFECT. 49

 33. TIME OF ESSENCE. 49

 34. RIGHTS & REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. 49

 35. APPLICABLE LAW AND VENUE. 50

 36. OBLIGATION OF TENANT LIMITED TO CORPORATION. 50

 37. NO PARTNERSHIP, ASSOCIATION OR JOINT VENTURE RELATIONSHIP CREATED. 50

 38. ADDRESSES. 50

 39. INTERPRETATION. 51

 40. BASIS OF AGREEMENT: AMENDMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS. 51

 41. CITY REPRESENTATIVE. 52

 42. ATTORNEYS' FEES. 52

 43. TENANT'S REPRESENTATIONS & WARRANTIES 52

 44. CITY'S REPRESENTATIONS & WARRANTIES 53

 45. EXHIBITS. 53

 46. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. 53

 FIRST AMENDMENT TO & RESTATEMENT OF THE

 LEASE AND CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN

 BH MUSIC CENTER

&

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 This FIRST AMENDMENT TO & RESTATEMENT OF THE LEASE AND CONCESSION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into as of the ____ day of ________________, 1998 by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a city of the first class in the State of Washington, and BH MUSIC CENTER ("Tenant"), a Washing-ton non-profit corporation, and amends and restates the terms and conditions of that certain Lease and Concession Agreement between City and Tenant dated September 29, 1997 (the "Lease").

 RECITALS

 A. In October 1995, City executed, pursuant to Ordinance 117855, a Master Agree-ment with the Symphony regarding the development and construction of a new downtown concert hall for primary use by the Symphony. That Master Agreement identified the Sym--phony as the "Design/Builder" for the concert hall project and detailed the terms under which the parties would cooperate to finance and construct that new facility. The Master Agreement included specific provisions for City sale of TDRs associated with the concert hall site and for evenly dividing any revenue in excess of $8,000,000 generated from TDR sales and other specified sources.

 B. In June 1996, City executed, pursuant to Ordinance 118112, an agreement with the Symphony to clarify the terms and conditions of the Master Agreement pertaining to the sale of concert hall TDRs and to provide an alternative method of ensuring that the concert hall project would be fully funded and completed as contemplated by the parties. That First Amendment to the Master Agreement acknowledged the parties' expectations that $5,000,000 would be received from concert hall TDR sales, and that this amount would be needed in order to fully fund concert hall project construction costs; gave the Design/Builder the right to request and obtain additional City funds in an amount equal to the difference between $5,000,000 and the proceeds received by July 31, 1998, from the sale of concert hall TDRs, all for the purpose of paying concert hall com-pletion costs; and specified that if so requested by the Design/Builder, the City would remit such amount to the Design/Builder by August 31, 1998. The First Amendment also detailed arrange-ments for the Design/Builder's reimbursement of such requested additional City funding as well as the costs incurred by City in order to make such remittance, and contemplated that in the absence of such reimbursement, City would be entitled to withhold any maintenance and operations payments the City would be obligated to pay to the manager/operator of the concert hall under any future lease agreement for use of that facility by the Symphony, and that such withholding could continue until such remittance and City-incurred costs had been reimbursed.

 C. In September 1996, the Symphony assigned its interests as the Design/Builder under the Amended Master Agreement and the related Design and Construction Agreements pertaining to the concert hall project to a non-profit corporation called "BH Music Center" (hereinafter "BHMC"), which assignment was contingently approved by City's City Council by Resolution 29438.

 D. In September 1997, City executed, pursuant to Ordinance 118732, a Lease & Concession Agreement with BHMC. The Lease & Concession Agreement identifies the proceeds from the sale of concert hall TDRs and funds from certain other sources identified in the Amended Master Agreement as "Special Development Revenue" and details how those funds are to be allocated and expended. The parties desire to coordinate and clarify the terms and conditions of the Lease & Concession Agreement with those of the Amended Master Agreement.

 E. As of the execution date of this Agreement, no concert hall TDRs have been sold. BHMC, in its capacity as Design/Builder under the Master Agreement, desires to exercise its option to secure the additional funding committed by the City in the Amended Master Agree- ment for completion of the concert hall project.

 F. The parties hereto desire to resolve differences between the provisions of the earlier Amended Master Agreement and the later Lease and Concession Agreement regarding how proceeds from the sale of concert hall TDRs are to be allocated and expended, and to further detail their agreements regarding the sale of concert hall TDRs, City's obligation to remit additional funds to the Design/Builder in the event City has not received by July 31, 1998, at least $5,000,000 in the form of proceeds from the sale of concert hall TDRs, and arrangements for the reimbursement of such City remittance and certain City costs incurred in connection therewith, all by this First Amendment to and Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement and by a contemporaneous amendment of their Amended Master Agreement.

 NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual promises, covenants, conditions and performances described in this Agreement, the parties hereto agree as follows

 1. DEFINITIONS.

 For the purpose of interpreting this Agreement, capitalized terms used herein shall be defined as set forth below except where the context requires that a different meaning be ascribed to such term. For the purpose of such definitions and other words in this Agreement, terms in the singular include the plural and vice versa.

 A. "Alteration" means any change, modification, or improvement in or to the Premises, including but not limited to the Garden of Remembrance or any of the systems (structural, plumbing mechanical and electrical) in or serving any portion of such area, but excluding any landscaping therein; the Building's exterior, including any roof, wall, window, stairway, ramp, sidewalk, or foundation element thereof; and the Building's interior or any system (plumbing, electrical, mechanical or structural) in or serving any portion of the Building.

 B. "Building" means the structure and principal improvement constructed on the Premises officially and commonly known as "Benaroya Hall" including but not limited to the commercial space therein and parking garage associated therewith but not the Garden of Remembrance adjacent to the Building.

 C. "Capital Renewal Fund" is defined in Section 16.

 D. "City Representative" means the person designated pursuant to Section 41 hereof as the addressee for Tenant's notices to City and as the individual with whom Tenant shall make initial contact for City decision-making regarding matters pertaining to this Agreement.

 E. "Commencement Date" means the date on which Tenant receives a temporary or permanent certificate of occupancy for any portion of the Premises or Tenant's use and occupancy of any portion of the Premises begins under this Agreement, whichever is earlier.

 F. "CPI" means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, All Items, West Cities A, using the base 1982-84 = 100, as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, or its successor; provided, that in the event of any change in the index base (1982-84 = 100) or other modification of the CPI, the parties hereto shall apply whatever conversion factor(s) are necessary to establish the true percentage change in the CPI for any period in which such modification(s) occur, and in the event the CPI is discontinued, the parties hereto shall select and use for such adjustment purpose, another, similar index that reflects consumer price changes.

 G. "Concession Area" means the parking garage and commercial portions of the Premises.

 H. "Concession Payment" means the share of Gross Revenues payable by Tenant to City pursuant to Subsection 9.A hereof as consideration for the Concession granted by this Agreement.

 I. "Day" means calendar day, except that whenever a time period is specified herein and the last day of such time period is a Saturday, Sunday or City holiday, then such day shall mean the next City business day after such time period.

 J. "Design/Build Agreement" means the Master Agreement executed by City as "Owner" and the Seattle Symphony Orchestra as "Design/Builder" on October 30, 1995, as modified by the June 3, 1996 First Amendment thereto, and further modified by the Second Amendment thereto executed contemporaneously with this Agreement, together with the Design Agreement and Construction Agreement executed by City as "Owner" and the Seattle Symphony as "Design/Builder" on October 30, 1995.

 K. "ESD Director" means the Director of City's Executive Services Department or such official's functional successor(s) or designee(s).

 L. "Garden Capital Trust Fund" is defined in Subsection 11.B.

 M. "Garden of Remembrance" means the open space indicated on Exhibit A, that has been landscaped to honor the memories of Washington State citizens killed in their country's service in World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Grenada, and the Persian Gulf.

 N. "Gross Revenues" means and includes the monthly gross receipts of Tenant between January 1, 1999, and December 31, 2026, from (i) the use of the commercial space in the Premises, as identified in Exhibit A, less any and all sales tax and other tax applicable to the commercial space, or any portion of such space, and (ii) operation of the garage portion of the Premises for revenue purposes, including all sums received by Tenant or any Subtenant from the parking of any motor vehicle in such space, less any and all sales tax and other tax applicable to the garage space.

 O. "Leased Premises" means that portion of the Premises not included in the Concession Area.

 P. "Operations Reimbursement" means the reimbursement payment to be made by City to Tenant pursuant to Subsection 11.A hereof in support of Tenant's operation of the Premises.

 Q. "Premises" means the real property described in Exhibit A, and the improvements constructed and to be constructed thereon pursuant to the Design/Build Agreement (including but not limited to the Building and the Garden of Remembrance), and all easements and other rights and privileges appurtenant to said real property. The Premises shall not include Tenant's Property and replacements thereof as set forth in Subsection 24.A hereof, or any County property identi-fied as such in the Transit Station Entrance Easement & Operating Agreement executed by King County and the parties hereto, but does include both the Leased Premises and the Conces-sion Area.

 R. "Special Development Revenue" means and includes any revenue received from (i) the sale of view or light easements affecting the site of the Premises (the right to sell the same and to receive the proceeds of any such sale being reserved exclusively by and in City); (ii) the transfer to a third party of development rights associated with the site of the Premises (the right to transfer the same and to receive the proceeds of any such transfer being reserved exclusively by and in City); (iii) the creation of a planned community development that includes the site of the Premises (the right to create the same and to receive the proceeds therefor being reserved exclusively by and in City); (iv) the donation of any money or service specifically for the development of the open space portion of the Premises (including but not limited to the creation of the Garden of Remembrance); and (v) the provision of any money or service specifically to pay or offset any King County charge for development of the METRO Bus Tunnel entrance or for relocation of utilities; Provided, where services are received, the commercial value of the same shall be treated as the revenue so received.

 S. "Sublease" means every lease, license, concession agreement, parking garage management or operation agreement, or other form of agreement affecting all or any portion of the Concession Area.

 T. "Subtenant" means any person or entity authorized by Tenant to use and occupy any portion of the parking garage or commercial space indicated on Exhibit A for the transaction of any business, including but not limited to any subconcessionaire, subtenant, garage manager, garage operator, or similar business operator.

 U. "TDRs" means the development rights associated with a develop-ment site on a block of Downtown Seattle that are transferrable pursuant to the City's Land Use Code.

 V. "Tenant" means the entity authorized to use and occupy that portion of the Premises that is leased, and to manage and operate, as the "concessionaire," the parking garage portion of the Premises, under this Agreement.

 2. EFFECTIVE DATE, INITIAL TERM AND OPTION TO EXTEND.

 A. Effective Date.

 This Agreement is effective as of September 29, 1997.

 B. Initial Term.

 The Initial Term of this Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on the last Day of the month in which the Commencement Date occurs plus forty (40) years unless it is terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof.

 C. Option to Extend.

 Tenant shall have the right to extend the Initial Term for two (2) consecutive fifteen (15) year terms (each an "Extended Term"). Each such Extended Term shall commence on the Day immediately following the expiration of the preceding term (whether the Initial Term or the First Extended Term) and shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on the last Day of the fifteenth (15th) year of such Extended Term, unless this Agreement is terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof. If Tenant contemplates exercising an option to extend it shall notify Landlord at least eighteen (18) months prior to expiration of the Initial Term or First Extended Term, as applicable, at which point Landlord and Tenant shall commence negotiations for Extended Term Rent, the Garden Capital Trust Fund deposit, the Garden of Remembrance Maintenance & Operations Reimbursement, the Operations Reimbursement, and the Capital Renewal Fund deposit, all as set forth below. Such notice by Tenant shall in no event obligate Tenant to exercise Tenant's option to extend. To exercise Tenant's option to extend the Initial Term or the First Extended Term, Tenant shall give City notice of its election to extend at least six (6) months prior to the expiration of the Initial Term or First Extended Term, as applicable. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, if, at the time either of such Extended Terms is to commence, Tenant has received pursuant to Section 27 hereof, notice of Tenant's material breach and default of this Agreement but has not (1) cured such breach and default as of such Extended Term's commencement date, or (2) provided assurance(s) to the reasonable satisfaction of the City Representative that such default and breach will be cured within the cure period specified in Section 27 hereof, then City shall have the option to declare Tenant's exercising of the option for an Extended Term to be void and of no effect, which declaration shall be by notice to Tenant consistent with Section 38 hereof, and upon such declaration City may treat this Agreement as not having been subject to such Extended Term.

 D. Consideration During Any Extended Term.

 During any Extended Term, all of the terms, covenants and conditions of the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, except that the amounts payable as rent, Garden Capital Trust Fund deposits, Garden of Remembrance Maintenance & Operations Reimbursement, Operations Reimbursement, and Capital Renewal Fund deposits for the applicable Extended Term shall be negotiated in good faith by the parties, recognizing the rental value of the Premises as restricted to reflect its use during the Extended Term as the principal, regular site for performances by the Seattle Symphony Orchestra or its successor, and for other purposes authorized in this Agreement, Tenant's contributions to the Premises, including any additional Alterations that Tenant makes to the Premises during the applicable Extended Term without cost to City, and the continuation of Tenant's financial responsibility for payment of the costs of maintaining and operating the Premises during such Extended Term, among other factors. It is the intent and objective of the parties to minimize rent and to ensure that it remains at a nominal level.

 E. Right of Entry.

 Tenant shall have the right to enter the Premises prior to the Commencement Date as authorized in the Design/Build Agreement.

 3. PREMISES LEASED.

 City hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from City, subject to all the terms and conditions hereof, the Leased Premises.

 4. CITY RESERVED POWERS.

 Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement and the Design/Build Agreement, City reserves the right to act in its capacity as a first class city pursuant to the laws of the State of Washington and its Charter. The parties recognize that City's regulatory role is separate and distinct from its role as Landlord, and that City's regulatory powers are not modified by this Agreement.

 5. USE OF PREMISES.

 A. General Conditions.

 Subject to the restrictions set forth in Subsection 5.E hereof, the Premises may be used for musical performances, public and private assemblies, catered and other events, exhibitions, offices, retail shops, the Garden of Remembrance and other open space purposes, parking, the sale of food and beverage, and such other uses as Tenant shall determine. Tenant shall not use the Premises for any illegal or unlawful purpose, or for any purpose that would constitute a nuisance.

 B. Use of Building for Performances by Seattle Symphony Orchestra or its Successor.

 Except when such use is temporarily not feasible because of the damage to, destruction of, or the making of an Alteration in or to, all or a portion of the Building, Tenant shall ensure that the Building shall be used as the site for the majority of concerts and performances of, and presented by, the Seattle Symphony Orchestra or its successor in King, Pierce and Snohomish Counties between each October 1st and the immediately following May 31st, inclusive, through the twentieth (20th) anniversary of the Commencement Date. After such twentieth (20th) anniversary, the Building shall be used as a major site for performances and concerts of, and presented by, such entity. Nothing herein shall obligate Tenant to ensure that the Seattle Symphony Orchestra or its successor uses the Building as the site for its other concerts or performances.

 C. Transit Station Entrance Surface Easement & Operating Agreement.

 Tenant acknowledges that its use of the Premises is subject to a Transit Station Entrance Surface Easement dated January 15, 1988, a Temporary Construction Easement Agreement dated January 1988 (both recorded under King County Recording No. 8803071037) and a Temporary Easement dated May 25, 1989. Tenant and City agree and acknowledge that, as part of the initial construction pursuant to the Design/Build Agreement, they have agreed to proceed in good faith to negotiate with King County a new Transit Station Entrance Surface Easement and Operating Agreement to supersede the aforementioned 1988 and 1989 Easements and to reflect the relocation and reconstruction of a portion of the public access provided to the "University Station" for the METRO bus tunnel as part of the initial development of the Premises, and the subjecting of Tenant's use of the Premises to such new easement and operating agreement in a manner reasonably acceptable to Tenant and City.

 D. Garden of Remembrance Conditions.

 Tenant shall manage the use of the Garden of Remembrance consistent with the provisions of Exhibit B.

 E. Preservation of Tax Exemption for Concert Hall Bonds.

 Tenant acknowledges that of the total cost of acquisition and construction of the Premises (approximately $118,070,000), approximately $72,300,000 will have been paid from funds contributed by the Seattle Symphony Orchestra, a Washington nonprofit corporation (the "Symphony") or by Tenant as successor to the Symphony in the Symphony's role as the "Design/Builder" under the Design/Build Agreement. Tenant further acknowledges that of the remainder of such total, (i) approximately $15,430,000 will have been paid by City from the proceeds of a portion of City's Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1992 (Capital Facilities); (ii) approximately $25,340,000 will have been paid by City from proceeds of a portion of City's Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1996, Series A; and (iii) up to $5,000,000 will have been paid from City's Limited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 1998, Series D (collectively, the "Concert Hall Bonds"). Notwith-stand-ing the provisions of any prior agreement between City and either the Symphony or Tenant in Tenant's role as Tenant hereunder or as successor to the Symphony as the Design/Builder under the Design/Build Agreement concerning the method and procedures used for the purpose of general-ly measuring and limiting the amount of City's contribution toward the total cost of acqui-si-tion and construction of the Premises and making required payments therefor during the course of construction of the Premises, Tenant and City agree that, for the purposes of complying with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, applicable to the Con-cert Hall Bonds, the proceeds of the Concert Hall Bonds shall be allocated exclusively to expen-di-tures for the cost of acquisition and construction of those discrete portions of the Premises other than the Concession Area of the Premises, and only funds provided by the Symphony or Tenant (acting as the Design/Builder under the Design/Build Agreement) shall be allocated to expenditures for the cost of acquisition and construction of the Concession Area of the Premises. Tenant covenants that, so long as the Concert Hall Bonds are outstanding, Tenant will take or cause to be taken such actions, if any, with respect to the use and operation of the Premi-ses as may be directed by City, after consultation with Tenant, based on an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel to City to the effect that such actions are necessary to preserve the tax exemption for interest on the Concert Hall Bonds.

 F. Other Requirements.

 The Premises (excluding certain mechanical and private areas) shall be kept open for use by the general public subject to admission charges for certain events. No profit shall inure to Tenant as consequence of its use and occupancy of the Premises under this Agreement.

 6. SALE OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS; CITY'S OBLIGATION TO MAKE "IN LIEU PAYMENT" TO TENANT; AND USE OF SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT REVENUES.

 A. Optional Delegation of Sale Authority to Tenant.

 City, at its discretion, may delegate the duty to Tenant to negotiate and consum-mate the sale of Premises TDRs.

 B. Remittance of Premises TDR Sales Proceeds & "In Lieu Payment"

 (1) If an agreement to sell Premises TDRs is entered into and City receives, pursuant to such sale, any Premises TDR sale proceeds on or by July 31, 1998, City shall remit those Premises TDR sale proceeds to Tenant within thirty (30) days after City's receipt of the same.

 (2) If Premises TDR sale proceeds do not equal or exceed $5,000,000 on or by July 31, 1998, and on or by that date Tenant has delivered to the City Repre-sentative a copy, certified by Tenant as being true and correct, of one (1) or more unpaid invoices for the construc-tion of the Building that aggregate not less than $5,000,000 and were received by Tenant on or by July 31, 1998, then on or by August 31, 1998, City shall remit to Tenant an amount (the "in lieu pay-ment") equal to the lesser of (a) the aggregate amount of such unpaid invoices or (b) the differ-ence between $5,000,000 and the amount of Premises TDR sale proceeds paid or payable to Tenant pursuant to -Subsection 6.B(1) hereof.

 C. Disposition of Open Space Donations & Money or Services for Development of Bus Tunnel Entrance or for Relocation of Utilities.

 In the event any Special Development Revenue is received by either party specifically for the development of the Open Space or to pay or offset any King County charge for development of the METRO Bus Tunnel entrance or for relocation of utilities on the Premises, that revenue shall be expended or utilized solely in furtherance of the purpose for which it was provided.

 D. Disposition of Proceeds from the Sale of Premises TDRs

 In the event City remits an "in lieu payment" to Tenant pursuant to Sub-section 6.B(2) hereof, all proceeds received by either party after July 31, 1998, from the sale of Premises TDRs shall be disposed in the following order of priority:

 (1) City shall retain or, if Tenant has initially received such proceeds, be paid by Tenant, the portion of such proceeds that is required to retire portions of any debt incurred by City to remit the "in lieu payment" or to refinance such original debt (which debt shall be structured by City to allow flexibility and principal repayment with-out penalty or additional payments of any kind, with a goal of ensuring that interest does not accrue any longer than needed).

 (2) If Tenant fails to timely remit to City the amount Tenant is required to pay City pursuant to Subsection 6.F hereof, City may also retain or, if Tenant has initially received such proceeds, shall be paid by Tenant, the portion of such proceeds that equals the aggregate amount paid by City as interest on any debt associated with such "in lieu payment" (i.e., whether the original debt or any refinanced debt).

 (3) If Tenant has paid any amount to City pursuant to Subsection 6.F hereof, and if the amount of Premises TDR sales proceeds received after July 31, 1998 exceeds the aggregate amount City has retained or has been paid pursuant to Subsections 6.D(1) and 6.D(2) hereof, whatever amount of such excess Premises TDR sales proceeds as is equal to the aggre-gate sum paid by Tenant to City pursuant to Subsection 6.F hereof shall be remitted to or retained by Tenant to reimburse such Tenant payments.

 (4) All remaining Premises TDR sales proceeds received after July 31, 1998, shall be divided evenly between City and Tenant. City's share of such excess proceeds shall be made available to Tenant as the Supplemental Operations Reimburse-ment to be paid pursuant to Subsection 11.E hereof. Tenant's share of such excess proceeds shall be remitted to or retained by Tenant and expended by Tenant at Tenant's discretion in support of the Premises and/or Premises operation.

 E. Disposition of Other Special Development Revenue

 Any Special Development Revenue not allocated between the parties as provided in Subsections 6.C and 6.D hereof shall be remitted to Tenant and used by Tenant solely to pay costs associated with construction of the Premises, which may include reimbursement of Tenant for amounts paid by it for such purpose.

 F. Tenant's Payment of City's Interest Obligations Due to "In Lieu Payment" & Refinancing Costs

 Tenant shall pay City an amount equal to City's periodic interest obligation on any debt incurred by City in order to make the "in lieu payment" pursuant to Subsection 6.B(2) hereof and in order to refinance such original debt. Tenant shall pay such amount semiannually, with the first payment due no earlier than February 28, 1999. Each such payment shall be made by Tenant at least three (3) days prior to the date on which City must make any such interest payment on its debt. City shall give notice to Tenant at the time City remits the "in lieu payment" to Tenant pursuant to Subsection 6.B(2) hereof, specifying the dates such interest is due. In addition, if Tenant desires City to refinance such debt, Tenant shall pay all costs incurred by the City for the reis-su-ance of rolling notes or bonds that are associated with or a replacement for the initial notes or bonds issued to secure funds for such City remittance (including but not limited to bond issu-ance, administration, retirement and defeasance costs). The cost of the initial issue of notes or bonds for such purpose shall not be reimbursable by Tenant but shall, instead, be solely a City financial responsi-bility

 G. Priority of Sale of Premises TDRs As Compared To Other TDRs Owned by City

 City has several different forms of TDRs for sale including 423,000 square feet of major performing arts facility TDRs from the site of the Premises ("Premises TDRs") as of the date of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, TDRs from any low-income housing TDR site, as defined in the City's Land Use Code, as now or hereafter amended, shall be deemed "Housing TDRs" but TDRs from any landmark theatre/housing TDR site, as defined in the City's Land Use Code, as now or hereafter amended, shall not be deemed "Housing TDRs." City represents and warrants that for the purpose of City sales of TDRs after August 31, 1998, the Premises TDRs shall be treated as having equal priority to Housing TDRs (except as provided in this subsection), and as having higher priority than TDRs obtained by City from any other source. City shall diligently continue to market the Premises TDRs. The first 223,000 square feet of TDRs sold by City after August 31, 1998, shall be Premises TDRs. Once that quantity of TDRs has been sold, as many Housing TDRs as are then owned by City (up to a maxi-mum of 100,000 square feet) shall be offered for sale and sold by City. Thereafter, as many Premises TDRs as are then owned by City (up to 100,000 square feet) shall be offered for sale and sold by City. This pattern of alternating Premises TDR sales and Housing TDR sales in "blocks" of up to 100,000 square feet shall continue until all Premises TDRs have been sold by City If, however, at any time when TDRs subject to this provision may be sold, less than a full "block" (100,000 square feet) of Housing TDRs are available for sale when it is the "turn" for Housing TDRs to be sold, whatever amount of Housing TDRs are then available shall be sold, after which Premises TDRs (up to 100,000 square feet) shall be offered for sale. For purposes of illustration, if after the inital sale of 223,000 square feet of Premises TDRs, City has an opportunity to sell another 90,000 square feet of TDRs but there are only 60,000 square feet of Housing TDRs available, all 60,000 square feet of Housing TDRs shall be sold along with 30,000 square feet of Premises TDRs. If, there-after, an additional 120,000 square feet of Housing TDRs are acquired by City, and City then has an opportunity to sell 135,000 square feet of TDRs, because the previously avail-able stock of Housing TDRs was exhausted and only 30,000 square feet of Premises TDRs (out of the next block of 100,000 square feet) were sold when the last sale of TDRs occurred, to consumate that 135,000 square foot sale of TDRs, an additional 70,000 square feet of Premi-ses TDRs shall be sold first, and then 65,000 square feet of Housing TDRs shall be sold. For the next succeeding TDR sale opportunity(ies), Housing TDRs shall be first offered for sale until an aggregate of 35,000 additional square feet of Housing TDRs have been sold (which quantity will equal the 100,000 square foot block contemplated herein). Thereafter, Premises TDRs shall be first offered for sale until an aggregate block of 100,000 square feet of such TDRs has been sold. Housing TDRs and Premises TDRs shall continue to be sold in alternating blocks of 100,000 square feet (or so many square feet of each such type of TDRs as are then owned by City) until all Premises TDRs have been sold. Nothing herein shall limit or affect the type or quantity of square feet of TDRs offered for sale or sold by any entity other than City, itself, including but not limited to any City-chartered or City-created public development authority or private entity. Furthermore, nothing herein shall affect or limit the right of City to sell or transfer TDRs of any type or class if a bona fide binding contract for the sale or transfer of such TDRs has been fully executed prior to August 31, 1998, regardless of when such sale or transfer is actually consumated.

 H. Schedule for Tenant Reimbursement of "In Lieu Payment"

 In the event that, and in spite of City's best efforts, the Premises TDRs are not sold, or the amounts received from such sale or sales are less than the amounts required to pay any City debt associated with any "in lieu payment" made pursuant to Subsection 6.B(2) hereof, Tenant shall pay to City a sum equal to the principal amount of such debt or the remaining balance thereof, whichever is less, within a period of fifteen (15) years, in accordance with the following schedule:

 (a) at least five percent (5%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2003;

 (b) a total of at least ten percent (10%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2004;

 (c) a total of at least fifteen percent (15%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2005;

 (d) a total of at least twenty percent (20%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2006;

 (e) a total of at least twenty-five percent (25%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2007;

 (f) a total of at least thirty percent (30%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2008:

 (g) a total of at least forty percent (40%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2009;

 (h) a total of at least fifty percent (50%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2010;

 (i) a total of at least sixty percent (60%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2011;

 (j) a total of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2012; and

 (k) one hundred percent (100%) of such amount no later than August 31, 2013.

 For example, assuming City has incurred debt equal to $5,000,000 in order to remit the "in lieu payment" to Tenant, on or before August 31, 2007, the sum of $1,250,000 (an amount equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of $5,000,000) shall be paid by Tenant to City. Such payment may come from the proceeds of any sale(s) of Premises TDRs or from any other source. If all or any portion of the payment from Tenant comes from a source other than the proceeds of any sale(s) of Premises TDRs and if any Premises TDRs remain unsold at the time of such payment, Tenant, at its option, shall be entitled to receive Premises TDRs in exchange for the portion of the debt paid using funds other than proceeds from any sale(s) of Premises TDRs. The Premises TDRs received by Tenant pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be valued at the average price for all Premises TDRs previously sold. Tenant's option to receive Premises TDRs in exchange for the payments made pursuant to this subsection shall be available to Tenant only while any Premises TDRs remain unsold.

 7. CITY USE OF PORTIONS OF PREMISES.

 City reserves the right to use, without any obligation to pay rent therefor, and without any reduction in rent, fees or reimbursements of any kind payable by Tenant, the secondary performance hall of the Premises ("recital hall") for official City meetings only; and also in connection therewith, all areas of the Premises normally open for public use in conjunction with an activity occurring in the Premises, including but not limited to the lobby, stairways, elevators, and restrooms. Such City use shall be subject to the following conditions: (i) City must give Tenant advance written notice of a request for such use not less than one (1) month or more than two (2) months prior to the requested date of use; (ii) City cannot use the recital hall more than one (1) Day per calendar quarter; and (iii) City's failure to use the recital hall in any quarter or quarters shall not entitle City to recital hall use on two (2) or more Days in any succeeding calendar quarter. Even if City complies with conditions (i) and (ii) immediately above, Tenant may reject such request for use if Tenant has already scheduled use of the recital hall during the Day requested by City (whether for Tenant's own use; use by a third party; or repair, maintenance or capital improvement work in the recital hall or elsewhere in the Premises that would adversely affect the use of the recital hall desired by City), or if the recital hall is otherwise unavailable because the recital hall cannot be vacated and appropriately cleaned or set-up in the period of time between the start of the proposed City use and the end of use by the immediately preceding user or the end of the proposed City use and the start of use by the immediately succeeding user. City shall reimburse Tenant within thirty (30) days of receipt of invoice for Tenant's reasonable expenses incurred for all security, set up, clean up and all other services directly attributable to City's use of the recital hall pursuant to this section. City shall abide by all reasonable rules and regulations of Tenant regarding such use. City may use the recital hall for additional Days with Tenant's consent at the prevailing rental schedule set by Tenant for nonprofit users.

 8. RENT.

 Tenant shall deliver rent to City, without notice, demand, offset or deduction of any kind or nature whatsoever, at the address designated from time to time in or pursuant to Section 38. During the Initial Term, rent shall be One Dollar ($1.00) per year, payable annually, with the initial payment due on the Commencement Date and subsequently, on or before the Day that is the annual anniversary of the Commencement Date. Rent for any and all Extended Terms shall be determined pursuant to Section 2 hereof.

 9. CONCESSION.

 A. Grant of Concession and Payment.

 A portion of the Premises includes a parking garage. Subject to the restrictions set forth in Subsection 5.E hereof, City hereby grants Tenant the exclusive right, privilege and concession to operate the parking garage portion of the Building (part of the "Concession Area"). In consideration of said right, Tenant shall pay City, without notice, demand, offset or deduction, as the Concession Payment due for each calendar year indicated in Exhibit C, all Gross Revenues up to the amount specified in Exhibit C for that particular calendar year. The Concession Payment shall be payable monthly, beginning in January, 1999, on or before the tenth (10th) Day of the month and shall continue thereafter until Tenant has paid City a total of $24,597,576.00 as the Concession Payment.

 B. Annual Reconciliation of Concession Payment.

 Tenant's Concession Payment pursuant to Subsection 9.A shall be reconciled on an annual basis by Tenant and City Representative within one hundred twenty (120) Days after the end of each calendar year. Each such reconciliation shall determine the amount (if any) of the deficiency between the Concession Payment paid by Tenant pursuant to Subsection 9.A for the subject period of time and the amount due for that same period, as specified in Exhibit C. Tenant shall pay fifty percent (50%) of any such deficiency to City, which deficiency payment shall be made in six (6) approximately equal installments with the next six (6) monthly Concession Payment installments.

 In the event the Gross Revenues in any calendar year exceed the Concession Payment to be paid to City for that year, Tenant shall use such excess Gross Revenues to pay Premises operations and maintenance costs or, in its discretion, shall transfer such excess into the Capital Renewal Fund.

 C. Location for Payments of Concession Payment.

 All Concession Payments shall be delivered to the address designated by City to Tenant from time to time, in or pursuant to Section 38.

 10. PREPARATION & RETENTION OF RECORDS; OVERPAYMENT & UNDERPAYMENT; AUDIT

 A. Records to be Prepared & Retained by Tenant.

 Tenant shall keep true, accurate, complete and auditable records and receipts relating to expenses incurred by Tenant as a consequence of its operation, maintenance, improvement, use, and occupation of the Premises, and to Gross Revenues, which records shall be retained in King County, Washington, for at least three (3) years after the close of the fiscal year of Tenant in which such records and receipts were generated or issued. All business records associated with Tenant's activities under this Agreement shall be separate from the records pertaining to other business activities of Tenant.

 B. Audit.

 Tenant shall permit the State Auditor, City Auditor, City Representative, and each such official's functional successor, agent or contractor, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, at such times as are reasonably approved in advance by Tenant, all books and records of Tenant pertaining to the Gross Revenues to verify the amount of Gross Revenues generated, and pertaining to expenses incurred by Tenant, to verify the amount of such expenses, and shall supply each such person with, or shall permit each such person to make, a copy of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon the request of such person. All audit findings, except for performance audits, will be governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), subpart 31, which is hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement. Tenant shall require that all Subtenants permit City to verify the Gross Revenues any such Subtenant paid Tenant.

 C. Overpayment & Underpayment.

 The City Representative shall notify Tenant of the amount of any overpayment or underpayment found. Any overpayment shall be refunded to Tenant. In the event of an underpayment to City, Tenant shall pay to City the amount of such underpayment. In the event such underpayment equals or exceeds Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) (adjusted annually from and after the second anniversary of the Commencement Date, by the percentage change in the CPI, using the method set forth in Section 11), Tenant shall also pay to City the cost incurred in auditing Tenant's books and records, which cost shall be capped at the actual, out-of-pocket cost of the audit or the amount of the underpayment, whichever is less.

 11. PAYMENTS BY CITY.

 A. Operations Reimbursement.

 (1) Amount of Reimbursement.

 Provided that Tenant is not in default past all applicable cure periods, City shall reimburse Tenant's actual, aggregate expenses made or incurred for operation of the Premises including but not limited to the cost of utilities; insurance; fees and taxes payable by Tenant; security; and administration of the Premises (but not for capital expenditures or improvements), in the respective amounts set forth below.

 (a) $350,000 for each of the first, second, and third twelve-month periods after the Commencement Date;

 (b) $300,000 for each of the fourth, fifth, and sixth twelve-month periods after the Commencement Date;

 (c) $250,000 for the seventh and every succeeding twelve-month period occurring after the Commencement Date and during the Initial Term.

 Provided, that the reimbursement payable under this Subsection 11.A shall be adjusted as of the first anniversary of the Commencement Date (the beginning of Tenant's second twelve-month operating period) and as of each succeeding anniversary of such date, by the dollar equivalent of the percentage change in the CPI that occurred between the month in which the Commencement Date occurred and the month in which such anniversary occurred in a manner consistent with the following examples:

 For illustrative purposes only, if the CPI for the month in which the Commencement Date occurs were 170.0, and for the month in which the second twelve-month operating period begins were 182.1, the percentage change in the CPI during the first twelve-month operating period would be +7.1%. That percentage, when applied to the reimbursement payable for the first three twelve-month operating periods ($350,000), would make the reimbursement payable for the second twelve-month operating period $374,850. If the CPI for the month in which the third twelve- month operating period begins were 180.5, the percentage increase in the CPI during the first two twelve-month operating periods would be +6.2%, which, when applied to the reimbursement payable for the first three twelve-month operating periods ($350,000), would make the reimbursement payable for the third twelve-month operating period $371,700. If the CPI for the month in which the fourth twelve-month operating period begins were 175.4, the percentage increase in the CPI during the first three twelve-month operating periods would be +3.2%, which, when applied to the reimbursement payable for the fourth, fifth and sixth twelve-month operating periods ($300,000), would make the reimbursement payable for the fourth twelve-month operating period $309,600. And if the CPI for the month in which the seventh twelve- month operating period begins were 217.1, the percentage increase in the CPI during the first six twelve-month operating periods would be +27.7%, which, when applied to the reimbursement payable for the seventh and succeeding twelve-month operating periods ($250,000), would make the reimbursement payable for the seventh twelve-month operating period $319,250.

 Using the preceding examples, assuming the Commencement Date is July 15, 1998, and the percentage by which the CPI changed during the respective twelve-month operating periods indicated below was as set forth below, the Operations Reimbursement payable under this Subsection 11.A for the first eight such operating periods would be as follows:

 Twelve-month Operating Period Base Amount CPI for Month of Anniversary Date Overall Change in CPI Change in Dollar Amount Reimburse-ment

 7/1/98-6/30/99 $350,000 170.0 (N.A.) $ 0 $350,000

 7/1/99-6/30/00 $350,000 182.1 + 7.1% +$ 24,850 $374,850

 7/1/00-6/30/01 $350,000 180.5 + 6.2% +$ 21,700 $371,700

 7/1/01-6/30/02 $300,000 175.4 + 3.2% +$ 9,600 $309,600

 7/1/02-6/30/03 $300,000 181.7 + 6.9% +$ 20,700 $320,700

 7/1/03-6/30/04 $300,000 201.1 + 18.3% +$ 54,900 $354,900

 7/1/04-6/30/05 $250,000 217.1 + 27.7% +$ 69,250 $319,250

 7/1/05-6/30/06 $250,000 227.8 + 34.0% +$ 85,000 $335,000

 Such reimbursement shall be payable no more frequently than monthly and within fifteen (15) days following the City Representative's receipt of an invoice for such reimbursement and supporting documentation for such expenses. City shall be entitled to verify that the invoiced sums have actually been spent for the operation of the Premises.

 (2) Operations Reimbursement Offset.

 If Tenant does not make timely payments to City as required by Subsections 6.F and 6.H hereof, City, as its sole remedy, may withhold from, and offset against, the Operations Reim-bursement payable to Tenant pursuant to Subsection 11.A hereof, the amount of any Tenant payment(s) that has not previously been made as required hereunder, but only to the extent that City has not been paid or reimbursed pursuant to Subsection 6.D(1) or 6.D(2) hereof.

 B. Garden Capital Trust Fund.

 Within forty-five (45) days after the Commencement Date, City shall establish a "Garden Capital Trust Fund" within the City Treasury for the benefit of the Garden of Remembrance, and shall appropriate or transfer and deposit into such trust fund the sum of Sixteen Thousand Dollars ($16,000). Within forty-five (45) days after the second and each succeeding anniversary of the Commencement Date occurring in the Initial Term, City shall appropriate or transfer and deposit into such trust fund a sum equal to the initial deposit (excluding interest earnings) adjusted by the dollar equivalent of the percentage change in the CPI that occurred between the month in which the Commencement Date occurred and the month in which such anniversary occurred, consistent with the process described in Subsection 11.A hereof. All earnings from sums deposited into such trust fund shall be allocated and deposited into such trust fund on a monthly basis. The Garden Capital Trust Fund shall be used only for the purposes set forth in Subsection 17.A.

 C. Revision of Amount of City's Required Deposit into Garden Capital Trust Fund.

 On or by July 31, 2004, or the thirty-first (31st) day after Tenant's delivery pursuant to Subsection 17.C.(1) hereof, of the Six (6)-Year Capital Plan to the City Representative, whichever date is later, and every five (5) years thereafter throughout the Initial Term, on or by July 31st or the thirty-first (31st) day after such delivery date, whichever is the later date, Tenant and the City Representative shall review the manner in which funds in the Garden Capital Trust Fund have been invested, the return generated by such investment in the light of the initial investment return and cost escalation assumptions, and the extent and rate at which such funds have been expended. In the event that investment return and cost escalation assumptions have not been met or have been exceeded in such period, Tenant and the City Representative shall engage in good faith negotiations to agree upon the additional or lesser amount of money City shall be requested to deposit into the Garden Capital Trust Fund during the next succeeding five (5) year period in order to ensure that the investment return and cost escalation assumptions set forth above are met.

 D. Garden of Remembrance Maintenance & Operations Reimbursement.

 City shall also reimburse Tenant's actual annual expenses incurred in carrying out Garden of Remembrance maintenance and operations obligations pursuant to Section 15 hereof, up to the reimbursement for each of the twelve-month operating periods following the Commencement Date, as specified below: For the first such operating period, the sum of Sixty Thousand Dollars ($60,000.00); and for the second and each succeeding twelve-month period, the amount equal to the initial twelve-month operating period's reimbursement adjusted by the dollar equivalent of the percentage change in the CPI that occurred between the month in which the Commencement Date occurred and the month in which such anniversary occurred, consistent with the process described in Subsection 11.A hereof. For illustrative purposes only, if the Commencement Date were July 1, 1998, and the percentage by which the CPI changed during the operating years indicated below were as assumed in the chart in Subsection 11.A, the reimbursement payable for the first six operating years would be as follows:

 Twelve-month Operating Period Base Amount Aggregate Change in CPI Change in Base Amount Reimburse-ment

 7/1/98-6/30/99 $60,000 (N.A.) $ 0 $60,000

 7/1/99-6/30/00 $60,000 + 7.1% +$ 4,260 $64,260

 7/1/00-6/30/01 $60,000 + 6.2% +$ 3,720 $63,720

 7/1/01-6/30/02 $60,000 + 3.2% +$ 1,920 $61,920

 7/1/02-6/30/03 $60,000 + 6.9% +$ 4,140 $64,140

 7/1/03-6/30/04 $60,000 + 18.3% +$ 10,980 $70,980

 Such reimbursement shall be payable no more frequently than monthly and within fifteen (15) days following the City Representative's receipt of an invoice for such reimbursement and supporting documentation for such expenses. City shall be entitled to verify that the invoiced funds have actually been spent for the maintenance and operation of the Garden of Remembrance. On or before the annual anniversary of the Commencement Date Tenant and the City Representative shall meet and review the extent to which Tenant's expenses of maintaining and operating the Garden of Remembrance have been fully reimbursed by the payment made pursuant to this subsection. In the event the amount of the Garden of Remembrance Maintenance & Operations Reimbursement is inadequate to maintain the Garden of Remembrance consistent with the maintenance standards attached hereto as Exhibit D, City, Tenant and a member of the Garden Advisory Board (as defined in Exhibit B) shall enter into good faith negotiations to increase the reimbursement paid to Tenant for such purpose, reduce the maintenance requirements, or both.

 E. Supplemental Operations Reimbursement.

 Provided that Tenant is not in default past all applicable cure periods, the Operations Reimbursement payable by City pursuant to Subsection 11.A hereof for any twelve-month operating period (whether as the initial base sum or as any CPI-adjusted sum) shall be supplemented by the amount of City's share of Special Development Revenue under Subsection 6.D(4) hereof that has been actually received by City in the same twelve month operating period. Such supplementary reimbursement shall be subject to the invoice submission, purpose restrictions, expense docu-men-tation, and City offset opportunity specified in Subsection 11.A hereof. Any unexpended balance of any such excess Special Development Revenue shall be carried forward into future years until fully expended.

 12. PREMISES IMPROVEMENTS, ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.

 A. Tenant Responsibility for Premises Alterations.

 Tenant shall be responsible for the making of all Alterations to the Premises deemed by Tenant to be desirable or necessary. No Alteration, or any portion thereof, shall be made by City unless otherwise specifically and expressly agreed upon in writing.

 B. Approval Process for Alterations.

 (1) Alterations Requiring Approval and Notice Thereof:

 Whenever Tenant desires to make any Alteration requiring City's approval as set forth below, Tenant shall give notice of such intention to the City Representative together with a detailed description of such proposed Alteration. The City Representative's approval shall be a prerequisite to Tenant's submitting to the City's Department of Construction & Land Use or the functional successor of such agency any proposal or other form of application for a permit or other authorization for the making of such Alteration. Alterations requiring City approval are only those which (1) would change and /or modify the Building's exterior, including but not limited to public spaces, walls, doors, windows, roofs and mechanical systems, or (2) change and/or modify any public or private space in the Building's interior that requires a governmental permit and could affect the Building's structure, seismic integrity, the electrical systems or HVAC systems. "Private Space" as used in the preceding sentence means the administration office, backstage and ticket areas, as shown on Exhibit A.

 (2) Approval Process:

 To secure the City Representative's approval for any Tenant-desired Alteration to the Premises for which City approval is required, Tenant shall submit to the City Representative professionally prepared drawings and specifications for the construction of the same. The City Representative shall respond to Tenant's submission within thirty (30) Days after the City Representative's receipt of the same. Tenant shall not begin or permit the commencement of any such Alteration until after the City Representative has approved the final drawings and specifications for the same, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld but may, in the exercise of the City Representative's discretion, be granted upon Tenant's satisfaction of one or more conditions including, among other requirements, (i) the protection of City against construction liens associated with the making of such modification; and, (ii) if requested by the City Representative at the time approval is given for the making of such Premises, the restoration, upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, of the Premises to its condition immediately prior to the making of such modification.

 C. No Representation or Liability Created by Approval of Premises Alterations.

 The approval by the City Representative of any design, drawing, or specification for any Alteration to be made to the Premises by or for Tenant shall not constitute an opinion or representation by City as to the compliance of such design, drawing or specification with any law or ordinance or its adequacy, and such approval shall not create or form the basis of any liability on the part of City or any of its officers, employees or agents for any injury or damage resulting from any inadequacy or error therein or any Tenant failure to comply with any applicable law or ordinance.

 D. Work Inconsistent with Approved Plans and Specifications.

 If the City Representative's approval is required under this section with respect to the plans and specifications for any Alteration, Tenant shall ensure that the same is undertaken only in accordance with such approved plans and specifications.

 E. Construction Liability Insurance.

 As to any Alteration for which the consent of the City Representative is required, Tenant shall furnish and maintain at its expense, during the full period of the making of any part of such Alteration, at no cost to City, a policy of public liability insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Washington, protecting City and Tenant from any and all claims for damages for personal injury, including death, and for property loss or damage that may arise from any activity related to the making of said Alteration, whether such activity is by Tenant, or any of its contractors, subcontractors, or by anyone directly or indirectly employed by or under contract to any of them. Said policy shall provide coverage in the following minimum amounts: One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) for injury or death of any person; Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) annual aggregate for bodily injury; and Builder's Risk coverage equal to the value of the proposed Alteration; Provided, that minimum required insurance coverage amounts shall be subject to increase after each third anniversary of the Commencement Date to such amount(s) as the City Risk Manager or such official's functional successor reasonably determines is necessary, taking into account inflation, the foreseeable risks attending the proposed construction activity, and coverage limits customary for property of similar character. Under each such policy City shall be an Additional Insured and Tenant, Tenant's general architect, contractor, and subcontractors in every tier shall be identified as the Named Insureds. Each such policy shall provide that the terms thereof cannot be modified or terminated without at least forty-five (45) Days' prior written notice to the City Risk Manager or such official's functional successor. Evidence of such insurance shall be provided to the City Representative prior to the commencement of any Alteration work.

 F. Testing of Premises.

 Tenant may make such tests, borings and other minor disturbances of the Premises as may be necessary to develop designs and plans for all Alterations to the Premises that are required or desired by Tenant. Tenant shall submit to the City Representative a report of the findings and results of each such test or boring within thirty (30) Days after the date such findings and results are obtained by Tenant.

 G. Delivery of Final Record Drawings and Related Materials.

 From and after the Commencement Date, Tenant shall deliver to the City Representative, within six (6) months after the substantial completion of each Alteration made to the Premises by or on behalf of Tenant for which the consent of the City Representative is required, (i) 3.5" 1.44MB disks in Autocad 12 or other format reasonably acceptable to the City Representative reflecting and documenting the final record drawings for the portion of the Premises in which such Alteration was undertaken, and (ii) two (2) copies of any operations and maintenance manuals that have been received by Tenant and are necessary for the repair and maintenance of any structural, mechanical, plumbing, electrical, or architectural Building system installed in the Premises by or for Tenant.

 13. ACCEPTANCE OF PREMISES.

 By occupying the Premises or any portion thereof as of the Commencement Date, Tenant accepts the Premises in their condition as of such date. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to be made for the benefit of any party other than City or waive any Tenant right or claim with respect to any contractor, subcontractor or supplier, or with respect to the Design/Build Agreement.

 14. ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS.

 A. Definitions.

 For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall be defined as provided below unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:

 (1) "Environmental or Safety Law" shall mean any environmentally related local, state or federal law, regulation, ordinance or order (including without limitation any final order of any court of competent jurisdiction of which Tenant has knowledge), now or hereafter in effect including but not limited to the Clean Air Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 ("CERCLA"), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act as amended by the Solid and Hazardous Waste Amendments of 1984 ("RCRA"), the Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA"), the Emergency Planning and Community Right- To-Know Act of 1986, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Washington Water Pollution Control Act, the Clean Air Washington Act, the Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act (the "HWMA"), the Washington Model Toxics Control Act ("MTCA"), the Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act, the Washington Worker and Community Right to Know Act, and the Washington Oil and Hazardous Substance Spill Prevention and Response Act, together with all regulations promulgated under any such authority, and any and all other current or future federal, state, regional, local or international statutes, regulations, rules, ordinances, orders, court or regulatory agency directives, permits, licenses, governmental authorizations and common law causes of action that apply to (1) any Hazardous Substance or material regulated or restricted under CERCLA, RCRA, TSCA, MTCA, or the HWMA; (2) any other pollutant, contaminant, or waste; (3) the health or safety of persons; or (4) the protection of the environment or land use. Environmental or Safety Law includes past and future amendments and supplements.

 (2) "Hazardous Substance" shall mean any hazardous, toxic, or dangerous substance, waste, or material that is regulated under any Environmental or Safety Law.

 B. Restrictions on Tenant Activities Involving Any Hazardous Substance.

 Neither Tenant nor any Subtenant shall cause to occur upon the Premises, or permit the Premises or any portion thereof to be used to generate, produce, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, or process any Hazardous Substance except in compliance with every applicable Environmental or Safety Law. Tenant shall provide City with Tenant's USEPA/State Waste Generator Number (if any) and shall make available for inspection at Tenant's place of business upon reasonable request, any and all Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), Generator Annual Dangerous Waste Reports, environmentally related regulatory permits or approvals (including revisions or renewals) and any correspondence in Tenant's possession that Tenant or any Tenant-authorized third party user of the Premises or any portion thereof other than City or a City authorized third party (if any) pursuant to this Agreement receives from, or provides to, any governmental unit or agency in connection with the handling of any Hazardous Substance or the presence, or possible presence, of any Hazardous Substance on the Premises.

 C. City Indemnification of Tenant.

 City shall defend, indemnify and hold Tenant free and harmless from any and all claims, causes of action, regulatory demands, liabilities, fines, penalties, losses and expenses, including without limitation cleanup or other remedial costs (and including the fees of consultants, contractors and attorneys, costs and all other reasonable litigation and other expenses when incurred and whether incurred in defense of actual litigation or in reasonable anticipation of litigation), arising from the existence or discovery of any Hazardous Substance that existed on the Premises prior to the construction of the initial improvements pursuant to the Design/Build Agreement or that was placed thereon by City or any agent, employee or contractor of City. The provisions of this section shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

 D. Correction of Violations.

 If Tenant or any Subtenant, or any employee, agent, contractor or subcontractor of Tenant or any Subtenant violates any applicable Environmental or Safety Law or any of the terms of this Agreement concerning the presence or use of any Hazardous Substance or the handling or storing of any hazardous waste on the Premises, upon receipt of notice of such violation or the expiration of all challenges and appeals of such notice, whichever occurs later, Tenant shall promptly take such action as is necessary to mitigate and correct the violation. If Tenant does not act in a prudent and prompt manner, City reserves the right, but not the obligation, upon reasonable prior notice to Tenant, to act in place of Tenant (for which purpose Tenant hereby appoints City as its agent), to come onto the Premises and to take such action as is necessary to ensure compliance or to mitigate the violation. All reasonable costs and expenses incurred by City directly attributable to any such action shall be due and payable by Tenant within thirty (30) Days after presentation of an invoice therefor.

 E. Testing.

 Tenant shall provide City with access to the Premises to conduct an environmental inspection at such reasonable time(s) as may be requested by City.

 F. Reimbursement of City Costs.

 In addition to any remedy provided in this Agreement, Tenant shall reimburse City whenever City incurs any cost directly resulting from a violation by Tenant of any of the terms of this section, including, but not limited to, the costs of any investigation, clean-up and other remedial activity; the fees of consultants, contractors, and attorneys; fines, penalties assessed directly against City, injuries to third persons or other property, and losses of revenue resulting from an inability to lease the Premises or any portion thereof following termination of this Agreement as the result of the violation of the terms of this Agreement by Tenant even if such loss of revenue occurs after such termination of this Agreement; provided, that City shall notify Tenant prior to commencing any such environmental clean- up or incurring any expense in connection therewith, and Tenant shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to defend or settle any claim giving rise to such costs, or to properly perform the environmental clean-up.

 G. Indemnification by Tenant.

 In addition to all other indemnification provided in this Agreement, and notwithstanding the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, Tenant shall defend, indemnify and hold City free and harmless from any and all claims, causes of action, regulatory demands, liabilities, fines, penalties, losses, and expenses, including without limitation cleanup or other remedial costs (including but not limited to the fees of consultants, contractors and attorneys, costs and reasonable litigation expenses when incurred, whether in defense of actual litigation or in reasonable anticipation of litigation) arising from the existence or discovery of any Hazardous Substance released on the Premises during the Initial Term or any Extended Term of this Agreement, or the migration of any such Hazardous Substance from the Premises to other property or into the surrounding environment, whether made, commenced or incurred (1) during the Initial Term or any Extended Term of this Agreement, or (2) after the expiration or termination of this Agreement if arising out of an event occurring, during the Initial Term or any Extended Term of this Agreement.

 15. MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION; INSPECTIONS.

 A. Tenant's Responsibility for Maintenance and Operation.

 Tenant shall be responsible for all maintenance, repair and operations of the Premises. Tenant shall maintain the Premises and all Alterations thereto in good, clean, and safe order, repair and operational and maintenance condition (damage by fire and reasonable wear and tear excepted), all at no cost to City except as provided in Section 11 hereof. Such condition shall be at least equal to the repair and operational and maintenance condition of, first-class, public performance facilities in the United States. From the funds paid by City to Tenant pursuant to Section 11 hereof, Tenant shall maintain Garden of Remembrance to the standards specified in Exhibit D. Except as otherwise limited by applicable law or this Agreement, Tenant may select, without interference from City, the persons and contractors that are to perform the maintenance and repair activity identified in this Agreement as a Tenant responsibility. The parties agree and acknowledge that the Premises, upon completion and as of the Commencement Date, meet the standard of a state-of-the-art, first class, public performance facility, and that this Section's repair and maintenance obligations shall not require Tenant to reconstruct or remodel the Premises to conform to any future standard for a state-of- the-art performance facility or for symphony hall design.

 B. City Access to Premises.

 Tenant shall provide the City Representative and such official's designees, upon reasonable advance notice, access to the Premises or any portion thereof specified by the City Representative, to inspect the same at such reasonable times as may be requested by the City Representative. In making such inspections, City may erect barricades and scaffolding and otherwise interfere with Tenant's business and operations where such action is reasonably required by the nature of City's work, and such interference shall not constitute or be deemed to constitute a breach or default of this Agreement. City shall use its best efforts to minimize interference with access to or from the Premises and with Tenant's business and operation of the Premises.

 C. Mayor's Appointee(s) as Member(s) of Tenant's Governing Body.

 For so long as Tenant's governing body (whether denominated the "Board of Directors" or otherwise) is comprised of seven (7) or fewer members (regardless of which person or entity has authority to elect or appoint the same), one full, regular, voting member thereof shall be appointed by City. In the event Tenant's governing body is enlarged to more than seven (7) members, City shall be entitled to appoint one (1) additional, full, regular, voting member out of every seven (7) persons added to such body. A vacancy in any position on Tenant's governing body that is to be appointed by City shall not be filled except through appointment by City. No City-appointed member of Tenant's governing body shall be subject to removal by vote of the other members of such body or otherwise except by City action. On or before sixty (60) days after the full execution of this Agreement, Tenant shall amend its By-Laws to conform to the provisions of this subsection and deliver to the City Representative, a copy of said amended By-Laws that has been certified by the secretary or an assistant secretary of Tenant as being a true and correct copy of such amended By-Laws as of the date of such certification. Until such time as Tenant's By-Laws are amended to conform to the provisions of this Agreement, no provision in Tenant's By-Laws that is inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement shall be valid or enforceable to entitle the members of Tenant's governing body to appoint any person to fill the position on Tenant's governing body to be filled by City or to remove from Tenant's governing body any City appointee thereto, or to otherwise deny the full and complete rights of any City appointee to Tenant's governing body as a member thereof.

 D. Tenant's Manager.

 Tenant shall employ a person who shall be responsible for overall management of its operations including but not limited to the Premises. The hiring and termination of such employee shall be subject to the concurrence of Tenant's Board of Directors (or governing body by any other name). Such person shall report to the Executive Director of the Seattle Symphony Orchestra or such official's functional successor.

 16. CAPITAL RENEWAL FUND.

 A. Creation and Investment.

 On or by September 1, 1999, Tenant shall arrange for the establishment at a national banking establishment or other financial institution of a "Capital Renewal Fund." Money on deposit in the Capital Renewal Fund may be invested as Tenant sees fit and commingled with other accounts for investment purposes. The Capital Renewal Fund and earnings thereon shall be clearly identified in annual reports regarding any commingled account.

 B. Tenant Deposit Obligations.

 On or by September 1, 1999, Tenant shall deposit into the Capital Renewal Fund at least $100,000. On or by September 1, 2000, and each September 1st thereafter through 2026, Tenant shall deposit $245,000 into the Capital Renewal Fund. Tenant shall deposit $750,000 into the Capital Renewal Fund on or by September 1, 2027, and each September 1st thereafter throughout the remainder of the Initial Term; provided, Tenant shall deposit such other amount as is agreed upon by the parties pursuant to Subsection 16.C hereof; provided, further, that in the event this Agreement is scheduled to expire on a date other than August 31st, the amount to be deposited on or by the September 1st immediately preceding the expiration date shall be prorated by multiplying the applicable annual amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Days between that September 1st and the Agreement's expiration date, inclusive, and the denominator of which is 365.

 C. Revision of Amount of Tenant's Required Deposit into Capital Renewal Fund.

 On or by July 31, 2004, or the thirty-first (31st) day after Tenant's delivery pursuant to Subsection 17.C.(1) hereof, of the Six (6)-Year Capital Plan to the City Representative, whichever date is later, and every five (5) years thereafter throughout the Initial Term, on or by July 31st or the thirty-first (31st) day after such delivery date, whichever is the later date, Tenant and the City Representative shall review the manner in which funds in the Capital Renewal Fund have been invested, the return generated by such investment in the light of the nine and one quarter percent (9toward%) per year investment return assumption and four percent (4%) per year cost escalation assumption and the extent and rate at which such funds have been expended. In the event that said investment return and cost escalation assumptions have not been met or have been exceeded in such period, Tenant and the City Representative shall engage in good faith negotiations to agree upon the additional or lesser amount of money Tenant shall be required to deposit into the Capital Renewal Fund during the next succeeding five (5) year period in order to ensure that the investment return and cost escalation assumptions set forth above are met.

 17. EXPENDITURES FROM CAPITAL RENEWAL FUND AND GARDEN

 CAPITAL TRUST FUND.

 A. Use of Money in Capital Renewal Fund and Garden Capital Trust Fund.

 Tenant shall use the money in the Capital Renewal Fund exclusively for making repairs and capital improvements to the Premises consistent with the Six (6)-year Capital Plan described in Subsection 17.C.(1) and as approved by the Facilities Committee to be established pursuant to Subsection 17.D hereof. The money in the Garden Capital Trust Fund shall be used exclusively for making capital repairs and replacements to the Garden of Remembrance not covered by maintenance done pursuant to Section 15, and consistent with Exhibit B.

 B. Applicability of Public Works Requirements to Expenditures from Capital Renewal Fund and Garden Capital Trust Fund.

 (1) City-funded work:

 Any repair, maintenance or Alteration work undertaken using money from the Garden Capital Trust Fund or paid to Tenant pursuant to Section 11 (which are funded by City) shall be treated as a "public work" and shall be subject to whatever competitive bidding, retainage, bonding, women's and minority business enterprise utilization, and other requirements may be imposed, from time to time, by applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation. In connection with any such Alteration, maintenance, or repair work, Tenant shall act as City's agent and administrator. The City Representative shall direct Tenant regarding all applicable requirements and appropriate and required means for compliance with the same.

 (2) Tenant-funded work:

 Repair or capital improvement work undertaken by Tenant using funds from the Capital Renewal Fund (the money for which is provided by Tenant) shall not be subject to City ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining to "public works." In the event no statutory retainage or statutory contractor's bond is required and secured by Tenant in connection with any such project, Tenant shall ensure that in every contract for such project (a) the contractor is expressly given notice that City has no obligation to such contractor as a consequence of the work of the contractor or any subcontractor, materialman, or supplier; (b) the product of the contractor's work shall be and become City property immediately upon its affixation to the Building; and (c) the contractor waives any and all claims such contractor may assert against City and the Building, per se, as a consequence of such work. Tenant shall ensure and require that applicable prevailing wages are paid to all persons who perform any repair or improvement work on the Building that is affected by or subject to prevailing wage legislation, rules or regulations.

 C. Tenant's Six (6)-Year Capital Plan.

 (1) Delivery of Tenant's Six (6)-Year Capital Plan to City Representative:

 Not later than February 28, 1999 or a later date agreed upon by the parties hereto, and annually thereafter throughout the Initial Term, on or by the same date or such other date as may be agreed upon by the parties, Tenant shall prepare a Six (6)-Year Capital Plan for expenditures from the Capital Renewal Fund and Garden Capital Trust Fund. With respect to expenditures from the Capital Renewal Fund, Tenant shall secure approval of such Six (6)-Year Capital Plan from the Facilities Committee established by Tenant pursuant to Subsection 16.D hereof. With respect to expenditures from the Garden Capital Trust Fund, Tenant shall also secure approval of such Six (6)-Year Capital Plan from the Garden Advisory Board (Exhibit B). Tenant shall deliver a copy of such Six (6)-Year Capital Plan to the City Representative within five (5) days after such approval. Such Six (6)-Year Capital Plan shall generally describe anticipated expenditures from the Capital Renewal Fund and the Garden Capital Trust Fund for the six (6) year period commencing with the Six (6)- Year Capital Plan submission date or such other date as may be agreed upon by the parties hereto. Tenant shall include as a portion of the Six (6)-Year Capital Plan an "Annual Plan" that describes in detail, the specific, anticipated expenditures for the first of the six (6) years covered in the Six (6)-Year Capital Plan, including but not limited to the anticipated date(s) of the proposed expenditure(s), the proposed object(s) of expenditure, and the reason(s) for such expenditure(s). The Six (6)-Year Capital Plan shall also include a general description (subject to change) of anticipated expenditures for the remaining five (5) years of the Six (6)-Year Capital Plan.

 (2) Tenant's Report on Accomplishment of and Deviations from Annual Plan Objectives.

 As a part of each Annual Plan submitted to the City Representative pursuant to Subsection 17.C.(1) hereof from and after the initial Plan submittal, Tenant shall include a written report documenting the extent to which the immediately preceding Annual Plan was satisfied or accomplished, explaining in detail why any expenditure anticipated in such Annual Plan was not made, and why any expenditure from the Capital Renewal Fund that was not anticipated in such Annual Plan was made. Such report shall detail the amount of each such anticipated but unmade expenditure and each unanticipated expenditure; the date (if any) when any expenditure that was to have been made in the previous year but was not so made, is now anticipated to be made; what additional maintenance or capital expenditure(s) Tenant anticipates will become necessary as a consequence of the forgoing, during the immediately preceding year, of any anticipated but not accomplished expenditure; and what expenditure(s) that were anticipated to be made during the immediately preceding year Tenant now anticipates can be forgone, and the reason(s) for such belief (together with a copy of whatever material Tenant has secured from professional experts that supports such belief).

 (3) Emergency Repairs & Changes in Circumstances:

 It is understood that individual work items in the Six (6)-Year Capital Plan may be preempted by repairs of an emergency nature, or other change in circumstances. When any such preemption is necessary and any repair work is performed in lieu of work that was planned to be performed during the year in which such emergency work occurs, within thirty (30) Days after the commencement of such emergency work, Tenant shall give notice to the City Representative of the fact and nature of such change and deliver to the City Representative a revised Annual Plan detailing the repair and maintenance work to be undertaken as a result and information describing what work items (if any) that are identified in the Annual Plan will have to be postponed or deferred, the anticipated duration of such delay or deferral, what problems (if any) Tenant believes could develop as a consequence of such delay or deferral, and what additional expenses are likely to be incurred, all as a consequence of such work and expenditure.

 D. Facilities Committee.

 Tenant shall establish a Facilities Committee composed of a member of Tenant's Board of Directors that has been appointed by City's Mayor, and such other individuals and Board members and Tenant's staff as may be designated by the President or Chair of Tenant's Board of Directors. The City Representative shall be an ex officio member of such committee but shall have no vote. Such committee shall have authority to review and recommend approval or disapproval of any Six (6)-Year Capital Plan proposed by Tenant and any expenditure from the Capital Renewal Fund and Garden Capital Trust Fund to Tenant's Board of Directors.

 18. UTILITY SERVICES.

 Tenant shall be responsible for payment of all utilities serving the Premises and maintenance and repair of all utility line connections to the Premises not otherwise maintained or repaired by the applicable utility provider.

 19. PARKING.

 During the time that Concession Payment is payable, Tenant shall not enter into any covenant or other agreement that commits or otherwise dedicates any of the space in the garage for exclusive use by or for the benefit of any new downtown development project to enable that project to satisfy parking requirements imposed on such development; provided, that if Tenant (or the Seattle Symphony Orchestra) and The Mann Building L.L.C. executed an Off-Site Accessory Parking Covenant in anticipation of and prior to the effective date of this Agreement, under which Parking Covenant twenty-two (22) automobile parking spaces and two (2) bicycle parking spaces are to be made available for use by the Mann Building L.L.C. for the purpose of meeting the parking requirements for uses on property owned or occupied by The Mann Building L.L.C., that Parking Covenant may be implemented. Tenant may impose reasonable restrictions on any such use, including but not limited to restricting parking availability between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.

 20. INDEMNIFICATION.

 A. Tenant Indemnification.

 Except as set forth in Subsection 20.B hereof and as limited by Subsection 20.C hereof, Tenant shall indemnify, defend, and hold City, its officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all liability, losses, claims, actions, damages, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) arising out of or relating to the use and occupancy of the Premises or any portion thereof by Tenant, or any act or omission (including but not limited to any violation of applicable law, including the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, 17 U.S.C. section 101, section 106A, et seq., rule or regulation ) by Tenant, or any contractor or Subtenant, or any officers, employees, agents, subcontractors, sub-Subtenants, or volunteers of any of the same on the Premises, or any claim by a third-party arising from any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to trademark, patent, and copyright infringement; provided, that in the event City determines that one or more principles of governmental or public law are involved, City retains the right to participate in such action at its own expense.

 The above notwithstanding, Tenant's indemnity obligation with respect to the Garden of Remembrance is limited to any act or omission of Tenant, or any contractor or any other Tenant-authorized third-party user thereof, or any officer, employee, agent, subcontractor, subtenant, or volunteer of any of the same, but not the act or omission of any other person or entity.

 B. City Indemnification.

 Except as limited by Subsection 20.C hereof, City shall indemnify, defend and hold Tenant and its directors, trustees, officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) arising out of or relating to any act or omission of City or any of its officers, employees or agents in connection with City's use or occupancy of the Premises (including but not limited to the Garden of Remembrance) or any portion thereof pursuant to this Agreement (including but not limited to Section 7) or any claim by a third party arising from any of the foregoing including but not limited to trademark, patent, and copyright infringement.

 C. Indemnification Regarding Any Alteration.

 Where any bodily injury or damage to property results from or arises out of the undertaking of any construction, Alteration, repair, or maintenance of any portion of the Premises or any road, excavation, or other structure, project, development, or improvement attached to real estate, including moving and demolition in connection therewith, the indemnification provided pursuant to Subsections 20.A and 20.B hereof shall be limited to the extent of the indemnitor's negligence.

 D. Survival of Indemnification Obligations.

 The indemnification obligations assumed by each party under this Agreement shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 E. Waiver of Immunity and Limitations on Industrial Insurance Liability.

 For purposes of this indemnification and hold harmless provision, City and Tenant expressly waive their respective immunity and limitations on liability under any industrial insurance legislation including but not limited to Title 51 RCW and acknowledge that this waiver was specifically entered into after mutual negotiation.

 21. INSURANCE.

 A. Minimum Insurance to be Secured and Maintained.

 On or before the Commencement Date, or such earlier date as is necessary to cover the opening of the Garden of Remembrance or the Metro tunnel, Tenant shall secure and shall thereafter maintain, in full force and effect at no expense to City, throughout the entire period of the Agreement a policy or policies of insurance as specified below:

 (1) A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance including Garage Liability, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (on ISO form CG 0001 or equivalent), including all the usual coverages known as of the Commencement Date as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability

 - Products/Completed Operations

 - Personal/Advertising injury including copyright and trademark/name infringement

 - Contractual Liability

 - Owners and Contractors Protective Liability

 - Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability

 - Elevator and Hoist Liability

 - Independent Contractors Liability

 - Explosion, Collapse and Underground Property Damage ("XCU")

 - Liquor Liability/Host Liquor Liability

 - Fire Damage

 - Broadened Coverage - Garages (on ISO form CA 2514 or equivalent)

 Such policy(ies) must be endorsed as provided in Subsection 21.B hereof and provide the following minimum limits:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $1,000,000 General Aggregate

 $1,000,000 Products/Completed Operations Aggregate

 $1,000,000 Personal & Advertising

 $1,000,000 Each Occurrence

 $1,000,000 Fire Damage

 Stop Gap Employers Liability -

 $1,000,000 Each Accident

 $1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit

 $1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of Tenant;

 (2) A policy of Business Automobile Liability that includes coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (on ISO form CA 0001 or equivalent), is endorsed as provided in Subsection 21.B.(1) hereof, and provides the following minimum limits:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage

 $1,000,000 per accident, $1,000,000 per occurrence.

 (3) A policy of coverage for Excess Liability above the primary General and Business Automobile Liability policies that will provide a total limit of insurance of $10,000,000. The excess policy must be, at a minimum, as broad as the primary policies.

 (4) A policy of Workers' Compensation securing Tenant's liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington; Provided, that if Tenant is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Tenant shall certify that qualification by a letter that is signed by a corporate officer of Tenant and delivered to the City Representative that sets forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees; and

 (5) A policy of Property Insurance including Earthquake & Flood under which the Premises and Tenant's furniture, fixtures, equipment and inventory and all Alterations that it makes to the Premises are insured throughout the term of this Agreement in an amount equal to the all risk replacement cost thereof except subject to the maximum probable loss for earthquake and flood as determined by the insurer, against the following hazards: (a) loss from the perils of fire and other risks of direct physical loss, not less broad than provided by the insurance industry standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form" (on ISO form CP 1030 or equivalent); (b) loss or damage from water leakage or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in on the Premises; (c) loss or damage by explosion of steam boilers, pressure vessels, oil or gasoline storage tanks or similar apparatus nor or hereafter installed on the Premises; (d) loss from business interruption or extra expense, with sufficient coverage to provide for the payment of rent and other fixed costs during any interruption of Tenant's business. City shall be named as an additional insured and as loss payee under such policy. At Tenant's request, City will purchase such insurance on behalf of Tenant and at Tenant's expense.

 B. General Requirements Regarding Tenant's Insurance; Adjustments.

 (1) The insurance required by Subsections 21.A(1), (2) and (3) shall be endorsed to include City of Seattle, its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as additional insured; be primary as respects City; provide that any other insurance maintained by City shall be excess and not contributing insurance with Tenant's insurance; and also provide that such coverage shall not be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) Days prior written notice to City c/o the address specified in this section. All insurance policies required hereunder shall be subject to the reasonable approval of the City's Risk Manager as to company, form and coverage.

 (2) All policies shall be issued by a company rated A-:VII or higher in the then-current A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington surplus lines broker, and shall be primary to any other applicable insurance.

 (3) Any self-insured retention must be disclosed to, and shall be subject to approval by, the City's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of Tenant or its contractor, as appropriate.

 (4) If requested in writing by the City Risk Manager, in writing, the sufficiency of the minimum amounts and types of insurance specified in Subsection 21.A hereof shall be reviewed by the City Representative, City Risk Manager, Tenant and Tenant's insurance broker after the third anniversary of the Commencement Date and every third anniversary thereafter. If the City's Risk Manager reasonably determines after such review that the required types or limits of any insurance coverage are not adequate, or are excessive for any reason, including but not limited to inflation and/or changing industry conditions, Tenant shall procure such changes in coverage or limits as the City Risk Manager reasonably requires within ninety (90) Days after the date of written notice to Tenant of the required changes in coverage or limits.

 C. Evidence of Insurance.

 The following documents must be provided to the City Representative as evidence of insurance coverage secured and maintained by Tenant:

 (1) On or before the Commencement Date, and thereafter, not later than five (5) Days prior to the expiration or renewal date of each such policy:

 a. A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the insuring Company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements specifying all endorsements listed on the policy including any company-specific or manuscript endorsements;

 b. A copy of the endorsement naming The City of Seattle and its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as an Additional Insured (whether on ISO Form CG 2026 or a comparable form), showing the policy number, and the original signature and printed name of the representative of the insurance company authorized to sign such endorsement;.

 c. A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverages provided by such policy to City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) Days prior written notice to the City Representative at the address specified in or provided pursuant to Subsection 21.D.

 d. For the Commercial General Liability and Business Automobile Liability insurance to be secured and maintained pursuant to Subsections 21.A.(1), (2) and (3) hereof, a copy of the "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause in such policy or an endorsement thereto indicating essentially that except with respect to the limits of insurance and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, such insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom any claim is made or suit is brought.

 (2) Pending receipt of the documentation specified in Subsection 21.C.(1) hereof, a copy of each such policy's binder.

 (3) Within thirty (30) Days after Tenant's receipt of a written request therefor, a complete copy of the requested policy with all endorsements thereto.

 D. Address for Delivery of Evidence of Tenant's Insurance.

 The evidence specified in Subsection 21.C shall be delivered to the following addresses:

 City Representative for Benaroya Hall LeaseExecutive Services DepartmentThe City of Seattle600 Fourth AvenueSeattle, WA 98104 City Risk ManagerExecutive Services DepartmentThe City of Seattle600 Fourth AvenueSeattle, WA 98104

 or to such other addressee(s) or address(es) as may be specified by notice provided to Tenant.

 E. Reconstruction Following Loss.

 Using property insurance proceeds as disbursed by agreement with City, Tenant shall proceed with reasonable diligence as soon as sufficient funds are available therefor, to prepare plans and specifications for, and thereafter to carry out, all work necessary (a) to repair and restore the Premises and all improvements made thereto that have been damaged by any insured casualty to their former condition, or (b) to replace the Premises and all improvements made thereto with a facility of a quality and usefulness for the activities contemplated in this Agreement that is at least equivalent to, or more suitable than, the Premises and improvements that were damaged or destroyed; provided, that if (1) insurance proceeds are unavailable for any reason or are inadequate to meet the requirements of (a) or (b) immediately above to restore the Premises to at least ninety percent (90%) of their pre- existing condition; (2) Tenant does not, in spite of using all reasonable efforts, obtain all necessary permits and approvals to carry out the work specified in (a) or (b) immediately above, or (3) the casualty occurs during the last four (4) years of the then current Term, Tenant may, at its option, terminate this Agreement. No such termination shall have any effect on any prior obligation of either Tenant or City under this Agreement including but not limited to those related to payments due to either party, record keeping and indemnification.

 F. Waiver of Subrogation.

 City and Tenant waive all subrogation rights against each other, any contractors, architect, architects' consultants, service providers, and all of their respective subcontractors, for damages caused by fire or other perils to the extent such damages are covered by property insurance secured and maintained in accordance with this Section 21 or other property insurance applicable to the Premises, except such rights as they have to proceeds of such insurance held by City and Tenant as fiduciaries. Tenant shall require a similar waiver from every contractor performing any work on the Premises. This waiver of subrogation shall be effective to a person or entity even though that person or entity would otherwise have a duty of indemnification, contractual or otherwise, whether or not the person or entity paid the insurance premium directly or indirectly, and whether or not the person or entity has an insurable interest in the property damaged.

 G. Mutual Defense Obligations.

 With respect to any third-party claim against or potentially against both Tenant and City that results from or arises out of any Premises use or Tenant operations thereon, Tenant and City agree to coordinate their defense of such claims pursuant to this provision. The parties agree to work together in good faith, and cause their respective counsel to work together in good faith, to coordinate and implement a strategy with respect to the legal defense of any such action, including, without limitation, answers, counterclaims, motions, discovery, settlement, preparation for trial, dispute resolution and any other hearings, and appeal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations hereunder shall not impair or restrict either party's rights with respect to the defense of such an action nor shall such obligations prohibit the taking of any action that is in a party's best interest, including, without limitation, seeking the dismissal or summary judgment of claims, negotiating or entering into a settlement or pursuing an form of alternative dispute resolution. Each party in all cases shall bear its own costs and related expenses with respect to any third-party claim hereunder, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, costs, settlements and judgments.

 H. Assumption of Risk.

 The placement and storage of its personal property in the Premises shall be the responsibility, and at the sole risk, of Tenant.

 I. City Right to Procure Insurance for Tenant.

 In the event Tenant has failed to secure and maintain insurance as required by this Agreement within the cure period specified in Subsection 27.A hereof, City, at the option of the City Representative, may procure from whatever source City deems reasonable, the insurance required by this Agreement for and on behalf of Tenant, and at the expense of Tenant. In the event any such insurance is procured by City pursuant to this subsection, Tenant shall reimburse all costs incurred by City to secure such insurance coverage. Such reimbursement may be offset by City from any Operations Reimbursement or other payment due to Tenant under this Agreement. Upon City's procurement of any such insurance, City shall dismiss and discontinue any default and breach proceedings commenced by it based upon such Tenant failure to comply with the insurance requirements of this Agreement.

 22. SIGNS.

 Tenant and any party occupying all or any portion of the Premises by, through or under Tenant may install and maintain signs on the exterior and interior of the Premises. The design, installation and location of all such signs shall be in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

 23. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING.

 A. Assignment.

 Tenant may assign this Agreement to the Seattle Symphony Orchestra without having to secure the City Representative's consent therefor. Subject to the restrictions set forth in Subsection 5.E hereof, Tenant may assign its interest in this Agreement to another entity upon the written consent of the City Representative, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Tenant shall deliver to the City Representative with Tenant's request for consent to such assignment, such information regarding the proposed assignee, including the proposed assignee's mission, and financial and management capabilities as is reasonably available to Tenant. Within fifteen (15) days after such request for consent to such assignment, the City Representative may reasonably request additional available information on the proposed assignee, which Tenant shall supply within ten (10) days after Tenant's receipt of the City Representative's request. The above notwithstanding, any assignment as a result of a merger or reorganization shall not require the City Representative's consent. The assignment by Tenant of any interest in this Agreement to a person or entity other than the Seattle Symphony Orchestra with respect to which the City Representative has not given written consent shall be void and of no effect whatsoever.

 B. City's Consent Is No Waiver of Agreement Requirements.

 The City Representative's consent to any assignment shall not be deemed a waiver of the requirement that Tenant secure the consent of the City Representative for any subsequent assignment. In the event of any assignment of this Agreement, Tenant shall cause to be delivered to the City Representative, simultaneously with such assignment, an instrument in writing, executed by the assignee, in which the assignee assumes and agrees to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including those to be kept and performed by Tenant that have not been fully performed. An assignment shall not release Tenant, as assignor, from liability, but City shall provide Tenant, as assignor, with a copy of any and all notices of default and the same opportunity to cure as provided to assignee.

 C. Subleases, etc., Permitted.

 Subject to the restrictions in Subsections 5.E and 23.D hereof, Subleases, concession agreements, licenses and other forms of use and occupancy agreements of the Premises or any portion thereof shall not require notice to or consent of the City Representative, but shall be subject to the terms of this Agreement.

 D. Conditions Applicable to Subleases.

 In every Sublease executed by Tenant, Tenant shall include a provision that (1) advises the Subtenant that Tenant has assigned to City all of Tenant's interests in such Sublease and all funds and other consideration payable or providable by the Subtenant to Tenant; (2) obligates the Subtenant to deliver to City, without Tenant or Subtenant's requiring or receiving any judicial order or other documentation with respect thereto beyond City's notice of assignment and demand therefor, whatever funds are then currently due and owing to Tenant as well as whatever other funds are due and owning by such Subtenant to Tenant from and after the date of such City notice and demand to Subtenant through the date of City's notice to such Subtenant that such Subtenant's remittances to City pursuant to such notice and demand may be discontinued until further City notice.

 24. OWNERSHIP OF PREMISES ALTERATIONS & PERSONAL PROPERTY.

 A. Delineation of Ownership Interests.

 Except as specifically set forth herein this section, City is the owner of the Premises, including the real property described in Exhibit A, the Building to be or actually constructed thereon pursuant to the Design/Build Agreement and the following items of property or their replacements:

 - all attached floor coverings in public areas;

 - stair and balcony balusters and railings;

 - audience seating facilities including chairs and folding upholstered seats;

 - general built-in, Building lighting including but not limited to lamps installed in suspended ceilings, stairways, hallways, rest rooms, dressing rooms, storage, utility, and other public areas; as illumination for publicly-owned art works; and as illumination required to satisfy Code requirements;

 - the assistive listening system;

 - built-in sound equipment;

 - built-in stage lighting equipment;

 - art work donated to City or otherwise acquired through City's or King County's public art program.

 As between City and Tenant, Tenant shall own all personal property, furnishings, and equipment now or hereafter located on the Premises, including but not limited to all musical instruments (including pipe organs) and equipment, instrument storage lockers, chandeliers and other lighting fixtures donated to or acquired by Tenant outside the scope of the Design/Build Agreement, art (other than that donated to City or acquired through City's or King County's public art program) and other items and replacements thereof ("Tenant Property").

 B. Removal or Replacement of Personal Property.

 Tenant may remove or replace Tenant Property, in whole or in part, as it desires. If Tenant removes or replaces any Tenant Property, Tenant shall repair any damage resulting from such removal or replacement activity and shall restore the Premises to at least as good a functional, operational and aesthetic condition as the Building had immediately prior to such removal or replacement of Tenant Property. Tenant shall not remove, without comparable replacement, any personal property in the Building that is owned by City or King County except upon reasonable approval of the City Representative; provided, Tenant may not remove or replace any art work donated to City or otherwise acquired through City's or King County's public art program without the written consent of the City Representative and after due consultation with the Seattle Arts Commission's Executive Director or such official's functional successor. Whenever any property other than Tenant Property is removed or replaced, Tenant shall ensure that the Premises remains fully functional and operational as a major public performance hall in downtown Seattle.

 25. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.

 A. Lawful Use.

 Tenant and City, with respect to City use of the Premises pursuant to Section 7 hereof, shall each comply with, and Tenant and City shall each use its best efforts to ensure that every person it admits to the Premises complies with, all applicable laws of the United States (including but not limited to the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, 17 U.S.C. section 101, section 106A, et seq.) and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and the pertinent rules, regulations and authorized orders of their respective agencies and officers; and licenses, permits, and authorizations issued by any such authority. Whenever either party or its authorized representative is informed of any violation of any such law, ordinance, rule, regulation, license, permit, or authorization committed by it, it shall immediately desist from such violation and shall make its best effort to prevent such violations by any person admitted by it to the Premises. The final judgment of a court or administrative body of competent jurisdiction or the admission by a party in any action against it, whether the other party is a party thereto or otherwise, that it or its invitees has violated any law, ordinance, rule, or regulation shall be conclusive of that fact as between City and Tenant.

 B. Licenses and Similar Authorizations.

 Tenant, at no expense to City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement all required licenses, permits and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof; Provided, however, such responsibilities shall be City responsibilities with respect to City use of the Premises pursuant to Section 7 hereof.

 C. Taxes.

 Tenant shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies and assessments of any kind or nature that are imposed or become due during this Agreement and that arise only out of use and occupancy of the Premises or the activity or business conducted on the Premises by Tenant or any Subtenant during the term hereof (other than City use pursuant to Section 7 hereof); taxes levied on Tenant's Property; and taxes on Tenant's interest in this Agreement pursuant to RCW 82.29A, if applicable. City shall be responsible for and shall timely pay the existing L.I.A. assessment for the King County/Metro Transit Tunnel and shall timely pay all taxes that relate exclusively to City activity in the Premises pursuant to Section 7 hereof. City hereby delegates, assigns and transfers to Tenant City's right, as owner of the Premises, to vote on, appeal from, and otherwise negotiate and deal with any and all actual and proposed L.I.D., U.L.I.D., and Parking & Business Improvement Area assessment or any combination thereof, and any similar imposition or assessment.

 D. Attendance & Safety Standards.

 The Seattle Fire Chief or his/her designee shall have the authority to determine, in the reasonable exercise of his/her discretion, the number of persons that may be admitted to, and safely and freely move about in the Premises. Tenant shall not sell or issue tickets or credentials for admission to the Premises in an aggregate number that exceeds the Seattle Fire Chief's determined number. Tenant shall not admit to the Premises more people than the number so determined by the Seattle Fire Chief. Tenant shall not permit any chair or movable seat or other obstruction to be erected or placed in any passageway or fire exit. Sidewalks, grounds, entries, passages, vestibules, corridors, elevators, abutting streets and all ways of access to the Premises shall not be obstructed by Tenant or used for any purpose inconsistent with Tenant's use of the Premises. City shall be responsible for assuring compliance with each of the foregoing requirements during periods of City use of the Premises pursuant to Section 7 hereof.

 E. Nondiscrimination in Employment.

 Tenant shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC"), and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 F. Women's and Minority Business Enterprise Utilization.

 (1) Incorporation of Ordinance:

 With respect to the Garden of Remembrance only, this Agreement incorporates by reference City's WMBE Ordinance. The purpose of Seattle's WMBE Program is to provide a prompt remedy for the effects of past discrimination. The failure of Tenant or any contractor of Tenant to comply with any of the requirements of the WMBE Ordinance shall be a material breach of contract.

 (2) Tenant's Obligations:

 During the Term of this Agreement and with respect to expenditures from the Garden Capital Trust Fund, Tenant shall:

 a. Meet the minority business enterprise ("MBE") and women's business enterprise ("WBE") set-asides established for this Agreement, if any;

 b. Make affirmative efforts to utilize WMBEs in performing Tenant's obligations under this Agreement, whether as contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, or in any other capacity;

 c. Require that all contractors and subcontractors make affirmative efforts to utilize WMBEs in the performance of this Agreement;

 d. Maintain records reasonably necessary for monitoring compliance with the provisions of the WMBE Ordinance, and submit such information as may be requested by the ESD Director in order to monitor and enforce compliance; and

 e. Require that contractors and their subcontractors maintain records reasonably necessary for monitoring the contractors' and subcontractors' compliance with the provisions of the WMBE Ordinance, and that the contractors and subcontractors submit such information as may be requested by the ESD Director in order to monitor and enforce compliance; and

 f. Include in its contracts for the carrying out of Alterations and other work relating to the Garden of Remembrance, and contracts implementing Subsection 17.A hereof, and comply with requirements imposed on City agencies, as may be specified by the City Representative, from time to time, in implementation of the City WMBE program.

 (3) Liquidated Damages for Breach:

 City, in general, and its WMBE Program in particular, are damaged when a contract, or a portion of a contract, to be performed by a WBE or MBE is not actually performed by a WBE or MBE in compliance with the WMBE Ordinance. Because the actual amount of such damage is not reasonably calculable, City and Tenant agree and stipulate that liquidated damages equal to the unmet dollar amount of any WBE or MBE set-aside (if any) will fairly compensate City for resulting delays in carrying out the purpose of the WMBE Program, the costs of meeting utilization targets through additional contracts, the administrative costs of investigation and enforcement, and other damages and costs caused by the violation.

 G. Use of Banned Customer Service Serving Materials Prohibited.

 So long as such requirement exists under applicable law, Tenant shall not use, and shall prohibit every Subtenant and other person and entity authorized to engage in catering or concession activity from using or providing to any other person within the premises any type of serving container or implement that is now or hereafter prohibited for use in City owned property. This Tenant obligation with respect to materials other than polystyrene foam food or beverage containers shall be effective only after such materials have been identified by the City Representative through notice to Tenant.

 26. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES.

 As to any work undertaken on the Premises by or for Tenant or at Tenant's direction, Tenant shall keep the Premises free and clear of any lien or encumbrance arising or growing out of its use and occupancy of the Premises or any portion thereof, or the undertaking of any such work. At City's request, Tenant shall furnish City written proof of payment of any item that would or might constitute the basis for such a lien or encumbrance on the Premises if not paid. The above notwithstanding, Tenant may contest any such lien or claim therefore so long as it resolves any dispute or pays any judgment prior to completion of any lien foreclosure.

 27. DEFAULT.

 A. Default by Tenant.

 Any of the following acts or omissions by Tenant shall constitute a default under this Agreement and shall be deemed a material breach if not cured or remedied within the indicated time periods after receipt of written notice from City of such default:

 (1) Tenant's failure to comply with any of the material requirements of this Agreement regarding insurance (ten (10) Day cure period);

 (2) Tenant's failing to pay any sum of money due to City under this Agreement, notwithstanding City's right to interest as provided by law on any sum that becomes delinquent (ten (10) Day cure period);

 (3) Tenant's failing to cease, correct, or remedy any violation of any law, ordinance, rule, or regulation (thirty (30) Day cure period);

 (4) The abandonment or vacating of the Premises by Tenant (thirty (30) Day cure period);

 (5) Tenant's assignment of its interest in this Agreement without having previously secured from the City Representative or such official's functional successor or designee written consent for such assignment, if such consent is required (thirty (30) Day cure period);

 (6) Tenant's failing to deposit into the Capital Renewal Fund, when due, the amount of money Tenant is to deposit into such fund, as provided in Section 16 hereof (one hundred eighty (180) Day cure period);

 (7) Tenant's failure to perform any other material condition or covenant of this Agreement (thirty (30) Day cure period);

 Provided, that for a breach of Subsection 27.A.(3), (4), (5), or (7) hereof, if Tenant's breach is such that more than thirty (30) Days are reasonably required for performance or the curing of such breach, then Tenant shall not be in default if it commences performance or cure within the specified cure period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 B. Default by City.

 City shall be in default and in material breach of this Agreement if City fails to pay any amount due to Tenant within thirty (30) Days after the date due, or to perform any other obligation or covenant required of City where such failure is not remedied within thirty (30) Days after its receipt of written notice from Tenant of such City failure; provided, only as to defaults other than for the payment of money, if City's breach is such that more than thirty (30) Days are reasonably required for performance or the curing of such breach, then City shall not be in default if it commences performance or cure within the specified cure period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion;

 C. Remedies; Notice of Intent to Terminate Agreement.

 In the event either City or Tenant claims the other party has materially breached this Agreement, then except as provided in Subsection 21.I or Subsection 27.E, the non-defaulting party's exclusive remedy shall be as provided in Section 28 hereof, "Dispute Resolution." If City is seeking to terminate the Agreement as a remedy for a default by Tenant, then regardless of the amount of time provided pursuant to Subsection 27.A for the curing of any default and regardless of the amount of time required for the completion of dispute resolution processes contemplated in Section 28, no termination of this Agreement for that default shall be effective until one (1) year after the date Tenant first received written notice of City's intent to terminate this Agreement because of that default.

 D. Tenant Control of Capital Renewal Fund In Event of Termination.

 If City terminates this Agreement pursuant to this Section 27, Tenant shall retain the balance in the Capital Renewal Fund.

 E. Assignment of Subleases and Gross Revenues.

 As part of the consideration for this Agreement, Tenant hereby assigns to City, as security for all of Tenant's monetary obligations to City in this Agreement, any and all Subleases (the "Assigned Subleases") and any and all modifications thereof and any and all Gross Revenues and other sums due Tenant from Subtenants and any and all damages or other sums owing Tenant in any bankruptcy regarding any of the Assigned Subleases. This Assignment shall be self operative and shall not require any further documentation or agreement, although Tenant agrees to execute any UCC statement reasonably requested by City regarding this Assignment.

 In the event any Tenant default is curable by the payment of money (whether to City or another person or entity), and such default has not been cured within the time specified in Subsection 27.A hereof for such cure and has not been otherwise cured pursuant to Subsection 21.I hereof, City may take any and all of the following actions:

 (1) Give notice to one or more of the Subtenants that, until otherwise advised by a notice from City, such Subtenant(s) must remit to City, directly, any moneys otherwise payable by such Subtenant(s) to Tenant; and

 (2) Receive and collect directly from Subtenants, pursuant to the above Assignment, Gross Revenues, and expend and retain whatever portion of such Gross Revenues is required to reimburse City expenses incurred for City procurement of insurance on Tenant's behalf, or to make Tenant's Concession Payment, or to deposit into a separate fund controlled by City an amount equal to the Capital Renewal Fund for the use and in the amount contemplated in Section 9 hereof, or to pay any utility charge or other amount owed by Tenant to City, or to secure a release of any lien on the Premises or any portion thereof, or to satisfy any Tenant obligation under this Agreement that may be satisfied by the payment of money, or any combination thereof. The balance of any remaining Gross Revenues shall be paid by City to Tenant.

 Except as provided in Subsection 21.I hereof, City's exercise of its rights under the above Assignment shall be City's sole and exclusive remedy for any Tenant's breach curable by the payment of money, but only to the extent such breach(es) are cured thereby. City may enforce such rights pursuant to Subsection 28.E.(1). City may pursue its other remedies available under this Agreement to the extent its exercise of its rights under the Assignment does not cure Tenant's breach.

 Once Tenant's payment obligations have been fully satisfied (whether by Tenant, directly, or by City through the exercise of City's rights under the above Assignment), City shall notify Tenant and all Subtenants to resume payment of Gross Revenues directly to Tenant.

 28. DISPUTE RESOLUTION.

 A. Policy.

 Each party hereto commits to cooperate in good faith and to deal fairly in performing its duties under this Agreement in order to accomplish the mutual objectives of the parties hereto and to avoid disputes. If, however, a claim, dispute or disagreement relating to the interpretation, application or enforcement of this Agreement or either party's performance under this Agreement (each, hereinafter referred to as a "Lease Dispute") arises, the parties agree to resolve all such Lease Disputes by, first, attempting to reach a fair and prompt negotiated resolution, and, second, if such negotiations are unsuccessful and the provisions of Subsection 27.C or 27.E are inapplicable, to resolve such Lease Disputes by mediation and arbitration as provided herein. The parties confirm that by agreeing to this alternative dispute resolution process for Lease Disputes, they intend to give up their right to have Lease Disputes that are to be resolved through this process to be decided in court by a judge or jury. This Section 28 shall govern only the resolution of Lease Disputes and shall not govern the resolution of any other disputes that may arise between the parties. No action taken by Tenant or City pursuant to this section shall create any duty to or relationship with any other person or entity.

 B. Initial Effort to Resolve Dispute Between City and Tenant.

 Within fourteen (14) Days after a party's receipt of written notice of a Lease Dispute between City and Tenant, the notifying party may require that a representative of each party (with authority to settle) meet, confer, and attempt to resolve the Lease Dispute within twenty- one (21) Days thereafter.

 C. Mediation.

 If the Lease Dispute is not resolved, neither party may bring a claim against the other unless the claim is first subject to nonbinding mediation before a single mediator consistent with the Commercial Mediation Rules of the American Arbitration Association. If the City Representative or Tenant does not have authority to settle the claim, then such representative shall ensure that another person having authority to settle the claim (subject to approval of the City Council and Tenant's Board as necessary) attends the mediation session(s). Unless the City Representative and Tenant agree in writing otherwise, all unresolved Lease Disputes existing at that time shall be considered at a single mediation session. The requirements of this paragraph cannot be waived except by an explicit written waiver signed by the City Representative and Tenant.

 D. Arbitration.

 (1) If the Lease Dispute between City and Tenant is not resolved through mediation, the Lease Dispute shall be subject to and decided by arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association in effect on the date the notice of Lease Dispute. A party may bring no arbitration or litigation on a Lease Dispute against the other unless the Lease Dispute has been properly raised and considered in the above mediation procedures. This requirement cannot be waived except by an explicit written waiver signed by the City Representative and Tenant Representative.

 (2) Any demand for arbitration shall be filed in writing with the other party to this Agreement and, as necessary, with the American Arbitration Association. The demand shall be made within a reasonable time after the Lease Dispute has arisen and reasonable mediation efforts to resolve such Lease Dispute have failed. In no event shall the demand for arbitration be made after the date when the applicable statute of limitations would bar institution of a legal or equitable proceeding based on such Lease Dispute.

 (3) Unless the parties agree otherwise, the arbitration hearing shall be conducted in Seattle, Washington, before a single, neutral arbitrator, if the award or relief sought does not exceed a value of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), and if otherwise, a panel of three (3) neutral arbitrators. If the parties cannot agree on the identity of the arbitrator(s) within ten (10) Days after the date of the demand for arbitration, the arbitrator(s) shall be selected in accordance with the applicable rules of the American Arbitration Association. Each arbitrator shall be an attorney with at least fifteen (15) years' experience in commercial law and shall reside in the Seattle metropolitan area. The arbitrator(s) shall not be empowered to grant exemplary or punitive damages. There shall be no discovery or dispositive motion practice except that the arbitrator(s) shall authorize such discovery as may be shown to be necessary to ensure a fair hearing, and no such discovery shall extend the time limits contained herein. The arbitrator(s) shall not be bound by the rules of evidence or of civil procedure, but may consider such information as reasonable business people would use in the conduct of their day- to-day affairs, and may require the parties to submit some or all of their case by written declaration or such other manner of presentation as the arbitrator(s) may determine to be appropriate. The parties intend to limit live testimony and cross-examination to the extent necessary to ensure a fair hearing on material issues. The written decision of the arbitrator(s) shall include an explanation of the factual and legal grounds for the decision on each claim asserted. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, in making the decision and award, the arbitrator(s) shall apply applicable, substantive law; shall construe this Agreement; and shall not alter or amend this Agreement. The decision and award of a multi-member panel of arbitrators need not be unanimous but, instead, may be the result of agreement of any two of the arbitrators.

 (4) Within fifteen (15) Days after its receipt of the arbitrators' written opinion, either party shall have the right to file with the arbitrator(s) and serve on the other party a written motion to reconsider. The arbitrator(s) may request the non-moving or responding party to file a written response within ten (10) Days after receipt by the arbitrator(s) of that request, and the arbitrator(s) thereupon will reconsider the issues raised by the motion and response (if any) and either confirm or alter the decision, which will then be final, binding and conclusive upon the parties. The costs of such a motion for reconsideration and written opinion of the arbitrator(s), including attorneys' fees, will be awarded against the moving party if it does not prevail.

 (5) Judgment may be entered upon the final decision of the arbitrator(s) in accordance with applicable law in any court having jurisdiction thereof.

 (6) Any arbitration arising out of or related to this Agreement shall, upon demand of either party, include by consolidation, joinder, or third-party claim, other parties involved in a common question of law or fact, whose presence is required if complete relief is to be accorded in arbitration, or who is alleged to be liable to a party for all or part of a claim in the arbitration. Either party may join any assignee or Subtenant as a party to any litigation/arbitration, and Tenant shall include in each assignment and Sublease a provision giving notice to the assignee or Subtenant (as appropriate) of this opportunity and of the assignee or Subtenant's being subject to such joinder.

 (7) Except for costs associated with a motion for reconsideration as provided in subsection (4) immediately above, the costs of arbitration shall be divided evenly between the parties.

 E. Alternative Remedies.

 In the event (1) City seeks enforcement of its right under Subsection 27.E regarding any Assigned Sublease or to receive any payment from any Subtenant under an Assigned Sublease, or (2) either party seeks, as a remedy for a default and material breach of this Lease by the other party, any form of relief not expressly otherwise provided in this Lease, including but not limited to the appointment of a receiver or the issuance of an injunction or a writ of prohibition or an order for specific performance, then the provisions of Subsections 28.B, 28.C and 28.D shall be inapplicable, and the party seeking such remedy may commence and prosecute an action in court for the desired relief.

 F. Survival of Rights and Remedies.

 This Section 28 shall survive expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 29. SURRENDER OF PREMISES AND REMOVAL OF TENANT'S PROPERTY.

 A. Surrender of Premises.

 Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, Tenant shall surrender to City the Premises and all keys to any door or window therein.

 B. Condition of Premises Upon Surrender.

 The Premises shall be surrendered to City in at least as good a condition as the Premises were in on the Commencement Date of this Agreement and following construction of the improvements pursuant to the Design/Build Agreement and any other Alterations made to the Premises during the term hereof that have been approved by City, if such approval is required, except for property and other damage caused by fire and other perils, vandalism, and ordinary wear and tear.

 C. Removal of Tenant Property.

 No later than the expiration of the term of this Agreement, or within sixty (60) Days after this Agreement's earlier termination, Tenant shall remove from the Premises, at no cost or expense to City, all Tenant Property. In removing Tenant Property, Tenant shall take due care to not unduly damage or injure the Premises, and any such damage or injury shall be immediately repaired by Tenant at its sole cost and expense. In no event shall either party make any claim or demand upon the other, nor shall either party be liable for any inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, or loss of business arising out of such removal operation during such sixty (60) Day period.

 D. Disposition of Unremoved Property.

 In the event that Tenant has not removed all Tenant Property that it is required or authorized to remove pursuant to this section within the time periods specified herein, City may, but need not, remove the same and hold it for Tenant, or may place the same in storage, all at Tenant's expense and risk. City shall have the right to sell such stored Tenant Property, without notice to Tenant, after it has been stored for a period of thirty (30) Days or more, the proceeds of such sale to be applied first, to the cost of the sale; second, to the payment of charges incurred in connection with the removal of such Tenant Property and for its storage; third, to the payment of any other amounts that may then be due from Tenant to City; the balance, if any, shall be paid to Tenant. Tenant hereby waives and expressly releases City from any and all claims for loss or damage, of any kind or nature, arising out of said removal, storage and sale.

 30. TENANT'S OPTION TO PURCHASE.

 Tenant shall have the option to purchase the Premises (the "Purchase Option") pursuant to the terms of this section. Tenant's Purchase Option may be exercised from January 1, 2027, through the Initial Term of this Agreement and any Extended Term, by giving notice to the City Representative of Tenant's intent to exercise the Purchase Option.

 A. Value of Premises.

 Within ninety (90) Days after the receipt of Tenant's notice of its intent to exercise the Purchase Option, City shall obtain from an independent commercial real estate appraiser with at least five (5) years experience in the making of appraisals of real property in the downtown Seattle area used for commercial purposes, an appraisal of the then-current value of the Premises for continued use as a symphony hall and for other uses permitted under this Agreement, for a period of forty (40) years after acquisition of the Premises by Tenant, and shall notify Tenant of said value.

 B. Tenant's Response to Valuation.

 Within thirty (30) Days after Tenant's receipt of such appraisal valuation, Tenant shall give notice to the City Representative of either (i) Tenant's agreement with the Premises value, as determined by the City's appraiser, and Tenant's desire to purchase the Premises, or (ii) Tenant's disagreement with the valuation as determined by the City's appraiser. If Tenant still desires to purchase the Premises but at a price other than that determined by City's appraiser, then within ten (10) Days after the date of such notice to City, Tenant shall contractually engage an independent commercial real estate appraiser with at least five (5) years experience in making appraisals of real property in the downtown Seattle area used for commercial purposes to produce a second appraisal of the Premises. Tenant's appraiser and City's appraiser shall, within twenty (20) Days after the contractual engagement of Tenant's appraiser, select a third appraiser with like qualifications. City and Tenant shall each pay the cost of their appraisal and shall share equally the cost of the appraisal by the jointly-selected appraiser. The three (3) appraisers shall determine, by agreement, the then-current value of the Premises for use as a symphony hall and for other uses then permitted under this lease for a period of forty (40) years after acquisition of the Premises by Tenant, and shall advise Tenant and City, in writing, of their determination of value. In the event the three appraisers are unable to agree, they shall average the two closest determinations of value and shall advise Tenant and City of that determination. The appraised value and purchase price shall be reduced by an amount equal to the product of multiplying -$3,555.00 by the number of full years occurring between the Commencement Date and the Closing Date, inclusive, up to a maximum of forty (40) years. For illustrative purposes only, assuming the Commencement Date were July 1, 1998, and  the Closing Date were October 1, 2028, and the appraised value of the Premises is $1,000,000, the purchase price would be $893,350 using the following formula: The number of full years between July 1, 1998 and the Closing Date (Oct. 1, 2028) equals 30, which multiplied by the fixed value specified above ( -$3,555.00) equals -$106,650.00. That negative amount, when added to the $1,000,000 appraised value reduces the purchase price to $893,350.

 C. Closing.

 Closing shall occur within ninety (90) Days after the determination of the purchase price, at an escrow company selected by Tenant. Conveyance shall be by quit claim deed, free of encumbrances except those in existence on the Commencement Date; those created by, through or under Tenant; and those created by City and approved by Tenant, the approval of which shall not be unreasonably withheld; and a covenant restricting, for a period of forty (40) years, the use of the Premises to a symphony hall and for such other uses as have been previously authorized under this Agreement, which covenant shall be made enforceable, at City's discretion, through operation of a condition subsequent and/or an action for specific performance, injunctive relief, prohibition, or damages. City shall pay whatever excise and other taxes may be attributable to the conveyance and the title insurance premium for standard coverage title insurance. Escrow fees shall be divided equally and other costs of closing shall be allocated as is customary at the time. This Agreement shall terminate as of closing, and the rent and all other charges due under this Agreement, and pre-paid income and expenses shall be prorated as contemplated in this Agreement, as of the closing date.

 31. NO WAIVERS.

 No action other than a written document by the City Representative or Tenant's Representative or Executive Director (or such other person as may be specified for such purpose in a notice given by Tenant to City) specifically acknowledging that it constitutes a waiver of a particular breach or default by the other shall constitute a waiver by a party of such breach or default under this Agreement. No such document shall waive a failure to fully comply with any term or condition of this Agreement not specifically referenced therein, irrespective of any knowledge any officer or employee of a party may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance. A party's failure to insist upon full performance of any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed to constitute consent to or acceptance of such incomplete performance in the future.

 32. BINDING EFFECT.

 The provisions, covenants and conditions contained in this Agreement are binding upon the parties hereto and their legal successors and assigns.

 33. TIME OF ESSENCE.

 Time is of the essence in the performance of this Agreement.

 34. RIGHTS & REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

 The rights and remedies under this Agreement are cumulative; the failure to exercise promptly any right or remedy recognized hereunder shall not operate to forfeit any such right or remedy. The use of one right or remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 35. APPLICABLE LAW AND VENUE.

 This Agreement shall be construed under the laws of the State of Washington. The venue for any litigation relating to this Agreement shall be in the Superior Court of the State of Washington for King County.

 36. OBLIGATION OF TENANT LIMITED TO CORPORATION.

 Any and all obligations of Tenant under this Agreement are enforceable only against the BH Music Center, and are not enforceable against nor do they impose any liability upon Tenant's officers, directors, trustees, members, employees, or agents.

 37. NO PARTNERSHIP, ASSOCIATION OR JOINT VENTURE RELATIONSHIP CREATED.

 In no event shall either party be construed, held, or become, in any way or for, any purpose, a partner, associate, or joint venturer of the other party or any party associated with the other party in the conduct of the other party's business or otherwise. Except with respect to environmental remediation as provided in Subsection 14.D hereof and making of repairs and Alterations to the Garden of Remembrance, as provided in Section 17 hereof, this Agreement does not constitute either party as the agent or legal representative of the other party for any purpose whatsoever, nor is either party granted any express or implied right or authority to assume or to create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of or in the name of the other party, or to bind the other party in any manner or thing whatsoever.

 38. ADDRESSES.

 Unless otherwise directed in writing, all notices and reports shall be in writing, and together with any payments, shall be delivered to City at the following address:

 City Representative for Benaroya Hall Lease

 Executive Services Department

 The City of Seattle

 600 Fourth Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104

 and to Tenant at the following address:

 At Commencement Date: Current:

 BH Music Center BH Music Center

 200 University Street 1110 Third Avenue, Suite 600

 Seattle, WA 98101 Seattle, WA 98101

 Attn: Director Attn: Director

 Provided, that either party may change its address for receipt of reports, notices or payments without the formal amendment of this Agreement, by giving the other party written notice of such change not less than fifteen (15) Days prior to the effective date thereof.

 39. INTERPRETATION.

 The titles of sections and subsections set forth herein are for convenience only, and do not in any way define, limit or construe the contents of any section. The parties hereto acknowledge that it is a negotiated understanding, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against either party on the basis of that party's having drafted the same.

 40. BASIS OF AGREEMENT: AMENDMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS.

 City and Tenant acknowledge and agree that Tenant entered into this Agreement based on certain assumptions regarding the cost of operating the Premises pursuant to the terms hereof, and the income to be derived from the Premises to apply towards such costs. Such assumptions are, (i) the type and amount of taxes payable by Tenant (specifically, the assumption that little or no leasehold excise tax is payable); (ii) compliance with requirements of the Series A Bonds would not restrict Tenant's use of the Premises; (iii) the cost of acquiring or maintaining insurance; and (iv) the effect of other current or future applicable laws, rules and regulations. Therefore, if Tenant gives City notice that there has been a material, adverse change in any of such assumptions, City and Tenant, within ten (10) days of City's receipt of such notice, shall engage in diligent good faith negotiations to amend this Agreement to ameliorate, in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Tenant, said material, adverse changes so as to render Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises economically viable. Any disagreement over whether there has been a "material, adverse change" as set forth in the preceding sentence shall be a Lease Dispute. In the event Tenant and City have not amended this Lease in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Tenant within ninety (90) days after the latter of, (i) the date City receives Tenant's notice to negotiate; or (ii) in the event a Lease Dispute arises out of such notice, the date a final determination is rendered pursuant to Section 28 that there has been a material, adverse change, Tenant may, at its option, terminate this Lease effective One Hundred Twenty (120) days after the latter of, (i) the date City receives Tenant's notice to negotiate; or (ii) in the event a Lease Dispute arises out of such notice, the date a final determination is rendered pursuant to Section 28 that there has been a material, adverse change. No amendment, alteration or modification of the terms hereof shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 41. CITY REPRESENTATIVE.

 City shall give written notice to the other within five (5) Days after the Commencement Date identifying the name, business telephone number and home telephone number or pager number of the person that is to be the City Representative under this Agreement in communications with Tenant. City may change such contact person from time to time by written notice to Tenant given not less than five (5) Days prior to the effective date of such change. The action of the City Representative pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official action by any other City department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation. Any permission, consent, or approval of City given by the City Representative pursuant to Agreement is, and shall be construed only as, a permission, consent, or approval of the City's Executive Services Department with respect to Tenant's performance of its obligations under this Agreement. Unless specifically stated to the contrary in this Agreement, such permission, consent, or approval shall not be, nor be construed as, a representation or assurance that the matter consented to or approved complies with applicable laws, regulations, ordinances or Codes or obviate any requirement of Tenant to comply with the laws, regulations ordinances, or Codes, or to secure the permission of, any other City department; nor shall any such consent or approval by the City Representative be construed to authorize any Tenant failure to comply with any of the foregoing.

 42. ATTORNEYS' FEES.

 In the event a suit or arbitration is initiated to resolve a dispute with respect to this Agreement, the losing party in such suit or arbitration shall pay to the prevailing party the reasonable attorneys' fees and other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the prevailing party in, such suit or arbitration. If City prevails, its attorneys' fees shall be computed as if it were represented by attorneys in a private law firm having as many attorneys as are employed by the Seattle Law Department, and with as much experience as that possessed by the attorneys actually representing City.

 43. TENANT'S REPRESENTATIONS & WARRANTIES

 As an inducement to City to execute this Agreement, Tenant makes the following representations and warranties:

 A. General Authority of Tenant.

 Tenant is a duly organized and validly existing nonprofit corporation and has full power and authority to enter into and perform this Agreement and the transactions contemplated herein.

 B. Specific Authority of Representative(s) of Tenant.

 The execution of this Agreement has been authorized by all necessary corporate or other action and this Agreement is the binding obligation of Tenant, enforceable in accordance with its terms.

 44. CITY'S REPRESENTATIONS & WARRANTIES

 As an inducement to Tenant to execute this Agreement, City makes the following representations and warranties:

 A. General Authority of City.

 City is a duly organized and validly existing municipal corporation of the first class in the State of Washington and has full power and authority to enter into and perform this Agreement and the transactions contemplated herein.

 B. Specific Authority of Representative(s) of City.

 The execution of this Agreement on behalf of City has been authorized by all necessary municipal or other action and this Agreement is the binding obligation of City, enforceable in accordance with its terms.

 45. EXHIBITS.

 Exhibits A, B, C, D and E are incorporated herein. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, the parties hereto may agree to the substitution and replacement, from time to time, of subsequently agreed upon exhibits without the formality of an actual amendment to this Agreement, each of which substitute and replacement exhibits shall be identified on the face thereof as a substitute and replacement exhibit and the effective date of such substitution and replacement.

 46. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

 This Agreement, together with all of the exhibits attached hereto, embodies the entire Agreement of the parties hereto. There are no other understandings or agreements, written or oral, between the parties regarding the Premises except as expressly referenced herein. Except as amended herein, this Agreement remains in full force and effect. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this First Amendment to & Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement and the original Lease & Concession Agreement, this First Amendment to & Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement shall prevail.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the authorized representative(s) of each of the parties hereto

 has/have executed this Agreement by affixing his/her/their signature(s) in the spaces below.

 BH MUSIC CENTER THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: By:

 Dwight D. Dively, Director

 Executive Services Department

 By:

 TENANT'S ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of ________, 1997, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duty commissioned and sworn, personally appeared __________________ and ________________________, the respective ____________________ and __________________________ of BH MUSIC CENTER, who on oath stated that they executed the annexed agreement and acknowledged such agreement to be the free and voluntary act of the BH MUSIC CENTER for the uses and purposes mentioned therein, and that they were authorized to execute said agreement for and on behalf of the BH MUSIC CENTER.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 (Signature)

 (Print or type name of Notary Public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at

 (Seal or stamp) My commission expires .

 CITY'S ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 THE COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ___________, 1997, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Dwight D. Dively, to me known to be the Director of the Executive Services Department of The City of Seattle, who on oath stated that he executed the annexed agreement, and acknowledged said agreement to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein, mentioned, and that he was authorized to execute said agreement for and on behalf of The City of Seattle.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 (Signature)

 (Print or type name of Notary Public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington,

 residing at

 (Seal or stamp) My commission expires .

 EXHIBIT A

 Legal Description and Floor Plans of Premises

 EXHIBIT B

 Garden of Remembrance Mission Advisory

 Board Guidelines

 EXHIBIT C

 Concession Payment Schedule

 EXHIBIT D

 Garden of Remembrance Maintenance Standards

 EXHIBIT E

 [Imputed Rent]

 SECOND AGREEMENT TO MASTER AGREEMENT

 THIS SECOND AMENDATORY AGREEMENT is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereinafter referred to as "Owner"), a city of the first class of the State of Washington, and BH MUSIC CENTER (hereinafter referred to as "BHMC"), a not-for-profit corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington, and witnesses that:

 RECITALS

 A. In October 1995, the Owner executed, pursuant to Ordinance 117855, a Master Agreement with the Seattle Symphony Orchestra (hereinafter referred to as "the Symphony") regarding the development and construction of a new downtown concert hall for primary use by the Symphony's orchestra. That Master Agreement identified the Symphony as the "Design/Builder" for the concert hall project and detailed the terms under which the parties would cooperate to finance and construct that new facility. The Master Agreement included specific provisions for the Owner's sale of transferable development rights (hereinafter referred to as "TDRs") associated with the concert hall site and for evenly dividing any revenue in excess of $8,000,000 generated from such TDR sales and other specified sources.

 B. In June 1996, the Owner executed, pursuant to Ordinance 118112, an agreement with the Symphony to clarify the terms and conditions of the Master Agreement pertaining to the sale of concert hall TDRs and to provide an alternative method of ensuring that the concert hall project would be fully funded and completed as contemplated by the parties. That First Amendment to the Master Agreement acknowledged the parties' expectations that $5,000,000 would be received from concert hall TDR sales, and that this amount would be needed in order to fully fund concert hall project construction costs; gave the Design/Builder the right to request and obtain additional Owner funds (hereinafter referred to as the "in lieu payment") in an amount equal to the difference between $5,000,000 and the proceeds received by July 31, 1998, from the sale of concert hall TDRs, all for the purpose of paying concert hall completion costs; and specified that if so requested by the Design/Builder, the Owner would remit such amount to the Design/Builder by August 31, 1998. The First Amendment also detailed arrangements for the Design/Builder's reimbursement of such requested "in lieu payment" as well as the costs incurred by the Owner in order to make such remittance, and contemplated that in the absence of such reimbursement, the Owner would be entitled to withhold any maintenance and operations payments the Owner would be obligated to pay to the manager/operator of the concert hall under any future lease agreement for use of that facility by the Symphony, and that such withholding could continue until such remittance and Owner-incurred costs had been reimbursed.

 C. In September 1996, the Symphony assigned its interests as the Design/Builder under the Amended Master Agreement and the related Design and Construction Agreements pertaining to the concert hall project to BHMC, which assignment was contingently approved by the Owner's City Council by Resolution 29438.

 D. In September 1997, the Owner executed, pursuant to Ordinance 118732, a Lease & Concession Agreement with BHMC regarding the use, operation and maintenance of certain open space adjacent to Second Avenue and University Street and "Benaroya Hall" (the major performing arts facility developed as a consequence of the concert hall project). The Lease & Concession Agreement identifies the proceeds from the sale of concert hall TDRs and funds from certain other sources identified in the Amended Master Agreement as "Special Development Revenue" and details how those funds are to be allocated and expended, but does so in a manner that is different from that set forth in the earlier Amended Master Agreement.

 E. As of the execution date of this Second Amendatory Agreement, no concert hall TDRs have been sold. BHMC, in its capacity of Design/Builder under the Amended Master Agreement, desires to exercise its option to secure the additional funding committed by the Owner in the Amended Master Agreement for completion of the concert hall project.

 F. The parties hereto desire to resolve differences between the provisions of the earlier Amended Master Agreement and the later Lease and Concession Agreement regarding how proceeds from the sale of concert hall TDRs are to be allocated and expended, the Owner's obligation to remit the "in lieu payment" to the Design/Builder in the event the Owner has not received by July 31, 1998, at least $5,000,000 in the form of proceeds from the sale of concert hall TDRs, and arrangements for the reimbursement of such Owner remittance and certain Owner costs incurred in connection therewith, all by this Second Amendatory Agreement and by a contemporaneous First Amendment to and Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement.

 NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF the mutual covenants and performances hereinafter described, the Design/Builder and the Owner agree as follows:

 1. Section I, entitled "Definitions," is hereby amended by the addition of a new definition as follows:

 "Special Development Revenue" means and includes any revenue received from (i) the sale of view or light easements affecting the Site (the right to sell the same and to receive the proceeds of any such sale being reserved exclusively by and in Owner); (ii) the transfer to a third party of development rights associated with the Site (the right to transfer the same and to receive the proceeds of any such transfer being reserved exclusively by and in Owner); (iii) the creation of a planned community development that includes the Site (the right to create the same and to receive the proceeds therefor being reserved exclusively by and in Owner); (iv) the donation of any money or service specifically for the development of the Open Space (including but not limited to the creation of the Garden of Remembrance); and (v) the provision of any money or service specifically to pay or offset any King County charge for development of the METRO Bus Tunnel entrance or for relocation of utilities; Provided, where services are received, the commercial value of the same shall be treated as the revenue so received.

 2. Section IV.G, entitled "Delivery of Design/Builder Communication," is further

 amended and two new sections, Section IV.H and Section IV.I, are added as follows:

 G. Delivery of Design/Builder Communication

 The Owner's Finance Director has received from the Design/Buil-der a letter signed by the Design/Builder's Board Chairman, Treasurer and Executive Director stating that the sum of (1) the funds deposited by and on the behalf of the Design/Builder in the Bank as specified in Subsection IV.B.1; plus (2) the proceeds available or to be available from the State of Washington and King County as identified in the letter; plus (3) the pledges received to date as identified in the letter; plus (4) the $5,000,000 estimated by the parties hereto be realized in the future from the transfer to one or more third parties of transferable development rights associated with the Site; plus (5) the unpaid portion of the Maximum Owner Expenditure; equal One Hundred Percent (100%) of the estimated cost of completing the Project (as identified in the latest Project budget approved by the parties hereto pursuant to Article VII hereof).

 H. Owner's Remittance of "In Lieu Payment" to Design/Builder

 The provisions of the First Amendment to & Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement executed by the parties hereto shall govern the sale of transferable development rights associated with the Site ("TDRs");the receipt, allocation between the parties, and the expenditure of any Special Development Revenues; the Owner's remitting to the Design/Builder of the difference between $5,000,000 and the aggregate amount of proceeds from the sale of TDRs associated with the Site as contemplated in the First Amendment to this Master Agreement; and the Design/Builder's or Tenant's obligation under this Amended Agreement or the First Amendment to & Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement to reimburse the Owner in an amount equal to such differential amount and various costs incurred by the Owner to secure funding to make such remittance and subsequent refinancing of any associated Owner debt.

 I. Design/Builder's Commitment to Obtain Private Funding

 The Design/Builder hereby commits itself to exercise its good faith and continuing efforts to obtain all private funding necessary to commence and complete construction of the Project in a timely manner.

 3. Article VIII is hereby deleted, because the substance thereof, as modified through subsequent negotiations, has been incorporated into the First Amendment to & Restatement of the Lease & Concession Agreement that has been contemporaneously executed by the parties hereto.

 4. All other provisions of the Amended Master Agreement not inconsistent with the above remain in full force and effect.

 IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties have caused this Second Amendatory Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year last written below.

 BH MUSIC CENTER THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:__________________________ By:________________________

 Title:_________________________ Title:_______________________

 Dated:________________________ Dated:______________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. DESIGN/BUILDER'S

 COUNTY OF KING ) ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 On this ____ day of ________, 1998, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duty commissioned and sworn, personally appeared

 and ,

 the respective and ______________________ _ of BH MUSIC CENTER, who on oath stated that he/she/they executed the annexed agreement and acknowledged such agreement to be the free and voluntary act of BH MUSIC CENTER for the uses and purposes mentioned therein, and that they were authorized to execute said agreement for and on behalf of BH MUSIC CENTER.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 ____________________________________

 (Signature) (Print or type name of Notary Public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington residing at

 My commission expires _____________________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. CITY'S ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 THE COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ___________, 1998, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Dwight D. Dively, to me known to be the Director of the Executive Services Department of The City of Seattle, who on oath stated that he executed the annexed agreement, and acknowledged said agreement to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein, mentioned, and that he was authorized to execute said agreement for and on behalf of The City of Seattle.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 ____________________________________

 (Signature) (Print or type name of Notary Public)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington residing at

 My commission expires _____________________.

 1 GBD C:\docfiles\concert\2dAmMstr.doc

```
