

********

**Council Bill Number: 112292**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119132**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Public Utility authorizing a contract with the Northwest Mutual Aid Group to provide and receive Emergency Assistance from water and wastewater agencies during times of emergency.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 24, 1998
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Conlin, Podlodowski)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 28, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 28, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 17, 1998
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, EMERGENCY-SERVICES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Public Utility authorizing a contract with the Northwest Mutual Aid Group to provide and receive Emergency Assistance from water and wastewater agencies during times of emergency.

 WHEREAS, the Agencies have expressed a mutual interest in the establishment of an Omnibus Agreement to facilitate and encourage water and wastewater agency Emergency Assistance; and

 WHEREAS, in the event of an emergency, an Agency who has executed this Omnibus Agreement may need Emergency Assistance in the form of supplemental personnel, equipment, materials or other support; and

 WHEREAS, each Agency may own and maintain equipment, stocks, materials and employ trained personnel for construction and maintenance of street, road, highway, sewer, water, and related systems and other support and is willing, under certain conditions, to lend its supplies; equipment and services to other Agencies in the event of an emergency; and

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1 The Director of the Seattle Public Utility is authorized to execute for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, Seattle Public Utility (SPU) an agreement substantially in the form attached to this ordinance entitled "Northwest Mutual Aid Group Omnibus Agreement" (NW MAG). The Agreement provides for agencies who are signatories to the NW MAG to provide equipment, stock materials and trained personnel for construction and maintenance of street, road, highway, sewer, water, and related systems and other support and is willing, under certain conditions, to lend its supplies, equipment and services to other member agencies in the event of an emergency. In the event that the SPU agrees to provide assistance the agency receiving emergency assistance from SPU shall pay for all cost associated with the supplies, equipment and services and personnel provided to the requesting agency by SPU.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1998. _____________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1998. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1998. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 Northwest Mutual Aid Group (NW MAG) Omnibus Agreement

 This OMNIBUS AGREEEMENT is made and entered into by certain water and wastewater agencies to enable them to provide Emergency Assistance to each other during times of emergency. Throughout this Omnibus Agreement these water and wastewater agencies may be referred to as "Agency" or "Agencies".

 WHEREAS, the Agencies have expressed a mutual interest in the establishment of an Omnibus Agreement to facilitate and encourage water and wastewater agency Emergency Assistance; and

 WHEREAS, in the event of an emergency an Agency who has executed this Omnibus Agreement may need Emergency Assistance in the form of supplemental personnel, equipment, materials or other support; and

 WHEREAS, each Agency may own and maintain equipment, stocks materials and employs trained personnel for construction and maintenance of street, road, highway, sewer, water, and related systems and other support and is willing, under certain conditions, to lend its supplies, equipment and services to other Agencies in the event of an emergency; and

 WHEREAS, the proximity of the Agencies to each other enables them to provide Emergency Assistance to each other.

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, the undersigned Agency agrees as follows:

 Article I - APPLICABILITY.

 This Omnibus Agreement is available for execution to all Agencies, public and private, in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho that operate a water or wastewater utility that provides service to 10,000 or more service connections. Execution of this Omnibus Agreement by an Agency will occur when the Agency signs an identical version of this Omnibus Agreement.

 Article II - DEFINITIONS.

 A. 'Agency' means any legal entity that operates a water or wastewater utility that provides service to 10,000 or more service connections.

 B. 'Assistance Costs' means any direct costs (usual and customary costs) incurred by the Lender in providing the Emergency Assistance.

 C. 'Borrower' means an Agency who has adopted and signed this Omnibus Agreement and has made a request for Emergency Assistance and has received commitment(s) to deliver Emergency Assistance pursuant to the terms of this Omnibus Agreement.

 D. 'Chair' means an Agency representative initially selected to serve as the Chair of the Northwest Mutual Aid Group and all subsequent Chairs. Selection and duties of the Chair will be in accordance with Article IV.

 E. 'Contact Person(s)' means the person or persons designated by each Agency to request Emergency Assistance from or grant Emergency Assistance to another Agency pursuant to the terms of this Omnibus Agreement.

 F. 'Emergency' includes, but is not limited to, a man-made or natural event or circumstance within the area of operation of the Agency causing or threatening loss of life, damage to the environment, injury to person or property, human suffering or financial loss, such as: fire, explosion, flood, severe weather, drought, earthquake, volcanic activity, spills or releases of hazardous materials, contamination, utility or transportation emergencies, disease, infestation, civil disturbance, riots or sabotage; said event being or is likely to be beyond the capacity of the affected Agency or Agencies, in terms of personnel, equipment and facilities, thereby requiring Emergency Assistance.

 G. 'Emergency Assistance' means employees, equipment, materials, or supplies offered during an Emergency by the Lender and accepted by the Borrower to assist in maintaining or restoring water and/or wastewater utility service when such service has been disrupted by acts of the elements, equipment malfunctions, accidents and other occurrences where Emergency Assistance from other Agencies is necessary or advisable, as determined by the requesting Agency.

 H. 'Emergency Contact Information Form' is the form to be submitted to the Chair by each Agency that lists names, addresses, and 24 hour phone numbers of the Contact Person(s). The Chair will distribute copies of the forms to each Agency. Note: The phone number of a dispatch office manned 24 hours a day that is capable of contacting the Contact Person(s) is acceptable.

 I. 'Lender' means an Agency who has executed this Omnibus Agreement and has agreed to deliver Emergency Assistance to another Agency pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Omnibus Agreement.

 J. 'Northwest Mutual Aid Group' means those Agencies who have signed this Omnibus Agreement.

 K. 'Omnibus Agreement' means identical agreements executed in counterparts which bind the executing Agency to its terms and conditions to provide and receive Emergency Assistance. The terms and conditions of the Omnibus Agreements are all identical and the execution of an Omnibus Agreement by an Agency binds that Agency to all other Agencies who have executed an identical Omnibus Agreement in counterparts. To be effective for purposes of receiving Emergency Assistance, this Omnibus Agreement must be fully executed and received by the Chairman.

 L. 'Termination Date' is the date upon which this Agreement terminates pursuant to Article V.

 M. 'Vice-Chair' means an Agency representative selected to serve as the Vice-Chair of the Northwest Mutual Aid Group. Selection and duties of the Vice-Chair will be in accordance with Article IV.

 Article III - PARTICIPATION.

 Full participation with rights to vote on any issue or participate in any decision making process which effects the group is limited to Agencies who have executed the Omnibus Agreement. Each Agency will have one vote. Participation is strictly voluntary. However, Agencies who execute the Omnibus Agreement are expected to:

 A. Ensure the Chair has their agency's most current Emergency Contact Information Form.

 B. Participate in scheduled meetings to the maximum extent possible.

 Article IV - CHAIR AND VICE-CHAIR.

 Agencies agree that their representative can serve as Chair and/or Vice-Chair of the NW MAG Group on a rotating basis. Selection of the initial Chair and Vice-Chair will be based on a majority vote (of all Agencies) at a meeting held within 30 days following initial execution of the Omnibus Agreement. A new Vice-Chair shall be selected every January thereafter, or as needed. The Vice-Chair will rotate into the Chair position.

 The Chair shall:

 A. Chair any meetings convened.

 B. Take the initiative to obtain and communicate decisions and discussion items of the NW MAG Group.

 C. Maintain a manual containing the master copy of this Omnibus Agreement (as amended) and a list of Agencies who have executed this Omnibus Agreement.

 D. Notify all Agencies whenever a new Agency executes the Omnibus Agreement.

 E. Provide each Agency with a copy of the signature page of newly executed Omnibus Agreement(s).

 F. Provide each Agency with copies of the Emergency Contact Information Forms provided by other Agencies.

 G. Notify all Agencies whenever an Agency terminates the Omnibus Agreement.

 The Vice-Chair shall:

 A. Assist the Chair in communicating decisions of the NW MAG Group.

 B. Maintain and distribute helpful checklists to assist Agencies in the planning details associated with being a Borrower or Lender under the terms of this Omnibus Agreement.

 Article V - TERM AND TERMINATION.

 A. This Omnibus Agreement is effective upon execution by two or more Agencies.

 B. An Agency opting to terminate this Omnibus Agreement, shall provide written termination notification to the Chair. Notice of termination becomes effective upon receipt by the Chair. Any terminating Agency shall remain liable for all obligations incurred during its period of participation, until the obligation is satisfied.

 Article VI - PAYMENT FOR SERVICES AND ASSISTANCE.

 Borrower shall pay to the Lender all Assistance Costs within 60 days of receipt of the lenders invoice, for either all or part of the Emergency Assistance services provided by the Lender. In the event Lender provides supplies or parts, the Lender shall have the option to accept payment of cash or in kind for the supplies or parts supplied.

 Article VII - INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR.

 Lender shall be and operate as an independent contractor of Borrower in the performance of any Emergency Assistance. Employees of Lender shall at all times while performing Emergency Assistance continue to be employees of Lender and shall not be deemed employees of Borrower for any purpose. Wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment of Lender shall remain applicable to all of its employees who perform Emergency Assistance. Lender shall be solely responsible for payment of its employees' wages, any required payroll taxes and any benefits or other compensation. Borrower shall not be responsible for paying any wages, benefits, taxes, or other compensation directly to the Lender's employees. The costs associated with borrowed personnel are subject to the reimbursement process outlined in Article XII. In no event shall Lender or its officers, employees, agents, or representatives be authorized (or represent that they are authorized) to make any representation, enter into any agreement, waive any right or incur any obligation in the name of, on behalf of or as agent for Borrower under or by virtue of this Omnibus Agreement.

 Article VIII - REQUESTS FOR EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.

 Requests for Emergency Assistance shall be directed to the designated contact person(s) on the list provided by the Chair. The extent to which the Lender provides any Emergency Assistance shall be at the Lender's sole discretion. In the event the emergency impacts a large geographical area that activates either Federal or State emergency laws or agencies, this Agreement shall remain in effect until or unless this Agreement conflicts with such Federal and State laws.

 Article IX - GENERAL NATURE OF EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.

 Emergency Assistance will be in the form of resources, such as equipment, supplies, and personnel. The execution of the Omnibus Agreement shall not create any duty to respond on the part of any Agency hereto. An agency shall not be held liable for failing to provide Emergency Assistance. An Agency has the absolute discretion to decline to provide any requested Emergency Assistance and to withdraw resources it has provided at any time without incurring any liability. Resources are "borrowed" with reimbursement and terms of exchange varying with the type of resource as defined in Articles X through XII. The Agencies recognize that time is critical during an emergency and diligent efforts will be made to respond to a request for resources as rapidly as possible, including any notification(s) that requested resources are not available.

 Article X - LOANS OF EQUIPMENT.

 Use of equipment, such as construction equipment, vehicles, tools, pumps and motors, shall be at the Lender's current equipment rate, or if no written rates have been established, at the hourly operating costs set forth in an industry standard publication as selected by the Northwest Mutual Aid Group, or as mutually agreed between Borrower and Lender. Equipment and tool loans are subject to the following conditions:

 At the option of the Lender, loaned equipment may be loaned with an operator. See Article XII for terms and conditions applicable to use of borrowed personnel.

 Loaned equipment shall be returned to the Lender upon release by the Borrower, or immediately upon the Borrower's receipt of an oral or written notice from the Lender for the return of the equipment. When notified to return equipment to a Lender, the Borrower shall make every effort to return the equipment to the Lender's possession within 24 hours following notification.

 Borrower shall, at its own expense, supply all fuel, lubrication and maintenance for loaned equipment. The Borrower will take proper precaution in its operation, storage and maintenance of Lender's equipment. Equipment shall be used only by properly trained and supervised operators. Lender shall endeavor to provide equipment in good working order. All equipment is provided "as is", with no representations or warranties as to its fitness for particular purpose.

 Lender's cost related to the transportation, handling, and loading/unloading of equipment shall be chargeable to the Borrower. Lender shall provide copies of invoices for such charges where provided by outside sources and shall provide hourly accounting of charges for Lender's employees who perform such services.

 Without prejudice to a Lender's right to indemnification under Article XIV herein, in the event loaned equipment is lost or damaged while being dispatched to Borrower, or while in the custody and use of the Borrower, or while being returned to the Lender, Borrower shall reimburse the Lender for the reasonable cost of repairing said damaged equipment. If the equipment cannot be repaired within a time period indicated by the Lender, then Borrower shall reimburse Lender for the cost of replacing such equipment with equipment which is of equal condition and capability. Any determinations of what constitutes "equal condition and capability" shall be at the discretion of the Lender. If Lender must lease or rent a piece of equipment while the Lender's equipment is being repaired or replaced, Borrower shall reimburse Lender for such costs. Borrower shall have the right of subrogation for all claims against persons other than parties to this Omnibus Agreement who may be responsible in whole or in part for damage to the equipment. Borrower shall not be liable for damage caused by the sole negligence of Lender's operator(s).

 Article XI - EXCHANGE OF MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES.

 Borrower shall reimburse Lender in kind or at Lender's actual replacement cost, plus handling charges, for use of partially consumed or non-returnable materials and supplies, as mutually agreed between Borrower and Lender. Other reusable materials and supplies which are returned to Lender in clean, damage-free condition shall not be charged to the Borrower and no rental fee will be charged. Lender shall determine whether items returned are "clean and damage-free" and items shall be treated as partially consumed or non-returnable materials and supplies if item is found to be damaged.

 Article XII - LOANS OF PERSONNEL.

 Lender may at its option make such employees as are willing to participate available to Borrower at Borrower's expense equal to Lender's full cost, including employee's salary or hourly wages, call back or overtime costs, benefits and overhead, and consistent with Lender's personnel union contracts, if any, or other conditions of employment. Costs to feed and house loaned personnel, if necessary, shall be chargeable to and paid by the Borrower. The Borrower is responsible for assuring such arrangements as may be necessary to provide for the safety, housing, meals, and transportation to and from job sites/housing sites (if necessary) for loaned personnel. The checklist provided by the Vice-Chair can assist Agencies in planning details associated with being a Borrower or Lender under the terms of this Omnibus Agreement. Lender personnel providing Emergency Assistance shall be under the control of their regular leaders, but the organizational units will come under the operational control of the emergency management authorities of the Borrower. Lender shall not be liable for cessation or slowdown of work if Lender's employees decline or are reluctant to perform any assigned tasks if said employees judge such task to be unsafe. A request for loaned personnel to direct the activities of others during a particular response operation does not relieve the Borrower of any responsibility or create any liability on the part of the Lender for decisions and/or consequences of the response operation. Loaned personnel may refuse to direct the activities of others without creating any liability on the part of the Lender. Any valid licenses issued to Lender personnel by Lender or Lender's state, relating to the skills required for the emergency work, may be recognized by the Borrower during the period of emergency and for purposes related to the emergency. When notified to return personnel to a Lender, the Borrower shall make every effort to return the personnel to the Lender's possession within 24 hours after notification.

 Article XIII - RECORD KEEPING.

 Time sheets and/or daily logs showing hours worked and equipment and materials used or provided by the Lender will be recorded on a shift by shift basis by the Lender and/or the loaned employee(s) and will be provided to the Borrower as needed. If no personnel are loaned, the Lender will provide shipping records for materials and equipment, and the Borrower is responsible for any required documentation of use of material and equipment for state or federal reimbursement. Under all circumstances, the Borrower remains responsible for ensuring that the amount and quality of all documentation is adequate to enable disaster reimbursement.

 Article XIV - INDEMNIFICATION AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

 A. INDEMNIFICATION. Except as provided in section B., to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower releases and shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend each Lender, its officers, employees and agents from and against any and all costs, including costs of defense, claims, judgments or awards of damages asserted or arising directly or indirectly from, on account of, or in connection with providing Emergency Assistance to the Borrower, whether arising before, during or after performance of the Emergency Assistance and whether suffered by any of the Agencies or any other person or entity.

 The Borrower agrees that its obligation under this section extends to any claim, demand and or cause of action brought by or on behalf of any of its employees, or agents. For this purpose, the Borrower, by mutual negotiation, hereby waives, as respects any indemnitee only, any immunity that would otherwise be available against such claims under the Industrial Insurance provisions of Title 51 RCW of the State of Washington and similar laws of other states.

 B. ACTIVITIES IN BAD FAITH OR BEYOND SCOPE . Any agency shall not be required under this Omnibus Agreement to indemnify, hold harmless and defend any other Agency from any claim, loss, harm, liability, damage, cost or expense caused by or resulting from the activities of any Agency's officers, employees, or agents acting in bad faith or performing activities beyond the scope of their duties.

 C. LIABILTIY FOR PARTICIPATION. In the event of any liability, claim, demand, action or proceeding, of whatever kind or nature arising out of rendering of Emergency Assistance through this Omnibus Agreement, the Borrower agrees, to indemnify, hold harmless, and defend, to the fullest extent of the law, each signatory to this Omnibus Agreement, whose only involvement in the transaction or occurrence which is the subject of such claim, action, demand, or other proceeding, is the execution and approval of this Omnibus Agreement.

 D. DELAY/FAILURE TO RESPOND. No Agency shall be liable to another Agency for, or be considered to be in breach of or default under this Omnibus Agreement on account of any delay in or failure to perform any obligation under this Omnibus Agreement, except to make payment as specified in this Omnibus Agreement.

 E. AGENCY LITIGATION PROCEDURES. Each Agency seeking to be released, indemnified held harmless or defended under this Article with respect to any claim shall promptly notify the Borrower of such claim and shall not settle such claim without the prior consent of Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Such Agency shall have the right to participate in the defense of said claim to the extent of its own interest. Agency's personnel shall cooperate and participate in legal proceedings if so requested by the Borrower, and/or required by a court of competent jurisdiction.

 Article XV - SUBROGATION.

 A. BORROWER'S WAIVER. Borrower expressly waives any rights of subrogation against the Lender, which it may have on account of, or in connection with, the Lender providing Emergency Assistance to the Borrower under this Omnibus Agreement.

 B. LENDER'S RESERVATION AND WAIVER. Lender expressly reserves its right to subrogation against the Borrower to the extent the Lender incurs any self-insured, self insured retention or deductible loss. The Lender expressly waives its rights to subrogation for all insured losses only to the extent the Lender's insurance policies, then in force, permit such waiver.

 Article XVI - WORKER'S COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYEE CLAIMS.

 Lender's employees, officers or agents, made available to Borrower, shall remain the general employee of Lender while engaged in carrying out duties, functions or activities pursuant to this Omnibus Agreement, and each Agency shall remain fully responsible as employer for all taxes, assessments, fees, premiums, wages, withholdings, workers' compensation and other direct and indirect compensation, benefits, and related obligations with respect to its own employees, Likewise, each Agency shall provide worker's compensation in compliance with statutory requirements of the state of residency.

 Article XVII - MODIFICATIONS.

 No provision of this Omnibus Agreement may be modified, altered, or rescinded by individual Agencies. Modifications to this Omnibus Agreement require 2/3 majority vote of the member Agencies. Such vote may take place at a meeting at which the requisite number of member Agencies are physically present or through the use of a speaker telephone so that the Chair, and others attending the meeting, are able to determine the requisite number of member Agencies have voted to approve a recommended modification. Modifications to this Omnibus Agreement must be in writing and will become effective upon receipt by the Chair of notice of approval of the modification by a 2/3 majority of all member Agencies. Modifications must be signed by an authorized representative from each Agency.

 Article XVIII- NON EXCLUSIVENESS AND PRIOR AGREEMENTS.

 This Omnibus Agreement is not intended to be exclusive among the Agencies. Any Agency may enter into separate Emergency Assistance agreements with any other entity. No such separate agreement shall terminate any responsibly under the Omnibus Agreement. To the extent that prior agreements between Parties to this Omnibus Agreement are inconsistent with this Agreement, all prior agreements for Emergency Assistance between the Agencies hereto are hereby superseded.

 Article XIX - GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY.

 This Agreement is subject to laws, rules regulations, orders, and other requirements, now or hereafter in effect, of all governmental authorities having jurisdiction over the emergencies covered by this Omnibus Agreement, the Agencies or either of them.

 Article XX - NO DEDICATION OF FACILITIES.

 No undertaking by one Agency to the other Agency under any provision of this Omnibus Agreement shall constitute a dedication of the water and/or wastewater system of such Agency, or any portion thereof, to the public or to the other Agency. Nothing in this Omnibus Agreement shall be construed to give an Agency any right of ownership, possession, use or control of the water and/or waste water system of the other Agency.

 Article XXI - NO PARTNERSHIP.

 This Omnibus Agreement shall not be interpreted or construed to create an association, joint venture or partnership among the Agencies or to impose any partnership obligation or liability upon any Agency. Further, no Agency shall have any undertaking for or on behalf of, or to act as or be an agent or representative of, or to otherwise bind any other Agency.

 Article XXII - NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARY.

 Nothing in this Omnibus Agreement shall be construed to create any rights in or duties to any Third Party, nor any liability to or standard of care with reference to any Third Party. This Agreement shall not confer any right, or remedy upon any person other than the Agencies. This Omnibus Agreement shall not release or discharge any obligation or liability of any Third Party to any Agency.

 Article XXIII - ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

 This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and supersedes any and all prior agreements of the Parties, with respect to the subject matters hereof.

 Article XXIV- SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.

 This Omnibus Agreement is not transferable or assignable, in whole or in part, and any Agency may terminate its participation in this Omnibus Agreement subject to Article V.

 Article XXV - GOVERNING LAW.

 This Omnibus Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State in which the Lender maintains its principal place of business.

 Article XXVI - VENUE.

 Any action which may arise out of this Omnibus Agreement shall be Any notice, demand, information, report, or item otherwise

 KING COUNTY Deputy Prosecuting Attorney

 Borrower retains full liability to the Lender for any claims brought against the Lender as described in other provisions of this agreement.

 Article XXVIII - WAIVER OF RIGHTS.

 Any waiver at any time by any Agency of its rights with respect to a default under this Omnibus Agreement, or with respect to any other matter arising in connection with this Agreement, shall not constitute or be deemed a waiver with respect to any subsequent default or other matter arising in connection with this Agreement. Any delay short of the statutory period of limitations, in asserting or enforcing any right, shall not constitute or be deemed a waiver.

 Article XXIX - INVALID PROVISION.

 The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions hereof, and this Omnibus Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provisions were omitted.

 Article XXX - NOTICES.

 Any notice, demand, information, report, or item otherwise Any notice, demand, information, report, or item otherwise

 KING COUNTY Deputy Prosecuting Attorney

SIGNATURE PAGE

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Agency hereto has caused this Omnibus Agreement for Emergency Assistance to be executed by duly authorized representatives as of the date of their signatures.

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 CITY OF BELLEVUE

 CITY OF TACOMA

 Ray E. Corpuz, Jr., City Manager

 Peter Luttropp, Director Finance Department

 William L. Pugh, Director Public Works Department

 Rick Rosenbladt, City Clerk Assistant City Attorney

 Andrew Michels, Risk Manager

 KING COUNTY Deputy Prosecuting Attorney

```
