

********

**Council Bill Number: 112253**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119096**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to health and safety, land use and environmental protection to comply with Washington State Department of Ecology amendments to the State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) Rules, Chapter 197-11 WAC, by amending, repealing and adding the following Sections to the Seattle Municipal Code: amending Sections 10.52.040, 23.12.105, 23.53.020, 23.76.004, 23.76.006, 23.76.012, 23.76.020, 23.76.022, 23.76.036, 23.76.052, 23.84.010, 25.05.055, 25.05.060, 25.05.070, 25.05.300, 25.05.305, 25.05.310, 25.05.315, 25.05.330, 25.05.340, 25.05.390, 25.05.408, 25.05.502, 25.05.508, 25.05.535, 25.05.600, 25.05.660, 25.05.675, 25.05.680, 25.05.702, 25.05.728, 25.05.747, 25.05.790, 25.05.800, 25.05.890, 25.05.900, 25.05.908, 25.05.912, 25.05.938, 25.05.948, 25.05.960, and 25.05.970; repealing Section 25.05.748; and adding Sections 25.05.164, 25.05.168, 25.05.172, 25.05.210, 25.05.250, 25.05.355, 25.05.721, 25.05.751, and 25.05.775.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 3, 1998
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Licata)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 11, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 10, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 20, 1998
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEPA, GMA, DEPARTMENT-OF-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-PERMITS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 114355, 117929, 118409, 118672, 118012, 114057, 117430, 118414, 118181, 116254, 118794

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to health and safety, land use and environmental protection to comply with Washington State Department of Ecology amendments to the State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) Rules, Chapter 197-11 WAC, by amending, repealing and adding the following Sections to the Seattle Municipal Code: amending Sections 10.52.040, 23.12.105, 23.53.020, 23.76.004, 23.76.006, 23.76.012, 23.76.020, 23.76.022, 23.76.036, 23.76.052, 23.84.010, 25.05.055, 25.05.060, 25.05.070, 25.05.300, 25.05.305, 25.05.310, 25.05.315, 25.05.330, 25.05.340, 25.05.390, 25.05.408, 25.05.502, 25.05.508, 25.05.535, 25.05.600, 25.05.660, 25.05.675, 25.05.680, 25.05.702, 25.05.728, 25.05.747, 25.05.790, 25.05.800, 25.05.890, 25.05.900, 25.05.908, 25.05.912, 25.05.938, 25.05.948, 25.05.960, and 25.05.970; repealing Section 25.05.748; and adding Sections 25.05.164, 25.05.168, 25.05.172, 25.05.210, 25.05.250, 25.05.355, 25.05.721, 25.05.751, and 25.05.775.

 WHEREAS, the Washington State Department of Ecology adopted revisions to the State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) Rules, Chapter 197-11 WAC, with an effective date of November 10, 1997; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle SEPA Ordinance must be amended to incorporate required provisions of the State SEPA Rules and the City Council chooses to adopt certain optional provisions; and

 WHEREAS, these are procedural amendments to the City of Seattle SEPA Ordinance that do not change the effect of the City's Overview Policy;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection E of Section 10.52.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 114355, is amended as follows:

 10.52.040 Enforcement.

 E. In identifying violations of this Chapter and in specifying corrective action necessary to comply with this chapter, the Director shall take appropriate measures to ensure that environmental hazards and unsafe conditions are not created in environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas and in property maintained in a wholly undeveloped and unimproved state.

 Section 2. Policy 1 and Policy 3B of Section 23.12.105 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 117929, are amended as follows:

 23.12.105 Open space policies.

 Policy 1: Framework Policies

 The goal of these open space policies shall be to maintain, improve and protect the existing open space system, so that the future generations can appreciate and enjoy the city's outstanding natural features -- its lakes, shorelines, streams and ravines, wooded hillsides, views, trees and other natural vegetation. Seattle's open space system shall also be used to provide light and air, buffer residential areas from incompatible uses, and protect environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas. The system shall be maintained to: 1) promote a visually pleasing, high quality, environment for workers, residents and visitors; 2) reinforce desired land use patterns; 3) strengthen Seattle's neighborhoods; and 4) provide links among Seattle's diverse parts. These purposes supplement and complement the important recreational functions provided by our established system of park and recreation facilities.

 Policy 3B: Open Space Plan for Leschi

 An open space plan for Leschi shall be developed to preserve and enhance the unique wooded character of the Leschi neighborhood, a natural resource in the midst of a developed urban area. The plan shall encourage maintenance of the area's natural landscaped character, protection of steep slopes and other environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas, and enhancement of the area's existing open space system. The plan shall also consider use of a variety of open space tools and strategies to meet the intent of this policy, such as public improvements of public lands and rights-of-way, or a public involvement program to maintain and enhance the neighborhood's urban forest.

 Section 3. Subsection E of Section 23.53.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 118409, is amended as follows:

 23.53.020 Improvement requirements for existing streets in industrial

 E. Exceptions.

 1. Streets With Existing Curbs.

 a. Streets With Right-of-way Greater Than or Equal to the Minimum Right-of-way Width. When a street with existing curbs abuts a lot, and improvements would be required by subsections B or D of this section, and the existing right-of-way is greater than or equal to the minimum width established in subsection A of this section, but the roadway width is less than the minimum established in the Street Improvement Manual, the following requirements shall be met:

 (1) All structures on the lot shall be designed to accommodate the grade of the future street improvements.

 (2) A no-protest agreement to future street improvements shall be required, as authorized by RCW Chapter 35.43. The agreement shall be recorded with the title to the property with the King County Department of Records and Elections.

 (3) If there is no sidewalk, a sidewalk shall be constructed, except when the following projects are proposed:

 i. Remodeling and use changes within existing structures;

 ii. Additions to existing structures which are exempt from environmental review.

 b. Streets With Less Than the Minimum Right-of-way Width. When a street with existing curbs abuts a lot and the existing right-of- way is less than the minimum width established in subsection A6 of this section, the following requirements shall be met:

 (1) Setback Requirement. A setback equal to half the difference between the current right-of-way width and the minimum right-of- way width established in subsection A6 of this section shall be required; provided, however, that if a setback has been provided under this provision, other lots on the block shall provide the same setback. The area of the setback may be used to meet any development standards, except that required parking may not be located in the setback. Underground structures which would not prevent the future widening and improvements of the right-of-way may be permitted in the required setback by the Director of Construction and Land Use after consulting with the Director of Transportation.

 (2) Grading Requirement. When a setback is required, all structures on the lot shall be designed to accommodate the grade of the future street, according to the Street Improvement Manual.

 (3) A no-protest agreement to future street improvements shall be required, as authorized by RCW Chapter 35.43. The agreement shall be recorded with the title to the property with the King County Department of Records and Elections.

 2. Projects With Reduced Improvement Requirements. The following types of projects are exempt from all dedication and improvement requirements of subsections B, C and D of this section, but shall meet the setback, grading and no-protest requirements of subsection E1b if the street right-of-way abutting the lot has less than the minimum right-of-way width established in subsection A of this section or does not meet the grade of future street improvements.

 a. Structures with fewer than ten (10) artist's studio dwellings;

 b. The following uses when they are smaller than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet of gross floor area: fast-food restaurants; major and minor vehicle repair uses; and multipurpose convenience stores;

 c. Nonresidential structures which have less than four thousand (4,000) square feet of gross floor area and which do not contain uses listed in subsection D2b of this section which are larger than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet;

 d. Structures containing a mix of artist's studio dwellings and nonresidential uses, if there are fewer than ten (10) artist's studio dwellings, and the square footage of nonresidential use is less than specified in subsections D2b and D2c of this section;

 e. Remodeling and use changes within existing structures;

 f. Additions to existing structures which are exempt from environmental review; and

 g. Expansions of a surface parking area or open storage area of less than twenty (20) percent of parking area or storage area or number of parking spaces.

 3. Exceptions From Required Street Improvement Requirements. The Director may waive or modify the requirements for paving, dedication, setbacks, grading, no-protest agreements, landscaping and sidewalk and pedestrian walkway installation when it is determined that one (1) or more of the following conditions are met:

 a. Location in an environmentally ~~sensitive~~ critical area, disruption of existing drainage patterns, or removal of natural features such as significant trees makes widening and/or improving the right-of-way impractical or undesirable.

 b. The existence of a bridge, viaduct or structure such as a substantial retaining wall makes widening the right-of-way impractical or undesirable.

 c. Widening the right-of-way and/or improving the street would adversely affect the character of the street, as it is defined in an adopted neighborhood plan or adopted City plan for street parks, boulevards, or other special right-of-way, or would otherwise conflict with the stated goals of such a plan.

 d. Widening and/or improving the right-of-way would make building on a lot infeasible by reducing it to dimensions where development standards cannot reasonably be met.

 e. Widening and/or improving the right-of-way would eliminate street access to an existing lot.

 f. One (1) or more substantial principal structures on the same side of the block as the proposed project are located in the area needed for future expansion of the right-of-way and the structure(s)' condition and size make future widening of the remainder of the right-of-way unlikely.

 g. Widening and/or improving the right-of-way is impractical because topography would preclude the use of the street for vehicular access to the lot, for example due to an inability to meet the required twenty (20) percent maximum driveway slope.

 h. Widening and/or improving the right-of-way is not necessary because it is adequate for current and potential pedestrian and vehicular traffic, for example, due to the limited number of lots served by the development or because the development on the street is at zoned capacity.

 Section 4. Exhibit 23.76.004A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118672, is amended as follows:

 Section 5. Subsection C of Section 23.76.006, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is further amended as follows:

 23.76.006 Master Use Permits required.

 C. The following are Type II decisions:

 1. The following procedural environmental decisions for Master Use Permits and for building, demolition, grading and other construction permits are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner and are not subject to further appeal to the City Council (supplemental procedures for environmental review are established in SMC Chapter 25.05, SEPA Policies and Procedures):

 a. Determination of Nonsignificance (DNSs), including mitigated DNSs;

 b. Determination that a final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is adequate; and

 c. Determination of Significance based solely on historic and cultural preservation.

 2. The following decisions, including any integrated decisions to approve, condition or deny based on SEPA policies, are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner (except shoreline decisions and related environmental determinations which are appealable to the Shorelines Hearing Board):

 a. Establishment or change of use for temporary uses more than four (4) weeks not otherwise permitted in the zone or not meeting development standards, except temporary relocation of police and fire stations for twelve (12) months or less;

 b. Short subdivisions;

 c. Variances, provided that variances sought as part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 d. Special exceptions, provided that special exceptions sought as part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 e. Design review;

 f. The following street use decisions:

 (1) Sidewalk cafes,

 (2) Structural building overhangs,

 (3) Areaways;

 g. Administrative conditional uses, provided that administrative conditional uses sought as part of a Type IV decision may be approved by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 h. The following shoreline decisions (supplemental procedures for shoreline decisions are established in Chapter 23.60):

 (1) Shoreline substantial development permits,

 (2) Shoreline variances,

 (3) Shoreline conditional uses;

 i. Northgate General Development Plan;

 j. Major Phased Development~~.~~; and

k. Determination of project consistency with a Planned Action ordinance and EIS.

 Section 6. Subsections A and C of Section 23.76.012, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118672, are further amended as follows:

 23.76.012 Notice of application.

 A. Notice.

1. Type I notification. No notice shall be required for Type I decisions.  2. Type II and III notification.

When a Master Use Permit application requiring a Type II or III decision is submitted, the Director shall provide notice of application and an opportunity for public comment as described in this section. Notice of application for Type II and III decisions shall be provided within fourteen (14) days after a determination of completeness.

a. Other agencies with jurisdiction. To the extent known by the Director, other agencies of local, state or federal governments that may have jurisdiction over some aspect of the project shall be sent notice. ~~No notice or public comment period shall be required for Type I decisions.~~

b. Early Review Determination of Nonsignificance (DNS). In addition to the requirement under A2a above, a copy of the Early Review DNS notice of application and environmental checklist shall also be sent to the following:  (1) State Department of Ecology;

 (2) Affected Tribes;

 (3) Each local agency or political subdivision whose public services would be changed as a result of implementation of the proposal; and

 (4) Anyone requesting a copy of this information.

 C. Contents of Notice.

 1. The City's official notice of application shall be the notice placed in the General Mailed Release, which shall include the following required elements as specified in RCW 36.70B.110;

 a. Date of application, date of notice of completion for the application, and the date of the notice of application;

 b. A description of the proposed project action and a list of the project permits included in the application and, if applicable, a list of any studies requested by the Director;

 c. The identification of other permits not included in the application to the extent known by the Director;

 d. The identification of existing environmental documents that evaluate the proposed project, and the location where the application and any studies can be reviewed;

 e. A statement of the public comment period and the right of any person to comment on the application, request an extension of the comment period, receive notice of and participate in any hearings, and request a copy of the decision once made, and a statement of any administrative appeal rights;

 f. The date, time, place and type of hearing, if applicable and if scheduled at the date of notice of the application;

 g. A statement of the preliminary determination, if one has been made at the time of notice, of those development regulations that will be used for project mitigation and the proposed project's consistency with development regulations; ~~and~~

 h. Any other information determined appropriate by the Director; and  i. The following additional information when the Early Review DNS process is used:

 (1) A statement that the Early Review DNS process is being used and the Director expects to issue a DNS for the proposal;

 (2)

A statement that this is the only opportunity to comment on the environmental impacts of the proposal;  (3) A statement that the proposal may include mitigation measures under applicable codes, and the project review process may incorporate or require mitigation measures regardless of whether an EIS is prepared; and

 (4) A statement that a copy of the subsequent threshold determination for the proposal may be obtained upon request

.{

 2. All other additional forms of notice, including, but not limited to environmental review and land use signs, placards and mailed notice, shall include the following information: the project description, location of the project, date of application, location where the complete application file may be reviewed, and a statement that persons who desire to submit comments on the application or who request notification of the decision may so inform the Director in writing within the comment period specified in subsection D of this section. The Director may, but need not, include other information to the extent known at the time of notice of application. Except for the environmental review sign requirement, each notice shall also include a list of the land use decisions sought. The Director shall specify detailed requirements for environmental review and land use signs.

 Section 7. Subsections B and C of Section 23.76.020, of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, are further amended as follows:

 23.76.020 Director's decisions.

 B. Timing of Decisions Subject to Environmental Review.

 1. If an EIS has been required, the Director's decision shall not be issued until at least seven (7) days after publication of the final EIS, as provided by Chapter 25.05 SEPA Policies and Procedures.

 2. If no EIS is required, the Director's decision shall include issuance of a DNS for the project if not previously issued pursuant to 25.05.310C 2.

 C. Notice of Decisions.

 1. Type I. No notice of decision is required for Type I decisions.

 2. Type II. The Director shall provide notice of all Type II decisions as follows:

 a. A list of all Type II decisions shall be compiled and published in the City official newspaper within seven (7) days of the date the decision is made. This list and the date of its publication shall also be posted in a conspicuous place in the Department and shall be included in the General Mailed Release. Notice shall also be mailed to the applicant and to interested persons who have requested specific notice in a timely manner or who have submitted substantive comments on the proposal, and shall be submitted in a timely manner to at least one (1) community newspaper in the area affected by the proposal.

 b. DNSs shall also be filed with the SEPA Public Information Center.

 c. If the Director's decision includes a mitigated DNS or other DNS requiring a (( ~~fifteen (15)~~ )) fourteen (14) day comment period pursuant to SMC Chapter 25.05, SEPA Policies and Procedures, the notice of decision shall include notice of the comment period. The Director shall distribute copies of the DNS as required by SMC Section 25.05.340.

 d. Any shoreline decision in a Master Use Permit shall be filed with the Department of Ecology according to the requirements contained in WAC 173-27-130. A shoreline decision on limited utility extensions and bulkheads subject to Section 23.60.065 shall be issued within twenty-one (21) days of the last day of the comment period as specified in that Section.

 e. The notice of the Director's decision shall state the nature of the applicant's proposal, a description sufficient to locate the property, and the decision of the Director. The notice shall also state that the decision is subject to appeal and shall describe the appropriate appeal procedure.

 Section 8. Subsection C of Section 23.76.022 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is further amended as follows:

 23.76.022 Administrative appeals.

 C. Hearing Examiner Appeal Procedures.

 1. Consolidated Appeals. All appeals of Type II Master Use Permit decisions other than shoreline decisions shall be considered together in a consolidated hearing before the Hearing Examiner.

 2. Standing. Appeals may be initiated by any person significantly affected by or interested in the permit.

 3. Filing of Appeals.

 a. Appeals shall be filed with the Hearing Examiner by five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the fourteenth calendar day following publication of notice of the decision; provided, that when a ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) day DNS comment period is required pursuant to SMC Chapter 25.05, appeals may be filed until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the twenty-first calendar day following publication of notice of the decision. When the last day of the appeal period so computed is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal or City holiday, the period shall run until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) on the next business day. The appeal shall be in writing and shall clearly identify each component of a Type II Master Use Permit being appealed. The appeal shall be accompanied by payment of the filing fee as set forth in SMC Section 3.02.125 , Hearing Examiner filing fees. Specific objections to the Director's decision and the relief sought shall be stated in the written appeal.

 b. In form and content, the appeal shall conform with the rules of the Hearing Examiner.

 c. The Hearing Examiner shall not accept any request for an interpretation included in the appeal unless it complies with the requirements of Section 23.88.020 C3c.

 4. Pre-hearing Conference. At the Hearing Examiner's initiative, or at the request of any party of record, the Hearing Examiner may have a conference prior to the hearing in order to entertain pre-hearing motions, clarify issues, or consider other relevant matters.

 5. Notice of Hearing. Notice of the hearing on the appeal shall be mailed by the Director at least twenty (20) days prior to the scheduled hearing date to parties of record and those requesting notice. Notice shall also be included in the next General Mailed Release.

 6. Scope of Review. Appeals shall be considered de novo. The Hearing Examiner shall entertain issues cited in the appeal which relate to compliance with the procedures for Type II decisions as required in this chapter, compliance with substantive criteria, determinations of nonsignificance (DNSs), adequacy of an EIS upon which the decision was made, or failure to properly approve, condition or deny a permit based on disclosed adverse environmental impacts and any requests for an interpretation included in the appeal or consolidated appeal pursuant to subsection 23.88.020 C3.

 7. Standard of Review. The Director's decisions made on a Type II Master Use Permit shall be given substantial weight, except for determinations on variances, conditional uses, and special exceptions, which shall be given no deference.

 8. The Record. The record shall be established at the hearing before the Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner shall either close the record after the hearing or leave it open to a specified date for additional testimony, written argument or exhibits.

 9. Postponement or Continuance of Hearing. The Hearing Examiner shall not grant requests for postponement or continuance of an appeal hearing to allow an applicant to proceed with an alternative development proposal under separate application, unless all parties to the appeal agree in writing to such postponement or continuance.

 10. Hearing Examiner's Decision. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a written decision within fifteen (15) days after closing the record. The Hearing Examiner may affirm, reverse, remand or modify the Director's decision. Written findings and conclusions supporting the Hearing Examiner's decision shall be made. The Director and all parties of record shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the Hearing Examiner's decision.

 11. Notice of Hearing Examiner Decision. The Hearing Examiner's decision shall be mailed by the Hearing Examiner on the day the decision is issued to the parties of record and to all those requesting notice. If environmental issues were raised in the appeal, the decision shall also be filed with the SEPA Public Information Center. The decision shall contain information regarding judicial review. To the extent such information is available to the Hearing Examiner, the decision shall contain the name and address of the owner of the property at issue, of the applicant, and of each person who filed an appeal with the Hearing Examiner, unless such person abandoned the appeal or such person's claims were dismissed before the hearing.

 12. Appeal of Hearing Examiner's Decision. The Hearing Examiner's decision shall be final and conclusive unless the Hearing Examiner retains jurisdiction or the decision is reversed or remanded on judicial appeal. Any judicial review must be commenced within twenty-one (21) days of issuance of the Hearing Examiner's decision, as provided by RCW 36.70C.040.

 Section 9. Subsection B of Section 23.76.036 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118672, is further amended as follows:

 23.76.036 Council decisions required.

 B. Council action shall be required for the following Type V land use decisions:

 1. City-initiated amendments to the Official Land Use Map to implement new land use policies;

 2. Amendments to the text of SMC Title 23, Land Use Code;

 3. Concept approval for the location or expansion of City facilities requiring Council land use approval by SMC Title 23, Land Use Code;

 4. Major Institution designations and revocations of Major Institution designations; ~~and~~

 5. Waive or modify development standards for City facilities; and  6. Planned Action Ordinances

.

 Section 10. Subsections C and D of Section 23.76.052 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118672, are further amended as follows:

 23.76.052 Hearing Examiner open record predecision hearing and

 recommendation

 C. Notice.

 1. The Director shall give notice of the Hearing Examiner's hearing, the Director's environmental determination, and of the availability of the Director's report at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing by:

 a. General Mailed Release;

 b. Publication in the City official newspaper;

 c. Submission of the General Mailed Release to at least one (1) community newspaper in the area affected by the proposal;

 d. At least four (4) placards posted at places visible to the public, including street intersections, within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the project. For hearings on Major Institution Master Plans, a minimum of ten (10) placards shall be posted;

 e. Mailed notice; and

 f. Posting in the Department.

 2. DNSs shall also be filed with the SEPA Public Information Center. If the Director's decision includes a mitigated DNS or other DNS requiring a ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) day comment period pursuant to SMC Section 25.05.340 , the notice of DNS shall include notice of the comment period. The Director shall distribute copies of such DNSs as required by SMC Section 25.05.340.

 3. The notice shall state the project description, type of land use decision under consideration, a description sufficient to locate the subject property, where the complete application file may be reviewed, and the Director's recommendation and environmental determination. The notice shall also state that the environmental determination is subject to appeal and shall describe the appeal procedure.

 D. Appeal of Environmental Determination. Any person significantly interested in or affected by the Type IV decision under consideration may appeal the Director's procedural environmental determination subject to the following provisions:

 1. Filing of Appeals. Appeals shall be submitted in writing to the Hearing Examiner by five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the fourteenth calendar day following publication of notice of the determination, provided that when a ~~fifteen (15)~~ fourteen (14) day DNS comment period is required pursuant to SMC Section 5.05.340, appeals may be filed until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the twenty-first calendar day following publication of the notice of the determination. When the last day of the appeal period so computed is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal or City holiday, the period shall run until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) on the next business day. The appeal shall be in writing and shall state specific objections to the environmental determination and the relief sought. The appeal shall be accompanied by payment of the filing fee as set forth in the Seattle Municipal Code Section 3.02.125 Hearing Examiner filing fees. In form and content, the appeal shall conform with the rules of the Hearing Examiner.

 2. Pre-hearing Conference. At the Hearing Examiner's initiative, or at the request of any party of record, the Hearing Examiner may have a conference prior to the hearing in order to entertain and act on motions, clarify issues, or consider other relevant matters.

 3. Notice of Appeal. Notice of filing of the appeal and of the date of the consolidated hearing on the appeal and the Type IV land use decision recommendation shall be promptly mailed by the Hearing Examiner to parties of record and those requesting notice.

 4. Scope of Review. Appeals shall be considered de novo. The Hearing Examiner shall entertain only those issues cited in the written appeal which relate to compliance with the procedures for Type IV decisions as required in this chapter and the adequacy of the environmental documentation upon which the determination was made.

 5. Standard of Review. The Director's environmental determination shall be given substantial weight.

 Section 11. Section 23.84.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended by repealing the definition for "environmentally sensitive areas."

 Section 12. Subsection B of Section 25.05.055 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.055 Timing of the SEPA process.

 B. Timing of Review of Proposals. The lead agency shall prepare its threshold determination and environmental impact statement (EIS), if required, at the earliest possible point in the planning and decision making process, when the principal features of a proposal and its environmental impacts can be reasonably identified.

 1. A proposal exists when an agency is presented with an application or has a goal and is actively preparing to make a decision on one (1) or more alternative means of accomplishing that goal and the environmental effects can be meaningfully evaluated.

 a. The fact that proposals may require future agency approvals or environmental review shall not preclude current consideration, as long as proposed future activities are specific enough to allow some evaluation of their probable environmental impacts.

 b. Preliminary steps or decisions are sometimes needed before an action is sufficiently definite to allow meaningful environmental analysis.

 2. A major purpose of the environmental review process is to provide environmental information to governmental decisionmakers for consideration prior to making their decision on any action. The actual decision to proceed with any actions may involve a series of individual approvals or decisions. Agencies may also organize environmental review in phases, as specified in Section 25.05.060E.

 3. Appropriate consideration of environmental information shall be completed before an agency commits to a particular course of action (Section 25.05.070).

4. The City of Seattle, planning under the State Growth Management Act (GMA), is subject to additional timing requirements (see Section 25.05.310).

 Section 13. Subsection E of Section 25.05.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.060 Content of environmental review.

 E. Phased Review.

 1. Lead agencies shall determine the appropriate scope and level of detail of environmental review to coincide with meaningful points in their planning and decisionmaking processes. (See Section 25.05.055 on timing of environmental review.)

 2. Environmental review may be phased. If used, phased review assists agencies and the public to focus on issues that are ready for decision and exclude from consideration issues already decided or not yet ready. Broader environmental documents may be followed by narrower documents, for example, that incorporate prior general discussion by reference and concentrate solely on the issues to that phase of proposal.

 3. Phased review is appropriate when:

 a. The sequence is from a nonproject document to a document of narrower scope such as a site specific analysis (see, for example, Section 25.05.443); or

 b. The sequence is from an environmental document on a specific proposal at an early stage (such as need and site selection) to a subsequent environmental document at a later stage (such as sensitive design impacts).

 4. Phased review is not appropriate when:

 a. The sequence is from a narrow project document to a broad policy document;

 b. It would merely divide a larger system into exempted fragments or avoid discussion of cumulative impacts; or

 c. It would segment and avoid present consideration of proposals and their impacts that are required to be evaluated in a single environmental document under Section 25.05.060~~D~~C2 or Section 25.05.305 A; however, the level of detail and type of environmental review may vary with the nature and timing of proposals and their component parts.

 5. When a lead agency knows it is using phased review, it shall so state in its environmental document.

 6. Agencies shall use the environmental checklist, scoping process, nonproject EIS's, incorporation by reference, adoption, and supplemental EIS's, and addenda, as appropriate, to avoid duplication and excess paperwork.

 7. Where proposals are related to a large existing or planned network, such as highways, streets, pipelines, or utility lines or systems, the lead agency may analyze in detail the overall network as the present proposal or may select some of the future elements for present detailed consideration. Any phased review shall be logical in relation to the design of the overall system or network, and shall be consistent with this Section and Section 25.05.070.

 Section 14. Subsection B of Section 25.05.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.070 Limitations on actions during SEPA process.

 B. In addition, certain DNS's require a ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) day period prior to agency action (Section 25.05.340B), and FEIS's require a seven (7) day period prior to agency action (Section 25.05.460E).

 Section 15. A new Section 25.05.164 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 25.05.164 Planned Actions -- Definitions and criteria.

 Under the authority of RCW 43.21C.031, the City Council may adopt ordinances designating planned actions. A planned action means one or more types of project action that:

 A. Are designated planned actions by an ordinance adopted by the City of Seattle;

 B. Have had the significant environmental impacts adequately addressed in an EIS prepared in conjunction with:

 1. A subarea or neighborhood plan adopted under Chapter 36.70A RCW; or

 2. A master planned development or phased project;

 C. Are subsequent or implementing projects for the proposals listed in subsection B of this Section;

 D. Are located within an urban growth area, as defined in RCW 36.70A.030;

 E. Are not essential public facilities, as defined in RCW 36.70A.200; and

 F. Are consistent with the Seattle Comprehensive Plan adopted under Chapter 36.70A RCW.

 Section 16. A new Section 25.05.168 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 25.05.168 Ordinances designating planned actions - Procedures for adoption.

 A. City Council shall adopt planned actions by ordinance.

 B. The ordinance shall include the following information:

 1. A description of the type(s) of project action being designated as a planned action;

 2. A description of how the planned action meets the criteria in Section 25.05.164 (including specific reference to the EIS that addresses any significant environmental impacts of the planned action);

 3. A finding that the environmental impacts of the planned action have been identified and adequately addressed in the EIS, subject to project review under Section 25.05.172; and

 4. Identification of any specific mitigation measures other than applicable development regulations that must be applied to a project for it to qualify as the planned action.

 C. If the City has not limited the planned action to a specific time period identified in the EIS, it may do so in the ordinance designating the planned action.

 D. Each Planned Action ordinance may include provisions to provide for a periodic review and update procedure for the planned action to monitor implementation and consider changes as warranted.

 Section 17. A new Section 25.05.172 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 25.05.172 Planned actions -- Project review.

 A. Planned action project review shall include:

 1. Verification that the project meets the description in, and will implement any applicable conditions or mitigation measures identified in, the designating ordinance; and

 2. Verification that the probable significant adverse environmental impacts of the project have been adequately addressed in the EIS prepared under Section 25.05.164B through review of an environmental checklist or other project review form as specified in Section 25.05.315, filed with the project application.

 B. 1. If the project meets the requirements of subsection A of this Section, the project shall qualify as the planned action designated by the City, and a project threshold determination or EIS is not required. Nothing in this Section limits the City as lead agency from using this Chapter or other applicable laws to place conditions on the project in order to mitigate nonsignificant impacts through the normal local project review and permitting process.

 2. If the project does not meet the requirements of subsection A of this Section, the project is not a planned action and a threshold determination is required. In conducting the additional environmental review under this Chapter, the lead agency may use information in existing environmental documents, including the EIS used to designate the planned action (refer to Section 25.05.330B1 and Sections 25.05.600 through 25.05.635). If an EIS or SEIS is prepared on the proposed project, its scope is limited to those probable significant adverse environmental impacts that were not adequately addressed in the EIS used to designate the planned action.

 C. Public notice for projects that qualify as planned actions shall be based on the notice requirements of the underlying permit. If notice is otherwise required for the underlying permit, the notice shall state that the project has qualified as a planned action.

 Section 18. A new Section 25.05.210 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 25.05.210 SEPA/GMA integration.

 (See WAC 197-11-210 through 197-11-235)

 Section 19. A new Section 25.05.250 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 25.05.250 SEPA/Model Toxics Control Act integration.

 (See WAC 197-11-250 through 197-11-268)

 Section 20. Subsections C and D are amended and subsection E is added to Section 25.05.300 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, are amended as follows:

 25.05.300 Purpose of this subchapter.

 This subchapter provides rules for:

 C. Providing a way to review and mitigate nonexempt proposals through the threshold determination; ~~and~~

 D. Integrating the environmental analysis required by SEPA into early planning to ensure appropriate consideration of SEPA's policies and to eliminate duplication and delay~~.~~; and  E. Integrating the environmental analysis required by SEPA into the project review process.

 Section 21. Subsection A of Section 25.05.305 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.305 Categorical exemptions.

 A. If a proposal fits within any of the provisions in Subchapter IX of these rules, the proposal shall be categorically exempt from threshold determination requirements (Section 25.05.720) except as follows:

 1. The proposal is not exempt under Section 25.05.908, environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas;

 2. The proposal is a segment of a proposal that includes:

 a. A series of actions, physically or functionally related to each other, some of which are categorically exempt and some of which are not, or

 b. A series of exempt actions that are physically or functionally related to each other, and that together may have a probable significant adverse environmental impact in the judgment of an agency with jurisdiction. If so, that agency shall be the lead agency, unless the agencies with jurisdiction agree that another agency should be the lead agency. Agencies may petition the Department of Ecology to resolve disputes (Section 25.05.946), or may petition the Mayor to resolve disputes between City agencies (Section 25.05.910).

 For such proposals, the agency or applicant may proceed with the exempt aspects of the proposals, prior to conducting environmental review, if the requirements of Section 25.05.070 are met.

 Section 22. Section 25.05.310 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 25.05.310 Threshold determination required.

 A. A threshold determination is required for any proposal which meets the definition of action and is not categorically exempt , subject to the limitations in Section 25.05.600C concerning proposals for which a threshold determination has already been issued. A threshold determination is not required for a planned action (refer to Sections 25.05.164 through 25.05.172).

 B. The responsible official of the lead agency shall make the threshold determination, which shall be made as close as possible to the time an agency has developed or is presented with a proposal (Section 25.05.784). If the lead agency is the City, the timing requirements in subsection C of this Section must be met.

 C. ~~In most cases, the time to complete a threshold determination should not exceed fifteen (15) days. Threshold determinations on complex proposals, those where additional information is needed, and/or those accompanied by an inaccurate checklist may require additional time. Upon request by an applicant, the responsible official shall select a date for making the threshold determination and notify the applicant of such date in writing.~~When the City is lead agency for a project, the following timing requirements apply:  1. If a DS is made concurrent with the notice of application, the DS and scoping notice shall be combined with the notice of application (RCW 36.70B.110). Nothing in this subsection prevents the DS/scoping notice from being issued before the notice of application. If sufficient information is not available to make a threshold determination when the notice of application is issued, the DS may be issued later in the review process.

 2. Nothing in this Section prevents a lead agency, when it is a project proponent or is funding a project, from conducting its review under SEPA or from allowing appeals of procedural determinations prior to submitting a project permit application.

 3. If an open record predecision hearing is required, the threshold determination shall be issued at least fifteen (15) days before the open record predecision hearing (RCW 36.70B.110 (6)(b)).

 4. The Early Review DNS process in Section 25.05.355 may be used to indicate on the notice of application that the lead agency is likely to issue a DNS. If this process is used, a separate comment period on the DNS shall not be required (refer to Section 25.05.355D).

 Section 23. Section 25.05.315 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.315 Environmental checklist.

 A. Agencies~~:~~1. S

shall use the environmental checklist substantially in the form found in Section 25.05.960 to assist in making threshold determinations for proposals, except for public proposals on which the lead agency has decided to prepare its own EIS, ~~or~~ proposals on which the lead agency and applicant agree an EIS will be prepared; or projects which are proposed as planned actions (see subsection B of this Section) .

B. For projects submitted as planned actions under Section 25.05.164, the City shall use the existing environmental checklist or modify the environmental checklist form to fulfill the purposes outlined in Section 25.05.172A, notwithstanding the requirements of WAC 197-11-906(4).

~~2~~C. Agencies ~~M~~may use an environmental checklist whenever it would assist in their planning and decision making, but shall ~~not~~only require an applicant to prepare a checklist under SEPA~~, unless~~if a checklist is required by subsection A~~1~~ of this Section.

~~B~~D. The lead agency shall prepare the checklist or require an applicant to prepare the checklist.

~~C~~E. The items in the environmental checklist are not weighted. The mention of one (1) or many adverse environmental impacts does not necessarily mean that the impacts are significant. Conversely, a probable significant adverse impact on the environment may result in the need for an EIS.

 Section 24. Subsection A and C of Section 25.05.330 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, are amended as follows:

 25.05.330 Threshold determination process.

 An EIS is required for proposals for legislation and other major actions significantly affecting the quality of the environment. The lead agency decides whether an EIS is required in the threshold determination process, as described below.

 A. In making a threshold determination, the responsible official shall:

 1. Review the environmental checklist, if used:

 a. Independently evaluating the responses of any applicant and indicating the result of its evaluation in the DS, in the DNS, or on the checklist, and

 b. Conducting its initial review of the environmental checklist and any supporting documents without requiring additional information from the applicant;

 2. Determine if the proposal is likely to have a probable significant adverse environmental impact, based on the proposed action, the information in the checklist (Section 25.05.960), and any additional information furnished under Section 25.05.335 (additional information) and Section 25.05.350 (mitigated DNS); and

 3. Consider mitigation measures which an agency or the applicant will implement as part of the proposal, including any mitigation measures required by the City's development regulations or other existing environmental rules or laws.

 C. In determining an impact's significance (Section 25.05.794), the responsible official shall take into account that:

 1. The same proposal may have a significant adverse impact in one location but not in another location;

 2. The absolute quantitative effects of a proposal are also important, and may result in a significant adverse impact regardless of the nature of the existing environment;

 3. Several marginal impacts when considered together may result in a significant adverse impact;

 4. For some proposals, it may be impossible to forecast the environmental impacts with precision, often because some variables cannot be predicted or values cannot be quantified;

 5. A proposal may to a significant degree:

 a. Adversely affect environmentally ~~sensitive~~ critical or special areas, such as loss or destruction of historic, scientific, and cultural resources, parks, prime farmlands, wetlands, wild and scenic rivers, or wilderness,

 b. Adversely affect endangered or threatened species or their habitat,

 c. Conflict with local, state, or federal laws or requirements for the protection of the environment, and

 d. Establish a precedent for future actions with significant effects, involves unique and unknown risks to the environment, or may affect public health or safety.

 Section 25. Subsection B of Section 25.05.340 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.340 Determination of nonsignificance (DNS).

 B. When a DNS is issued for any of the proposals listed in subsection B1 of this Section, the requirements in this subsection shall be met. The requirements of this subsection do not apply to a DNS issued when the Early Review DNS process in Section 25.05.355 is used.

 1. An agency shall not act upon a proposal for ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) days after the date of issuance of a DNS if the proposal involves:

 a. Another agency with jurisdiction;

 b. Demolition of any structure or facility not exempted by Section 25.05.800 B6 (exempt construction other than historic) or Section 25.05.880 (emergency);

 c. Issuance of clearing or grading permits not exempted in Subchapter IX of these rules; ~~or~~

 d. A DNS under Section 25.05.350B, Section 25.05.350C (mitigated DNS) or Section 25.05.360 (withdrawn DS); or  e. A Growth Management Act (GMA) action

.

 2. The responsible official shall send the DNS and environmental checklist to agencies with jurisdiction, the Department of Ecology, and affected tribes, the SEPA Public Information Center, and each local agency or political subdivision whose public services would be changed as a result of implementation of the proposal, and shall give notice under Section 25.05.510.

 3. Any person, affected tribe, or agency may submit comments to the lead agency within ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) days of the date of issuance of the DNS.

 4. The date of issue for the DNS is the date the DNS is sent to the Department of Ecology and agencies with jurisdiction and the SEPA Public Information Center and is made publicly available.

 5. An agency with jurisdiction may assume lead agency status only within this ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) day period (Section 25.05.948).

 6. The responsible official shall reconsider the DNS based on timely comments and may retain or modify the DNS or, if the responsible official determines that significant adverse impacts are likely, withdraw the DNS or supporting documents. When a DNS is modified, the lead agency shall send the modified DNS to agencies with jurisdiction.

 Section 26. A new Section 25.05.355 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 25.05.355 Early Review DNS (Optional DNS) process.

 A. Early Review DNS process. If the City is lead agency for a proposal and has a reasonable basis for determining significant adverse environmental impacts are unlikely, the notice of application comment period may be used to obtain comments on both the notice of application and the likely threshold determination for the proposal.

 B. If the lead agency uses the Early Review DNS process specified in subsection A of this Section, the lead agency shall:

 1. State on the first page of the notice of application that it expects to issue a DNS for the proposal, and that:

 a. The Early Review DNS process is being used;

 b. This will be the only opportunity to comment on the environmental impacts of the proposal;

 c. The proposal may include mitigation measures under applicable codes, and the project review process may incorporate or require mitigation measures regardless of whether an EIS is prepared; and

 d. A copy of the subsequent threshold determination for the specific proposal may be obtained upon request.

 2. List in the notice of application the conditions being considered to mitigate environmental impacts, if a mitigated DNS is expected;

 3. Comply with the requirements for a notice of application and public notice in Section 23.76.012 of the Land Use Code; and

 4. Send the notice of application and environmental checklist to:

 a. Agencies with jurisdiction, the Department of Ecology, affected tribes, and each local agency or political subdivision whose public services would be changed as a result of implementation of the proposal; and

 b. Anyone requesting a copy of the environmental checklist for the specific proposal.

 C. If the lead agency indicates on the notice of application that a DNS is likely, an agency with jurisdiction may assume lead agency status during the comment period on the notice of application (Section 25.05.948).

 D. The responsible official shall consider timely comments on the notice of application and either :

 1. Issue a DNS or mitigated DNS with no comment period using the procedures in subsection E of this Section; or

 2. Issue a DS; or

 3. Require additional information or studies prior to making a threshold determination.

 E. If a DNS or mitigated DNS is issued under subsection D1 of this Section, the lead agency shall send a copy of the DNS or mitigated DNS to the Department of Ecology, affected tribes, agencies with jurisdiction, those who commented, and anyone requesting a copy. A copy of the environmental checklist need not be recirculated.

 Section 27. Subsection B of Section 25.05.390 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.390 Effect of threshold determination.

 B. The responsible official's threshold determination:

 1. For proposals listed in Section 25.05.340B, shall not be final until ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) days after issuance;

 2. Shall not apply if another agency with jurisdiction assumes lead agency status under Section 25.05.948;

 3. Shall not apply when withdrawn by the responsible official under Section 25.05.340 or Section 25.05.360;

 4. Shall not apply when reversed on appeal.

 Section 28. Subsection B is amended and a new subsection H is added to Section 25.05.408 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, as follows:

 25.05.408 Scoping.

 B. To ensure that every EIS is concise and addresses the significant environmental issues, the lead agency shall:

 1. Invite agency, affected tribes, and public comment on the DS (Section 25.05.360 (DS/scoping)). a.

If the agency requires written comments, agencies, affected tribes and the public shall be allowed twenty-one (21) days from the date of issuance of the DS in which to comment, unless expanded scoping is used. ~~The date of issuance for a DS is the date it is sent to the Department of Ecology and other agencies with jurisdiction, and is publicly available;~~

b. If the City issues the scoping notice with the notice of application under RCW 36.70B.110, the comment period shall be fourteen (14) days;

 2. Identify reasonable alternatives and probable significant adverse environmental impacts;

 3. Eliminate from detailed study those impacts that are not significant; and

 4. Work with other agencies to identify and integrate environmental studies required for other government approvals with the EIS, where feasible.

H. The date of issuance for a DS is the date it is sent to the Department of Ecology and other agencies with jurisdiction, and is publicly available.

 Section 29. Subsections C and H of Section 25.05.502 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.502 Inviting comment.

 C. Threshold Determinations.

 1. Agencies shall send DNS's to other agencies with jurisdiction, if any, as required by Sections 25.05.340B and 25.05.355.

 2. For DNS's issued under Section 25.05.340B, agencies shall provide public notice under Section 25.05.510 and receive comments on the DNS for ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) days.

 H. Supplements.

 1. Notice for and circulation of draft and final SEIS's shall be done in the same manner as other draft and final EIS's.

 2. When a DNS is issued after a DS has been withdrawn (Section 25.05.360D), agencies shall give notice under Section 25.05.510 and receive comments for ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) days.

 3. An addendum need not be circulated unless required under Section 25.05.625.

 Section 30. Section 25.05.508 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.508 SEPA Register.

 A. The Department of Ecology (DOE) ~~is required by WAC 197- 11-508 to publish and mail each week~~shall prepare a SEPA Register at least weekly, giving notice of all environmental documents required to be sent to the DOE under these rules, specifically:

 1. DNS's under Section 25.05.340B;

 2. DS's (scoping notices) under Section 25.05.408;

 3. EIS's under Sections 25.05.455, 25.05.460, 25.05.620, and 25.05.630; ~~and~~

 4. Notices of Action under RCW 43.21C.080 and 43.21C.087~~.~~; and

5. Notices of the Early Review DNS process under Section 25.05.355B and E.

 B. All agencies shall submit the environmental documents listed in subsection A of this Section to DOE promptly and in accordance with procedures established by the DOE.

 C. Agencies are encouraged to ~~subscribe~~refer to the SEPA Register for notice of SEPA documents which may affect them.

 D. DOE is authorized by WAC 197-11-508:

 1. To establish the method for distributing the SEPA register, which may include listing on Internet, publishing and mailing to interested persons, or any other method deemed appropriate by DOE;

~~1~~2. To establish a reasonable format for ~~publishing the required notices in~~ the SEPA Register;

~~2~~3. To charge a reasonable fee for the SEPA Register as allowed by law, in at least the amount allowed by Chapter 42.17 RCW, from agencies, members of the public, and interested organizations.

 E. Members of the public, citizen and community groups, and educational institutions are encouraged by WAC 197-11-508 to ~~subscribe and~~ refer to the SEPA Register for notice of SEPA actions which may affect them.

 Section 31. A new subsection H is added to Section 25.05.535 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, to read as follows:

 25.05.535 Public hearings and meetings.

H. Public meetings held by local governments under Chapter 36.70B RCW may be used to meet SEPA public hearing requirements as long as the requirements for public hearings in this Section are met. A public hearing under this Section need not be an open record hearing as defined in RCW 36.70B.020(3).

 Section 32. Subsection C of Section 25.05.600 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.600 When to use existing environmental documents.

 C. ~~Other agencies~~Any agency acting on the same proposal shall use an environmental document unchanged, except in the following cases:

 1. For DNS's, an agency with jurisdiction is dissatisfied with the DNS, in which case it may assume lead agency status (Section 25.05.340B, C and Section 25.05.948).

 2. For DNS's and EIS's, preparation of a new threshold determination or supplemental EIS is required if there are:

 a. Substantial changes to a proposal so that the proposal is likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts (or lack of significant adverse impacts, if a DS is being withdrawn); or

 b. New information indicating a proposal's probable significant adverse environmental impacts. (This includes discovery of misrepresentation or lack of material disclosure.) A new threshold determination or SEIS is not required if probable significant adverse environmental impacts are covered by the range of alternatives and impacts analyzed in the existing environmental documents.

 3. For EIS's, the agency concludes that its written comments on the DEIS warrant additional discussion for purposes of its action than that found in the lead agency's FEIS (in which case the agency may prepare a supplemental EIS at its own expense).

 Section 33. Subsection A of Section 25.05.660 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.660 Substantive authority and mitigation.

 A. Any governmental action on public or private proposals that are not exempt may be conditioned or denied under SEPA to mitigate the environmental impact subject to the following limitations:

 1. Mitigation measures or denials shall be based on policies, plans, rules, or regulations formally designated in Sections 25.05.665, 25.05.670 and 25.05.675 as a basis for the exercise of substantive authority and in effect when the DNS or DEIS is issued. (Compare Section 25.05.350C).

 2. Mitigation measures shall be related to specific, adverse environmental impacts clearly identified in an environmental document on the proposal and shall be stated in writing by the decisionmaker. The decisionmaker shall cite the City's SEPA policy that is the basis of any condition or denial under this Chapter (for proposals of applicants). After its decision, each agency shall make available to the public a document that states the decision. The document shall state the mitigation measures, if any, that will be implemented as part of the decision, including any monitoring of environmental impacts. Such a document may be the license itself, or may be combined with other agency documents, or may reference relevant portions of environmental documents.

 3. Mitigation measures shall be reasonable and capable of being accomplished.

 4. Responsibility for implementing mitigation measures may be imposed upon an applicant only to the extent attributable to the identified adverse impacts of its proposal. Voluntary additional mitigation may occur.

 5. Before requiring mitigation measures, agencies shall consider whether local, state, or federal requirements and enforcement would mitigate an identified significant impact.

 6. To deny a proposal under SEPA, an agency must find that:

 a. The proposal would be likely to result in significant adverse environmental impacts identified in a final or supplemental environmental impact statement prepared under this Chapter; and

 b. Reasonable mitigation measures are insufficient to mitigate the identified impact.

7. If, during project review, the City as lead agency determines that the requirements for environmental analysis, protection, and mitigation measures in the City's development regulations, or in other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules, provide adequate analysis of and mitigation for the specific adverse environmental impacts of the project action under RCW 43.21C.240, the City as lead agency shall not impose additional mitigation under this Chapter.

 Section 34. Subsection C of Section 25.05.675 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118414, is amended as follows:

 25.05.675 Specific environmental policies.

 C. Drainage.

 1. Policy Background.

 a. Property development and redevelopment often create increased volumes and rates of stormwater runoff, which may cause property damage, safety hazards, nuisance problems and water quality degradation.

 b. Pollution, mechanical damage, excessive flows, and other conditions in drainage basins will increase the rate of down- cutting and/or the degree of turbidity, siltation, habitat destruction, and other forms of pollution in wetlands, riparian corridors and lakes. They may also reduce low flows or low water levels to a level which endangers aquatic or benthic life within these wetlands, riparian corridors and lakes.

 c. The aesthetic quality and educational value of the water and watercourses, as well as the suitability of waters for contact recreation and wildlife habitat, may be destroyed.

 d. Authority provided through the Grading and Drainage Control Ordinance3 and the Environmentally Critical Areas Ordinance is intended to achieve mitigation of drainage impacts in most cases, although these ordinances may not anticipate or eliminate all impacts.

 2. Policies.

 a. It is the City's policy to protect wetlands, riparian corridors, lakes, drainage basins, wildlife habitat, slopes, and other property from adverse drainage impacts.

 b. The decisionmaker may condition or deny projects to mitigate their adverse drainage impacts consistent with the Overview Policy set forth in SMC Section 25.05.665; provided, that in addition to projects which meet one (1) or more of the threshold criteria set forth in the Overview Policy, the following may be conditioned or denied:

 i. Projects located in environmentally ~~sensitive~~ critical areas and areas tributary to them;

 ii. Projects located in areas where downstream drainage facilities are known to be inadequate; and

 iii. Projects draining into streams identified by the State Department of Fisheries or Wildlife as bearing anadromous fish.

 c. To mitigate adverse drainage impacts associated with the projects identified in the policy set forth in subsection C2 above, projects may be required to provide drainage control measures designed to a higher standard than the design storm specified in the Grading and Drainage Control Ordinance3 and the Environmentally Critical Areas Ordinance.2A Mitigating measures may include, but are not limited to:

 i. Reducing the size or scope of the project;

 ii. Requiring landscaping and/or retention of existing vegetation;

 iii. Requiring additional drainage control or drainage improvements either on or off site; and

 iv. Soil stabilization measures.

 Section 35. Section 25.05.680 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by ordinance 118181, is amended as follows:

 25.05.680 Appeals.

Appeal provisions in SEPA are found in RCW 43.21C.060, 43.21C.075 and 43.21C.080, and WAC 197-11-680. The following provisions attempt to construe and interpret the statutory and administrative rule provisions. In the event a court determines that code provisions are inconsistent with statutory provisions or administrative rule, or with the framework and policy of SEPA, the statute or rule will control. Persons considering either administrative or judicial appeal of any decision which involves SEPA at all are advised to read the statutory and rule sections cited above.

 A. Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions.

 1. For proposals requiring a Master Use Permit under SMC Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for which the Department of Construction and Land Use or a non-City agency is the lead agency, SEPA appeal procedures shall be as provided in Chapter 23.76.

 2. For proposals requiring Master Use Permits or Council Land Use Decisionsfor which a City department other than the Department of Construction and Land Use is lead agency and is a project proponent or is funding a project and where the City department chooses to conduct SEPA review prior to submitting an application for the Master Use Permit or Council Land Use Decision:

 a. The following agency environmental determinations shall be subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner by any interested person as provided in this subsection:

 (1) Determination of Nonsignificance (DNS). ~~On appeal of a DNS, a party may also challenge the preliminary determinations.~~

 (2) Adequacy of the Final EIS as filed in the SEPA Public Information Center.

 b. An appeal shall be commenced by filing of a notice of appeal with the Office of the Hearing Examiner no later than five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) the fourteenth day following the filing of the decision in the SEPA Public Information Center or publication of the decision in the City official newspaper, whichever is later; provided that when a ~~fifteen (15)~~fourteen (14) day DNS comment period is required pursuant to this Chapter, appeals may be filed no later than the twenty-first day following such filing or publication. The appeal notice shall set forth in a clear and concise manner the alleged errors in the decision.  Upon timely notice of appeal the Hearing Examiner shall set a date for hearing and send notice to the parties. Filing fees for appeals to the Hearing Examiner are established in Section 3.02.125.

~~c. The Hearing Examiner shall notify the parties of the receipt of the appeal but shall not set a date for hearing of the appeal until:~~(1) For projects requiring a Master Use Permit, the close of the appeal period following notice of the decision on the Master Use Permit, or the receipt of an appeal of the Master Use Permit decision, whichever is earlier;

 (2) For projects requiring a Type IV Council Land Use Decision: A recommendation is received from the Director at which time the Hearing Examiner shall schedule the hearing on the appeal to be consolidated with the predecision hearing.

 d. In all other respects, the appeals shall be handled in the same manner as appeals related to Master Use Permits, Chapter 23.76.

 B. ~~Appeal to Hearing Examiner of~~Decisions Not Related to Master Use Permits or Council Land Use Decisions.

 1. The following agency decisions on proposals not requiring a Master Use Permit shall be subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner by any interested person as provided in this subsection:

 a. Determination of Nonsignificance. ~~On appeal of a threshold determination, a party may also challenge the preliminary determinations.~~

 b. Adequacy of the final EIS as Filed in the SEPA Public Information Center. Notice of all decisions described in this subsection shall be filed promptly by the responsible official in the City's SEPA Public Information Center.

 2. An appeal shall be commenced by the filing of a notice of appeal with the office of the Hearing Examiner no later than the fifteenth day following the filing of the decision in the SEPA Public Information Center or publication of the decision in the City official newspaper, whichever is later; provided that when a fourteen (14) day DNS comment period is required pursuant to this Chapter, appeals may be filed no later than the twenty-first day following such filing or publication. The appeal notice shall set forth in a clear and concise manner the alleged errors in the decision. Upon timely notice of appeal the Hearing Examiner shall set a date for hearing and send notice to the parties. Filing fees for appeals to the Hearing Examiner are established in Section 3.02.125.

 3. Appeals shall be considered de novo and limited to the issues cited in the notice of appeal. The determination appealed from shall be accorded substantial weight and the burden of establishing the contrary shall be upon the appealing party. The Hearing Examiner shall have authority to affirm or reverse the administrative decisions below, to remand cases to the appropriate department with directions for further proceedings, and to grant other appropriate relief in the circumstances. Within fifteen (15) days after the hearing, the Hearing Examiner shall file and transmit to the parties written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a decision.

 4. The Hearing Examiner is authorized to promulgate rules and procedures to implement the provisions of this Section. The rules shall be promulgated pursuant to Chapter 3.02 of this code.

 5. If the agency has made a decision on a proposed action, the Hearing Examiner shall consolidate any allowed appeals of procedural and substantive determinations under SEPA with any hearing or appeal on the underlying City action. For example, an appeal of the adequacy of an EIS must be consolidated with a~~n~~hearing or appeal on~~f~~ the agency's decision or recommendation on the proposed action, if both ~~appeals~~proceedings are allowed by ordinance.

~~D~~C. Judicial Appeals.

 1. SEPA authorizes judicial appeals of both procedural and substantive compliance with SEPA.

 2. When SEPA applies to a decision, any judicial appeal of that decision potentially involves both those issues pertaining to SEPA (SEPA issues) and those which do not (non-SEPA issues). If there is a time limit established by statute or ordinance for appealing the underlying governmental action, then appeals (or portions thereof) raising SEPA issues must be filed within such time period. If there is no time period for appealing the underlying governmental action, and a notice of action under RCW 43.21C.080 is used, appeals must be commenced within the time period specified by RCW 43.21C.080.

 3. If the proposal requires more than one ~~(1)~~ governmental decision that will be supported by the same SEPA documents, then RCW 43.21C.080 still only allows one ~~(1)~~ judicial appeal of procedural compliance with SEPA, which must be commenced within the applicable time to appeal the first governmental decision.

 4. If there is no time limit established by statute or ordinance for appeal, and the notice of action provisions are not used, then SEPA provides no time limit for judicial appeals. Appeal times may still be limited, however, by general statutes of limitation or the common law.

 5. For the purposes of this subsection, "a time limit established by statute or ordinance" does not include time limits established by the general statutes of limitation in Chapter 4.16 RCW.

~~E~~D. Reserved.

~~F~~E. Official Notice of the Date and Place for Commencing a~~n~~Judicial Appeal.

 1. Official notice of the date and place for commencing an appeal must be given if there is a time limit established by statute or ordinance for commencing an appeal of the underlying governmental action. The notice shall include the time limit for commencing an appeal, the statute or ordinance establishing the time limit and where an appeal may be filed.

 2. Notice is given by:

 a. Delivery of written notice to the applicant, all parties to any administrative appeal, and all persons who have requested notice of decisions with respect to the particular proposal in question; and

 b. Following the agency's normal methods of notice for the type of governmental action taken.

 3. Written notice containing the information required by subsection ~~F~~E1 of this Section may be appended to the permit, decision documents, or SEPA compliance documents or may be printed separately.

 4. Official notices required by this subparagraph shall not be given prior to final agency action.

 Section 36. Section 25.05.702 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended to read as follows:

 25.05.702 Act.

 "Act" means the State Environmental Policy Act ~~of 1971~~, Chapter 43.21C RCW, as amended, which is also referred to as "SEPA."

 Section 37. A new Section 25.05.721 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 25.05.721 Closed record appeal.

 "Closed record appeal" means an administrative appeal held under Chapter 36.70B RCW that is on the record to a county/city body or officer, including the legislative body, following an open record hearing on a project permit application when the appeal is on the record with no or limited new evidence or information allowed to be submitted and only appeal arguments allowed. (RCW 36.70B.020(1).)

 Section 38. Section 25.05.728 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.728 County/city.

A. "County/city" means a county, city, or town. In WAC 197-11, duties and powers are assigned to a county, city, or town as a unit. The delegation of responsibilities among the various departments of a county, city, or town is left to the legislative or charter authority of the individual counties, cities, or towns.

B. A "GMA county/city" means a county, city or town planning under the Growth Management Act.

 Section 39. Section 25.05.747 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 116254, is amended as follows:

 25.05.747 Environmentally critical area.

 "Environmentally critical area" means those areas designated by The City of Seattle Environmentally Critical Areas Policies and regulated and mapped in SMC Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas, and other city codes. Certai n categorical exemptions do not apply within the following environmentally critical areas (Sections 25.05.305, 25.05.908, and Subchapter IX of these rules):  A. Landslide-prone Areas, including, but not limited to, known landslide areas, potential landslide areas, and steep slopes of forty percent (40%) average slope or greater;

 B. Riparian Corridors;

 C. Wetlands; and

 D. Fish and Wildlife Habitat Conservation Areas.

 Section 40. Section 25.05.748 of the Seattle Municipal Code is repealed.

 Section 41. A new Section 25.05.751 is added to the Seattle Municipal code to read as follows:

 25.05.751 GMA action.

 "GMA action" for purposes of SEPA only, means policies, plans and regulations adopted or amended under RCW 36.70A.106 or 36.70A.210. Actions do not include preliminary determinations on the scope and content of GMA actions, appeals of GMA actions, actions by the Governor or by the Growth Management Hearings Boards, or the application of policies to projects. "GMA" means the Growth Management Act, Chapter 36.70A RCW.

 Section 42. A new Section 25.05.775 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 25.05.775 Open record hearing.

 "Open record hearing" means a hearing held under Chapter 36.70B RCW and conducted by a single hearing body or officer authorized by the county/city to conduct such hearings, that creates the county's/city's record through testimony and submission of evidence and information, under procedures prescribed by the county/city by ordinance. An open record hearing may be held prior to a county's/city's decision on a project permit to be known as an "open record predecision hearing." An open record hearing may be held on an appeal, to be known as an "open record appeal hearing," if no open record predecision hearing has been held on the project permit. (RCW 36.70B.020(3).)

 Section 43. Section 25.05.790 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.790 SEPA.

 "SEPA" means the State Environmental Policy Act ~~of 1971~~ (Chapter 43.21C RCW), which is also referred to as the Act. The "SEPA process" means all measures necessary for compliance with the Act's requirements.

 Section 44. Subsections A, F and I are amended and Subsections Z and AA are added to Section 25.05.800 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118294, as follows:

 25.05.800 Categorical exemptions.

 The proposed actions contained in this subchapter are categorically exempt from threshold determination and EIS requirements, subject to the rules and limitations on categorical exemptions contained in Section 25.05.305.

 A. Minor New Construction -- Flexible Thresholds.

 1. The exemptions in this subsection apply to all licenses required to undertake the construction in question, except when a rezone or any license governing emissions to the air or discharges to water is required. To be exempt under this section, the project must be equal to or smaller than the exempt level. For a specific proposal, the exempt level in subsection A2 of this section shall control. If the proposal is located in more than one (1) city/county, the lower of the agencies' adopted levels shall control, regardless of which agency is the lead agency.

 2. The following types of construction shall be exempt, except when undertaken wholly or partly on lands covered by water or unless undertaken in environmentally ~~sensitive~~ critical areas (Section 25.05.908):

 a. The construction or location of residential structures of four (4) or fewer dwelling units, in all Single~~-~~ Family zones, Residential Small Lot (RSL), Lowrise Duplex/Triplex (LDT), Lowrise~~-~~ One (L~~-~~1) and all Commercial zones; six (6) or fewer units in Lowrise~~-~~ Two (L~~-~~2) zones; eight (8) or fewer units in Lowrise

~~-~~ Three (L~~-~~ 3) and Lowrise Four (L4) zones; and twenty (20) or fewer units in Midrise (MR), Highrise (HR), Seattle Cascade Mixed (SCM) and all Downtown zones;

 b. The construction of a barn, loafing shed, farm equipment storage building, produce storage or packing structure, or similar agricultural structure, covering ten thousand (10,000) square feet, and to be used only by the property owner or his or her agent in the conduct of farming the property. This exemption shall not apply to feed lots;

 c. The construction of the following office, school, commercial, recreational, service or storage buildings:

 i. In Commercial~~-1~~One (C~~-~~1), Commercial~~-2~~Two (C~~-~~2), Seattle Cascade Mixed (SCM), ~~Manufacturing~~ and Industrial zones, buildings with twelve thousand (12,000) square feet of gross floor area, and with associated parking facilities designed for twenty (20) automobiles,

 ii. In all other zones, buildings with four thousand (4,000) square feet of gross floor area, and with associated parking facilities designed for twenty (20) automobiles;

 d. The construction of a parking lot designed for twenty (20) automobiles, as well as the addition of twenty (20) spaces to existing lots if the addition does not remove the lot from an exempt class;

 e. Any landfill or excavation of five hundred (500) cubic yards throughout the total lifetime of the fill or excavation; and any fill or excavation classified as a Class I, II, or III forest practice under RCW 76.09.050 or regulations thereunder;

 f. Mixed-use construction, including but not limited to projects combining residential and commercial uses, is exempt if each use, when considered separately, is exempt under the criteria of subsections A2a through A2d above, unless the uses in combination may have a probable significant adverse environmental impact in the judgment of an agency with jurisdiction (see Section 25.05.305A2b);

 g. In zones not specifically mentioned in this subsection, the construction of residential structures of four (4) or fewer dwelling units and commercial structures of four thousand (4,000) or fewer square feet.

 F. Minor Land Use Decisions. The following land use decisions shall be exempt:

 1. Except upon lands covered by water, the approval of short plats or short subdivisions pursuant to the procedures required by RCW 58.17.060, but not including further short subdivisions or short platting within a plat or subdivision previously exempted under this subsection;

 2. Granting of variances based on special circumstances, not including economic hardship, applicable to the subject property, such as size, shape, topography, location or surroundings and not resulting in any change in land use or density;

 3. Classifications of land for current use taxation under Chapter 84.34 RCW, and classification and grading of forest land under Chapter 84.33 RCW~~.~~;

4. Annexation of territory by a city or town.

 I. ~~Variances under~~ Clean Air Act. The following actions under the Clean Air Act shall be exempt:  1.

The granting of variances under RCW 70.94.181 extending applicable air pollution control requirements for (1) one year or less shall be exempt.

2. The issuance, renewal, reopening, or revision of an air operating permit under RCW 70.94.161.

Z. Watershed restoration projects. Actions pertaining to watershed restoration projects as defined in RCW 89.08.460(2) are exempt, provided, they implement a watershed restoration plan which has been reviewed under SEPA (RCW 89.08.460(1)).  AA. Personal wireless service facilities.

 1. The siting of personal wireless service facilities are exempt if the facility:

 a. Is a microcell and is to be attached to an existing structure that is not a residence or school and does not contain a residence or a school;

 b. Includes personal wireless service antennas, other than a microcell, and is to be attached to an existing structure (that may be an existing tower) that is not a residence or school and does not contain a residence or school, and the existing structure to which it is to be attached is located in a commercial or industrial zone; or

 c. Involves constructing a personal wireless service tower less than sixty (60) feet in height that is located in a commercial or industrial zone.

 2. For the purposes of this subsection:

 a. "Personal wireless services" means commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services, as defined by federal laws and regulations.

 b. "Personal wireless service facilities" means facilities for the provision of personal wireless services.

 c. "Microcell" means a wireless communication facility consisting of an antenna that is either:

 (1) Four (4) feet in height and with an area of not more than five hundred eighty (580) square inches; or

 (2) If a tubular antenna, no more than four (4) inches in diameter and no more than six (6) feet in length.

 3. This exemption does not apply to projects within an environmentally critical area designated under GMA (RCW 36.70A.060).

 Section 45. Section 25.05.890 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.890 Petitioning DOE to change exemptions.

(See WAC 197-11-890)

~~A. Except for Section 25.05.880, the City (see WAC 197-11- 890) may create additional exemptions in these procedures only after receiving approval from the Department of Ecology under this section.~~B. A petition to the Department of Ecology (DOE) to adopt additional exemptions or to delete existing exemptions must be authorized by ordinance. The petition shall state the language of the requested amendment, the City's views on the environmental impacts of the activities covered by the proposed amendment, and the approximate number of actions of this type which have come before the City over a particular period of time. DOE is to consider and decide upon a petition within thirty (30)days of receipt. If the determination is favorable, DOE is required to begin rule-making under Chapter 34.0((4))5 RCW. Any resulting amendments will apply either generally or to specified classes of agencies. The City shall then amend these rules accordingly.

 C. The City may also petition DOE for an immediate ruling upon any request to add, delete, or change an exemption. If such a petition is granted, DOE is to notify the City, which may immediately include the change in these rules approved by DOE. DOE may thereafter begin rulemaking proceedings to amend WAC 197- 11. Until WAC 197-11 is amended, any change granted under this subsection shall apply only to the City.

 D. DOE is to provide public notice of any proposed amendments to these rules in the manner required by the administrative procedure act, Chapter 34.04 RCW. A copy of all approvals by DOE under the preceding subsection is required to be given to any person requesting DOE for advance notice of rulemaking.

 Section 46. Subsection B of Section 25.05.900 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 114507, is amended as follows:

 25.05.900 Purpose of Seattle SEPA rules sections.

 B. The City's environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas and the categorical exemptions which are inapplicable in such areas are set forth in Section

 25.05.908.

 Section 47. Section 25.05.908 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118794, is amended as follows:

 25.05.908 Environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas.

 A. ~~Environmentally sensitive areas are t~~The following environmentally critical areas located in the City ~~as designated in The City of Seattle Environmentally Critical Areas Policies~~ and regulated and mapped in ~~Section 25.09.020 of~~ SMC Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas, and other City codes are subject to the provisions of this Chapter:

 1. Landslide-prone Areas, including, but not limited to, known landslide areas, potential landslide areas, and steep slopes of forty percent (40%) average slope or greater;

 2. Riparian Corridors;

 3. Wetlands; and

 4. Fish and Wildlife Habitat Conservation Areas.

 Within these areas, certain categorically exempt activities listed in Section 25.05.908B could have a significant adverse environmental impact, require additional environmental review to determine impacts, and may require mitigation beyond the development standards required by all applicable City codes.

 B. The scope of environmental review of actions within these environmental critical areas shall be limited to:  1. Documenting whether the proposal is consistent with the City of Seattle Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas, SMC Chapter 25.09; and

 2. Evaluating potentially significant impacts on the environmentally critical area resources not adequately addressed in the City of Seattle Environmentally Critical Areas Policies or the requirements of SMC Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas, including any additional mitigation measures needed to protect the environmentally critical areas in order to achieve consistency with SEPA and other applicable environmental review laws.

~~B~~C. The following types of development shall not be categorically exempt in designated environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas (see Section 25.05.800), unless a development site has been determined to be exempt under the exemption provisions contained in Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas:

 1. Minor new construction:

 a. One (1) single-family dwelling unit exceeding nine thousand (9,000) square feet of development coverage, or two (2) or more dwelling units,

 b. Agricultural structures,

 c. Office, school, commercial, recreational, service and storage buildings,

 d. Parking lots,

 e. Landfill or excavation;

 2. Other minor new construction: ~~a.~~ Construction/installation of minor road and street improvements, transportation corridor landscaping and herbicides for weed control;

 3. Minor land use decisions: ~~a.~~Short plats or short subdivisions;

 4. Utilities: ~~a.~~Chemical means to maintain design condition;

 5. Natural resources management: ~~a.~~Issuance of agricultural leases of one hundred (100) acres or less;

 6. Issuance of leases for school sites;

 7. Development of non-ATV recreational sites (twelve (12) campsites or less);

 8. Chemical means to maintain public park or recreation land.

~~C~~D. The Official Land Use Map of The City of Seattle contains overlays identifying the general boundaries of all known environmentally critical areas within the city, which reference the City of Seattle's Environmentally Critical Areas Maps to determine the general boundaries of each environmentally critical area. The Environmentally Critical Areas Maps specify those designated areas which are subject to SEPA pursuant to WAC 25.05.908. A copy of the maps shall be maintained in the SEPA Public Information Center.

 The maps shall be used and amended as follows:

 1. The maps shall be advisory and used by the Director of DCLU to provide guidance in determining applicability of SEPA to a property. Likewise, environmentally ~~sensitive~~ critical areas which are incorrectly mapped may be exempted from SEPA by the Director of DCLU when the provisions of subsection D of Section 25.09.040 of the regulations for environmentally critical areas apply.

 2. The boundaries and contents of these designated environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas maps may be amended by the Director following the environmentally critical areas maps amendment process as set forth in subsection C of Section 25.09.020 of the regulations for environmentally critical areas.

~~D~~E. Proposals that will be located within environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas are to be treated no differently than other proposals under this chapter, except as stated in the prior subsection. A threshold determination shall be made for all such actions, and an EIS shall not be automatically required for a proposal merely because it is proposed for location in an environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical area.

~~E. Certain categorical exemptions do not apply on lands covered by water, and this remains true regardless of whether or not lands covered by water are mapped.~~

 Section 48. The Title of Section 25.05.912 of the Seattle Municipal Code , which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.912 Procedures ~~on~~of consulted agencies.

 Section 49. Section 25.05.938 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.938 Lead agencies for specific proposals.

(See WAC 197-11-938)

~~Notwithstanding the lead agency designation criteria contained in Sections 25.05.926 through 25.05.936, the lead agency for proposals within the areas listed below shall be as follows:~~A. For all governmental actions relating to energy facilities for which certification is required under Chapter 80.50 RCW, the lead agency shall be the Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council (EFSEC); however, for any public project requiring such certification and for which the study under RCW 80.50.175 will not be made, the lead agency shall be the agency initiating the project.

 B. For all private projects relating to the use of geothermal resources under Chapter 79.76 RCW, the lead agency shall be the Department of Natural Resources.

 C. For all private projects requiring a license or other approval from the Oil and Gas Conservation Committee under Chapter 78.52 RCW, the lead agency shall be the Department of Natural Resources; however, for projects under RCW 78.52.125, the EIS shall be prepared in accordance with that section.

 D. For all private activity requiring a license or approval under the Forest Practices Act of 1974, Chapter 76.09 RCW, the lead agency shall be the Department of Natural Resources; however, for any proposal that will require a license from a county/city acting under the powers enumerated in RCW 76.09.240, the lead agency shall be the county/city requiring the license.

 E. For all private projects requiring a license or lease to use or affect state lands, the lead agency shall be the state agency managing the lands in question; however, this subsection shall not apply to the sale or lease of state-owned tidelands, harbor areas or beds of navigable waters, when such sale or lease is incidental to a larger project for which one or more licenses from other state or local agencies is required.

 F. For all proposals which are being processed under the Environmental Coordination Procedures Act of 1973 (ECPA), Chapter 90.62 RCW, the lead agency shall be determined under the standards of these rules.

 G. For a pulp or paper mill or oil refinery not under the jurisdiction of EFSEC, the lead agency shall be the Department of Ecology, when a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit is required under Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1342).

 H. For proposals to construct a pipeline greater than six inches (6") in diameter and fifty (50) miles in length, used for the transportation of crude petroleum or petroleum fuels or oil or derivatives thereof, or for the transportation of synthetic or natural gas under pressure not under the jurisdiction of EFSEC, the lead agency shall be the Department of Ecology.

 I. For proposals that will result in an impoundment of water with a water surface in excess of forty (40) acres, the lead agency shall be the Department of Ecology.

 J. For proposals to construct facilities on a single site designed for, or capable of, storing a total of one million (1,000,000) or more gallons of any liquid fuel not under the jurisdiction of EFSEC, the lead agency shall be the Department of Ecology.

 K. For proposals to construct any new oil refinery, or an expansion of an existing refinery that shall increase capacity by ten thousand (10,000) barrels per day or more not under the jurisdiction of EFSEC, the lead agency shall be the Department of Ecology.

 L. For proposals to construct any new metallic mineral processing plant, or to expand any such existing plant by ten percent (10%) or more of design capacity, the lead agency shall be the Department of Ecology.

 M. For proposals to construct, operate, or expand any uranium or thorium mill, any tailings areas generated by uranium or thorium milling or any low-level radioactive waste burial facilities, the lead agency shall be the Department of Social and Health Services.

 Section 50. Subsections A and B of Section 25.05.948 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, are amended as follows:

 25.05.948 Assumption of lead agency status.

 A. An agency with jurisdiction over a proposal, upon review of a DNS (Section 25.05.340) may transmit to the initial lead agency a completed "Notice of Assumption of Lead Agency Status." This notice shall be substantially similar to the form in Section 25.05.985. Assumption of lead agency status shall occur only within ~~fifteen (15) days of issuance of a DNS~~the fourteen (14) day comment period on a DNS issued under Section 25.05.340B1, or during the comment period on a notice of application when the Early Review DNS process in Section 25.05.355 is used, and must first be approved by the Mayor or the Mayor's designee.

 B. The DS by the new lead agency shall be based only upon information contained in the environmental checklist attached to the DNS transmitted by the first lead agency or the notice of application if the Early Review DNS process is used on the matters contained in the environmental checklist.

 Section 51. Section 25.05.960 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.960 Environmental checklist.

 SEE ATTACHMENT A

 Section 52. Section 25.05.970 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 114057, is amended as follows:

 25.05.970 Determination of nonsignificance (DNS).

 SEE ATTACHMENT B

 Section 53. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 54. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force on November 1, 1998.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1998. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1998. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1998. __________________________________ City Clerk v2

 sepa-ord3 7/28/98 v2

 ATTACHMENT A

 25.05.960 Environmental checklist.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST

 Purpose of Checklist:

 The State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA), chapter 43.21C RCW, requires all governmental agencies to consider the environmental impacts of a proposal before making decisions. An environmental impact statement (EIS) must be prepared for all proposals with probable significant adverse impacts on the quality of the environment. The purpose of this checklist is to provide information to help you and the agency identify impacts from your proposal (and to reduce or avoid impacts from the proposal, if it can be done) and to help the agency decide whether an EIS is required.

 Instructions for Applicants:

 This environmental checklist asks you to describe some basic information about your proposal. Governmental agencies use this checklist to determine whether the environmental impacts of your proposal are significant, requiring preparation of an EIS. Answer the questions briefly, with the most precise information known, or give the best description you can.

 You must answer each question accurately and carefully, to the best of your knowledge. In most cases, you should be able to answer the questions from your own observations or project plans without the need to hire experts. If you really do not know the answer, or if a question does not apply to your proposal, write "do not know" or "does not apply." Complete answers to the questions now may avoid unnecessary delays later.

 Some questions ask about governmental regulations, such as zoning, shoreline, and landmark designations. Answer these questions if you can. If you have problems, the governmental agencies can assist you.

 The checklist questions apply to all parts of your proposal, even if you plan to do them over a period of time or on different parcels of land. Attach any additional information that will help describe your proposal or its environmental effects. The agency to which you submit this checklist may ask you to explain your answers or provide additional information reasonably related to determining if there may be significant adverse impact.

 Use of Checklist for Nonproject Proposals:

 Complete this checklist for nonproject proposals, even though questions may be answered "does not apply." in addition, complete the SUPPLEMENTAL SHEET FOR NONPROJECT ACTIONS (part D).

 For nonproject actions, the references in the checklist to the words "project," "applicant," and "property or site" should be read as "proposal," "proposer," and "affected geographic area," respectively.

 A. BACKGROUND

 1. Name of proposed project, if applicable:

 2. Name of applicant:

 3. Address and phone number of applicant and contact person:

 4. Date checklist prepared:

 5. Agency requesting checklist:

 6. Proposed timing or schedule (including phasing, if applicable):

 7. Do you have any plans for future additions, expansion, or further activity related to or connected with this proposal? If yes, explain.

 8. List any environmental information you know about that has been prepared, or will be prepared, directly related to this proposal.

 9. Do you know whether applications are pending for governmental approvals of other proposals directly affecting the property covered by your proposal? If yes, explain.

 10. List any government approvals or permits that will be needed for your proposal, if known.

 11. Give brief, complete description of your proposal, including the proposed uses and the size of the project and site. There are several questions later in this checklist that ask you to describe certain aspects of your proposal. You do not need to repeat those answers on this page. (Lead agencies may modify this form to include additional specific information on project description.)

 12. Location of the proposal. Give sufficient information for a person to understand the precise location of your proposed project, including a street address, if any, and section, township, and range, if known. If a proposal would occur over a range of area, provide the range or boundaries of the site(s). Provide a legal description, site plan, vicinity map, and topographic map, if reasonably available. While you should submit any plans required by the agency, you are not required to duplicate maps or detailed plans submitted with any permit applications related to this checklist.

 TO BE COMPLETED BY APPLICANT EVALUATION FOR

 AGENCY USE ONLY

 B. ENVIRONMENTAL ELEMENTS

 1. Earth

 a. General description of the site (circle one): Flat, rolling, hilly, steep slopes, mountainous, other ______________ .

 b. What is the steepest slope on the site (approximate percent slope)?

 c. What general types of soils are found on the site (for example, clay, sand, gravel, peat, muck)? If you know the classification of agricultural soils, specify them and note any prime farmland.

 d. Are there surface indications or history of unstable soils in the immediate vicinity? If so, describe.

 e. Describe the purpose, type, and approximate quantities of any filling or grading proposed. Indicate source of fill.

 f. Could erosion occur as a result of clearing, construction, or use? If so, generally describe.

 g. About what percent of the site will be covered with impervious surfaces after project construction (for example, asphalt or buildings)?

 h. Proposed measures to reduce or control erosion, or other impacts to the earth, if any:

 2. Air

 a. What types of emissions to the air would result from the proposal (i.e., dust, automobile, odors, industrial wood smoke) during construction and when the project is completed? If any, generally describe and give approximate quantities if known.

 b. Are there any off-site sources of emissions or odor that may affect your proposal? If so, generally describe.

 c. Proposed measures to reduce or control emissions or other impacts to air, if any:

 3. Water

 a. Surface:

 1) Is there any surface water body on or in the immediate vicinity of the site (including year-round and seasonal streams, saltwater, lakes, ponds, wetlands)? If yes, describe type and provide names. If appropriate, state what stream or river it flows into.

 2) Will the project require any work over, in, or adjacent to (within 200 feet) the described waters? If yes, please describe and attach available plans.

 3) Estimate the amount of fill and dredge material that would be placed in or removed from surface water or wetlands and indicate the area of the site that would be affected. Indicate the source of fill material.

 4) Will the proposal require surface water withdrawals or diversions? Give general description, purpose, and approximate quantities if known.

 5) Does the proposal lie within a 100-year floodplain? If so, note location on the site plan.

 6) Does the proposal involve any discharges of waste materials to surface waters? If so, describe the type of waste and anticipated volume of discharge.

 b. Ground:

 1) Will ground water be withdrawn, or will water be discharged to ground water? Give general description, purpose, and approximate quantities if known.

 2) Describe waste material that will be discharged into the ground from septic tanks or other sources, if any (for example: Domestic sewage; industrial, containing the following chemicals. . . ; agricultural; etc.). Describe the general size of the system, the number of such systems, the number of houses to be served (if applicable), or the number of animals or humans the system(s) are expected to serve.

 c. Water runoff (including stormwater):

 1) Describe the source of runoff (including storm water) and method of collection and disposal, if any (include quantities, if known). Where will this water flow? Will this water flow into other waters? If so, describe.

 2) Could waste materials enter ground or surface waters? If so, generally describe.

 d. Proposed measures to reduce or control surface, ground, and runoff water impacts, if any:

 4. Plants

 a. Check or circle types of vegetation found on the site:

 _____deciduous tree: alder, maple, aspen, other

 _____evergreen tree: fir, cedar, pine, other

 _____shrubs

 _____grass

 _____pasture

 _____crop or grain

 _____wet soil plants: cattail, buttercup, bullrush, skunk cabbage, other

 _____water plants: water lily, eelgrass, milfoil, other

 _____other types of vegetation

 b. What kind and amount of vegetation will be removed or altered?

 c. List threatened or endangered species known to be on or near the site.

 d. Proposed landscaping, use of native plants, or other measures to preserve or enhance vegetation on the site, if any:

 5. Animals

 a. Circle any birds and animals which have been observed on or near the site or are known to be on or near the site:

 birds: hawk, heron, eagle, songbirds, other: ______________________________

 mammals: deer, bear, elk, beaver, other: _________________________________

 fish: bass, salmon, trout, herring, shellfish, other: __________________________

 b. List any threatened or endangered species known to be on or near the site.

 c. Is the site part of a migration route? If so, explain.

 d. Proposed measures to preserve or enhance wildlife, if any:

 6. Energy and Natural Resources

 a. What kinds of energy (electric, natural gas, oil, wood stove, solar) will be used to meet the completed project's energy needs? Describe whether it will be used for heating, manufacturing, etc.

 b. Would your project affect the potential use of solar energy by adjacent properties? If so, generally describe.

 c. What kinds of energy conservation features are included in the plans of this proposal? List other proposed measures to reduce or control energy impacts, if any:

 7. Environmental Health

 a. Are there any environmental health hazards, including exposure to toxic chemicals, risk of fire and explosion, spill, or hazardous waste, that could occur as a result of this proposal? If so, describe.

 1) Describe special emergency services that might be required.

 2) Proposed measures to reduce or control environmental health hazards, if any:

 b. Noise

 1) What types of noise exist in the area which may affect your project (for example: traffic, equipment, operation, other)?

 2) What types and levels of noise would be created by or associated with the project on a short-term or a long-term basis (for example: traffic, construction, operation, other)? Indicate what hours noise would come from the site.

 3) Proposed measures to reduce or control noise impacts, if any:

 8. Land and Shoreline Use

 a. What is the current use of the site and adjacent properties?

 b. Has the site been used for agriculture? If so, describe.

 c. Describe any structures on the site.

 d. Will any structures be demolished? If so, what?

 e. What is the current zoning classification of the site?

 f. What is the current comprehensive plan designation of the site?

 g. If applicable, what is the current shoreline master program designation of the site?

 h. Has any part of the site been classified as an "environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical" area? If so, specify.

 i. Approximately how many people would reside or work in the completed project?

 j. Approximately how many people would the completed project?

 k. Proposed measures to avoid or reduce displacement impacts, if any:

 l. Proposed measures to ensure the proposal is compatible with existing and projected land uses and plans, if any:

 9. Housing

 a. Approximately how many units would be provided, if any? Indicate whether high, middle, or low-income housing.

 b. Approximately how many units, if any, would be eliminated? Indicate whether high, middle, or low-income housing.

 c. Proposed measures to reduce or control housing impacts, if any:

 10. Aesthetics

 a. What is the tallest height of any proposed structure(s), not including antennas; what is the principal exterior building material(s) proposed?

 b. What views in the immediate vicinity would be altered or obstructed?

 c. Proposed measures to reduce or control aesthetic impacts, if any:

 11. Light and Glare

 a. What type of light or glare will the proposal produce? What time of day would it mainly occur?

 b. Could light or glare from the finished project be a safety hazard or interfere with views?

 c. What existing off-site sources of light or glare may affect your proposal?

 d. Proposed measures to reduce or control light and glare impacts, if any:

 12. Recreation

 a. What designated and informal recreational opportunities are in the immediate vicinity?

 b. Would the proposed project displace any existing recreational uses? If so, describe.

 c. Proposed measures to reduce or control impacts on recreation, including recreation opportunities to be provided by the project or applicant, if any:

 13. Historic and Cultural Preservation

 a. Are there any places or objects listed on, or proposed for, national, state, or local preservation registers known to be on or next to the site? If so, generally describe.

 b. Generally describe any landmarks or evidence of historic, archaeological, scientific, or cultural importance known to be on or next to the site.

 c. Proposed measures to reduce or control impacts, if any:

 14. Transportation

 a. Identify public streets and highways serving the site, and describe proposed access to the existing street system. Show on site plans, if any.

 b. Is site currently served by public transit? If not, what is the approximate distance to the nearest transit stop?

 c. How many parking spaces would the completed project have? How many would the project eliminate?

 d. Will the proposal require any new roads or streets, or improvements to existing roads or streets, not including driveways? If so, generally describe (indicate whether public or private).

 e. Will the project use (or occur in the immediate vicinity of) water, rail, or air transportation? If so, generally describe.

 f. How many vehicular trips per day would be generated by the completed project? If known, indicate when peak volumes would occur.

 g. Proposed measures to reduce or control transportation impacts, if any:

 15. Public Services

 a. Would the project result in an increased need for public services (for example: fire protection, police protection, health care, schools, other)? If so, generally describe.

 b. Proposed measures to reduce or control direct impacts on public services, if any.

 16. Utilities

 a. Circle utilities currently available at the site: electricity, natural gas, water, refuse service, telephone, sanitary sewer, septic system, other.

 b. Describe the utilities that are proposed for the project, the utility providing the service, and the general construction activities on the site or in the immediate vicinity which might be needed.

 C. SIGNATURE

 The above answers are true and complete to the best of my knowledge. I understand that the lead agency is relying on them to make its decision.

 Signature: _______________________________________________________________

 Date Submitted: __________________________________________________________

 TO BE COMPLETED BY APPLICANT EVALUATION FOR

 AGENCY USE ONLY

 D. SUPPLEMENTAL SHEET FOR NONPROJECT ACTIONS

 (do not use this sheet for project actions)

 Because these questions are very general, it may be helpful to read them in conjunction with the list of the elements of the environment.

 When answering these questions, be aware of the extent the proposal, or the types of activities likely to result from the proposal, would affect the item at a greater intensity or at a faster rate than if the proposal were not implemented. Respond briefly and in general terms.

 1. How would the proposal be likely to increase discharge to water; emissions to air; production, storage, or release of toxic or hazardous substances; or production of noise?

 Proposed measures to avoid or reduce such increases are:

 2. How would the proposal be likely to affect plants, animals, fish, or marine life?

 Proposed measures to protect or conserve plants, animals, fish, or marine life are:

 3. How would the proposal be likely to deplete energy or natural resources?

 Proposed measures to protect or conserve energy and natural resources are:

 4. How would the proposal be likely to use or affect environmentally ~~sensitive~~critical areas or areas designated (or eligible or under study) for governmental protection; such as parks, wilderness, wild and scenic rivers, threatened or endangered species habitat, historic or cultural sites, wetlands, floodplains, or prime farmlands?

 Proposed measures to protect such resources or to avoid or reduce impacts are:

 5. How would the proposal be likely to affect land and shoreline use, including whether it would allow or encourage land or shoreline uses incompatible with existing plans?

 Proposed measures to avoid or reduce shoreline and land use impacts are:

 6. How would the proposal be likely to increase demands on transportation or public services and utilities?

 Proposed measures to reduce or respond to such demand(s) are:

 7. Identify, if possible, whether the proposal may conflict with local, state, or federal laws or requirements for the protection of the environment.

 kd sepa-x 7/7/98

 ATTACHMENT B

 25.05.970 Determination of nonsignificance (DNS).

 DETERMINATION OF NONSIGNIFICANCE

 Description of proposal ____________________________________________________

 ________________________________________________________________________

 ________________________________________________________________________

 Proponent _______________________________________________________________

 Location of proposal, including street address, if any _____________________________

 ________________________________________________________________________

 ________________________________________________________________________

 Lead agency _____________________________________________________________

 The lead agency for this proposal has determined that it does not have a probable significant adverse impact on the environment. An environmental impact statement (EIS) is not required under RCW 43.21C.030 (2)(c). This decision was made after review of a completed environmental checklist and other information on file with the lead agency. This information is available to the public on request.

 There is no comment period for this DNS.

This DNS is issued after using the Early Review DNS process in Section 25.05.355. There is no further comment period on the DNS.

 This DNS is issued under WAC 197-11-340 (2); the lead agency will not act on this proposal for ~~15~~14 days from the date below. Comments must be submitted by __________ .

 Responsible official _______________________________________________________

 Position/title __________________________________________ Phone _____________

 Address ________________________________________________________________

 Date ________________ Signature ___________________________________________

 (OPTIONAL)

 You may appeal this determination to (name) _____________________________

 at (location) _________________________________________________

 no later than (date) ____________________________________________

 by (method) _________________________________________________

 You should be prepared to make specific factual objections. Contact _______________ to read or ask about the procedures for SEPA appeals.

 There is no agency appeal.

 kd sepa-x1 7/7/98

```
