

********

**Council Bill Number: 112298**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119216**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate portions of the Central Area Action Plan II.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 2, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 3, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 12, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 24, 1998
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Growth Planning and Civic Engagement
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, CENTRAL-AREA, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 117221

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate portions of the Central Area Action Plan II.

 WHEREAS, on July 25, 1994, by Ordinance 117221, the City Council adopted the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, which includes a neighborhood planning element; and

 WHEREAS, City Council Resolution 28966, adopted August 1, 1994, established a Neighborhood Planning Program for the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, a coalition of Central Area stakeholders known as the Central Area Action Plan*Implementation Team (CAAP*IT) came together in the spring of 1995 for the purpose of preparing an updated Central Area Action Plan as provided for in the neighborhood planning element of the City of Seattle Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, CAAP*IT convened monthly meetings open to everyone and regularly attended by several dozen citizens throughout the next three years; and

 WHEREAS, CAAP*IT conducted an extensive Phase I outreach process featuring a citizen survey, presentations at community group meetings, displays at community events and a well-attended community validation event, all of which lead to creation of vision statements for four special emphasis areas or "nodes," and the reaffirmation of an overall vision for the community as established in the first Central Area Action Plan: and

 WHEREAS, this outreach process also created a list of priority planning topics and led to selection of members for a Steering Committee and four neighborhood specific planning teams to lead Phase II planning; and

 WHEREAS, subcommittees were formed and consultants hired to study and prepare analyses and recommendations on the issues of transportation and infrastructure, land use/urban design, housing, economic development, health and human services, and stewardship; and

 WHEREAS, the overall vision of the Central Area Action Plan II is consistent with the goals and policies of Seattle's Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, a SEPA checklist on the Central Area Action Plan II has been prepared and a Determination of Non-significance was issued on July 30 1998; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the proposed amendments are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan, as adopted by Ordinance 117221 and last amended, is hereby amended as follows:

 The Table of Contents of the Neighborhood Plans volume of the Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended to add Central Area, as shown in Attachment 1.

 The Central Area Action Plan II goals and policies, as shown in Attachment 2 to this Ordinance, are hereby incorporated into the Neighborhood Plans volume of the Comprehensive Plan.

 The Land Use Element of the Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended as shown in Attachment 3 to this Ordinance to confirm the designation and growth targets for the 12th Avenue Urban Center Village, 23rd Avenue S. @ S. Jackson-Union and Madison-Miller Residential Urban Villages.

 The Neighborhood Plans volume, Central Area section, is hereby amended to include the capital facilities and utilities inventory and analyses and transportation analyses shown in Attachment 4 to this Ordinance.

 The following maps are hereby amended to reflect the final designation and boundaries of the 12th Avenue Urban Center Village, as shown in Attachment 5 to this Ordinance:

 Future Land Use Map

 Land Use Figure 3

 Land Use Figure 3-A

 The following maps are hereby amended to reflect the final designation and boundaries of the 23rd Avenue S. @ S. Jackson - Union and Madison-Miller Residential Urban Villages, as shown in Attachment 5 to this Ordinance:

 Future Land Use Map

 Land Use Figure 1, and

 Land Use Figure 1-A.

 A new map, Land Use Figure 7 is hereby added.

 Land Use Figure 1 is hereby amended to show confirmation of the following neighborhood anchors:

 M.L. King Jr. Way E. @ E. Madison St.

 34th Avenue E. @ E. Union St.

 Land Use Appendix B is hereby amended to reflect the final growth targets for the 12th Avenue Urban Center Village, and the 23rd Avenue S. @ S. Jackson - Union and Madison-Miller Residential Urban Villages as shown in Attachment 6 to this Ordinance.

 Section 2 The amendments contained in Section 1 of this ordinance constitute an adopted neibhborhood plan for purposes of SMC 23.34.008(D)(2).

 Section 3. Residential use in single-purpose residential development within commercial zones in the 12th Avenue Urban Center Village, and the 23rd Avenue S. @ S. Jackson - Union and Madison-Miller Residential Urban Villages established by adoption of this ordinance, shall continue to be permitted by conditional use. Further, the densities permitted for the residential use in single- purpose residential structures within the aforementioned urban villages shall be as established in SMC Subsection 23.47.009(D)(1).

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ________ day of __________________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

 ATTACHMENT 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS - THE CITY OF SEATTLE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS

 ATTACHMENT 2 CENTRAL AREA GOALS AND POLICIES

 ATTACHMENT 3 AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT

 ATTACHMENT 4 CAPITAL FACILITIES AND UTILITIES INVENTORY AND ANALYSES AND TRANSPORTATION ANALYSES

 ATTACHMENT 5 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENTS

 ATTACHMENT 6 AMENDMENTS TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE APPENDIX B

 ATTACHMENT 1

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

 NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS

 Table of Contents

 Ballard Interbay Northend Manufacturing/Industrial Center

 Central Area

 Crown Hill/Ballard

 Wallingford

 ATTACHMENT 2

 CENTRAL Area neighborhood Plan

 GOALS AND POLICIESCentral Area Neighborhood Specific Goals and Policies

 Overall Central Area

 Community Identity and Character

 G1 A community that celebrates the Central Area's culture, heritage, and diversity of people and places

 CA1 Enhance the sense of community and increase the feeling of pride among Central Area residents, business owners, employees, and visitors through excellent physical and social environments on main thoroughfares.

 CA2 Recognize the historical importance and significance of the Central Area's single-family residential housing stock, institutional buildings (old schools, etc.), and commercial structures as community resources. Incorporate their elements into building design guidelines, housing maintenance programs, and possible designation of historic and cultural resources.

 CA3 Seek opportunities for community-based public improvements that would create a sense of identity, establish pride of place, and enhance the overall image of the Central Area.

 CA4 Create opportunities for public spaces, public art, and community gateways (e.g., Lavizzo Amphitheater, I-90 Lid).

 CA5 Support the development of CAAP*IT CAN (Central Area Action Plan * Implementation Team Community Action Network) for coordination of volunteerism & economically viable community building programs, projects & collaboration.

 Transportation and Infrastructure

 G2 A community where residents, workers, students and visitors alike can choose from a variety of comfortable and competitively convenient modes of transportation including walking, bicycling, and transit and where our reliance on cars for basic transportation needs is minimized or eliminated.

 G3 A community that is served by a well-maintained infrastructure and the most up to date communication technology.

 CA6 Facilitate movement of residents, workers, visitors, and goods within the Central Area with a particular focus on increasing safety, supporting economic centers, encouraging a full range of transportation choices, and creating social gathering places that improve the quality of life and serve as the heart of the community.

 CA7 Encourage use of travel modes such as transit, bicycles, walking and shared vehicles by students and employees, and discourage commuting by single occupant vehicle. Minimize impacts of commuters on Central Area neighborhoods and neighborhood cut through traffic to and from the regional highway network. Work with institutions/businesses to develop creative solutions for minimizing auto usage by employees and students.

 CA8 Promote capital improvements that encourage "pedestrianism" among residents, employees, and shoppers. Use all area streets and sidewalks as avenues to walk to work, school, recreational facilities, shopping districts, and visit neighbors. Provide for pedestrian convenience and priority at signalized intersections using Transportation Strategic Plan strategies. Preserve residential area street ends and stairways for public access.

 CA9 Identify key pedestrian streets and areas where neighborhoods can be linked together.

 CA10 Central Gateway project: Strive to provide excellent pedestrian and bicycle links between the Central Area and adjacent neighborhoods. Facilitate bicycle and pedestrian safety, and transit and traffic flow and access. Minimize neighborhood cut- through traffic.

 CA11 Coordinate project planning with affected neighborhood planning areas including the Central Area, the International District, and First Hill.

 CA12 Strive to provide safety for pedestrians needing to cross Central Area arterials to reach schools, parks, businesses, services, and transit. Operate pedestrian signals to facilitate pedestrian movement and safety.

 CA13 Facilitate residents' access to Central Area businesses, services, and institutions by using public transportation, thereby encouraging patronage of area businesses and reducing the need for cars. Encourage community-based transit service with transit hubs at primary business nodes and community anchors

 CA14 Facilitate access to employment centers for Central Area residents who use public transit. Maintain efficiency of direct transit service to downtown, improve north-south transit service to regional job centers, and improve access to eastside transit service.

 CA15 Encourage shared parking at business nodes in order to meet parking requirements while maximizing space for other uses with a goal to reduce the need for surface parking lots especially along Key Pedestrian Streets.

 CA16 Encourage coordination of construction work within the street right of way in order to maximize the public benefit and minimize the disruption of the street surface.

 CA17 Improve the visual quality of the neighborhoods by encouraging undergrounding of utilities including service lines for all new construction and remodel projects and minimizing the impact of new telecommunication facilities such as towers.

 Housing

 G4 A stable community with a mix of housing types meeting the needs of a wide variety of households, where home ownership is an affordable option for many households.

 CA18 Advocate for more flexible options for mortgage financing, and strive to remove barriers to home-ownership and renovation loans for local residents.

 CA19 Support sweat-equity housing programs.

 CA20 Support housing services that encourage age integration.

 CA21 Ameliorate the potential impacts of gentrification through a variety of affordable housing programs and techniques.

 Economic Development

 G5 Central Area as one business district offering a series of successful economic niche neighborhoods within the overall community.

 CA22 Encourage minority and locally owned businesses in the Central Area to grow and expand.

 CA23 Facilitate and support business associations for primary business districts.

 CA24 Create a viable business base that will attract investment, focusing on neighborhood retail, professional and personal services, restaurants, and entertainment. Support the urban design element of the Central Area Neighborhood Plan that strengthens development and enhances the pedestrian nature of each area.

 CA25 Support linkages between job training and services and jobs available.

 CA26 Develop organizational capacity within the community to stimulate economic development.

 CA27 Support crime prevention programs that involve the community such as Community Police Teams, Block Watch, Youth Advisory Council.

 23rd Avenue Corridor

 G6 Distinct but mutually supportive primary business districts along the 23rd Avenue Corridor:

 23rd and Madison Node - Destination/Entertainment Center: the Central Area's northern commercial anchor.

 23rd and Jackson Node - Shopping Center: the Central Area's shopping focal point, and a true "urban village".

 23rd and Union Node - Business/Restaurant Center: A small scale commercial hub serving the neighborhood, providing a range of residential housing types

 CA28 Encourage the preservation and conversion of homes south of Union on 23rd to live workstructures to increase the viability of the existing housing stock and enhance the pedestrian feel of 23rd Avenue.

 CA29 Support Central Area programs that have been concentrated at the 23rd and Jackson node. Build on existing partnerships.

 CA30 Encourage increased housing density in and around the 23rd Avenue and Jackson Street commercial area.

 CA31 Explore the potential for an incentive-based East Madison "economic opportunity area"

 CA32 Support additional retail, restaurants, services, and office space at 23rd and Yesler.

 Madison Miller

 G7 A vibrant, revitalized pedestrian-oriented commercial district on East Madison from 16th to 24th Avenues that serves both local and destination shoppers with a variety of shops and services.

 G8 A vibrant, revitalized pedestrian-oriented commercial node at the 19th Avenue (cross street? Madison?) that principally serves local residents.

 CA33 Encourage increased housing density at 23rd and Madison.

 CA34 Seek entertainment facilities (e.g. entertainment complex), destination retail, convention and conference facilities and other like businesses at 23rd and Madison.

 CA35 Adopt themes and identity elements for Madison/Miller and incorporate into streetscape concepts, transportation improvements, community-based projects, and new development proposals, including concepts such as:

 The area's African-American Heritage;

 Madison After Dark;

 Community Diversity;

 The Physical and Natural Environment, and

 The area's Transportation History.

 12th Avenue

 G9 A thriving mixed-use residential and commercial area with a "main street" including services and retail that is attractive and useful to neighborhood residents and students, and public spaces that foster a sense of community, near the intersection of several diverse neighborhoods and major economic and institutional centers.

 CA36 Encourage increased housing density where appropriate, such as on 12th Avenue and on Yesler Way, and in mid-rise zoned areas.

 CA37 Facilitate the redevelopment of City-owned land, emphasizing mixed use where that type of development will contribute to the desired community character.

 CA38 Seek services and retail that builds on the neighborhood's proximity to Seattle University.

 ATTACHMENT 3

 AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT

 L21 Promote the balance of uses in each urban center or urban center village indicated by one of the following functional designations, assigned as follows:

 Functional Designation Urban Center Village

 1. Primarily residential. Denny Regrade

 Capitol Hill

 2. Mixed, with a residential emphasis. Pike/Pine

 3. Mixed residential and employment. Westlake

 Pioneer Square

 International District

 First Hill

 South Capitol Hill 12th Avenue

 University District Northwest

 Ravenna

 Northgate*

 Seattle Center*

 4. Mixed, with an employment emphasis. Downtown Commercial Core

 * These urban centers are not

 divided into urban center villages

 (Amended 7/95, 7/96, 8/98)

 L44:

 ...

 Designate the following locations as residential urban villages (Land Use Figure 1)

 ...

 Crown Hill

 23rd Ave S @ S Jackson St 23rd Ave S. @ S. Jackson - Union

 21st & Madison Madison-Miller

 ...

 G36

 ...

 Achieve the following 20-year growth targets in residential urban villages:

 Residential Growth

 ...

 Crown Hill Approx. 310 households

 23rd Ave S. @ S. Jackson - Union 900

 Madison-Miller 400

 ...

 L54

 Preliminarily designate as neighborhood anchors locations shown in Land Use Figure 1, above, subject to further objective analysis in the neighborhood planning process.

 Designate the following neighborhood anchor locations a shown on Land Use Figure 1, above:

 #5 24th Ave. NW @ NW 77th

 #7 6th Ave NW @ NE 75th

 #15 M.L. King Jr Way E @ E Madison St (Madison Valley)

 #16 34th Ave E @ E Union St (Madrona)ATTACHMENT 4

 CAPITAL FACILITIES AND UTILITIES INVENTORIES AND ANALYSES AND TRANSPORTATION ANALYSES

 12th Avenue Urban Center Village

 23rd Ave S. @ S. Jackson - Union Residential Urban Village

 Madison - Miller Residential Urban Village

 Table 1

 Inventory for Facilities and Utilities Serving

 12th Avenue Urban Center Village

 Facility Name Location Capacity Information

 Type Sources/Comments

 Fire SFD 25 1300 E. Pine St Engine Co., Ladder Co., Seattle Fire

 Station Battalion, Aid Unit, Power Department

 Unit

 SFD 22 901 E. Roanoke St Engine, Communications van

 SFD 10 301 2nd Ave. S. Engine Co., Ladder Co.,

 Deputy Chief, Aid Co.,

 Hazmat Van

 Police East 1519 12th Ave. 8.45 sq. mi. service area, Seattle

 Station Precinct 1004 population 82265 Police

 Department

 Patrol units are

 allocated around-

 the-clock based on

 calls for service.

 Location and size of

 facilities are not

 critical to service

 provision.

 Schools Lowell 1058 E. Mercer St. 391 students Seattle Public

 Elementary Schools' 1995-1996

 Choices, Seattle

 TT Minor 1701 E. Union St. 391 students Public Schools,

 Elementary 1995 Seattle Public

 Gatzert 1301 E. Yesler Way 414 students Schools database

 Elementary

 All 10 Middle Schools

 All 10 High Schools

 Library Downtown 1000 4th Ave. 166,092 sq. ft: Downtown Seattle Public

 main pop 21,904 Citywide pop Library Statistical

 Library 1990 516,334 or .32 Report, EDL&A,

 sq. ft/capita December 1992

 Douglass 2300 E. Yesler Way 8007 sq. ft, 1990 pop

 Truth served 21,101, or .38 sq.

 Branch ft/capita + .32 sq.

 ft/capita in citywide

 facilities

 Parks McGilvra E. Madison St 0.07 ac: Street triangle Open Spaces, Parks

 Place & Pike St in and Facilities

 Village Inventory, Seattle

 Department of

 Spring E. Spring St. & 0.33 ac: Lawn Parks and

 Street 15th Ave within Recreation, August

 Mini 1/8 mile 1989

 Park

 Harbor 8th Ave & Jefferson 3.6 ac: Lawns, walks, Office of

 view St Within 1/4 mile Management and

 Park Planning

 Park at 104 - 17th Ave. S 1.2 ac:

 Langston Within 1/4 mile

 Hughes

 Pratt 20th Ave. S & E 5.5 ac: Lawn, play area,

 Park Yesler Within 1/2 picnic area, sports pavilion

 mile

 Fire 18th Ave. & E. 0.33 ac: play area,

 house Cherry St. landscaping

 Mini Within 1/2 mile

 Park

 Other Yesler 903 Yesler Way 4,771 sq. ft, 1.7 ac Open Spaces,

 Playfield Parks and

& Communi- Facilities

 ty Center

 Langston 104 - 17th Ave. S >8,000 sq. ft, 1.2 ac: Parks and

 Hughes class/craft rooms; Recreation, August

 Cultural 350-seat theater, day 1989

 Artsural care

 Center

 Electrical East East Pine & 23rd 183 Megawatts Seattle City Light,

 Power Pine Ave E. October 1996

 This village is

 located in City

 Light's Southeast

 forecast area,

 which has a total

 capacity of 331

 megawatts.

 Water The majority of this village Volunteer Park Reservoir Seattle Water

 is located in the 420 pres- 20.5 million gallons Department, October

 sure zone with a small area -November, 1996

 in the 520 zone. Water for Supply mains were con- In the 420 pressure

 this village comes from the structed primarily before zone, elevations

 Cedar River supply. Storage 1949-many in the early range from 160-

 is supplied by the Volunteer 1900's. Pipes are pre- 350 feet above sea

 Park Reservoir (12th Ave. E & dominately of cast iron level; static water

 E Prospect St.) and Volunteer pressure ranges

 Park Standpipe from 30-113 punds

 per square inch.

 See Map for system locations. The lowest pressure

 in this area is

 pressure ranges

 considered

 marginal. In the

 520 pressure zone,

 elevations range

 from 161-350 feet

 above sea level;

 static water

 pressure ranges

 from 74-156 pounds

 per square inch. 4

 The lowest pressure

 in this area is

 considered very

 good.

 Drainage The majority of the village With Combined systems Seattle drainage

& Waste- is served by a Combined existing sewage flows and Wastewater

 system. constitute about 5% of Utility, November

 pipe capacity, with the 1996

 remainder for storm-

 See Map for system locations water flows. Capacity Combined Sanitary/

 of the combined systems Stormwater System:

 in this area is con- A system where all

 considered adequate. sanitary and storm

 wastewater is

 Sewer rehabilitation carried through the

 projects (part of the system in one sewer

 6-year Capital Improve- pipe.

 ment Program) are per-

 formed as needed which

 may enhance system

 capacity.

 Table 2 Expected 6-yr. HH Growth: 149

 Capital Facilities and Utilities Analysis Expected 20-yr HH Growth: 1,200

 12th Avenue Urban Center Village Land Area: 160 Acres

 Facilities needed to

 accommodate:

 Facility 6-year growth 20-year growth Analysis

 Type

 Fire None None expected at Fire Station 25 has an average response

 this time time of 3.21 minutes for

 emergency medical calls and 4.01 minutes

 for fire calls. Fire Station

 22 has an average response time of 4.02

 minutes for emergency medical

 calls and 4.81 minutes for fire calls.

 Industry standards are to

 maintain a 4-6 minute response time or less

 for emergency medical

 calls and a 5-minute or less response time

 for first response to fire

 emergencies. Fire Station 10 has an

 average response time of 2.99

 minutes for emergency medical calls and

 3.71 minutes for fire calls.

 Response times for these stations meet

 industry standards and are

 expected to for the next six years.

 Police None None expected at Seattle Police Department patrol units are

 this time allocated around-the-clock

 based on calls for service. Location and

 size of facilities are not

 critical to service provision since police

 officers are on patrol in

 various sectors, and calls for service are

 dispatched by radio, or

 officers handle situations on-view.

 Schools School facility expansions or Seattle School District Physical goals are

 improvements are not expected as follows for : a)

 to be required as a result of Elementary schools: 380-535 students, 4-

 growth in this village. acre site; b) Middle school:

 600-800 students, 12-acre site; and c) High

 School 1,000-1,600

 students, 17-acre site. Currently, about 50%

 of public school students

 attend schools in their neighborhoods, and

 the other 50% choose

 schools elsewhere.

 Phase Two of the School District's Building

 Excellence program

 includes projects at the following

 neighborhood schools:

 Lowell: Demolition, all new construction

 Minor: Partial demolition, modernization,

 new addition

 Voters have not yet approved funds for this

 phase.

 Electricity None A third Electrical demand from this village is

 transformer in estimated to increase by 0.65

 the Creston- annual average megawatts and 1.0 megawatt in

 Nelson Sub- a peak hour in 6 years.

 station, and a

 future downtown This village is located in City Light's

 substation will Southeast forecast area. In 6

 add capacity in years, capacity in this forecast area will

 this forecast be 331 megawatts, and

 area. demand is expected to be 291 megawatts. In

 20 years, capacity in this

 forecast area will be 493 megawatts, and

 demand is expected to be 343

 megawatts. In both years, capacity is more

 than adequate to meet demand.

 First Hill Unit at 717 11 Ave has been

 decommissioned and the property

 sold to Seattle U.

 Water None None expected at Current peak day demand estimate: 0.97

 this time. million gallons per day (mgd).

 Peak day demand estimate in 6 yrs: 1.1 mgd

 or 14% increase. Peak day

 demand estimate in 20 years: 1.4 mgd or 41%

 increase. The supply and

 distribution network is in generally good

 order and appears to be

 adequately sized to accommodate demand

 through 2002. If growth is

 concentrated in certain locales, it is

 possible that local

 improvements would be needed.

 The Water Department recommends more

 detailed studies of the

 distribution network in this area because it

 is among the oldest in

 the city, and the area is already densely

 developed.

 Drainage No new facilities are expected The Drainage Control Ordinance requires on-site detention of

 and to be required because of new stormwater runoff associated with new development or significant

 Wastewater growth. redevelopment. Limiting the rate of stormwater runoff from these

 sites more than offsets the increases in sewage flow from increased

 population density. The net effect of new development/redevelopment

 in this area will be a decrease in the peak rates of flow during storm

 events.

 Depending on the concentration of actual development, it is possible

 that isolated sewer capacity improvements would be needed.

 With Combined systems, existing sewage flows constitute only about 5%

 of pipe capacity, and wastes from growth will constitute small

 incremental flows that are not likely to exceed capacity. On-site

 detention requirements for new growth will address the adequacy of the

 drainage system for this area.

 Table 3

 Transportation Analysis for

 First Hill/Capital Hill Urban Center (including 12th Avenue Urban Center Village)

 Arterial V/C

 Ratio

 Screenline Arterials Classification Direction 1990 2010

 Location

 North of Pine Melrose Ave. Minor Northbound 0.5 0.6

 Bellevue Ave. Collector Southbound 0.5 0.5

 Broadway Ave. Minor

 12th Ave. Minor

 15th Ave. Minor

 North of James Boren Ave. Principal Northbound 0.5 0.7

 -

 Cherry Broadway Ave. Minor Southbound 0.5 0.7

 12th Ave. Minor

 14th Ave. Collector

 West of Yesler Way Minor Eastbound 0.5 0.6

 Broadway

 Boren Ave. Principal Westbound 0.5 0.6

 Jefferson St. Collector

 James St. Principal

 Madison St. Principal

 Union St. Minor

 Pike St. Minor

 Pine St. Minor

 E Denny Way Minor

 E Olive Way Principal

 E Roy St. Minor

 West of I-5 Pike/Pine on ramp Principal Eastbound 0.6 0.7

 Pine St. Principal Westbound 0.7 0.8

 Pike St. Principal

 8th Ave. Minor

 Union off ramp Principal

 University on Principal

 ramp

 Seneca St. Principal

 Seneca off ramp Principal

 Spring St. Principal

 West of I-5 Spring on ramp Principal

 (cont.)

 Madison St. Principal

 Columbia off ramp Principal

 Columbia/Cherry Principal

 on

 Cherry St. Principal

 James St. Principal

 James/6th on ramp Principal

 6th Ave. Principal

 Yesler St. Minor

 Traffic volumes were forecasted for the arterial streets in the center. Next, volumes were summed for all arterials crossing a "screenline," or an imaginary line that intersects the streets traveling through the area. The sum of volumes was compared to the sum of the capacities of arterials crossing the screenline, creating a volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratio. The V/C ratio across a screenline is an indicator of congestion. This method of measurement takes into account that drivers may make choices within an urban center among arterial streets and alternative modes.

 The table above shows existing screenline V/C ratios and projections of V/C ratios for a typical evening peak hour in 2010 for four screenlines in the First Hill/Capitol Hill Urban Center. The existing V/C ratios are estimated from traffic counts collected in 1992 through 1995. Compare existing V/C ratios to the 2010 forecast to see the potential change over 20 years.

 The V/C ratio can be used to identify areas where neighborhood or citywide transportation plans could encourage changes in travel behavior (e.g., mode, time of travel, destination) or improve operation of the street (e.g., by changing signal timing and the like). The use of screenlines allows flexibility in selecting improvement measures and locations within the urban center. The capacity of a street or screenline is not a fixed number of vehicles that can never be exceeded. Rather, it is a relative measure of traffic flow.

 Arterial screenlines with a V/C ratio exceeding 1.0 now or possibly in the future might warrant attention in a neighborhood plan. High V/C ratios may be tolerable if the result is to shift people into other modes, or is a result of the development densities necessary for a vital urban village.

 Existing conditions: The V/C ratios on all screenlines in the urban center are below 0.8.

 Future conditions: The projected V/C ratios on all screenlines in the urban center are at or below 0.8.

 Table 1

 Inventory for Facilities and Utilities Serving

 23rd Ave S. @ S. Jackson - Union Residential Urban Village

 Facility Name Location Capacity Information Sources/Comments

 Type

 Fire SFD 6 101 23rd Ave. S. Engine Co., Ladder Co. Seattle Fire Department

 Station

 Police East Precinct 1519 12th Ave. 8.45 sq. mi. service area, 1994 Seattle Police Department

 Station population 82,265 Patrol units are allocated

 around-the-clock based on calls

 for service. Location and size of

 facilities are not critical to

 service provision.

 Schools Gatzert Elementary 1301 E. Yesler Way 450 students Seattle Public Schools' 1995-1996

 Leschi Elementary 135 32nd Avenue 450 students Choices, Seattle Public Schools,

 Minor Elementary 1701 E. Union St. 450 students 1995

 Madrona Elementary 1121 33rd Avenue 525 students Seattle Public Schools database

 Colman Elementary 2401 S. Irving St. 400 students

 All 10 Middle Schools

 All 10 High Schools

 Library Douglass-Truth Branch 2300 E. Yesler Way 8007 sq. ft, 1990 pop served Seattle Public Library Statistical

 21,101, or .38 sq. ft/capita + Report, EDL&A, December 1992

 .32 sq. ft/capita in citywide

 facilities

 Parks Dr. Blanche Lavizzo 22nd St. E. Yesler 1.95 ac: Path, stage, Open Spaces, Parks and Facilities

 Park Way to S. Jackson amphitheater, restrooms Inventory, Seattle Department of

 St. Parks

 Gerber Park MLK Way & E. 0.15 ac: Lawn and Recreation, August 1989

 Cherry

 Spruce Street Park E. Spruce St. & 0.75 ac: Lawn, play area Urban Villages Open Space Analyses

 21st Ave.

 Pratt Park 20th Ave. S & E 5.5 ac: Lawn, play area, picnic Office of Management and Planning

 Yesler area, sports pavilion

 Garfield Playfield 23rd Ave. & E. 9.3 ac: 2 softball fields, 1

 Cherry baseball field, 1

 football/soccer field, 3 tennis

 courts, shelterhouse, play area.

 Flo Ware Park 28th Ave. & S. 0.5 ac: Lawn, play area,

 Jackson basketball

 Firehouse Park 18th Ave. & E 0.33 ac: play area, landscaping

 Cherry

 Judkins Park & 22nd Ave. S & S 14.1 ac: Shelterhouse, comfort

 Playground Charles station, play area, lawns,

 picnic areas, 1 baseball field,

 1 softball field, or 2

 football/soccer fields.

 Powell Barnett Park MLK Way & E. 4.4 ac: Shelterhouse, play

 Jefferson area, paths, lawns, wading pool

 Other10 Garfield Community 23rd Ave. & E >19,000

 Center Cherry

 Medgar Evers Pool 500 - 23rd Ave. Indoor swimming pool

 Langston Hughes 104 - 17th Ave. S >8,000 sq. ft, 1.2 ac:

 Cultural Arts Center class/craft rooms, 350-seat

 theater, day care center

 Pratt Fine Arts Center 1800 S. Main St. >7500 sq. ft: Shops and craft

 rooms, glassblowing, metal work,

 jewelry and print-making

 Jackson Place P-Patch 13 plots P-Patch Program, Seattle

 Department of

 Squire Park/Pratt Park 30 plots Housing and Human Services

 P-Patch

 Marion St. P-Patch 2317 E. Marion 15 plots

 Electrical East Pine Substation East Pine & 23rd 183 Megawatts Seattle City Light, October 1996

 Power Ave. E This village is located in City

 Light's Southeast forecast area,

 which has a total capacity of 331

 megawatts.

 Water This village is mostly located in the 420 Volunteer Park Reservoir: 20.5 Seattle Water Department,

 pressure zone with a small portion in the million gallons Oct.-Nov., 1996

 316 zone. Storage is provided by the In the 420 pressure zone,

 Volunteer Park Reservoir (12th Ave. E & E The majority of the supply mains elevations range from 175-329 feet

 Prospect St.) were constructed between 1890 above sea level; static water

 and 1919. Pipes are pressure ranges from 39-106 pounds

 See Map for system locations. predominately of cast iron. per square inch. The minimum

 pressure in this area is

 considered marginal. In the 316

 pressure zone, elevations range

 from 106-200 feet above sea level;

 static water pressure ranges from

 50-91 pounds per square inch. The

 minimum pressure in this area is

 considered good.

 Drainage & The majority of this village is served by With Partially Separated Seattle Drainage and Wastewater

 Wastewater a Partially Separated system; portions of systems, about 15% of the Utility, November 1996

 the northeast and northwest area of the stormwater enters the sewer

 village are served by a Combined system. system, with the remaining 85% Combined Sanitary/Stormwater

 diverted to the storm drain System: A system where all

 See Map for system locations. system. With Combined systems, sanitary and storm wastewater is

 existing sewage flows constitute carried through the system in one

 about 5% of pipe capacity, with sewer pipe.

 the remainder for stormwater

 flows. Capacity of the Partial Separation System: A

 partially separated and combined system where the water from street

 systems in this area is and major parking lot drainage is

 considered adequate. collected and transferred in one

 pipe or ditch and culvert system,

 Sewer rehabilitation projects and the other surface wastewater

 (part of the 6-year Capital such as that from roof drains is

 Improvement Program) are carried with the sanitary sewer in

 performed as needed which may a sewer pipe.

 enhance system capacity.

 Table 2 Expected 6-yr. HH Growth: 246

 Capital Facilities and Utilities Analysis Expected 20-yr HH Growth: 900

 23rd Ave S. @ S. Jackson - Union Residential Urban Village Land Area: 485 Acres

 Facilities needed to

 accommodate:

 Facility 6-year growth 20-year growth Analysis

 Type

 Fire None None expected at Fire Station #6, the closest to this urban village, has an average

 this time. response time of 3.11 minutes for emergency medical calls and 3.79

 minutes for fire calls. Industry standards are to maintain a 4-6

 minute response time or less for emergency medical calls and a

 5-minute or less response time for first response to fire

 emergencies. Response times for this station meet industry standards

 and are expected to for the next six years.

 Police None None expected at Seattle Police Department patrol units are allocated around-the-clock

 this time. based on calls for service. Location and size of facilities are not

 critical to service provision since police officers are on patrol in

 various sectors, and calls for service are dispatched by radio, or

 officers handle situations on-view.

 Schools School facility expansions or Seattle School District physical goals are as follows for : a)

 improvements are not expected Elementary schools: 380-535 students, 4-acre site; b) Middle

 to be required as a result of school: 600-800 students, 12-acre site; and c) High School

 growth in this village. 1,000-1,600 students, 17-acre site. Currently, about 50% of public

 school students attend schools in their neighborhoods, and the other

 50% choose schools elsewhere.

 Phase One of the School District's Building Excellence program

 includes partial demolition, modernization, and new addition for

 Madrona Elementary.

 Phase Two of the program calls for :

 Garfield: Partial demolition, historic renovation, new addition

 Minor: Partial demolition, modernization, new addition

 Mann (NOVA): Historic renovation

 Voters have not yet approved funds for this phase.

 Electricity None A third Electrical demand from this village is estimated to increase by 0.4

 transformer in annual average megawatts and 0.7 megawatts in a peak hour in 6 years.

 the

 Creston-Nelson This village is located in City Light's Southeast forecast area. In

 Substation and a 6 years, capacity in this forecast area will be 331 megawatts, and

 future downtown demand is expected to be 291 megawatts. In 20 years, capacity in this

 substation will forecast area will be 493 megawatts, and demand is expected to be 343

 add capacity in megawatts. In both years, capacity is more than adequate to meet

 this forecast demand.

 area.

 Distribution breakers at the East Pine substation will be replaced in

 1998 through 2000; the control building may be enlarged in 1997-1998.

 City Light hopes to work with the neighborhood to remove the "tower"

 on the northwest corner that encourages users and sellers of illegal

 substances to hang around the area.

 Water None None expected at Current peak day demand estimate: 2.2 million gallons per day (mgd).

 this time. Peak day demand estimate in 6 yrs: 2.3 mgd or 5% increase. Peak day

 demand estimate in 20 years: 2.6 mgd or 16% increase. The supply and

 distribution network is in generally good order and appears to be

 adequately sized to accommodate demand through 2002. If growth is

 concentrated in certain locales, it is possible that local

 improvements would be needed.

 The Water Department recommends further study of the distribution

 system in this area as it is among the oldest in the city.

 Drainage No new facilities are expected The Drainage Control Ordinance requires on-site detention of

 and to be required because of new stormwater runoff associated with new development or significant

 Wastewater growth. redevelopment. Limiting the rate of stormwater runoff from these

 sites more than offsets the increases in sewage flow from increased

 population density. The net effect of new development/redevelopment

 in this area will be a decrease in the peak rates of flow during

 storm events.

 Depending on the concentration of actual development, it is possible

 that isolated sewer capacity improvements would be needed.

 For Partially separated systems, wastes from growth will constitute

 small incremental flows that are not likely to exceed capacity. With

 Combined systems, existing sewage flows constitute only about 5% of

 pipe capacity, and wastes from growth will constitute small

 incremental flows that are not likely to exceed capacity. On-site

 detention requirements for new growth will address the adequacy of

 the drainage system for this area.

 Table 3

 Transportation Analysis for

 23rd Ave S. @ S. Jackson - Union Residential Urban Village

 Arterial Existing Forecast

 2010

 Arterial Segment Class Direction V/C ratio V/C ratio

 23rd Ave. E I-90 - Principa Northbound 0.3 0.5

 l

 S Jackson Southbound 0.4 0.6

 St.

 23rd Ave. E S Jackson Principa Northbound 0.4 0.6

 St. - l

 E Yesler Southbound 0.6 0.8

 St.

 23rd Ave. E E Yesler Principa Northbound 0.6 0.7

 St. - l

 E Cherry Southbound 0.7 0.8

 St.

 23rd Ave. E E Cherry Principa Northbound 0.6 0.8

 St. - l

 E Union St. Southbound 0.6 0.8

 23rd Ave. E E Union St. Principa Northbound 0.5 0.7

 - l

 E Madison Southbound 0.5 0.7

 St.

 Martin Luther King I-90 - Minor Northbound 0.4 0.4

 Jr Way S

 S Jackson Southbound 0.5 0.6

 St.

 Martin Luther King S Jackson Minor Northbound 0.4 0.5

 Jr Way St. -

 E Cherry Southbound 0.5 0.7

 St.

 Martin Luther King E Cherry Minor Northbound 0.4 0.5

 Jr Way St. -

 E Union St. Southbound 0.3 0.5

 Rainier Ave. S S Dearborn Principa Northbound 0.9 1.0

 St. - l

 S Jackson Southbound 1.2 1.2

 St.

 S Jackson St. Rainier Minor Eastbound 0.4 0.5

 Ave. S -

 23rd Ave. S Westbound 0.3 0.3

 S Jackson St. 23rd Ave. S Minor Eastbound 0.4 0.4

 -

 31st Ave. Westbound 0.5 0.5

 S

 E Yesler Way 14th Ave. E Minor Eastbound 0.6 0.7

 23rd Ave. Westbound 0.4 0.4

 E

 E Yesler Way 23rd Ave. E Minor Eastbound 0.4 0.5

 M L King Jr Westbound 0.4 0.4

 Way

 E Jefferson St. 14th Ave. E Collecto Eastbound 0.6 0.6

 - r

 23rd Ave. Westbound 0.5 0.6

 E

 E Cherry St. 14th Ave. E Collecto Eastbound 0.3 0.4

 - r

 23rd Ave. Westbound 0.6 0.6

 E

 E Cherry St. 23rd Ave. E Minor Eastbound 0.5 0.6

 -

 M L King Jr Westbound 0.3 0.4

 Way

 E Union St. 19th Ave. E Minor Eastbound 0.6 0.7

 -

 23rd Ave. E Westbound 0.5 0.5

 E Union St. 23rd Ave. E Minor Eastbound 0.7 0.7

 M L King Jr Westbound 0.4 0.5

 Way

 20th Ave. S S Judkins Collecto Northbound 0.4 0.4

 St. - r

 S Jackson Southbound 0.4 0.5

 St.

 S Judkins St. 20th Ave. S Collecto Eastbound 0.3 0.5

 - r

 23rd Ave. S Westbound 0.2 0.2

 The volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratio is an indicator of congestion. The table above shows existing V/C ratios and projections of V/C ratios for a typical evening peak hour in 2010 for all arterials in the 23rd and Jackson residential urban village. The existing V/C ratios are estimated from traffic counts collected in 1992 through 1995. Compare existing V/C ratios to the 2010 forecast to see the potential change over 20 years.

 The V/C ratio can be used to identify areas where neighborhood or citywide transportation plans could encourage changes in travel behavior (e.g., mode, time of travel, destination) or improve operation of the street (e.g., by changing signal timing and the like). The capacity of a street is not a fixed number of vehicles that can never be exceeded. Rather, it is a relative measure of traffic flow.

 Arterial segments with a V/C ratio exceeding 1.0 now or possibly in the future might warrant attention in a neighborhood plan. High V/C ratios may be tolerable if the result is to shift people into other modes, or is a result of the development densities necessary for a vital urban village.

 Existing conditions: Rainier Ave. S. from S. Jackson St. to S. Dearborn St. has a V/C ratio between 1.1 and 1.2. All other arterial streets have V/C ratios below 0.7.

 Rainier Ave. S. and 23rd Ave. S. are principal arterials. Both are also Transit Priority Network streets along with S. Jackson St. between Rainier and 23rd.

 Future conditions: The V/C ratio on Rainier Ave. S. is projected to be near 1.2. The V/C ratio on all other arterials is projected to be below 0.8.Table 1

 Inventory for Facilities and Utilities Serving

 Madison - Miller Residential Urban Village

 Facility Name Location Capacity Information Sources/Comments

 Type

 Fire SFD 25 1300 E. Pine St. Engine Co., Ladder Co., Seattle Fire Department

 Station Aid, Power, Battalion

 Police East Precinct 1519 12th Ave. 8.45 sq. mi. service Seattle Police Department

 Station area, 1994 pop 82,265 Patrol units are allocated

 around-the-clock based on calls

 for service. Location and size

 of facilities are not critical

 to service provision.

 Schools Stevens Elementary 1241 18th Ave. E. 325 students Seattle Public Schools'

 King Elementary 3201 E. Republican St. 250 students 1995-1996 Choices, Seattle

 Madrona Elementary 1121 33rd Ave. 525 students Public Schools, 1995

 Minor Elementary 1701 E. Union St. 450 students Seattle Public Schools database

 All 10 Middle Schools

 All 10 High Schools

 Library Douglass-Truth Branch 2300 E. Yesler Way 8007 sq. ft, 1990 pop Seattle Public Library

 served 21,101, or .38 Statistical Report, EDL&A,

 sq. ft/capita + .32 sq. December 1992

 Madrona Sally Goldmark 1134 33rd Ave. ft/capita in citywide

 Branch facilities

 1702 sq. ft, 1990 pop

 served 10,724, or .16

 sq. ft. capita + .32 sq.

 ft/capita in citywide

 facilities

 Parks Pendleton Miller 19th Av E & E Thomas 7.9 ac Open Spaces, Parks and

 Playfield Facilities

 Plum Tree Park 1700 block of 26th Av 0.33 ac: lawns, play Inventory, Seattle Department of

 area

 Prentis I. Frazier 24th Av E & E Harrison 0.3 ac: play structures Parks and Recreation, August

 Park 1989

 Miller Triangle E. John St. & 20th Ave. 0.1 ac: street triangle Urban Villages Open Space

 E Analyses,

 Other17 Miller Community Adjacent to Meany Middle >4000 sq. ft Office of Management and

 Center School Planning

 Republican P-Patch 503 - 20th Av E 13 plots P-Patch Program, Seattle

 Department of Housing and Human

 Services

 Electrical East Pine Substation East Pine & 23rd Av E 183 Megawatts Seattle City Light, October 1996

 Power This village is located in City

 Light's Southeast forecast area,

 which has a total capacity of

 331 megawatts.

 Water About half of this village is located in the Volunteer Park Seattle Water Department,

 520 pressure zone and half in the 420 pressure Reservoir: 20.5 million October-November, 1996

 zone. Water for this area comes from the Cedar gallons In the 520 pressure zone,

 River supply. Storage is provided by the elevations range from 336-419

 Volunteer Park Reservoir (12th Ave. E & E The pipe network was feet above sea level; static

 Prospect St.). Water is pumped to the area in constructed 1891-1982, water pressure ranges from 44-80

 the 520 zone by the Volunteer Park Pump, predominantly of cast pounds per square inch. In the

 Broadway Pump, and Lincoln Turbine. iron. 420 pressure zone, elevations

 range from 236-351 feet above

 See Map for system locations. sea level; static water pressure

 ranges from 30-80 pounds per

 square inch. The minimum

 pressure in this area is

 considered marginal to adequate.

 Drainage & The majority of this village is served by a With Partially Separated Seattle Drainage and Wastewater

 Wastewater Partially Separated system; the southern third systems, about 15% of Utility, November 1996

 is served by a Combined system. the stormwater enters

 the sewer system, with Partial Separation System: A

 See Map for system locations. the remaining 85% system where the water from

 diverted to the storm street and major parking lot

 drain system. Capacity drainage is collected and

 of the partially transferred in one pipe or ditch

 separated systems in and culvert system, and the

 this area is considered other surface wastewater such as

 adequate. that from roof drains is carried

 with the sanitary sewer in a

 With Combined systems, sewer pipe.

 existing sewage flows

 constitute about 5% of Combined Sanitary/Stormwater

 pipe capacity, with the System: A system where all

 remainder for stormwater sanitary and storm wastewater is

 flows. Capacity of the carried through the system in

 combined systems in this one sewer pipe.

 area is considered

 adequate.

 Sewer rehabilitation

 projects (part of the

 6-year Capital

 Improvement Program) may

 enhance system capacity.

 Table 2 Expected 6-yr. HH Growth:

 109

 Capital Facilities and Utilities Analysis Expected 20-yr HH Growth: 400

 Madison - Miller Residential Urban Village Land Area: 145 Acres

 Facilities needed to

 accommodate:

 Facility 6-year growth 20-year growth Analysis

 Fire None None expected at Fire Station 25, the closest to this urban village, has an average

 this time. response time of 3.21 minutes for emergency medical calls and 4.01

 minutes for fire calls. Industry standards are to maintain a 4-6

 minute response time or less for emergency medical calls and a

 5-minute or less response time for first response to fire emergencies.

 Response times for this station meet industry standards and are

 expected to for the next six years.

 Police None Additional Seattle Police Department patrol units are allocated around-the-clock

 precinct space based on calls for service. Location and size of facilities are not

 may be needed as critical to service provision since police officers are on patrol in

 part of citywide various sectors, and calls for service are dispatched by radio, or

 service officers handle situations on-view.

 expansion.

 Schools School facility expansions or Seattle School District physical goals are as follows for : a)

 improvements are not expected Elementary schools: 380-535 students, 4 acre site; b) Middle school:

 to be required as a result of 600-800 students, 12 acre site; and c) High School 1,000-1,600

 growth in this village. students, 17 acre site. Currently, about 50% of public school

 students attend schools in their neighborhoods, and the other 50%

 choose schools elsewhere.

 The School District's Building Excellence program calls for partial

 demolition, historic renovation and new addition for Stevens

 Elementary; and partial demolition, modernization and new addition for

 Madrona Elementary in phase I, for which funding has been approved.

 Minor Elementary is scheduled for partial demolition, modernization

 and new addition in phase II. Voters have not yet approved funds for

 this phase.

 Electricity None A third Electrical demand from this village is estimated to increase by 0.2

 transformer in annual average megawatts and 0.4 megawatts in a peak hour in 6 years.

 the

 Creston-Nelson This village is located in City Light's Southeast forecast area. In 6

 Substation and a years, capacity in this forecast area will be 331 megawatts, and

 future downtown demand is expected to be 291 megawatts. In 20 years, capacity in this

 substation will forecast area will be 493 megawatts, and demand is expected to be 343

 add capacity in megawatts. In both years, capacity is more than adequate to meet

 this forecast demand.

 area.

 Distribution breakers at the East Pine substation will be replaced in

 1998 through 2000; the control building may be enlarged in 1997-1998.

 City Light hopes to work with the neighborhood to remove the "tower"

 on the northwest corner that encourages users and sellers of illegal

 substances to hang around the area.

 Water None None expected at Current peak day demand estimate: 0.95 million gallons per day (mgd).

 this time. Peak day demand estimate in 6 yrs: 1.0 mgd or 5% increase. Peak day

 demand estimate in 20 years: 1.1 mgd or 18% increase. The supply and

 distribution network is in generally good order and appears to be

 adequately sized to accommodate demand through 2002. If growth is

 concentrated in certain locales, it is possible that local

 improvements would be needed.

 The Water Department recommends further study of the system in this

 area as it is among the oldest in the city, it is quite densely

 developed, and there have been some complaints about low water

 pressure.

 Drainage No new facilities are expected The Drainage Control Ordinance requires on-site detention of

 and to be required because of new stormwater runoff associated with new development or significant

 Wastewater growth. redevelopment. Limiting the rate of stormwater runoff from these

 sites more than offsets the increases in sewage flow from increased

 population density. The net effect of new development/redevelopment

 in this area will be a decrease in the peak rates of flow during storm

 events.

 Depending on the concentration of actual development, it is possible

 that isolated sewer capacity improvements would be needed.

 Since Separated systems are sized for full zoned development, capacity

 is considered adequate to serve new growth. With Combined systems,

 existing sewage flows constitute only about 5% of pipe capacity, and

 wastes from growth will constitute small incremental flows that are

 not likely to exceed capacity. On-site detention requirements for new

 growth will address the adequacy of the drainage system for this area.

 Table 3

 Transportation Analysis for Madison - Miller Residential Urban Village

 Existing Forecast 2010

 Arterial Segment Arterial Direction V/C ratio V/C ratio

 Class

 E Madison St. E Pine St. Principal Eastbound 0.7 0.8

 -

 23rd Ave. E Westbound 0.5 0.6

 E Madison St. 23rd Ave. E Minor Eastbound 0.8 0.9

 -

 M L King Jr Westbound 0.5 0.6

 Way

 23rd Ave. E E Union St. Principal Northbound 0.5 0.7

 -

 E Madison Southbound 0.5 0.7

 St.

 23rd Ave. E E Madison Principal Northbound 0.6 0.8

 St. -

 E Aloha St. Southbound 0.5 0.7

 E Thomas St. 15th Ave. E Minor Eastbound 0.6 0.6

 -

 E Madison Westbound 0.6 0.6

 St.

 19th Ave. E E Union St. Collector Northbound 0.2 0.3

 -

 E Madison Southbound 0.2 0.3

 St.

 19th Ave. E E Madison Collector Northbound 0.5 0.8

 St. -

 E Thomas Southbound 0.4 0.6

 St.

 19th Ave. E E Thomas Collector Northbound 0.5 0.8

 St. -

 E Aloha St. Southbound 0.4 0.7

 The volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratio is an indicator of congestion. The table above shows existing V/C ratios and projections of V/C ratios for a typical evening peak hour in 2010 for all arterials in the Madison - Miller residential urban village. The existing V/C ratios are estimated from traffic counts collected in 1992 through 1995. Compare existing V/C ratios to the 2010 forecast to see the potential change over 20 years.

 The V/C ratio can be used to identify areas where neighborhood or citywide transportation plans could encourage changes in travel behavior (e.g., mode, time of travel, destination) or improve operation of the street (e.g., by changing signal timing and the like). The capacity of a street is not a fixed number of vehicles that can never be exceeded. Rather, it is a relative measure of traffic flow.

 Arterial segments with a V/C ratio exceeding 1.0 now or possibly in the future might warrant attention in a neighborhood plan. High V/C ratios may be tolerable if the result is to shift people into other modes, or is a result of the development densities necessary for a vital urban village.

 Existing conditions: All arterial streets have V/C ratios below 0.8.

 23rd Ave. E. and E. Madison St. west of 23rd Ave. E are principal arterials. Both are also Transit Priority Network streets along with E. Thomas St. west of 23rd Ave. E.

 Future conditions: The V/C ratio on E. Madison St. between 23rd Ave. E. and Martin Luther King Jr. Way is projected to increase to above 0.8. All other arterials would remain at or below a V/C ratio of 0.8.

 ATTACHMENT 5

 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENTS - Urban Village Boundaries

 LAND USE FIGURE 1

 Land Use Figure 1 in the Comp Plan is hereby amended to 1) add the 23rd @ Jackson-Union, and the Madison-Miller Residential urban village boundaries, 2) to change the name of the Madison-Miller village (from 21st Ave. E @ E. Madison St), and 3), to place asterisks next to the 34th E @ E Union (#16), and the ML King Way @ E Madison St. (#15) neighborhood anchors. Also, the names "Madison Valley" and "Madrona" should be added in parenthesis to the description of the intersections listed, consistent with the terms used in the neighborhood plan for these anchors.

 LAND USE FIGURE 3

 Land Use Figure 3 in the Comp Plan is hereby amended to change the title of the South Capitol Hill Urban Village to 12th Avenue Urban Center Village

 LAND USE FIGURE 7

 A new Figure 7 shown on the following page is added to show details of the boundaries for the Madison-Miller and 23rd & Jackson- Union urban villages.

 LAND USE APPENDIX FIGURE A-1

 Land Use Figure A-1 in the Land Use Appendix is hereby amended to change the 23rd and Jackson - Union boundary as proposed in the CAAP II Neighborhood Plan, change the name of the Madison-Miller village (from "21st Ave E. @ E Madison St) and to indicate with asterisks that Madison-Miller and 23rd @ S Jackson-Union villages have been adopted.Land Use Figure 7

 ATTACHMENT 6

 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE APPENDIX B

 LAND USE APPENDIX BLAND

 USE APPENDIX B

 (Continued)

 Growth Planning

 Estimates for Urban

 Centers, Center

 Villages, Hub Urban

 Villages, and

 Residential Urban

 Villages

 Village Land

 Area Household Employme

 in s (HH) nt

 (Jobs)

 Acres Existing Existing Growth Estimated Existing Existing Growth Estimated

 Density Target 2010 Density Target 2010

 (HH/Acre) or Density (Jobs/Acre or Density

 Planning ) Planning

 Estimate Estimate

 (HH (Job

 Growth) Growth)

 Urban Centers & Center

 Villages

 Downtown Urban Center 945 7421 7.9 NA1 23.4 165119 175 NA1 241

 Total

 Denny Regrade Village 216 3492 16.2 6500 46.3 22699 105 4500 126

 Westlake Village 143 514 3.6 3500 28.1 22010 154 23600 319

 Commercial Core Village 275 1435 5.2 1300 9.9 106823 388 27000 487

 Pioneer Square Village 142 376 2.6 21002 17.4 9113 64 48002 98

 International District 169 1604 9.5 1300 17.2 4474 26 2800 43

 Village

 First Hill/Cap. Hill 912 21673 23.8 NA1 30.0 33393 37 NA1 50

 Center Total

 First Hill Village 225 5896 26.2 2400 36.9 20626 85 6100 119

 Capitol Hill Village 396 12450 31.4 1980 36.4 5284 13 3000 21

 Pike/Pine Village 131 2349 18.0 620 22.7 3963 30 1400 41

 South Capitol Hill 160 978 6.1 540 9.5 3520 22 1200 30

 12th Avenue Village

 Univ. Dist. Urban Center 770 11611 15.0 NA1 17.8 31427 41 NA1 52

 Total

 University Dist. NW 289 4324 14.9 1630 20.5 8625 30 3000 40

 Village

 University Village 122 973 8.0 480 12.0 1580 13 700 19

 Village

 University Campus 359 6313 17.6 03 17.6 21222 59 4800 72

 Village

 Northgate Urb. Center 410 3291 8.0 NA1 15.3 11366 28 NA1 50

 Total

 Sea. Center Urb. Center 297 3138 10.6 NA1 15.0 19,000 64 NA1 75

 Total

 Hub Urban Villages4

 Ballard 323 4279 13.2 1520 17.9 3518 11 3700 22

 Fremont 339 3766 11.1 820 13.5 6937 20 1700 25

 Lake City 310 2740 8.8 1400 13.3 2827 9 2900 18

 W. Seattle Junction 225 1835 8.2 1100 13.0 3108 14 2300 24

 Aurora Ave N @ 130th St 344 2271 6.6 1260 10.3 4027 12 2800 20

 Rainier Ave @ I-90 415 2043 4.9 1200 7.8 3371 8 3500 17

 South Lake Union 446 461 1.0 17005 4.8 15230 34 4500 44

 Residential Urban

 Villages4

 Aurora N @ 97th St 288 2106 7.3 900 10.4 NA NA NA NA

 Greenwood 202 1283 6.4 350 8.1 NA NA NA NA

 Upper Queen Anne 103 1063 10.3 300 13.2 NA NA NA NA

 Eastlake 205 2423 11.8 380 13.6 NA NA NA NA

 23rd Ave S @ S Jackson 485 3186 6.6 900 8.4 NA NA NA NA

 St

 23rd Ave S @ S Jackson -

 Union

 Admiral District 103 798 7.8 340 11.1 NA NA NA NA

 Green Lake 107 1439 13.4 400 17.2 NA NA NA NA

 Roosevelt 160 1007 6.3 340 8.4 NA NA NA NA

 Wallingford 245 1973 8.1 200 8.9 NA NA NA NA

 Rainier Beach 227 1482 6.5 740 9.8 NA NA NA NA

 Columbia City 313 1639 5.2 740 7.6 NA NA NA NA

 SW Barton St @ 25th Ave 278 1654 6.0 700 8.5 NA NA NA NA

 S

 Beacon Hill 171 1844 10.8 550 14.0 NA NA NA NA

 Crown Hill 173 929 5.4 310 7.2 NA NA NA NA

 MLK Jr Wy S @ Holly St 380 1247 3.3 8006 5.4 NA NA NA NA

 South Park 264 997 3.8 350 5.1 NA NA NA NA

 21st Ave E @ E Madison 145 1486 10.3 400 13.0 NA NA NA NA

 St Madison - Miller

 California @ SW Morgan 139 1104 8.0 300 10.1 NA NA NA NA

 St

 LAND USE ELEMENT APPENDIX B

 Footnotes

 1 Urban centers are not assigned planning estimates. Growth targets for urban centers are established in land use element section C. Growth targets for urban villages are established upon adoption of a neighborhood plan.

 2 Assumes north Kingdome parking lot and vacant floor area in existing structures is available to accommodate a substantial share of household and employment growth.

 3 No additional student housing growth according to UW General Physical Development Plan.

 4 The areas to which numbers apply for land area, existing households and jobs, planning estimates and existing and planned densities for each hub and residential urban village are the unadopted village boundaries shown in Land Use Appendix A, above.

 5 Eighty percent of the current zoning capacity in South Lake Union can accommodate 1,700 households. To guide the Seattle Commons planning effort, the long-term residential planning estimate for the area is a total of 4,900 households. It is assumed that the 3,200 households that presently cannot be accommodated in the area will be accommodated elsewhere in the city where there is available zoning capacity until necessary zoning changes can be made under the Seattle Commons Plan.

 6 Because of the potential for redevelopment of the Holly Park Garden Community according to a neighborhood plan currently underway, a greater growth planning estimate is established for this area relative to other similar residential urban villages.

```
