

********

**Council Bill Number: 112211**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119111**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to adopt goals and policies for the Crown Hill/Ballard Urban Villages and to confirm the designation of the Ballard Hub Urban Village and the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 17, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 19, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 19, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 15, 1998
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Growth Planning and Civic Engagement
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, BALLARD, CROWN-HILL, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 117221, 119047

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to adopt goals and policies for the Crown Hill/Ballard Urban Villages and to confirm the designation of the Ballard Hub Urban Village and the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village.

 WHEREAS, on July 25, 1994, by Ordinance 117221, the City Council adopted the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, which includes a neighborhood planning element; and

 WHEREAS, City Council Resolution 28966, adopted August 1, 1994, established a Neighborhood Planning Program for the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the Crown Hill/Ballard community, in collaboration with the City of Seattle, undertook an inclusive neighborhood planning process that resulted in the preparation of a number of recommended goals, policies, and action items; and

 WHEREAS, the Crown Hill/Ballard Neighborhood Planning Association was formed and incorporated in September, 1995, for the purpose of preparing a plan for these urban villages as designated in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, stakeholders in this community elected a Board of Directors and worked with City staff and consultants to develop specific plan recommendations; and

 WHEREAS, a community-wide validation process was conducted to familiarize stakeholders with the plan and assess community support for it; and

 WHEREAS, the Crown Hill/Ballard Plan is consistent with the goals and policies of Seattle's Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, a SEPA checklist on the Plan has been prepared and a Determination of Non-significance was issued on April 30, 1998; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the proposed amendments are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public; and

 WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council that those neighborhood plan provisions adopted into the Comprehensive Plan's neighborhood plan attachments constitute 'adopted neighborhood plans' which shall be taken into consideration in rezone review pursuant to SMC 23.34.008D2; NOW THEREFORE

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan, as adopted by Ordinance 117221 and last amended by Ordinance 119047, is hereby amended as follows:

 A. The Table of Contents of the Neighborhood Plans Volume of the Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended to add Crown Hill/Ballard, as shown in Attachment 1.

 B. The Crown Hill/Ballard Plan goals and policies, as shown in Attachment 2 to this ordinance, are hereby incorporated into the Neighborhood Plans Volume of the Comprehensive Plan.

 C. The Land Use Element of the Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended as shown in Attachment 3 to this ordinance to confirm the designation and growth targets for the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village and the Ballard Hub Urban Village.

 D. The Neighborhood Plans Volume, Crown Hill/Ballard Section, is hereby amended to include the capital facilities and utilities inventory and analyses and transportation analyses shown in Attachment 4 to this ordinance.

 E. The Future Land Use Map is hereby amended to reflect the final designation and boundaries of the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village and the Ballard Hub Urban Village. In addition, the following maps reflect the same changes, as well as the confirmation of designation of two neighborhood anchors, as shown in Attachment 5 to this ordinance:

 ( Land Use Figure 1

 ( Land Use Figure A-1

 F. Land Use Appendix B is hereby amended to reflect the final growth targets for the Ballard Hub Urban Village and the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village, as shown in Attachment 6 to this ordinance.

 Section 2. Residential use in single-purpose residential development within commercial zones in the Crown Hill and Ballard Urban Villages, established by adoption of this ordinance, shall continue to be permitted by conditional use. Further, the densities permitted for the residential use in single-purpose residential structures within the Crown Hill and Ballard Urban Villages shall be as established in SMC Subsection 23.47.009D1.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _________ day of ___________________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of ________________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of ________________________, 1998.

 __________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

 ATTACHMENT 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 ATTACHMENT 2 CROWN HILL/BALLARD GOALS AND POLICIES

 ATTACHMENT 3 AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT

 ATTACHMENT 4 CAPITAL FACILITIES AND UTILITIES INVENTORY AND ANALYSES AND TRANSPORTATION ANALYSES

 ATTACHMENT 5 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENTS:

 LAND USE FIGURE 1

 LAND USE FIGURE A-1

 ATTACHMENT 6 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE APPENDIX B

 EEK/RAM:eek/ram 112211v2.doc July 31, 1998 Ver. 2

 ATTACHMENT 1

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS

 Table of Contents

 Ballard Interbay Northend Manufacturing/Industrial Center

Crown Hill/Ballard

 ATTACHMENT 2

 Crown Hill/Ballard Neighborhood Specific Goals and Policies

 Economic Development

 G1: A defined, vital, accessible mixed use core with residential and commercial activity in the Ballard Hub Urban Village and Crown Hill Residential Urban Village.

 CH/B 1: Employ economic development strategies that build on Ballard's history and welcome the variety of traditions represented in the area's population and businesses to create a family-friendly neighborhood that offers the best of Seattle living.

 CH/B 2: Improve the attractiveness of the business areas in the Ballard Hub Urban Village and the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village to businesses, residents and shoppers through creation of pleasant streetscapes and public spaces.

 CH/B 3: Strive to create a mix of locally-owned, unique businesses and regional and national retailers.

 CH/B 4: Encourage tourists visiting the Ballard Locks to patronize businesses in the neighborhood.

 Residential Development

 G2: A community with housing types that range from single family to moderate density multifamily.

 G3: A civic complex in the core of the Ballard Hub Urban Village that incorporates moderate density housing as well as public open space and other public and private services.

 CH/B5: Accommodate the majority of new housing units and increases in density in the central areas of the Ballard and Crown Hill urban villages.

 CH/B6: Maintain the physical character of the single family-zoned areas in the Crown Hill/Ballard plan area.

 Transportation

 G4: A transportation system that supports residential, commercial and civic activity in the core of the Ballard and Crown Hill urban villages, and encourages people to use transit and non-motorized transportation modes.

 CH/B7: Improve mobility for people using all modes of transportation to, within and around the Ballard Hub Urban Village to increase retail, commercial and civic activity. Improve mobility for people using all modes of transportation to, within, and around the Crown Hill Urban Village to serve the residents and businesses there.

 CH/B8: Emphasize accessibility by transit, bicycle and pedestrians in the downtown Ballard area.

 CH/B9: Preserve the function of 15th Avenue NW as a principal arterial and a major truck street, but strive to overcome the street as a barrier that isolates the neighborhood areas to the east and west from each other and to improve its contribution to the visual character of Crown Hill and Ballard.

 CH/B10: Strive to improve the pedestrian environment along NW Market Street while retaining its function as a principal arterial.

 CH/B11: Take advantage of present and future economic, cultural and open space developments to enhance the bicycle and pedestrian network.

 CH/B12: Work with the Regional Transit Authority and King County/Metro to ensure that Ballard residents and businesses are served by the Regional Transit Authority and King County/Metro systems.

 Recreation and Open Space

 G5: A neighborhood with open space, parks and recreation sites connected by a network of "green links," that offer a full range of active and passive recreational opportunities to area residents and visitors, throughout Crown Hill/Ballard.

 CH/B13: Increase the range of recreation opportunities and types of open space available in the neighborhood. Encourage the development of new facilities, including, but not limited to passive parks, tennis courts, basketball courts, ballfields, play areas, marine and shoreline parks, pedestrian-friendly walkways, trails (including the Burke-Gilman), and gateways.

 CH/B14: Enhance existing open space and recreation sites and facilities throughout Crown/Hill Ballard.

 CH/B15: Create opportunities for people to experience the natural environment through the preservation of publicly-owned forested areas, encouraging community gardening (P-patches), and tree planting on private property and in the public right-of-way, and creating access to views and waterways.

 Arts and Culture

 G7 A rich, diverse and accessible cultural life that serves as the basis for neighborhood identity and helps build a livable community.

 CH/B16: Promote Ballard as a hub of arts, culture and entertainment.

 CH/B17: Engage in cultural activities that promote community revitalization and historic preservation.

 CH/B18: Encourage the development of indoor and outdoor facilities in which cultural activities can take place.

 CH/B19: Address the lack of affordable live/work spaces for artists and others in Seattle through promoting the adaptive reuse of historic buildings in the Ballard Landmark District and other nearby areas as appropriate.

 CH/B20: Seek to attract industrial uses that could have a symbiotic relationship with the local arts community, including but not limited to, glass blowing facilities, welding and metalwork shops, facilities that recycle materials into usable objects, woodworking facilities, or large-scale ceramics.

 CH/B21: Define and promote Crown Hill/Ballard's identity by establishing a series of welcoming gateways, such as landscaped areas or artworks, at key entry points to the neighborhood.

 Human Services

 G7: A caring community that nurtures and supports all its members, particularly the most vulnerable, including children, youth and the elderly.

 CH/B22: Create a strong network with multiple access points that link neighborhood organizations and service providers to fully utilize resources and to improve the awareness and use of services among those that need them in Crown Hill/Ballard.

 Capital Facilities and Utilities

 The goals and policies of the capital facilities and utilities elements of the Comprehensive Plan express vision of the Crown Hill/Ballard neighborhood.

 ATTACHMENT 3

 AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT

 L33: Preliminarily designate the following~~seven~~locations as hub urban villages (Land Use Figure 1), subject to future objective analysis in the neighborhood planning process:

~~Ballard~~1.~~2.~~ West Seattle Junction

2.~~3.~~ Lake City

3.~~4.~~ Fremont

4.~~5.~~ Aurora at N 130th

5.~~6.~~ Rainier Avenue/I-90

6.~~7.~~ South Lake Union

Designate the following locations as hub urban villages (Land Use Figure 1):  Ballard

 L44: (add new paragraph following existing policy)

Designate the following residential urban villages as shown on Land Use Figure 1, above:

1. Crown Hill

 L54: (add new paragraph following existing policy)

Designate the following neighborhood anchor locations as shown on Land Use Figure 1, above:

#5 24th Ave. NW @ NW 77th  #7 6th Ave NW @ NE 75th

 G36 (add new paragraphs following existing policy)

Achieve the following 20-year growth targets in hub urban villages:

Residential GrowthEmployment Growth

Ballardapprox. 1520 householdsapprox. 3700 jobs

Achieve the following 20-year growth targets in residential urban villages:

Residential Growth  Crown Hill

approx. 310 households

 ATTACHMENT 4

 CAPITAL FACILITIES AND UTILITIES INVENTORIES AND ANALYSES AND TRANSPORTATION ANALYSES

 Inventory for Facilities and Utilities Serving Ballard Hub Urban Village

 Facility Name Location Capacity Information Type Sources/Comments

 Fire SFD 18 1521 NW Market St. Engine Co., Ladder Co., Seattle Fire Department Station Aid, Salvage, Battalion

 Police North Precinct 10049 College Way 32.04 sq. mi. service area, Seattle Police Department Station N. 1990 population 228,659 Patrol units are allocated around-the-clock based on calls for service. Location and size of facilities are not critical to service provision.

 Schools Adams Elementary 6110 28th Avenue 450 students Seattle Public Schools' West Woodland NW 450 students 1995-1996 Choices, Seattle Elementary 5601 4th Avenue NW Public Schools, 1995 All 10 Middle Schools Seattle Public Schools All 10 High Schools database

 Library Ballard Branch 5711 24th Ave. NW 7296 sq. ft, 1990 Seattle Public Library population served 33,168, Statistical Report, EDL&A, or .31 sq. ft/capita + .32 December 1992 sq. ft/capita in citywide facilities

 Parks Ballard Playground 6020 - 28th Ave. 3.1 ac: 2 softball fields Open Spaces, Parks and NW or 1 football/soccer field, Facilities Inventory, play area Seattle Department of

 Bergen Place NW Market St. & 0.2 ac: Benches, awnings, Parks and Recreation, Leary Ave. NW mural August 1989 Urban Villages Open Space Analyses,

 Marvin Gardens 22nd Ave. NW & 0.01 ac: Benches, Office of Management and Ballard Ave. NW planting, bell tower Planning

 Ballard Pool Tennis 15th Av NW & NW 0.9 ac: 4 floodlit tennis Courts 67th St courts

 Gilman Playground NW 54th St & 11th 3.9 ac: Shelterhouse, 2 Av NW softball fields or 1 football/soccer field, play area, 2 tennis courts, roses

 Hiram Chittenden Locks 3400 Seaview Ave. 7 ac: Locks, gardens, & NW wooded areas, salmon ladder Carl English Gardens (US Army Corps of Engineers)

 Other4 Ballard Community 6020 - 28th Ave. >10,000 sq. ft: Gym, kids Center NW room, crafts room, meeting room, game room, kitchen

 Ballard Swimming Pool 1471 NW 67th St. 0.9 ac: Indoor pool

 Electrical Canal Substation 8th Ave. NW & NW 160 Megawatts Seattle City Light, October Power 45th St. 1996 This village is located in City Light's Northwest forecast area, which has a total capacity of 390 megawatts.

 Water This village is located in the 316 Greenlake Reservoir: 50 Seattle Water Department, pressure zone. The water for this area million gallons October-November, 1996 comes from the Cedar River supply. Lincoln Reservoir: 21 In this pressure zone, Storage is provided in the Greenlake million gallons elevations range from Reservoir (14th Ave. NE & NE 73rd St.) or 20-154 feet above sea Lincoln Reservoir (Nagel Pl. & E. Howell Supply mains were level; static water St.). constructed primarily pressure ranges from 70-128 before 1949. Pipes are pounds per square inch. See Map for system locations. predominately of cast iron. The minimum pressure in this area is considered very good.

 Drainage & This village is served by a Partially With Partially Separated Seattle Drainage and Wastewater Separated system. systems, about 15% of the Wastewater Utility, See Map for system locations. stormwater enters the sewer November 1996 system, with the remaining 85% diverted to the storm Partial Separation System: drain system. Capacity of A system where the water the Partially Separated from street and major systems in this area is parking lot drainage is considered adequate. Sewer collected and transferred rehabilitation projects in one pipe or ditch and (part of the 6-year Capital culvert system, and the Improvement Program) are other surface wastewater performed as needed which such as that from roof may enhance system drains is carried with the capacity. sanitary sewer in a sewer pipe.

 Capital Facilities and Utilities Analysis Ballard Hub Urban Village

 Facilities needed to accommodate:

 Facility 6-year growth 20-year growth Analysis Type

 Fire None None expected at Fire Station #18, the closest to this urban village, has an this time. average response time of 3.66 minutes for emergency medical calls and 4.63 minutes for fire calls. Industry standards are to maintain a 4-6 minute response time or less for emergency medical calls and a 5-minute or less response time for first response to fire emergencies. Response times for this station meet industry standards and are expected to for the next six years.

 Police None Additional In 1998 the Police Department will conduct a Police Precinct precinct space Planning Study intended to address the impacts of the shifting may be required. emphasis toward community policing techniques on the need for and nature of precinct-related facilities. The project will also contain an operational plan for precinct-based operations and a facilities plan for supporting those operations. Different facility requirements may be identified and planned for as a result of this study.

 Schools School facility expansions or Seattle School district standard physical goals are as follows improvements are not expected for : a) Elementary schools: 380-535 students, 4-acre site; to be required as a result of b) Middle school: 600-800 students, 12-acre site; and c) growth in this village. High School 1,000-1,600 students, 17-acre site. Currently, about 50% of public school students attend schools in their neighborhoods, and the other 50% choose schools elsewhere. Phase One of the School District's Building Excellence program includes demolition, and all new construction of Ballard High School on an expanded site.

 Electricity None North Substation Electrical demand from this village is estimated to increase by rebuild will 1.7 annual average megawatts and 4.0 megawatts in a peak hour replace two old in 6 years. transformers, and a fourth This village is located in City Light's Northwest forecast transformer at area. In 6 years, capacity in this forecast area will be 390 the Shoreline megawatts, and demand is expected to be 293 megawatts. In 20 Substation will years, capacity in this forecast area will be 426 megawatts, increase and demand is expected to be 338 megawatts. In both years, capacity in this capacity is more than adequate to meet demand. forecast area.  Market Unit at 2826 NW Market is tentatively scheduled for de-energizing in 2000 and decommissioning in 2001-2002.

 Water None None expected at Current peak day demand estimate: 2.2 million gallons per day this time. (mgd). Peak day demand estimate in 6 yrs: 2.6 mgd or 18% increase. Peak day demand estimate in 20 years: 3.4 mgd or 53.5% increase. The supply and distribution network is in generally good order and appears to be adequately sized to accommodate demand through 2002. If growth is concentrated in certain locales, it is possible that local improvements would be needed.

 Drainage No new facilities are expected The Drainage Control Ordinance requires on-site detention of and to be required because of new stormwater runoff associated with new development or Wastewater growth. significant redevelopment. Limiting the rate of stormwater runoff from these sites more than offsets the increases in sewage flow from increased population density. The net effect of new development/redevelopment in this area will be a decrease in the peak rates of flow during storm events. Depending on the concentration of actual development, it is possible that isolated sewer capacity improvements would be needed.

 For partially separated systems, wastes from growth will constitute small incremental flows that are not likely to exceed capacity. On-site detention requirements for new growth will address the adequacy of the drainage system for this area.

 Transportation Analysis7 for Ballard Hub Urban Village

 Arterial Existing Forecast 2010

 Arterial Segment Class Direction V/C V/C ratio ratio

 15th Ave. NW NW Leary Way - Principal Northbound 1.1 1.2

 NW Market St. Southbound 0.7 0.7

 15th Ave. NW NW Market St. - Principal Northbound 1.1 1.2

 NW 65th St. Southbound 0.6 0.6

 NW Market St. 32nd Ave. NW - Minor Eastbound 0.4 0.5 /

 NW 54th St. 24th Ave. NW Westbound 0.5 0.6

 NW Market St. 24th Ave. NW - Principal Eastbound 0.5 0.6

 15th Ave. NW Westbound 0.4 0.5

 NW Market St. 15th Ave. NW - Principal Eastbound 0.6 0.7

 8th Ave. NW Westbound 0.5 0.6

 NW 65th St. 32nd Ave. NW - Collector Eastbound 0.4 0.4

 24th Ave. NW Westbound 0.5 0.6

 NW 65th St. 24th Ave. NW - Minor Eastbound 0.8 0.8

 15th Ave. NW Westbound 0.6 0.7

 NW 65th St. 15th Ave. NW - Minor Eastbound 0.7 0.8

 8th Ave. NW Westbound 0.6 0.6

 Leary Ave. NW NW Market St. - Principal Northwestboun 0.3 0.3 d

 NW Leary Way Southeastboun 0.2 0.3 d

 24th Ave. NW NW Market St. - Minor Northbound 0.5 0.5

 NW 65th St. Southbound 0.3 0.3

 20th Ave. NW Market St. NW - Collector Northbound 0.5 0.6

 NW 65th St. Southbound 0.3 0.4

 14th Ave. NW NW 46th St. - Collector Northbound 0.6 0.8

 NW Market St. Southbound 0.2 0.3

 14th Ave. NW NW Market St. - Collector Northbound 0.4 0.6

 NW 65th St. Southbound 0.4 0.5

 The volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratio is an indicator of congestion. The table above shows existing V/C ratios and projections of V/C ratios for a typical evening peak hour in 2010 for all arterials in the Ballard hub urban village. The existing V/C ratios are estimated from traffic counts collected in 1992 through 1995. Compare existing V/C ratios to the 2010 forecast to see the potential change over 20 years.

 The V/C ratio can be used to identify areas where neighborhood or citywide transportation plans could encourage changes in travel behavior (e.g., mode, time of travel, destination) or improve operation of the street (e.g., by changing signal timing and the like). The capacity of a street is not a fixed number of vehicles that can never be exceeded. Rather, it is a relative measure of traffic flow.

 Arterial segments with a V/C ratio exceeding 1.0 now or possibly in the future might warrant attention in a neighborhood plan. High V/C ratios may be tolerable if the result is to shift people into other modes, or is a result of the development densities necessary for a vital urban village.

 Existing conditions: 15th Ave. NW from NW Leary Way to NW 65th St. has a V/C ratio near 1.1. All other arterial streets have V/C ratios at or below 0.8.

 15th Ave. NW, NW Market St. east of 15th Ave. NW, and Leary Ave. NW are principal arterials. South of the urban village, 15th Ave. NW (Ballard Bridge) is one of six arterials/highways crossing the Ship Canal.

 15th Ave. NW, NW Market St. east of 24th Ave. NW, Leary Ave. NW, and 24th Ave. NW are Transit Priority Network streets.

 Future conditions: The V/C ratio on 15th Ave. NW is projected to increase to above 1.1. All other arterials are projected to have V/C ratios at or below 0.8.

 Inventory for Facilities and Utilities Serving Crown Hill Residential Urban Village

 Facility Name Location Capacity Information Type Sources/Comments

 Fire SFD 35 8729 15th Ave. NW Engine Co. Seattle Fire Department Station

 Police North Precinct 10049 College Way 32.04 sq. mi. service area, Seattle Police Department Station N. 1990 population 228,659 Patrol units are allocated around-the-clock based on calls for service. Location and size of facilities are not critical to service provision.

 Schools North Beach Elementary 9018 24th Ave. NW 275 students Seattle Public Schools' Whittier Elementary 7501 13th Ave. NW 475 students 1995-1996 Choices, Seattle Loyal Heights 2511 NW 80th St. 350 students Public Schools, 1995 Elementary Seattle Public Schools All 10 Middle Schools database All 10 High Schools

 Library Greenwood Branch 8016 Greenwood 7094 sq. ft, 1990 pop Seattle Public Library Ave. N. served 23,342, or .30 sq. Statistical Report, EDL&A, ft/capita + .32 sq. December 1992 ft/capita in citywide facilities

 Parks Soundview Playfield NW 90th St. & 15th 10.5 ac: 2 Tennis courts, Open Spaces, Parks and Ave. NW 3 softball fields and 1 Facilities Inventory, baseball field, or 2 Seattle Department of Parks football/soccer fields, and Recreation, August 1989 comfort station, play area, Urban Villages Open Space wading pool Analyses, Office of Management and Planning

 Electrical Viewland-Hoffman 105th N & Fremont 214 Megawatts Seattle City Light, October power substation 1996 This village is located in City Light's Northwest forecast area, which has a total capacity of 390 megawatts.

 Water The majority of this village is located Bitter Lake Reservoir: Seattle Water Department, in the 499 pressure zone, with some area 21.5 million gallons October-November, 1996 in the 420 pressure zone. Water for Maple Leaf Reservoir: 60 In the 499 pressure zone, this area comes from both the Cedar River million gallons elevations range from and Tolt water supplies. Storage is 298-360 feet above sea provided by the Bitter Lake Reservoir The pipe network was mostly level; static water (Linden Ave. NE & NE 143rd St.) and the constructed between pressure ranges from 60-87 Maple Leaf Reservoir (NE Roosevelt Way & 1920-1950s. Pipes are pounds per square inch. NE 82nd St.). predominately of cast iron. The minimum pressure in this area is considered See Map for system locations. very good. In the 420 pressure zone, elevations range from 282-317 feet above sea level; static water pressure ranges from 45-60 pounds per square inch. The minimum pressure in this area is considered adequate.

 Drainage & The northern half of the village is In areas with ditch & Seattle Drainage and Wastewater served by a Separated system where there culvert drainage systems, Wastewater Utility, is a Ditch & Culvert drainage system; the sewage systems are sized November 1996 southern half of the village is served by for full zoned development a Combined system. and capacity is considered Separate Sanitary and adequate. Stormwater System: A This village is located in the Pipers Drainage systems in these system where the sanitary Creek Drainage Basin, which covers areas occasionally lack wastes are transferred in about 1,835 acres. In the Pipers Creek adequate capacity. CIP one pipe, and roof and basin, south of Holman Road the drainage projects to provide street runoff is carried in is carried by an extensive pipe network additional capacity are a separate pipe or through that was constructed in the early 1960's. part of a 15-year program a ditch & culvert system. The area north of Holman Road is drained in the City's adopted by ditches to Pipers Creek. Stormwater Comprehensive Drainage Combined also enters the sanitary sewer system Plan. Sanitary/Stormwater System: which empties to the Carkeek Wastewater A system where all Treatment Plant. Drains to Pipers Creek With Combined systems, sanitary and storm and Venema Creek empty into Puget Sound. existing sewage flows wastewater is carried Pipers Creek is the one of the few constitute about 5% of pipe through the system in one remaining functioning salmon streams in capacity, with the sewer pipe. Seattle. remainder for stormwater flows. Capacity of the See Map for system locations. combined systems in this area is considered adequate. Sewer rehabilitation projects (part of the 6- year Capital Improvement Program) are performed as needed which may enhance system capacity.

 Capital Facilities and Utilities Analysis Expected 6-yr. HH Growth: 85

 Crown Hill Residential Urban Village Expected 20-yr. HH Growth: 310

 Land Area: 173 Acres

 Facilities needed to accommodate:

 Facility 6-year growth 20-year growth Analysis Type

 Fire None None expected at Fire Station #35, the closest to this urban village, has an this time. average response time of 3.49 minutes for emergency medical calls and 4.59 minutes for fire calls. Industry standards are to maintain a 4-6 minute response time or less for emergency medical calls and a 5-minute or less response time for first response to fire emergencies. Response times for this station meet industry standards and are expected to for the next six years.

 Police None Additional In 1998 the Police Department will conduct a Police Precinct precinct space Planning Study intended to address the impacts of the shifting may be required. emphasis toward community policing techniques on the need for and nature of precinct-related facilities. The project will also contain an operational plan for precinct-based operations and a facilities plan for supporting those operations. Different facility requirements may be identified and planned for as a result of this study.

 Schools School facility expansions or Seattle School District standard physical goals are as follows improvements are not expected for : a) Elementary schools: 380-535 students, 4-acre site; to be required as a result of b) Middle school: 600-800 students, 12-acre site; and c) growth in this village. High School 1,000-1,600 students, 17-acre site. Currently, about 50% of public school students attend schools in their neighborhoods, and the other 50% choose schools elsewhere. Phase One of the School District's Building Excellence program includes demolition and all new construction of Whittier Elementary. Phase Two of the program calls for demolition and all new  construction of Loyal Heights Elementary. Voters have not yet approved funds for this phase.

 Electricity None North Substation Electrical demand from this village is estimated to increase by rebuild will 0.2 annual average megawatts and 0.6 megawatts in a peak hour replace two old in 6 years. transformers, and a fourth This village is located in City Light's Northwest forecast transformer will area. In 6 years, capacity in this forecast area will be 390 be added to the megawatts, and demand is expected to be 293 megawatts. In 20 Shoreline years, capacity in this forecast area will be 426 megawatts, Substation, and demand is expected to be 338 megawatts. In both years, increasing capacity is more than adequate to meet demand. capacity in this forecast area. Olympic Unit at 8032 15 Ave. NW is tentatively scheduled for de-energizing in 2001, de-commissioning in 2002-2003.

 Water None None expected at Current peak day demand estimate: 0.71 million gallons per day this time. (mgd). Peak day demand estimate in 6 yrs: 0.76 mgd or 8% increase. Peak day demand estimate in 20 years: 0.89 mgd or 26% increase. The supply and distribution network is in generally good order and appears to be adequately sized to accommodate demand through 2002. If growth is concentrated in certain locales, it is possible that local improvements would be needed.

 Drainage No new facilities are expected The Drainage Control Ordinance requires on-site detention of and to be required because of new stormwater runoff associated with new development or Wastewater growth. significant redevelopment. Limiting the rate of stormwater runoff from these sites more than offsets the increases in sewage flow from increased population density. The net effect of new development/redevelopment in this area will be a decrease in the peak rates of flow during storm events. Depending on the concentration of actual development, it is possible that isolated sewer capacity improvements would be needed.

 In areas with ditch & culvert stormwater systems, sewage systems are sized for full zoned development; capacity is considered adequate to serve growth. Drainage system improvements in the Comprehensive Drainage Plan and on-site detention requirements for new growth will address the adequacy of the drainage system for this area.

 With Combined systems, existing sewage flows constitute only about 5% of pipe capacity, and wastes from growth will constitute small incremental flows that are not likely to exceed capacity. On-site detention requirements for new growth will address the adequacy of the drainage system for this area.

 See Pipers Creek Basin Plan in 1995 Comprehensive Drainage Plan Update, Seattle Drainage and Wastewater Utility

 Transportation Analysis14 for Crown Hill Residential Urban Village

 Arterial Existing Forecast 2010 Arterial Segment Class Direction V/C V/C ratio

 15th Ave. NW NW 80th St. - Principal Northbound 0.9 1.1

 Holman Rd NW Southbound 0.7 0.8

 15th Ave. NW Holman Rd NW - Collector Northbound 0.4 0.4

 NW 96th St. Southbound 0.4 0.4

 Holman Rd NW 15th Ave. NW - Principal Northeastboun 0.8 0.9 d

 12th Ave. NW Southwestboun 0.5 0.6 d

 NW 80th St. 24th Ave. NW - Minor Eastbound 0.4 0.4

 15th Ave. NW Westbound 0.5 0.5

 NW 80th St. 15th Ave. NW - Minor Eastbound 0.4 0.5

 8th Ave. NW Westbound 0.5 0.6

 NW 85th St. 24th Ave. NW - Minor Eastbound 0.5 0.6

 15th Ave. NW Westbound 0.7 0.7

 NW 85th St. 15th Ave. NW - Principal Eastbound 0.6 0.6 8th Ave. NW

 Westbound 0.7 0.7

 The volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratio is an indicator of congestion. The table above shows existing V/C ratios and projections of V/C ratios for a typical evening peak hour in 2010 for all arterials in the Crown Hill residential urban village. The existing V/C ratios are estimated from traffic counts collected in 1992 through 1995. Compare existing V/C ratios to the 2010 forecast to see the potential change over 20 years.

 The V/C ratio can be used to identify areas where neighborhood or citywide transportation plans could encourage changes in travel behavior (e.g., mode, time of travel, destination) or improve operation of the street (e.g., by changing signal timing and the like). The capacity of a street is not a fixed number of vehicles that can never be exceeded. Rather, it is a relative measure of traffic flow.

 Arterial segments with a V/C ratio exceeding 1.0 now or possibly in the future might warrant attention in a neighborhood plan. High V/C ratios may be tolerable if the result is to shift people into other modes, or is a result of the development densities necessary for a vital urban village.

 Existing conditions: 15th Ave. NW between NW 80th St. to Holman Rd. NW has a V/C ratio of approximately 0.9. All other arterial streets have V/C ratios at or below 0.8.

 15th Ave. NW south of Holman Rd. NW, Holman Rd. NW, and NW 85th St. east of 15th Ave. NW are principal arterials. Together, 15th Ave. NW and Holman Rd. NW provide a continuous arterial connecting Ballard and the Interbay area to North Seattle and I-5.

 The three principal arterials in the Crown Hill urban village are also Transit Priority Network streets. In addition, NW 85th St. west of 15th Ave. NW is on the Transit Priority Network.

 Future conditions: The V/C ratio on 15th Ave. NW is projected to increase above 1.0, and the V/C ratio on Holman Rd NW is projected to increase to near 0.9. All other arterials are projected to have V/C ratios below 0.8.

 ATTACHMENT 5

 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENTS:

 LAND USE FIGURE 1

 LAND USE FIGURE A-1

 ATTACHMENT 6

 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE APPENDIX B

 LAND USE APPENDIX B

 Growth Planning Estimates for Urban Centers, Center Villages, Hub Urban Villages, and Residential Urban Villages

 LAND USE APPENDIX BLAND USE APPENDIX B (Continued) Growth Planning Estimates for Urban Centers, Center Villages, Hub Urban Villages, and Residential Urban Villages

 Village Land Area Household Employme in s (HH) nt (Jobs)

 Acres Existing Existing Growth Estimated Existing Existing Growth Estimated Density Target 2010 Density Target 2010 (HH/Acre) or Density (Jobs/Acre or Density Planning ) Planning Estimate Estimate (HH (Job Growth) Growth)

 Urban Centers & Center Villages

 Downtown Urban Center 945 7421 7.9 NA1 23.4 165119 175 NA1 241 Total

 Denny Regrade Village 216 3492 16.2 6500 46.3 22699 105 4500 126

 Westlake Village 143 514 3.6 3500 28.1 22010 154 23600 319

 Commercial Core Village 275 1435 5.2 1300 9.9 106823 388 27000 487

 Pioneer Square Village 142 376 2.6 21002 17.4 9113 64 48002 98

 International District 169 1604 9.5 1300 17.2 4474 26 2800 43 Village

 First Hill/Cap. Hill 912 21673 23.8 NA1 30.0 33393 37 NA1 50 Center Total

 First Hill Village 225 5896 26.2 2400 36.9 20626 85 6100 119

 Capitol Hill Village 396 12450 31.4 1980 36.4 5284 13 3000 21

 Pike/Pine Village 131 2349 18.0 620 22.7 3963 30 1400 41

 South Capitol Hill 160 978 6.1 540 9.5 3520 22 1200 30 Village

 Univ. Dist. Urban Center 770 11611 15.0 NA1 17.8 31427 41 NA1 52 Total

 University Dist. NW 289 4324 14.9 1630 20.5 8625 30 3000 40 Village

 University Village 122 973 8.0 480 12.0 1580 13 700 19 Village

 University Campus 359 6313 17.6 03 17.6 21222 59 4800 72 Village

 Northgate Urb. Center 410 3291 8.0 NA1 15.3 11366 28 NA1 50 Total

 Sea. Center Urb. Center 297 3138 10.6 NA1 15.0 19,000 64 NA1 75 Total

 Hub Urban Villages4

 Ballard 323 4279 13.2 1520 17.9 3518 11 3700 22

 Fremont 339 3766 11.1 820 13.5 6937 20 1700 25

 Lake City 310 2740 8.8 1400 13.3 2827 9 2900 18

 W. Seattle Junction 225 1835 8.2 1100 13.0 3108 14 2300 24

 Aurora Ave N @ 130th St 344 2271 6.6 1260 10.3 4027 12 2800 20

 Rainier Ave @ I-90 415 2043 4.9 1200 7.8 3371 8 3500 17

 South Lake Union 446 461 1.0 17005 4.8 15230 34 4500 44

 Residential Urban Villages4

 Aurora N @ 97th St 288 2106 7.3 900 10.4 NA NA NA NA

 Greenwood 202 1283 6.4 350 8.1 NA NA NA NA

 Upper Queen Anne 103 1063 10.3 300 13.2 NA NA NA NA

 Eastlake 205 2423 11.8 380 13.6 NA NA NA NA

 23rd Ave S @ S Jackson 485 3186 6.6 900 8.4 NA NA NA NA St

 Admiral District 103 798 7.8 340 11.1 NA NA NA NA

 Green Lake 107 1439 13.4 400 17.2 NA NA NA NA

 Roosevelt 160 1007 6.3 340 8.4 NA NA NA NA

 Wallingford 245 1973 8.1 200 8.9 NA NA NA NA

 Rainier Beach 227 1482 6.5 740 9.8 NA NA NA NA

 Columbia City 313 1639 5.2 740 7.6 NA NA NA NA

 SW Barton St @ 25th Ave 278 1654 6.0 700 8.5 NA NA NA NA S

 Beacon Hill 171 1844 10.8 550 14.0 NA NA NA NA

 Crown Hill 173 929 5.4 310 7.2 NA NA NA NA

 MLK Jr Wy S @ Holly St 380 1247 3.3 8006 5.4 NA NA NA NA

 South Park 264 997 3.8 350 5.1 NA NA NA NA

 21st Ave E @ E Madison 145 1486 10.3 400 13.0 NA NA NA NA St

 California @ SW Morgan 139 1104 8.0 300 10.1 NA NA NA NA St

 LAND USE ELEMENT APPENDIX B

 Footnotes

 1 Urban centers are not assigned planning estimates. Growth targets for urban centers are established in land use element section C.  Growth targets for urban villages are established upon adoption of a neighborhood plan.

 2 Assumes north Kingdome parking lot and vacant floor area in existing structures is available to accommodate a substantial share of household and employment growth.

 3 No additional student housing growth according to UW General Physical Development Plan.

 4 The areas to which numbers apply for land area, existing households and jobs, planning estimates and existing and planned densities for each hub and residential urban village are the unadopted village boundaries shown in Land Use Appendix A, above.

 5 Eighty percent of the current zoning capacity in South Lake Union can accommodate 1,700 households. To guide the Seattle Commons planning effort, the long-term residential planning estimate for the area is a total of 4,900 households. It is assumed that the 3,200 households that presently cannot be accommodated in the area will be accommodated elsewhere in the city where there is available zoning capacity until necessary zoning changes can be made under the Seattle Commons Plan.

 6 Because of the potential for redevelopment of the Holly Park Garden Community according to a neighborhood plan currently underway, a greater growth planning estimate is established for this area relative to other similar residential urban villages.

 1 For an overview of City facilities, see Community Services and Facilities, Public Utilities Background Report, City of Seattle, Office of Management and Planning, 1990. 2 The nearest station is listed; Fire and Emergency Medical Services are generally provided by the nearest station. In the case of larger fires, firefighting and medical resources are also dispatched from other stations. Aid units and fire engines are equipped to handle many medical emergencies; medic units are dispatched to serious medical emergencies.

 3 Through the student assignment plan, the village is served by a number of designated regular elementary schools, and at least six Seattle School District Alternative Schools. School capacities are determined in part by the mix of programs offered and the number of portable classrooms used, and are subject to change. 4 Parks and Other Resources shown are inside the village or within 1/8 mile of the unadopted village boundary.

 5 Minimum working pressure of 30 psi is the standard for new construction and 80 psi is the new standard for maximum pressure. Some areas of Seattle exceed the maximum and other areas have less than the minimum pressure. 6 An explanation of the methodologies used to assess adequacy can be obtained from the Neighborhood Planning Office. 7 The results of this analysis are not intended for measuring concurrency. Previous concurrency analyses contained in the Comprehensive Plan indicate that Level-of-Service standards will not be exceeded by the 20-year growth projected for this area (see Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element).

 8 For an overview of City facilities, see Community Services and Facilities, Public Utilities Background Report, City of Seattle, Office of Management and Planning, 1990. 9 The nearest station is listed; Fire and Emergency Medical Services are generally provided by the nearest station. In the case of larger fires, firefighting and medical resources are also dispatched from other stations. Aid units and fire engines are equipped to handle many medical emergencies; medic units are dispatched to serious medical emergencies.

 10 Through the student assignment plan, the village is served by a number of designated regular elementary schools, and at least six Seattle School District Alternative Schools. School capacities are determined in part by the mix of programs offered and the number of portable classrooms used, and are subject to change.

 11 Parks and Other Resources shown are inside the village or within 1/8 mile of the unadopted village boundary. 12 Minimum working pressure of 30 psi is the standard for new construction and 80 psi is the new standard for maximum pressure. Some areas of Seattle exceed the maximum and other areas have less than the minimum pressure. 13 An explanation of the methodologies used to assess adequacy can be obtained from the Neighborhood Planning Office. 14 The results of this analysis are not intended for measuring concurrency. Previous concurrency analyses contained in the Comprehensive Plan indicate that Level-of-Service standards will not be exceeded by the 20-year growth projected for this area (see Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element).

 Ver. 2 c:\current\nghplng\blrdcrnh\211AV2.doc

```
