

********

**Council Bill Number: 112365**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119255**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; repealing Seattle Municipal Code Chapters 22.901A through 22.901T; and adding new Chapters 22.900A through 22.900G, regulating fees for land use and zoning review, fees for new and altered buildings, charges for certain certificates and registrations; and fees for the Department of Neighborhoods, Seattle Transportation Department, Seattle Public Utilities, Seattle-King County Department of Public Health and the Seattle Arts Commission.

**Status:** PASSED AS AMENDED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 23, 1998
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 2, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 2, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 21, 1998
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** FEES, DEPARTMENT-OF-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, PERMITS, BUILDING-PERMITS, LAND-USE-PERMITS, DEPARTMENT-OF-NEIGHBORHOODS, TRANSPORTATION-DEPARTMENT, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, SEATTLE-KING-COUNTY-DEPARTMENT-OF-PUBLIC-HEALTH, SEATTLE-ARTS-COMMISSION

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees and charges for permits and activities of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; repealing Seattle Municipal Code Chapters 22.901A through 22.901T; and adding new Chapters 22.900A through 22.900G, regulating fees for land use and zoning review, fees for new and altered buildings, charges for certain certificates and registrations; and fees for the Department of Neighborhoods, Seattle Transportation Department, Seattle Public Utilities, Seattle-King County Department of Public Health and the Seattle Arts Commission.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Chapters 22.901A through 22.901T of the Seattle Municipal Code are hereby repealed.

 Section 2. The Seattle Municipal Code is amended by adding new Chapters 22.900A through 22.900G as follows:

 CHAPTER 22.900A - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

 22.900A.010 Title.

 Chapters 22.900A through 22.900G shall be known as the "Fee Subtitle," may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "this subtitle." 22.900A.020 Purpose.

 A. It is the purpose of this subtitle to prescribe equitable fees and fee collection policies for all services provided by the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use hereafter, "Department" or "DCLU" which are sufficient to support the permitting and permit inspection functions of the Department.

 B. An additional purpose of this subtitle is to prescribe special fees for testing, examination, registration, inspection, or the furnishing of certain services or materials. 22.900A.030 Payment and responsibility for fees.

 A. No permit shall be issued or approved, no Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued, and no drawing or other data relating to such permit shall be examined until the corresponding fees prescribed by this subtitle have been paid.

 B. Unless otherwise specified in this subtitle, each distinct component of an application, review, or permit shall be charged as a separate fee.

 C. Both the applicant for the permit, and the owner of the property for which the permit is required, are jointly and severally responsible for payment of fees required by this subtitle, regardless of whether the permit is issued or whether the application is canceled or denied before permit issuance. However, when an applicant is not the owner and is not acting, even in part, as agent for the owner, the applicant is solely responsible for payment of applicable fees.

 D. All unpaid annual rental housing registration fees for the period January 1, 1990 through December 31, 1996, as well as any late fees or associated penalties for nonpayment of such fees, are waived.

 E. The Director is authorized to accept as payment for fees contemplated under this ordinance the following forms of payment: U.S. currency, cashier's checks, corporate checks, traveler's checks, personal checks drawn on in-state banks, electronic funds transfers, and credit cards. Further, the Director has full authority to refuse any form of payment where the Director believes sufficient cause exists to question the City's ability to collect full payment. 22.900A.040 Administration and enforcement.

 A. For the purpose of this subtitle, the term "Director" means the Director of the Department or an authorized representative.

 B. The Director is authorized to administer, interpret, and enforce the provisions of this subtitle provided, that

 1. the Director of Public Health shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to fuel gas piping permits; and

 2. the Director of Transportation shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Seattle Transportation review of projects; and

 3. the Director of Seattle Public Utilities shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Seattle Public Utilities review of projects; and

 4. the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Certificates of Approval, Special Tax Valuation for Historic Properties and for environmental (SEPA) review of projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located in special review districts or landmark districts; and

 5. the Director of the Seattle Arts Commission shall administer, interpret and enforce sections of this subtitle that are applicable to Seattle Arts Commission review of projects.

 C. The Director is authorized to collect fees listed in the preceding paragraph for Seattle Transportation or Seattle Public Utilities, and to transfer those funds to them.

 D. Where no definite method is prescribed in the subtitle for calculating the amount of fees, the Director may assess charges as required to cover costs.

 E. The Director has full authority to specify the terms and conditions upon which services and materials are made available, and the fees as determined by the Director shall be consistent with the reasonable estimated cost to the City for furnishing such services or materials.

 F. The total fee assessed for any permit, decision, review, inspection, or approval shall be rounded to the nearest whole dollar (rounded down: $.01 through $.50; rounded up: $.51 through $.99). 22.900A.050 Transition.

 Fees for applications requiring a building code, mechanical code, land use, zoning or environmentally critical areas review shall be set according to the permit fee legislation in effect at the time the application was received by the Department, if one of the following occurs:

 1. The permit is issued within 12 months of the start of the initial review, or

 2. If longer than 12 months, the Director determines that there was reasonable and continuous progress on the completion of permit requirements.

 If neither Item 1 nor 2 occurs, the application shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect at the time of issuance.

 Exception: Fees for drainage, excavation, or shoring applications received prior to January 1, 1995 shall be subject to the permit fee legislation in effect on the date the fee is paid. 22.900A.060 Delinquent fees.

 A. Delinquent fees.

 Whenever any fees have not been paid within 30 days after the billing date, the person or persons responsible for payment of the fee may be billed, payable immediately, for the remainder of the fees due. Interest shall accrue on the unpaid balance at 12% per annum, with a minimum $1.00 charge. The Director is authorized to collect any fees that remain unpaid at 90 days after the billing date.

 B. Nonsufficient Funds Fees.

 Whenever checks accepted prove not to be covered by sufficient funds, the person or persons responsible for payment of the fee shall be billed, payable immediately, for the remainder of the fees due and a $20.00 charge. This shall be in addition to the delinquent fees assessed in 22.900A.060.A.

 C. Remedies.

 1. The Director may issue a stop-work order as provided in Section 22.900A.070 where the person or persons responsible for payment of a fee have not done so within 30 days after the billing.

 2. The Director may suspend processing and/or withhold issuance of a permit, decision, certificate or approval on any application where fees have not been fully paid, or on any subsequent or concurrent applications by the same person or persons responsible for payment of fee until such time as the fees are paid.

 3. The Director may take other actions to collect amounts due, including but not limited to, placing delinquent accounts on a "cash-only" basis. 22.900A.070 Work done without permit--Director's authority.

 A. It is unlawful to proceed with any work or with any portion of any construction, installation, alteration or repair when the fee herein required has not been paid.

 B. Should it be found that any work is proceeding for which the required permit or approval fee has not been paid, the Director may immediately order the suspension of such construction, installation, alteration or repair by posting a stop-work order on the structure or premises and/or by notifying the owner, lessee or person in charge. It is unlawful for any person to remove, mutilate, conceal or destroy posted lawful notice or to proceed with work after posting or notification until written authorization from the Director to proceed with the work has been received. 22.900A.080 Civil penalty for violations.

 A. Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this subtitle shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $25.00 per day for each failure to comply, from the date of failure to comply until compliance is achieved.

 B. The penalty imposed by this subtitle shall be collected by civil action brought in the name of the City and commenced in Municipal Court. The Director shall notify the City Attorney in writing of the name of any person subject to the penalty and the amount of the penalty and the City Attorney shall, with the assistance of the Director, take appropriate action to collect the penalty. 22.900A.090 Severability.

 If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this subtitle is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this subtitle. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this subtitle and each section, subsection, clause, or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, and phrases be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid.

 CHAPTER 22.900B - GENERAL PROVISIONS 22.900B.010 Base Fee and hourly rate.

 A. The Base Fee shall be charged as specified in this subtitle and shall be $110.00.

 B. Any services provided by the Department for which an hourly charge is assessed shall be charged at a rate specified in this subtitle. Applicants and owners shall be liable according to Section 22.900A.030C for all hourly charges incurred whether or not a favorable decision or recommendation is given by the Director or a project is canceled or denied.

 C. Where an hourly fee is specified, overtime shall be charged at that same rate; otherwise overtime shall be at a rate of $110.00 per hour. All overtime shall require approval by the Director. The minimum fee for each overtime request shall be one hour, with minimum increments of one-quarter hour, in addition to other permit fees established by this subtitle.

 D. The Director may bill an applicant and require payment for accrued hourly or overtime charges at any time in the permit review process.

 22.900B.020 Miscellaneous and special fees.

 A. General. Miscellaneous and special fees shall be assessed to recover City costs for services and materials which are not otherwise specified in this subtitle or where the valuation or other methodology normally used does not reflect actual conditions which may include but are not limited to the following:

 1. Notification, examination, consultation, testing, or inspection of proposals, sites (or locations), particular plans, construction, equipment, personnel or material which may be related to, but not directly covered by, a specific permit or approval process;

 2. Furnishing or certification of affidavits, reports, data, or similar documentation;

 3. Recording or filing documents with other agencies;

 4. Delivery and mailing costs.

 B. Failure to Cancel Missed Appointments. A fee of $35.00 per appointment shall be charged for failure by applicant to notify the Department at least 24 hours prior to a scheduled application intake appointment or a preapplication conference appointment that the appointment will not be kept.

 C. Expert Witness Testimony. The fee for expert witness testimony shall be charged at the hourly rate.

 D. Property address change. The fee to correct the property address on an application or, if applicable, on an issued permit is $26.00. When an address change is requested which is unrelated to an application for a permit or for an issued permit, a fee at the rate of one times the Base Fee shall be assessed.

 E. Microfilm copies of microfilm records. Charges for plans reproduced from the microfilm library are shown in Table B-1.

 Table B-1 - FEES FOR REPRODUCTIONS FROM MICROFILM

 Size or Type of Page Price

 81/2" X 11" or 81/2 " X 14" $.25 per page

 11" X 17" 1.00 per page

 Diazo 3.00 per diazo

 F. Special investigation.

 1. Where a special investigation is made for an action requiring Department approval, a fee in addition to the permit fee shall be assessed as provided in Table B-2:

 Table B-2 - SPECIAL INVESTIGATION FEES

 Value of Work (For Permit) Investigation Fee

 $ 0 - 5,000 $ 100.00

 $ 5,001- 50,000 $ 300.00

 $ 50,001- 100,000 $ 500.00

 $100,001- 500,000 $1,000.00

 $500,001- 5,000,000 $5,000.00

 Over $5,000,000 100% of permit fee

 2. When a permit fee is not determined by valuation, the special investigation fee will be two times the amount of the permit fee.

 3. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Director, the special investigation fee may be assessed at an hourly rate. Special investigation fees may be waived, at the discretion of the Director, for necessary work done in emergency situations.

 4. The payment of a special investigation fee shall not relieve any person from complying with the requirements of the applicable codes in the execution of the work nor from any violation penalties prescribed by law.

 5. The special investigation fee for a use not established by a permit under the current or previous Land Use Code shall be assessed at a rate of $100.00.

 G. Reinspection. To obtain a reinspection a permit holder shall be charged at the rate of one- half times the Base Fee per reinspection. No reinspection of the work shall be performed until the required fees have been paid; provided, that in the case of boilers and refrigeration systems, the permit holder may be billed for the reinspection fee. Reinspections of fuel-gas piping shall be charged according to Section 22.900G.030. 22.900B.030 Time of collection of fees.

 A. Fees shall be collected at the times specified elsewhere in this code. If not specified, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application.

 B. The fee collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, provided that hourly fees may be collected earlier, as described in Section 22.900B.010 D. Any fee in excess of the final calculated fee shall be refunded pursuant to Section 22.900B.050 and other sections of this code.

 C. At the time an application or permit is denied or canceled, the final fee shall be determined. If a balance is due to the Department, the Director shall have the authority to waive fees when strict application of the fees is inconsistent with the purpose of collecting the fee.

 22.900B.050 Refunds.

 A. Refunds may be authorized at the discretion of the Director when an application is withdrawn or canceled prior to the completion of the review and reinspection process. To initiate a refund, a completed refund request form along with all required documentation and a letter of explanation shall be submitted to the Director. The Director shall determine whether a refund is appropriate.

 B. The Department shall refund all rental housing registration fees paid for registration periods between January 1, 1990 and December 31, 1996 as provided under the court-approved settlement agreement in Margola v. Seattle, King County Cause No. 90-2-13716-3.

 C. Once notice has been provided to the applicant, a refund request shall not be approved in the following circumstances:

 1. For permits that have not been issued, if there has been no action by the applicant for 12 months or more from the date of application; or

 2. If the decision or permit has been issued for more than 6 months prior to filing the refund request;

 3. If the permit has been canceled for more than 6 months prior to filing the refund request; or

 4. For establishing a computer contact number; or

 5. For the following applications and/or permits:

 a. Demolition permits; b. Requests for renewal; c. Preapplication conferences; d. Interpretations; e. Legal building site letters; f. Certificates of land use; g. Rebuild letters; h. Development potential analysis; i. Establishing use for the record; j. Electrical reexamination and duplicate set examination; k. Renewal of electrical permits; l. Noise variances; m. Moved buildings pre-permit inspection fee; and n. Research.

 22.900B.060. Revisions and additions to applications.

 A. According to standards promulgated by the Director, the Department shall assess an additional fee for the plan examination of previous designs when a subsequent redesign of a project is submitted prior to permit issuance but after previous designs have been examined. The revision fee shall be assessed at the hourly rate not to exceed the permit fee that would have been charged for the original design. The total permit fee is the fee for the final design plus the revision fee.

 B. The Department may assess a fee in addition to fees already charged for the original permit if the applicant makes an amendment to an existing unexpired or reestablished permit. The applicable fees will be assessed for all work necessary to process the amendment, including Seattle Transportation or Seattle Public Utilities review associated with the submitted amendment.

 CHAPTER 22.900C - FEES FOR LAND USE AND ZONING REVIEW 22.900C.010 Land use and zoning review fees.

 A. Zoning and land use review fees. The Zoning Review and Land Use Fees set forth by Table C-1 shall be added to determine the total fee for Master Use Permits , Council and Hearing Examiner, and Environmentally Critical Area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services unless otherwise specified.

 B. Zoning review fees. Zoning reviews for land use permits separate from a building permit shall be charged according to Table C-1. Valuation for Table C- 2 shall be the value of construction as determined according to Section 22.900D.010. If two or more buildings are allowed under one permit, they shall be assessed zoning review fees as separate buildings. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total zoning review fee for the land use permit. When more than one land use component is included as part of an application, only one zoning review fee shall be charged, in an amount equal to the greatest of the zoning review fees applicable to the land use components included in the application. The minimum zoning review fee shall be $140.00 unless otherwise specified.

 C. Land use review fees. The land use review fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, Environmentally Critical Area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

 D. Types of Land Use Review Fees. Land use review fees are categorized into three types for the purpose of this subtitle.

 1. Type A Land Use Reviews. Type A land use reviews include variances, administrative conditional uses, design reviews and Environmentally Critical Areas exceptions.

 2. Type B Land Use Reviews. Type B land use reviews include all Master Use Permit, Hearing Examiner, Council Land Use Actions and Environmentally Critical Area approvals except those listed in Section 22.900C.010 D1.

 3. Combined Land Use Reviews. Combined land use reviews include one or more components from a Type A land use review combined with one or more components from a Type B land use review in the same project application.

 E. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees. Land use review fees include land use minimum review fee and may include an hourly fee.

 1. Minimum Land Use Review Fee - All Master Use Permit, Hearing Examiner, Council Land Use Actions and Environmentally Critical Area approvals include a minimum review fee as specified in Table C-1 and described below.

 a. Type A Land Use Reviews.

 (1) The minimum land use review fee for Type A land use reviews is $1,457.00. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 20 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 20 hours of review included in the minimum review fee.

 (2) When more than one Type A component is included as part of an application (e.g. a variance and an administrative conditional use component), only one minimum review fee shall be charged. The minimum land use review fee, when multiple components are included, is applied to administrative and public notice costs and the first 20 hours of review. In addition to the minimum review fee, a fee shall be charged for all review hours in excess of the 20 hours of review included in the minimum review fee.

 b. Type B Land Use Reviews.

 (1) The minimum land use review fee for Type B land use reviews is $1,986.00. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 10 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 10 hours of review included in the minimum review fee.

 (2) When more than one Type B component is included as part of an application (e.g., environmental review and short plat components, or lot boundary adjustment and shoreline substantial development components) only one minimum review fee shall be charged, in an amount equal to the greater of the minimum review fees applicable to the land use components included in the application. The minimum land use review fee, when multiple components are included, is applied to administrative and public notice costs and the first 10 hours of review. In addition to the minimum review fee, a fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 10 hours of review included in the minimum review fee.

 c. Combined Land Use Reviews. The minimum land use review fee for a combined land use review is $2,720. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 16 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 16 hours of review included in the minimum review fee.

 2. Hourly Land Use Fees. For approvals subject to hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, an hourly rate of $175.00 per hour shall be charged for all review hours in excess of the hours included in the minimum land use review fee, unless otherwise specified in Table C-1 below.

 F. Miscellaneous Reviews, Research and Services. The minimum land use review fee and the hourly rate for miscellaneous reviews, research and services are as specified in Table C-1.

 G. Time of payment.

 1. Zoning Review Fees: Zoning review fees for land use permits shall be collected at the time of application. Fees collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final Department fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit.

 2. Land Use Fees:

 a. The following fees are due prior to application or provision of service:

 (1) Pre-application fee. The fee for land use/zoning pre-application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

 (2) Design review fee. One-half the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($728.50) shall be paid upon application for the design review pre- design process.

 b. The following fees and amounts are due at the time of application or provision of service:

 (1) Minimum land use review fee: The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director may require an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

 (2) Design review fee for Type A land use reviews: The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($728.50) shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.

 (3) Design review fee that is a component of a combined land use review: The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($728.50) plus the difference in the minimum review fee between a Type A and a combined land use approval ($1263.00) shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.

 c. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below.

 (1) All outstanding land use fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 (2) For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due to date plus an estimated charge for future work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. After final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

 H. Additional Review. In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be charged hourly as determined by the Director.

 I. Correction Penalty Fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $250.00 may be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of response from the applicant.

 J. Environmental Review Signs. When an environmental review sign is required by the Land Use Code (See Seattle Municipal Code 23.76), a minimum environmental review sign fee of $320.00 shall be charged for the fabrication, installation and removal of the sign according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

 Table C-1 - LAND USE AND ZONING FEES

 MASTER USE PERMIT and ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS APPROVALS

 Land Use Fee For: Type of Minimum Hourly Land Use Zoning Land Use Land Use Fee1 Review Fee Review Review (see Fee Fee 22.900D.010E ,explanation of DFI)

 1. Administrative A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount conditional uses determined (ACUs) by Table C-2

 2. Design review A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by Table C-2

 3. Environmental reviews (SEPA)2 (including projects with more than one addressed site)

 a. DNSs, mitigated B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount DNSs, other lead determined agency project by Table review C-2

 b. DSs and EISs B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount (40-hour determined deposit) by Table C-2

 c. EIS addenda/SEIS B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount (10-hour determined deposit) by Table C-2

 d. PEIS latecomers B Reserved Reserved Reserved fees

 4. Environmental3 $320 None None Review Sign

 5. Environmentally Critical Areas

 a. Exemption review $175 $175 per hour in excess of 1 hour of review

 b. Exception and B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount wetland alteration determined exception by Table C-2

 c. Yard reduction B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount variance determined by Table C-2

 d. Buffer B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount reductions and determined restoration by Table exceptions C-2

 e. Short plat B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount cluster housing and determined ACU to recover by Table development C-2 potential

 6. General Development B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount Plan determined by Table C-2

 7. Lot boundary $875 None $110 per adjustment lot

 8. Plan shoreline See See Council See Council permit Council approvals approvals approvals

 9. Public benefit $350 $175 per hour in $175 per feature review excess of 2 hour hours of review

 10. Shoreline permits

 a. Substantial B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount development permits determined by Table C-2

 b. Variances4 and B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount conditional uses determined by Table C-2

 c. Revisions (not $350 $175 per hour in $175 per due to required excess of 2 hour conditions) hours of review

 11. Short subdivisions5 B $1,986 $175 per hour $110 per lot

 12. Sidewalk cafints $875 None None

 13. Special None None $350 accommodation

 14. Special exceptions B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by Table C-2

 15. Structural building overhangs and areaways

 a. Application as a $350 None None separate component.

 b. Included as part None None None of a use review.

 16. Temporary uses

 a. Temporary use None None Amount permit for determined relocation of police by Table and fire protection C-2

 b. Temporary use B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount permit for more than determined 4 weeks by Table C-2

 17. Variances4 A $1,457 $175 per hour None

 18. Vegetation removal6

 Class A $250 None None

 Class B $125 None None

 Class C $65 None None

 COUNCIL AND HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

 Land Use Fee For: Type of Minimum Hourly Land Use Zoning Land Use Land Use Fee1 Review Fee Review Review Fee Fee

 1. Concept approvals B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount (e.g., planned determined community/residential by Table development, public C-2 projects, City facilities, plan shoreline developments, other general development plans)

 2. Council conditional B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount uses determined by Table C-2

 3. Full subdivisions7 B $1,986 $175 per hour $110 per lot

 4. Major Institution

 a. Master Plans B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount (40 hour determined deposit) by Table C-28

 b. Designation B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by Table C-28

 5. Zoning map changes B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount and rezones determined by Table C-28

 MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, & SERVICES

 Land Use Fee For: Minimum Land Hourly Land Use Zoning Review Fee Use Review Fee1 Fee

 1. Accessory dwelling $50 None N/A unit notificationaccessory dwelling unitsnotification fee

 2. Certificate of land $110 None N/A use

 3. Concurrency (Reserved) (Reserved) (Reserved)

 4. Curbcuts9 $55.00 each None N/A commercial; $26.00 each residential

 5. Development $550.00 $110 per hour N/A potential analysis in excess of 5 hours of review

 6. Establishing Use for $140 None N/A the Record

 7. Interpretations10

 a. Interpretations $660 None N/A

 b. Interpretations $880 None N/A requested after publication of Director's report

 c. Major $350 $175 per hour N/A Institution Master in excess of 2 Plan hours of review

 8. Legal building site $660 None N/A letters

 9. Major institution - $1,300 per N/A N/A review of annual year plan

 10. Neighborhood (Reserved) planning

 11. Noise survey review See Table D-2 and variance

 12. Notice (additional) 11

 a. Land use $65 N/A N/A information bulletin

 b. Reposting large $125 N/A N/A sign or placards

 c. Mailed notice $250 N/A N/A

 d. Landslide prone $190 N/A N/A notice

 13. Open space remainder $625 None $110 lots and surplus state property

 14. Preapplication $100 N/A None conference12

 15. Rebuild letters $375 None N/A

 16. Records research $110 $110 per hour N/A in excess of 1 hour of research

 17. Renewals including $350 $175 per hour $175 per hour shoreline renewals in excess of 2 hours of review

 18. Revisions other than $350 $175 per hour $175 per hour shoreline revisions in excess of 2 hours of review

 19. School use and $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined school development by Table C-2 advisory committee reviews

 Notes to Table C-1: 1. The hourly fee shall be charged for hours in excess of the review hours covered by the minimum land use review fee. 2. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DCLU for Determinations of Non- Significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-Significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district. No hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals. 3. The minimum fee is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to replace the sign. 4. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances. 5. Includes short subdivisions in Environmentally Critical Areas. 6. The three classes are defined by Director's Rule 3-94. 7. Includes full subdivisions in Environmentally Critical Areas. 8. The zoning fee will be applied only to the portion of the project for which a use permit is being approved. The remainder of the site plan review will be charged $175 per hour. 9. Curbcut fees are charged only when a separate curbcut permit is applied for, not when the curbcut is part of a development permit application. 10. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20. 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods. 11. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project. 12. This fee is not refundable and shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre-application conference.

 Table C-2 - zoning review fee calculation

 Total Valuation1 Zoning Fee

 $0.00 to $39,000.00 $140.00

 $39,001 to $50,000.00 $143.00 for the first $39,000.00 plus $0.27 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,001.00 to $173.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus $0.21 for $100,000.00 each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,001.00 to $276.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $1.68 $250,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $250,001.00 to $528.00 for the first $250,000.00 plus $1.68 $500,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $500,001.00 to $947.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $1.68 $750,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $750,001.00 to $1,366.00 for the first $750,000.00 plus $1.68 $1,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,000,001.00 to $1,785.00 for first $1,000,000.00 plus $1.25 $1,500,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,500,001.00 to $2,409.00 for first $1,500,000.00 plus $1.25 $2,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $2,000,001.00 to $3,034.00 for first $2,000,000.00 plus $1.25 $2,500,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $2,500,001.00 to $3,659.00 for first $2,500,000.00 plus $1.25 $3,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,000,001.00 to $4,284.00 for the first $3,000,000.00 plus $3,500,000.00 $1.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,500,001.00 to $4,908.00 for the first $3,500,000 plus $1.25 $4,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $4,000,001.00 to $5,533.00 for the first $4,000,000 plus $1.25 $4,500,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $4,500,001.00 to $6,158.00 for the first $4,500,000 plus $1.25 $5,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $5,000,001.00 to $6,783.00 for the first $5,000,000 plus $1.05 $10,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $10,000,001.00 to $12,022.00 for the first $10,000,000 plus $1.05 $20,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $20,000,001.00 to $17,321.00 for the first $20,000,000 plus $1.00 $50,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,000,001.00 to $53,938.00 for the first $50,000,000 plus $0.25 $100,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,000,000.00 and up $106,333.00 for the first $100,000,000 plus $0.25 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 Notes to Table C-2 1. Valuation is determined according to Section 22.900D.010C. See Section 22.900C.010B.

 K. Refunds. Refunds of land use and zoning fees shall be calculated as specified in Table C- 3, except as noted in 1. and 2. below. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 1. Land Use Minimum Review Fee. Twenty-five percent of the land use minimum review fee set forth in Table C-1 and collected at the application is not refundable.

 2. Other Non-Refundable Fees. The minimum review fee for the following services set forth in Table C-1 are non-refundable:

 (a) Requests for renewal; (b) Pre-application conferences; (c) Interpretations; (d) Legal building site letters; (e) Certificates of land use; (f) Rebuild letters; (g) Development potential analysis; (h) Establishing use for the record; (i) Noise variances; (j) Research; and, (k) Revisions.

 3. Calculating Refunds for Land Use and Zoning Review Fees. The amount of refund for land use and zoning review fees shall be calculated as specified in Table C-3. There is no minimum amount required for a refund.

 Table C-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF LAND USE AND ZONING FEES1

 Stage in Review Minimum Review Fee Hourly Fee Amount Zoning Fee Amount Process Amount to be Refunded when to be Refunded to be Refunded Hourly Deposit has been Collected at Application

 Initial Processing Minimum land use 100% of the hourly 50% of zoning complete and prior review fee less deposit review fee to public notice 25%

 Notice published Minimum land use 100% of the hourly 10% of zoning review fee less deposit review fee 50%

 Review underway 0% No refund Remainder of the 0% No refund but application is allowed hourly deposit allowed not approved or minus accrued report is not hourly charges drafted

 Permit is ready to 0% No refund 0% No refund 0% No refund issue or the allowed allowed allowed report is drafted

 Permit is issued 0% No refund 0% No refund 0% No refund or the report is allowed allowed allowed published

 Note to Table C-3:

 1. Refunds will be based upon the calculations of the total fee.

 CHAPTER 22.900D - FEES FOR NEW AND ALTERED BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT 22.900D.010 Development permit fees.

 A. General. The development fee shall cover the application, review and inspection process associated with new construction, additions, alterations, and repairs to existing buildings and establishment of use. The development fee shall consist of a permit fee and, where plans are routed for review, a separate plan review fee. The permit fee and plan review fee shall be determined based on valuation, except as provided below.

 B. Time of payment of fees.

 Fees collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final Department fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit, approval, denial, decision or recommendation, provided that hourly fees may be collected earlier, as described in Section 22.900B.010 D. Any fee in excess of the final calculated fee shall be refunded pursuant to Section 22.900B.050.

 If, during the initial review, the previously-collected fee is determined to be less than 90% of the estimated fee, the review work subsequent to the initial review will not proceed until the discrepancy is paid to the Department.

 1. Amounts due prior to application. The following amounts are due prior to application.

 a. Fees for building preapplication conference shall be paid prior to the conference. See 22.900D.010H for building preapplication conference fees.

 b. A fee equal to one times the Base Fee shall be collected at the time a request to establish a computer contact number is filed. If the application is not filed within 12 months, the computer contact number shall be canceled and a new fee required to establish another computer contact number for the project.

 2. Amounts due at time of application. The following amounts are due at the time of application.

 a. Applications for building and/or mechanical permits without plan review shall pay a fee for subject-to-field inspection (STFI) permits equal to the Permit Fee specified in Table D-2.

 b. Applications for Building and/or Mechanical permits with plan review shall pay the Plan Review fee plus one-half the Permit Fee as specified in Table D-2.

 c. For other applications, the minimum fee shall be collected at the time of application.

 C. Determination of Value.

 1. The Director shall determine the value of construction for which the permit is issued (the estimated current value of all labor and materials, whether actually paid or not, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems, automatic sprinkler systems, other mechanical systems, retaining walls, rockeries and any other permanent work or permanent equipment, but not including furnishings). The building valuation data from the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) as published in "Building Standards" and other valuation criteria approved by the Director will be used to determine the value of construction.

 2. The gross area, used in conjunction with the ICBO building valuation and other data to determine the valuation of a building project, means the total area of all floors, measured from the exterior face, outside dimensions or exterior column line of a building, including basements, cellars and balconies, but not including unexcavated areas. Where walls and columns are omitted in the construction of a building, such as an open shed or marquee, the exterior wall of the open side or sides, for purposes of calculating gross area, is the edge of the roof, including gutters.

 3. The valuation for uncovered structures such as roof parking areas, plazas, piers, platforms, commercial decks and similar uncovered usable structures shall be computed on one-half the gross area.

 4. Dish or Panel Antennae. The fee for processing applications for installation of a dish or panel antenna shall be charged on the value of the foundation and supports constructed for the installation. The value of the dish or panel antenna shall not be included in the determination of value.

 5. The development fee for parks and playgrounds shall be based on the project value, including the value of improvements for structures incidental to the park or playground such as retaining walls, rockeries and restrooms, but shall not include the value of playground equipment.

 6. The valuation shall be based on the highest type of construction to which a proposed structure most nearly conforms, as determined by the Director.

 D. Phased permits.

 1. When a new building project is proposed to be built in phases and the Director determines that separate development permits may be issued for portions of the project, the development fee for initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-2, except excavating permits shall be based on Section 22.900D.040. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the new building project minus the sum of the fees for the initial permits, with no credit for an excavation permit fee.

 2. Where an applicant requests division of an already-submitted permit application into separate applications, an additional fee of one times the Base Fee shall be charged for each separate application (including the original application which results from the division).

 E. Calculation of Development Fees. The development fee for a permit shall be calculated as described herein: Table D-1 establishes the Development Fee Index for value-based development fees. Except as specified in Section 22.900D.010 F below, Table D-2 establishes the Permit Fee and Plan Review Fee, calculated as a percentage of the Development Fee Index where determined by value. If two or more buildings are allowed under one permit, they shall be assessed fees as separate buildings under Table D-2. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total development fee for the permit.

 Table D-1 - CALCULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT FEE INDEX

 Total Valuation Development Fee Index

 $0.00 to $1,000.00 $95.00 for the first $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,001.00 to $50,000.00 $95.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $1.00 for each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,001.00 to $585.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus $0.75 for $100,000.00 each additional $100.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,001.00 to $960.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $5.00 $250,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $250,001.00 to $1710.00 for the first $250,000.00 plus $4.75 $500,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $500,001.00 to $2898.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $4.50 $750,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $750,001.00 to $4023.00 for the first $750,000.00 plus $4.25 $1,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $1,000,001.00 to $5,086.00 for first $1,000,000.00 plus $4.00 $2,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $2,000,001.00 to $9,086.00 for first $2,000,000.00 plus $3.75 $3,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $3,000,001.00 to $12,836.00 for first $3,000,000.00 plus $3.50 $4,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $4,000,001.00 to $16,336.00 for first $4,000,000.00 plus $3.25 $5,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $5,000,001.00 to $19,586.00 for the first $5,000,000.00 plus $50,000,000.00 $3.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $50,000,001.00 to $154,586.00 for the first $50,000,000 plus $100,000,000.00 $2.50 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $100,000,001.00 to $279,586.00 for the first $100,000,000 plus $200,000,000.00 $2.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 $200,000,001.00 and up $479,586.00 for the first $200,000,000 plus $1.00 for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof.

 Table D-2 - CALCULATION OF DEVELOPMENT FEES DETERMINED BY VALUE

 Percent of Development Fee Index (DFI) Calculated from Project Value as Type of Development Specified in Table D-11

 Permit Fee Plan Review Fee

 1. Building, with or without 100% of DFI 100% of DFI mechanical, with or without use2

 2. STFISTFI (Subject to field 100% of DFI none inspectionsubject to field inspection - building and/or mechanical without plan review)

 3. Mechanicalmechanical permit 25% of DFI 25% of DFI separate from, but associated with, active building permit (See also Section 22.900D.090)

 4. Mechanical permit not 100% of DFI 100% of DFI associated with active building permit (See also Section 22.900D.090)

 5. Blanket permitblanket permitsdevelopment fee review fees:

 a. Initial tenant alterations $1.50 per 100 square $1.70 per 100 within 3 years of 1st tenant feet1 square feet1 permit within a building where the area of work is more than 50,000 sq.ft.

 b. Initial tenant alterations 100% of DFI 40% of DFI after 3 years of 1st tenant permit, and other tenant alterations

 6. Initial tenant 25% of DFI based on 25% of DFI based alterationstenant alterations new building value of on new building within 18 months of 1st tenant shell and core value of shell permit (non-blanket-permit and core initial tenant improvements to shell and coreshell and coreSee blanket permit)3

 7. Standard Plansstandard plans:

 a. Establishment of Standard 100% of DFI 100% of DFI Plan. (For swimming pools, see Item 16 below.)

 b. Establishment of 100% of DFI already-permitted plan as Standard Plan

 c. Subsequent reviews of 100% of DFI 40% of DFI Standard Plan

 8. Factory-builtmanufactured $110.00 $110.00 structuresfactory-built housing and commercial structurescommercial coaches

 Special Development Fees

 Type of Development Permit Fee Plan Review Fee

 9. Establishing use for the recorddevelopment feeestablishing use for the recordestablish use for the record:

 a. Applications with no Base Fee x 1.5 construction

 b. Applications with 100% of DFI 100% of DFI construction

 10. ECAdevelopment NA 23% of DFI feeenvironmentally critical areasenvironmentally critical areasdevelopment fee plan review4

 11. Noisenoisedevelopment fee None $110 per hour survey reviews

 12. Parking facilitiesdevelopment feeparking facilitiesparking See Sec. 22.900D.060 facilitiesdevelopment fee See Sec. 22.900D.010.C a. Outside a building

 b. Within or on a building

 13. Renewaldevelopment feerenewalsrenewaldevelopment permit fees

 a. Development permits where $110 per hour $110 per hour original plans will be changed

 b. Development permits other Base Fee X 1.5 than Separate Mechanical where no change will be made to original plans

 c. for separate Mechanical Base Fee X 1

 14. Residential oil storage See Table D-8 tanksoil tanksresidential oil storage tanks

 15. Special inspectionspecial Base fee X 1 inspection

 16. Swimming poolsdevelopment feeswimming pools5swimming pool :

 a. Unenclosed pools accessory to Group R-3 Occupancy Base Fee x 4

 b. Unenclosed pools accessory to occupancies other than Group R-3 Base Fee x 6

 c. Principal use unenclosed pools Base Fee x 6

 d. Future construction of an unenclosed swimming pool Base Fee x 1

 e. Initial approval of standard plan for swimming pool accessory Base Fee x 5 to Group R-3 Occupancy

 f. Subsequent review of application based on approved Base Fee x 1.5 swimming pool standard plan

 17. Temporary Base Fee X 2 per structurestemporary structures, structure such as commercial coaches; renewalrenewaltemporary structures of permits for temporary structures6

 18. Temporary tents, off-site Base Fee x 2 plus $500 construction officesconstruction refundable deposit per offices, temporary & similar site7 facilities

 19. Temporary use permitstemporary use permits:

 a. for 4 weeks or less8 Base Fee x 1.5

 b. for more than 4 weeks8 Base Fee x 2

 Notes to Table D-2: 1. The minimum permit fee or plan review fee is $95.00. 2. The minimum fee for accessory dwelling units is $180.00. 3. This fee is applicable only to those initial tenants that reflect the use and occupancy established in the shell and core permit. The value used shall be the new construction value used in calculating value for the core and shell permit. 4. See Section 22.900D.020 to determine when the ECA fee is applied and to determine the fee for third-party geotechnical review. 5. When a swimming pool is located within an enclosed building and is included in the building plans for that building, a separate fee shall not be charged for the swimming pool. The swimming pool area will be considered as floor area of the principal occupancy of the building. 6. This fee shall not apply to any on-site, temporary construction office where a valid Building Permit is in force. 7. All costs to the City for site cleanup shall be deducted from the deposit before the deposit is refunded. 8. Master use permit and zoning review fees for such temporary uses shall be charged according to Table C-1.

 F. Blanket Permits.

 1. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations within the first three years of the first tenant alteration permit shall be charged at the rate of $3.20 per 100 square feet of space to be improved within the life of the permit. A deposit based on the estimated value of the work to be completed during the life of the permit shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the amount of the fee equivalent to the floor space examined shall be deducted from the deposit per Table D-2.

 2. The application fee for a blanket permit to cover nonstructural tenant alterations in previously-occupied space, or to cover initial nonstructural tenant alterations after three years of the first tenant alteration permit, is $95.00. A deposit based on the estimated value of the proposed work within 18 months shall be collected at the time of application. As individual tenant spaces are reviewed, the fee for the work to be done shall be calculated according to Table D-2 and deducted from the deposit.

 3. When the estimated blanket fee deposit is used up in less time than the life of the permit and work remains to be done, an additional deposit shall be paid based on the estimated floor area remaining to be improved during the remaining life of the permit. When a portion of the deposit is unused at the end of the life of the permit and work remains to be done, credit for the balance of the deposit may be transferred from the expiring permit to a new blanket permit. To minimize additional accounting costs associated with blanket permits, where more than two deposits are made during the life of a blanket permit, the minimum amount of each subsequent deposit shall be $2,000.00.

 G. Certificate of Occupancy.

 The issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for existing buildings, either where no Certificate of Occupancy has previously been issued or where a Change of Occupancy is requested, requires a building permit. When there is no construction valuation (there is no work which would require a building permit), the minimum building permit fee shall be assessed. In addition to the minimum building permit fee, where records research, plan examination or inspection is required, charges shall be assessed at the rate of $110 per hour. Where work is being done as authorized by a permit, the permanent Certificate of Occupancy fee is not assessed in addition to the building permit fee. The fee for a temporary Certificate of Occupancy shall be charged at the rate of one-half the Base Fee. The fee for the duplication of a Certificate of Occupancy is $16.00 unless records research, plan examination or inspection is required, in which case charges shall be assessed at the rate of $110 per hour.

 H. Building Preapplication Conferences.

 1. Required Building Preapplication Conferences. When there is a requirement for a preapplication or predesign conference, such as buildings subject to the Seattle Building Code special provisions for atria (Section 402), or highrise buildings (Section 403), 35% of the estimated plan review fee for the structure shall be charged and paid as specified in Section 22.900D.010.B, and applied toward the development permit fee. (See Table C-1 for land use preapplication conference fees.)

 2. Other Building Preapplication Conferences. When a preapplication conference is requested by the applicant but is not required by Code, a fee equal to one and one-half times the Base Fee shall be paid no later than the time of the conference. Such fee is required for each meeting held on a project, and will be applied toward the future permit application fee provided:

 a. the project is identified by the proper address at the time of the preapplication conference; and

 b. the permit application is made within six months of the date of the preapplication conference.

 I. Correction Penalty Fee. After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $250.00 will be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of adequate response from the applicant.

 J. Refunds. Refunds of development permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D- 3. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 Table D-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS of DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES1

 Stage in Review Permit Fee Amount Plan Review Fee Process Eligible Amount for Refund Based on Eligible for Refund Total Permit Fee Based on Total Plan Calculation Review Fee Calculation

 Application filed, review not started

 Permit Only (no plan 50% 0% (Not applicable, review) no fee paid)

 Permit with Plan Review 50% 100%

 Plans routed, but initial reviews/processing not completed

 Permit Only (no plan 50% 0% (Not applicable, review) no fee paid)

 Permit with Plan Review 50% 50%

 Initial review completed

 Permit only (no plan 50% 0% (Not applicable, review) no fee paid)

 Permit with Plan Review 50% 10%

 Permit ready to issue

 Permit Only (no plan 50% 0% (Not applicable, review) no fee paid)

 Permit with Plan Review 50% 0% (No refund allowed)

 Permit is issued; no work started

 Permit Only (no plan 25% 0% (Not applicable, review) no fee paid)

 Permit with Plan Review 40% 0% (No refund allowed)

 Permit is issued; work started

 Permit Only (no plan 0% (No permit fee 0% (Not applicable, review) refunded) no fee paid)

 Permit with Plan Review 0% (No permit fee 0% (No refund refunded) allowed)

 Note to Table D-3:

 1. Refunds will be based upon the calculations of the total application and permit fee.

 K. Renewals. Fees for renewal of permits shall be charged according to Table D-2.

 L. Reestablishment. The following fee shall be charged for reestablishment of development permits.

 1. One and one-half times the Base Fee; plus

 2. If plan review had been required for the original permit, an additional amount of $1.50 per $1,000.00 of value of work that was not completed and inspected under the expired permit shall be charged; plus

 3. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at $110.00 per hour.

 The maximum fee for reestablishment is ten times the Base Fee.

 When the fee for a new permit would be less than one and one-half times the Base Fee, then the fee to reestablish the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 22.900D.020 Development Fees for Environmentally Critical Areas

 A. Foundation systems and retaining walls. A fee as determined by Table D-2 shall be charged for work that includes ground disturbance such as that required for foundation systems, retaining walls, and rockeries when the work is located in the following Environmentally Critical Areas: geologic hazard, riparian corridor, abandoned landfill, or wetland areas. The fee will not be charged for work that is exempt from the Environmentally Critical Areas Regulations.

 B. Third party geotechnical review. The fee for third party review as specified in the Critical Areas regulations, Seattle Municipal Code Section 25.09.080C, is the contract cost to the Department for the review plus an amount equal to 15% of the contract amount for administration and review of the third party geotechnical report and recommendations. Seventy-five percent of the estimated contract amount shall be paid prior to the contract award. 22.900D.030 Concrete mix design approval.

 The fee for the evaluation of a concrete design mix is one-half times the Base Fee, paid in advance of the evaluation decision being rendered. 22.900D.040 Grading fees.

 A. Table D-4 establishes fees for grading permits for normal excavation and fill, and for sites or proposals with complex or unusual soils conditions, as determined by the Director. Fees for grading permits shall be paid at the time of application.

 Table D-4 - GRADING PERMIT FEES

 Cubic Yards:

 0-500 501-2,500 2,501-12,500 12,501 and Up

 With building permit:

 $275.00 $375.00 $660.00 $1,320.00 + $16.00/1,000 cu yards over 12,500

 Without building permit

 $385.00 $485.00 $770.00 $1,430.00 plus $16.00/1,000 cu yards over 12,500

 Grading located in Environmentally Critical Area:

 $550.00 $660.00 $1,210.00 $2,530.00 plus $16.00/1,000 cu yards over 12,500

 B. The fee to renew a grading permit is 1.5 times the Base Fee if the original plans are not changed. If the plans are changed, the fee is $110 per hour for all inspection and plan examination performed.

 C. The fee to reestablish a grading permit is 1.5 times the Base Fee. 22.900D.050 Fees for drainage review.

 A. Fees for drainage review shall be charged according to Table D-5. The minimum fee shall be charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee, except as noted below. The review fee shall be paid at the time of application, except that a fee of one-half the Base Fee shall be paid for drainage review for grading-only permits.

 Table D-5 - DRAINAGE REVIEW FEES

 Type Review Fee

 1. Drainage review for grading $110 per hour with 1/2-hour minimum only

 2. Drainage systems connecting directly to storm drains:1

 a. Single-family less than Base Fee x 1/2 9,000 square feet

 b. Multifamily or Commercial Base Fee x 1 less than 9,000 square feet

 c. All developments with $540.00 plus $0.06 per square foot greater than 9,000 square feet over 9,000 square feet up to a of developmental coverage maximum of $4,000

 3. Drainage systems with detention required: 1

 a. Single-Family less than Base Fee x 1 9,000 square feet

 b. Multifamily or Commercial Base Fee x 2.73 ($300.00) less than 9,000 square feet

 c. All developments with $540.00 plus $0.06 per square foot greater than 9,000 square feet over 9,000 square feet up to a of developmental coverage maximum of $4,000

 4. Drainage (temporary) and Base Fee x 1.64 ($180.00) erosion control systems over 9,000 square feet of developmental coverage

 Note to Table D-5: 1. Sewer and drain connections, and repairs, alterations, or additions to side sewers also require sewer or drainage connection permits from the Seattle Public Utility and the payment of associated fees. See Chapter 21.24.

 B. Refunds. Refunds of drainage review fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-6.

 Table D-6 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF DRAINAGE REVIEW FEES

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund

 Plans identified for routing to 100% of collected fee Drainage but no routing has occurred

 Plans routed to Drainage for review 50% of collected fee but no review started

 Initial Drainage review started but 0% (No refund allowed) application is not approved or report is not complete

 Application is ready to issue 0% (No refund allowed)

 Application is issued 0% (No refund allowed)

 22.900D.060 Fees for parking facilities outside of buildings.

 A. A fee for parking facilities outside of buildings shall be charged for the review of plans to regrade and resurface existing parking facilities, to reconfigure existing parking facilities (rearrange parking spaces and aisles), to establish parking facilities on existing paved areas, and to establish and construct new parking facilities, whether the principal use of a lot or accessory to another use, as provided in Table D-7. (Parking facilities within buildings shall be charged fees in accordance with Section 22.900D.010.)

 B. In determining the area of the parking facility, all aisles and landscape areas internal to the parking facility shall be included. Driveways to the parking facility and landscape areas on the periphery of the parking facility shall not be included.

 C. These fees shall not apply to any parking facility which is underground and within a structure or on the roof of a structure, or to any extension of a parking facility which is primarily under a building, provided that the uncovered extension is no more than four feet beyond the footprint of the building. The fees for these parking facilities shall be charged in accordance with Section 22.900D.010.

 Table D-7 - PARKING FACILITIES FEES

 Parking Lot Size Fee Fee

 (Square feet of Gross Without Associated Building With Associated Parking Area1) or Use Permit2 Building or Use Permit2

 Over 4,000 $326.00 $264.00

 2,000-4,000 $264.00 $163.00

 Less than 2,000 $110.00 No fee

 Notes to Table D-7: 1. Where an existing parking facility is being reconfigured, gross parking area shall be the area being reconfigured. 2. Associated building or use permits are permits that have not expired (or are still going through the review process).

 D. The fee for renewal of a permit for a parking facility is one and one-half times the Base Fee where there are no changes in the plans. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at $110.00 per hour.

 22.900D.070 Floodplain development approval or license fee.

 The fee for processing and review of applications for floodplain development approvals shall be charged at the rate of one and one-half times the Base Fee, except that the fee for processing and review of applications for a floodplain development license shall be charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee.

 22.900D.080 Demolitions and relocations.

 A. Demolition.

 1. The fee for demolition permits is $165.00 for demolitions not directly associated with a building permit and when a separate permit is issued for the demolition. No fee is charged for demolition that is a component of a building permit for construction of a new building or addition to an existing building.

 2. A demolition fee is charged regardless of whether the demolition permit is requested separately or in conjunction with a building and/or Master Use Permit, except that no demolition fee shall be charged where a building permit is issued in conjunction with a demolition permit.

 B. Relocation Other Than Floating Homes.

 1. The fee to relocate a building from within the city to a location outside of the city is the same as the fee for demolition.

 2. The fee to relocate a building from outside the city to within the city limits is calculated according to Table D-2 as if the building were new construction plus a preapplication inspection fee charged in the amount of one times the Base Fee.

 3. The fee to relocate a building within the city is calculated according to Table D-2 as if the building were new construction, plus applicable demolition fee for the site from which the building is moved, plus a preapplication inspection fee charged in the amount of one times the Base Fee to inspect the building prior to application.

 4. Relocation permits require a deposit or bond of $10,000.00, refundable upon the completion and approval of the foundation and framing.

 5. A preapplication inspection fee of one times the Base Fee shall be paid prior to the inspection.

 C. Floating Home Relocation.

 The fee to relocate a floating home within the same moorage shall be charged at the rate of one and one-half times the Base Fee. If the floating home is being relocated to a different moorage, the fee shall be charged at the rate of two and one-half times the Base Fee to include a preapplication site inspection. 22.900D.090 Permit fees for mechanical equipment and systems, other than boilers and pressure vessels and refrigeration systems.

 A. Mechanical permit fees for the installation, replacement or major alteration of heating equipment, domestic oil storage tanks, incinerators and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances shall be charged as set in Table D-8. Fees shall be charged for each furnace when it is applied for without plans. No separate fee shall be charged for a furnace when it is included in plans for a mechanical air-handling system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 B. Mechanical permits are considered part of a building permit, with no additional fee, when mechanical plans are submitted at the same time as structural and architectural plans for the same building project. The fees for a separate mechanical permit for installation, alteration or repair of mechanical air-handling systems, including ducts attached thereto, associated nonresidential heating and cooling equipment, and mechanical exhaust hoods, including ducts attached thereto, are charged per Table D-2.

 C. Mechanical Permits Subject to Energy Code. The fees for Energy Code review are included in the fees in Tables D-2 and D-8.

 D. Simple Mechanical Permits. The fee for work which the Director determines qualifies for a simple mechanical permit is $650.00 for five permits, each having a value of $130.00. Each $130.00 permit may be applied to work with a value up to $7,000.00.

 E. The fee to renew a mechanical permit when no changes are made to the original permit is the lesser of the Base Fee and the original permit fee. The fee to renew a mechanical permit when changes are made to the original permit is $110 per hour for inspections and plan examination performed.

 The fee to renew a furnace permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 F. The fee to reestablish a wood stove or furnace permit is one-half (1/2) the Base Fee.

 Table D-8 - PERMIT FEES FOR MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT1

 Type of Installation Fee

 Forced air, gravity-type, or floor furnace1, $80.00 per unit3 gas or oil suspended heater, heat pump, recessed wall heater or floor-mounted space heater, wall furnace, circulating heater or woodstove/fireplace insertfireplace insert, including ducts and burners attached thereto

 New gas or oil burners and newly installed used $80.00 per unit3 gas or oil burners2

 Appliance ventsappliance vents Class A, B, BW $64.00 per unit3 or L when installed separately

 Residential oil storage tanksoil tanks $64.00 per unit3

 Mechanical air-handling systems, see Table D-2.

 Appliances or equipment or other work not Hourly at $110 per hour. classed in other categories, or for which no Minimum of one-half times other fee is listed. the Base Fee.

 Notes to Table D-8: 1. Renewal of a furnace permit shall be charged at the rate of one-half (1/2) times the Base Fee. 2. See Table D-12 for rates for burners installed in boilers. 3. Fees shall be charged for furnaces when they are applied for without plans. No fee shall be charged for furnaces when they are included in plans for a mechanical air-handling system submitted for a mechanical permit.

 G. Refunds. Refunds of mechanical permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-9.

 Table D-9 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF MECHANICAL FEES

 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit is issued; no work 25% started.

 Permit is issued; work 0% (No refund allowed) started

 22.900D.100 Refrigeration equipment and systems.

 A. Fees for the installation, addition, repair, replacement and alteration of refrigeration equipment and systems shall be charged as set in Table D-10.

 B. Temporary installations of 10 days' duration or less, made for the purposes of exhibition, display or demonstration shall be charged a fee of $29.00 for each installation.

 Table D-10 - REFRIGERATION PERMIT FEES1

 Type or Size of System/Equipment Fee

 Basic fee $29.00

 Additional installation fee per compressor

 0-5 HP $29.00

 6-25 HP 59.00

 26-100 HP 119.00

 101-500 HP 156.00

 Over 500 HP 193.00

 Repair and alteration (value of work)

 $0 - $1,000.00 $29.00

 $1,001.00 - $5,000.00 $44.00

 Over $5,000.00 $74.00 plus $29.00/each $5,000.00 of valuation above $10,000.00

 Notes to Table D-10: 1. Where the application for permit shows cooling tonnage rather than horsepower, the fees of this table shall apply at a rate of one horsepower equals one ton of cooling capacity.

 C. Refunds. Refunds of refrigeration permit fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-11.

 Table D-11 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF REFRIGERATION FEES

 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 Stage in Review Process Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit is issued; no work started. 25%

 Permit is issued; work started 0% (No refund allowed)

 22.900D.110 New Installations and Alterations of Boilers and Pressure Vessels.

 A. Fees for the installation of boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged as set in Table D-12. The fee for alteration or repair of boilers when an inspection is required is a minimum fee of one-half times the Base Fee and a fee for inspection time beyond the first one-half hour of $110 per hour.

 B. Boiler Permits Subject to Energy Code. The Energy Code fee for boiler permits is $17.00.

 C. The fee to reestablish a boiler permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 Table D-12 - INSTALLATION PERMIT FEES FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Heated By Combustion Products

 Type Of Heating--Surface Electric Power Installation Fee Installation (In Square Feet) Input (In KW)

 Boilers 0-250 0-200 $110.00

 251-500 201-400 162.00

 501-750 401-600 219.00

 751-1,000 601-800 316.00

 Over 1,000 Over 800 397.00

 Pressure 0-15 $74.00 vessels1

 16-30 (Length times 97.00

 31-50 diameter in 138.00

 51-100 square feet) 178.00

 Over 100 219.00

 Burners2 0-12,500,000 Btu/hr $110.00 (each fuel)

 and/or automatic Over 12,500,000 $171.00 (each fuel) certification Btu/hr

 Monitoring Per Boiler $203.00 System

 All types above Renewal Fee $55.00

 Notes to Table D-12: 1. Rating size is the product of the two greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels. 2. When a burner is installed in conjunction with a boiler, a separate fee shall not be charged for the burner.

 22.900D.120 Boiler and pressure vessel plan approval.

 The fee for processing boiler and pressure vessel plans shall be charged at the same rate as the installation fee, provided that a minimum fee shall be charged at the rate of one-half times the Base Fee. 22.900D.130 Shop and field assembly inspections.

 A. The Director may, upon written request of any manufacturer or assembler licensed to do business in the City of Seattle who has an appropriate American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code Symbol and holds a valid Certificate of Authorization from the ASME, make shop and field assembly inspection of boilers, boiler piping and unfired pressure vessels and provide for certification of manufacturers' data reports of such inspections as may be required by the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code rules. This service shall be provided only when the equipment is to be installed within the City of Seattle, and only when the applicant is unable to obtain inspections from private inspection agencies or other governmental authorities.

 B. Fees for shop and field assembly inspection of boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged at the same rate as the installation fees for the equipment or at an hourly rate of $110 per hour, with a minimum fee charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee for any one inspection.

 C. Fees for inspection requested for other than shop and field assembly inspection shall be charged at an hourly rate of $110 per hour, with a minimum fee charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee for any one inspection.

 D. No fee shall be charged for the emergency inspection of a boiler or pressure vessel which has burst, burned or suffered other accidental damage, provided the boiler or pressure vessel is covered by a current valid certificate of inspection. 22.900D.140 New installations and alterations of elevators.

 A. Permit fees for new installations and relocations of passenger or freight elevators, automobile parking elevators, escalators, moving walks, material lifts, dumbwaiters, lifts, and private residence elevators shall be charged as set forth in Table D-13.

 B. The permit fee for alterations and repairs to existing elevators, escalators, lifts, moving walks, dumbwaiters, and other conveyances shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-13, provided that in no case shall the fee for alteration or repair exceed the fee if the same were a new installation.

 C. The fee for a temporary, 60-day operating permit is one times the Base Fee.

 D. The fee to reestablish an elevator permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 Table D-13 - ELEVATOR PERMIT FEES1,2,3,4

 Type of Conveyance Fee

 New Installations and Relocations

 Hydraulic elevators $345.00 plus $30.00 per hoistway opening

 Cabled geared and gearless $660.00 plus $50.00 per hoistway elevators opening

 Residential elevators $260.00

 Dumbwaiters, manual doors $125.00 plus $15.00 per hoistway opening

 Dumbwaiters, power doors $125.00 plus $35.00 per hoistway opening

 Escalators and moving walks $980.00 plus the following: (width in inches + run in feet + vertical rise in feet) x $3.00

 Handicap lifts (vertical and $200.00 inclined)

 Material lifts $240.00

 Alterations & Repairs

 Handicap lifts (vertical and $100.00 plus $15.00 for each $1,000.00 inclined) of construction value or fraction thereof.

 Other elevators, escalators, walks, $125.00 plus $20.00 for each $1,000.00 dumbwaiters and lifts of construction value or fraction thereof.

 Elevator Cosmetic Alterations Only:

 Weight differential less than or $125.00 plus $20.00 for each $1,000.00 equal to 5% of construction value or fraction thereof, to a maximum fee of $250.00

 Weight differential greater than 5% $125.00 plus $20.00 for each $1,000.00 of construction value or fraction thereof.

 Alteration or replacement of a door opening device $145.00

 Notes to Table D-13: 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Applications and permits shall be issued accordingly. (See Seattle Building Code Section 3006.1.) 2. Installation fees include charges for electrical equipment installed in connection with any conveyance and such equipment shall not be subject to a separate electrical permit and fee. 3. Each of these fees includes a nonrefundable portion in the amount of one times the Base Fee. 4. The fee for alteration and repair shall not exceed the fee for the same device if installed as new.

 22.900D.150 Electrical permit fees.

 A. Permit Fees When Plans and Specifications Are Required.

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations for which plans and specifications are required under the provisions of the Seattle Electrical Code shall be charged on a valuation basis as set forth in Table D-14.

 2. When approved by the Director to submit plans for advance plan examination, 50% of the estimated permit fee shall be collected at the time of the permit application and plan submittal.

 3. The Director shall determine the value of the construction, which is the value to the vendee of all labor, material, fittings, apparatus and the like, whether actually paid for or not, supplied by the permit holder and/or installed by the permit holder as a part of, or in connection with, a complete electrical system, but which does not include the cost of utilizing equipment connected to the electrical system. The Director may require verification of the stated cost of any work subject to these fees.

 When the cost of any proposed installation is unknown, an estimate of the cost shall be made and used to compute the permit fee.

 The permit fee specified in Table D-14 is due at the time of application. Upon completion of the installation, a fee adjustment may be made in favor of the City or the permit holder, if requested by either party.

 4. In addition, for those electrical permits subject to the Energy Code, the Energy Code fee set in Section 22.900D.150.E shall be charged.

 5. When plans which have been examined and corrected are altered and resubmitted, hourly charges for reexamination shall be assessed at $110 per hour.

 6. When a duplicate set of approved plans is submitted for examination and approval at any time after a permit has been issued on the original approved plans, hourly charges for Departmental work shall be assessed.

 B. Blanket Permits for Electrical Work.

 1. A blanket permit to cover electrical work shall be charged at the rate specified in Table D-14 for the value of the work to be done within one year.

 2. When the initial deposit for one year is used up in less than one year and work remains to be done, an additional deposit shall be paid based on the fee from Table D-14 for the estimated value of work remaining to be done in that year. When a portion of the deposit remains unused at the end of one year and work remains to be done, credit for the balance of the deposit may be transferred from the expiring permit to a new blanket permit for electrical work.

 C. Permit Fees When Plans and Specifications Are Not Required.

 1. Permit fees for electrical installations, additions and alterations for which plans and specifications are not required shall be as set forth in Table D-15. The permit fee specified in Table D-15 is due at the time of application.

 2. Permit fees for temporary electrical installations shall be charged for services only at the rate set forth in Table D-15.

 3. In addition, for those electrical permits subject to the Energy Code, an Energy Code fee, as set forth in Section 22.900D.150.E shall be charged.

 D. Phased Permits.

 1. When an electrical project is proposed to be installed in phases and the Director determines that separate electrical permits may be issued for portions of the project, the permit fee for the initial permits shall be based on the estimated value of the work under that permit according to Table D-14. The fee for the final permit shall be the fee based on the total value of the electrical installations minus the sum of the values of the initial permits.

 2. Where an applicant requests that an application for a permit be divided into separate applications subsequent to the initial submittal of a unified application, an additional fee shall be charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee for each separate application which results from the division.

 E. Electrical Permits Subject to the Energy Code. When an electrical permit includes work subject to the Energy Code, an Energy Code fee of five percent of the electrical permit fee, as determined by Table D- 14 or D-15, with a minimum of $17.00 shall be charged, except that when a heat- loss analysis has been submitted in conjunction with a construction permit for a single-family residence, the Energy Code fee determined by this section shall not be charged.

 F. Permit Fee for the Combined Single-family Dwelling Alteration Permit. Permit fees for the electrical component of aCombined Building and Electrical Single-family Alteration Permit shall be calculated as shown in Table D-15.

 Table D-14 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (when plans are required)

 Value of Construction Fee

 $0 to $1,000.00 $90.00 (minimum fee)

 $1,001.00 to $90.00 plus 5.7% of excess over $1,000.00 $5,000.00

 $5,001.00 to $308.00 plus 3.89% of excess over $5,000.00 $10,000.00

 $10,001.00 to $503.00 plus 1.94% of excess over $10,000.00 $25,000.00

 $25,001.00 to $794.00 plus 1.46% of excess over $25,000.00 $500,000.00

 $500,001.00 and up $7,729.00 plus 1.27% of excess over $500,000.00

 Table D-15 - ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (when plans are not required)

 COMBINED SINGLE FAMILY ALTERATION PERMIT

 Electrical Component Fee

 No service change $55.00 plus Outlet Fee1

 Service change $112.00 plus Outlet Fee1

 INSTALLATIONS

 A charge2 of $35.00 plus the following shall be charged:

 TYPE OF INSTALLATION SIZE FEE

 Services (installation, 1 - $ 43.00 relocation and temporary 125A 71.00 installations; size based on 126 - 200A 99.00 conductor ampacity) 201 - 300A 142.00 301 - 400A 170.00 401 - 500A 207.00 501 - 599A

 240V- 120V 480V

 15-20A $ 6.80 $ 8.60 $ 8.60

 30-40A 8.60 15.40 15.70

 50-70A 13.60 22.50 29.30

 90-100A 29.30 36.80

 125-225A 42.90 53.60

 250-400A 73.00 89.00

 450-600A 110.00 141.00

 Connections

 Light outlet, switches, Each $ .90 plugs, fixtures4, residential-type fan

 Track lighting or Per 2 feet .90 multi-outlet assembly of track

 Devices

 Dimmer (commercial, 2,000 Each $ 8.60 watt or over)

 Non-electric furnace5 Each 7.00

 Appliances & Utilization Equipment (cord and plug or direct wired)

 (15-25A) Each 7.00

 (30-50A) Each 15.00

 Range Each 15.00

 Water heater (220 volt) Each 15.00

 Floodlight6 Each 13.60

 A charge2 of $35.00 plus the following shall be charged:

 TYPE OF INSTALLATION SIZE FEE

 Sign Each $ 19.00

 Motors:

 Up to 1/3 HP $ 3.20

 Up to 3/4 HP 7.00

 Up to 3 HP 10.70

 Up to 5 HP 13.60

 Up to 10 HP 17.00

 Up to 20 HP 25.00

 Up to 50 HP 43.20

 Up to 100 HP 59.30

 Up to 200 HP 121.90

 Over 200 HP 133.70

 Electric furnacesfurnaceselectrical and heaters:

 Up to 2 KW $ 3.20

 Up to 5 KW 7.00

 Up to 15 KW 9.60

 Up to 30 KW 18.90

 Up to 50 KW 40.80

 Up to 100 KW 66.50

 Up to 200 KW 162.00

 Over 200 KW 270.00

 Temporary construction Any $43.00 power for single-family residence

 Low-voltage systems7 (all Requires separate permit types except communication for each system systems)

 Control unit Each $ 2.65

 Device (actuating, horn, Each .65 alarm, etc.)

 Control systems (>100 volts) shall be based on the feeder schedule.

 Communications systems

 0 - 1,000' No permit required*

 1,001 - 2,000' $ 46.00

 2,001 - 5,000' 94.00

 5,001 - 10,000' 142.00

 10,001 - 30,000' 187.00

 Over 30,000' 235.00

 Inspections for which no Each $110.00 per hour other fee is listed Minimum $55.00

 *See Electrical Code for permit exemptions

 Notes to Table D-15: 1. The Outlet Fee is equal to $4.50 times the number of rooms with electrical alteration. 2. Additions, exclusive of service changes or heat circuits, with a total fee of 25% or less of the fee of the permit may be added to an existing permit at the rates in this chart plus $14.00. 3. Feeders will be charged only for a subpanel, distribution panel and branch circuits of 60 amperes or over. 4. Fixtures will be charged only for replacement, reinstallation or installation separate from light outlet wiring. 5. For furnaces where service exceeds 25 amperes, provided an additional feeder fee shall not be charged. For furnaces where service is 25 amperes or less, the furnace fee shall not apply provided a feeder fee is charged. 6. Outdoor area lighting (parking lots, streets, etc.). 7. Low-voltage systems include, but are not limited to, systems listed in Chapter 7 and Chapter 8 of the National Electrical Code.

 G. Renewals. The fee to renew an electrical permit when no changes are made to the original plans is one and one-half times the Base Fee. The fee to renew an electrical permit when changes are made to the original plans is $110 per hour for inspections and plan examination performed.

 H. Reestablishment. The following fee shall be charged for reestablishment of electrical permits.

 1. One and one-half times the Base Fee; plus

 2. If plan review had been required for the original permit, an additional amount of $1.50 per $1,000.00 of value of work that was not completed and inspected under the expired permit shall be charged; plus

 3. If changes are made to the original plans, an additional fee shall be charged for inspection and/or plan examination at the hourly rate.

 The maximum fee for reestablishment is ten times the Base Fee. When the fee for a new permit would be less than one and one-half times the Base Fee, then the fee to reestablish the permit shall be the same as for a new permit.

 I. Refunds. Refunds of electrical fees shall be calculated as specified in Table D-16. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 Table D-16 - CALCULATING REFUNDS of ELECTRICAL FEES

 ELECTRICAL: FOR PLAN REVIEW OR OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) PERMITS

 Stage in Review/Inspection Process Amount Eligible for Refund

 Permit filed, plan review required 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee but not started

 Plan review started or completed, no 100% minus the sum of the inspections following: any accrued hourly charges for plan review + energy fee

 Plan review completed/permit issued 100% minus the sum of the and inspection(s) made, permit not following: any accrued hourly finaled charges for plan review + 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made + energy fee

 Advance plan review process 100% of fee paid minus the sum of completed but permit not issued the following: any hourly charges for plan review + energy fee

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review 100% minus the sum of the required) no inspection(s) requested following: $45.00 + 1/2-hour charge for one inspection.

 Permit issued (OTC) (no plan review 100% minus the sum of the required) Inspection(s) made, permit following: $45.00 + 1/2-hour charge not finaled for each inspection made + energy fee

 Sign permit filed, plan review 100% minus 1/2-hour processing fee required, no inspections made

 Sign permit filed, plan review 100% minus the sum of the required, inspections made, permit following: 1/2-hour processing fee + not finaled 1/2-hour charge for each inspection made

 Any permit finaled No refund

 22.900D.160 Sign, billboard, awning and canopy permit fees.

 A. Permanent Signs. For permanent signs, a permit fee of $80.00 shall be charged for the first 100 square feet or less of the total display area of the sign plus an additional charge of $6.50 for each ten square feet or fraction thereof of total display area in excess of 100 square feet. Each sign or group of signs for a single business entity installed simultaneously on a single structure shall be charged a separate permit fee per business entity. The addition of a sign or group of signs for one business entity to the structure requires a separate permit.

 B. Sign Measurements. All signs erected or painted simultaneously for a single business entity, provided they are on a single structure, shall be measured together and assessed a fee as if a single sign. Directional ground signs between 5 and 7 square feet may be measured together and assessed a fee as if a single sign.

 C. Sign Area. For the purpose of this section, sign area shall be measured in accordance with Section 23.86.004 of the Land Use Code.

 D. Painted Wall Signs. The maximum fee for an on-premises sign painted directly on the building wall is $305.00.

 E. Awnings and Canopies. A separate permit fee is required for the installation of awnings and canopies. The fee assessed for the installation is based on the valuation of the awning or canopy and is 100% of the Development Fee Index as calculated according to Table D-1. This fee is separate from the fee for any sign on the awning or canopy.

 F. Signs on Awnings and Canopies. A permit fee separate from the awning permit fee is required for a sign installed or painted on an awning or canopy. Signs for separate business entities are assessed a separate fee whether or not on a separate awning or canopy. All signs for each business entity installed concurrently on an awning or canopy shall be measured to determine the total square footage and shall be assessed a fee as though one sign. The subsequent addition of a sign or group of signs for one business entity requires a separate permit.

 G. Time of payment. Permit fees for signs, awnings and canopies shall be paid at the time of application.

 H. Renewal. The fee to renew a sign, awning or canopy permit is $43.00.

 I. Reestablishment. The fee to reestablish a sign, awning, or canopy permit is one-half the Base Fee.

 22.900D.170 Design Commission.

 A. City Capital Improvement Projects, as Defined in SMC Section 3.58.020. Design Commission fees shall be assessed at a rate of three- tenths of one (0.3) percent of the construction cost of City capital improvement projects, except as specified in subsection B of this section. Billing will occur at the time of contract award by the Executive Services Department, who will forward the bills to the Department for distribution to appropriate City departments. Payment will be made through a fund transfer to the Department Operating Fund.

 B. Major City Capital Improvement Projects. Design Commission fees shall be assessed at a rate of up to three-tenths of one (0.3) percent of the construction cost of major City capital improvement projects (greater than Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) construction budget.) The fee shall be set through negotiations with the Budget Director and the Design Commission. Billing shall occur in accordance with a schedule agreed upon by the Budget Director and the Design Commission.

 C. Special Exceptions. Rather than assessing fees as a percentage of the construction cost as described in subsections A and B of this section, low- income and special needs housing projects subject to Design Commission review and projects with total construction budgets of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) or less will be billed at the hourly rate of One Hundred Dollars ($100) per hour per Commissioner for subcommittee review, or Seven Hundred Dollars ($700) per hour for full Commission review. Fees for review of these projects may be waived at the discretion of the Commission.

 D. Street Use Permit Reviews. Street use permit reviews, which are required before issuance of a street use permit for improvements within the public right-of-way, will be billed at the hourly rate of One Hundred Dollars ($100) per hour per Commissioner for subcommittee review, or Seven Hundred Dollars ($700) per hour for full Commission review. Billing will be sent directly to the applicant by the Department. E. Early Master Use Permit Stage or Projects Outside City Contract Process. For design review at an early Master Use Permit stage or for projects outside The City of Seattle contract award process, Design Commission fees will be billed by the Department at an hourly rate of One Hundred Dollars ($100) per hour per Commissioner for subcommittee review, or Seven Hundred Dollars ($700) per hour for full Commission review.

 CHAPTER 22.900E - FEES FOR CERTIFICATES AND REGISTRATIONS 22.900E.010 Off-premise advertising sign (billboard) registration fees.

 Registration fees for off-premises advertising signs (billboards) are waived for the period of January 1, 1999 through December 31, 2000. Registration of such signs on or before July 1 of each year is required, but no fee shall be charged. 22.900E.020 Boiler and pressure vessel certificates of operation

 The fee for certificates of operation for boilers and pressure vessels shall be charged in accordance with Table E-1. Where the inspection is performed by the City, the certificate fee includes the certificate of operation, the inspection, and one reinspection, if necessary.

 Table E-1 - FEES FOR CERTIFICATES OF OPERATION FOR BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS

 Type of Heating By Heated By Reinspection and Installation Combustion Electricity Certificate Fee1 Products

 Heating Surface Electric Power (In Square Feet) Input (In KW)

 Boilers3 0-250 0-200 $65.00

 251-500 201-400 122.00

 501-750 401-600 178.00

 751-1,000 601-800 275.00

 Over 1,000 Over 800 340.00

 Controls and limit Automatic boilers Annual devices for (input) automatic boilers 0-12,500,000 Btu $65.00 (Charged in Over 12,500,000 81.00 addition to those fees listed above)

 Monitoring systems Annual for automatic $162.00 boiler (Charged in addition to those fees listed above)

 Unfired pressure Rating Size Biennial vessels1,2,3 0-15 $37.00 16-30 65.00 31-50 106.00 51-100 138.00 Over 100 203.00

 Domestic water Biennial $25.00 heaters located in Group A, E or I Occupancy

 Notes to Table E-1: 1. Fees for boiler and pressure vessels which are inspected by authorized insurance company inspectors are 50% of those set forth in Table E-1; provided, that the 50% rate shall not apply to the charges for controls and limit devices for automatic boilers specified in Table E-1, and further provided that no fee shall be less than the minimum. 2. Rating size is the product of the two greatest dimensions of the vessel: diameter X overall length for the cylindrical vessels; maximum width X maximum length for rectangular vessels. 3. Fees for low-pressure hot water supply boilers installed prior to January 1, 1989, consisting of tanks whose contents are heated by electric elements shall be charged at the same rates that apply to unfired vessels of the same size. 4. When a burner is installed in conjunction with a boiler, a separate fee shall not be charged for the burner. 22.900E.030 Fees for Elevator Certificates of Inspection.

 A. Certificates of inspection for elevators will be issued upon acceptance inspection and for each subsequent annual reinspection after payment of the fee set in Table E-2.

 B. The fee for renewal of a certificate of inspection to operate any conveyance is as set in Table E-2.

 Table E-2 - FEES FOR ELEVATOR CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION

 Type of Conveyance Fee for Each Conveyance

 Hydraulic elevators $110.00

 Cable elevators2 $150.00 plus $11.00 for each hoistway opening in excess of two

 Sidewalk elevators $100.00

 Hand-powered elevators $100.00

 Dumbwaiters $100.00

 Escalators and moving walks $150.00

 Handicap lifts (Vertical and $95.00 Inclined)

 Material lifts $100.00

 Fire emergency systems, Phase I $50.00 or both Phase I and Phase II

 Notes to Table E-2: 1. Each separately-powered unit is considered a separate conveyance. Separate applications and permits are required for each conveyance. 2. Elevators having a continuous hoistway wall of 100 feet or more without openings shall be charged a fee of $245.00 plus $11.00 for each hoistway opening in excess of two.

 22.900E.040 Refrigeration systems annual operating permit fee.

 The annual operating permit fee for any refrigeration system is calculated according to Table E-3. The fee for multiple systems on a single premises is based upon the total motor horsepower at the premises.

 Table E-3 - REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS ANNUAL OPERATING FEES

 Size of equipment Fee

 0 - 50 HP $59.00

 51 - 100 HP $90.00

 Over 100 HP $126.00

 Over 100 HP (Type 2 refrigerant) $185.00

 22.900E.050 Boiler and refrigeration licenses and examinations.

 Fees for boiler and refrigeration examination and annual license fees, payable in advance, shall be charged as set in Table E-4.

 Table E-4 - FEES FOR BOILER AND REFRIGERATION LICENSES AND EXAMINATIONS

 License fees:1

 Refrigeration Contractor

 Class A $100.00

 Class B $100.00

 Class C $160.00

 Air-conditioning contractor $100.00

 Refrigeration service shop $ 45.00

 Journeyman refrigeration mechanic $ 45.00

 Refrigeration service shop mechanic $ 45.00

 Industrial refrigeration engineering $ 45.00

 Refrigeration operating engineer $ 45.00

 Steam engineers and boiler firemen (all $ 45.00 grades)

 Boiler Supervisor, all grades $ 75.00

 Examination fees - all licenses $ 20.00

 Note to Table E-4: 1 When a license is issued that will expire in less than six months from the date of issuance, the fee is one-half the annual fee. 22.900E.060 Registration of special inspectors.

 A. The fee for the initial examination of an applicant for registration as a registered special inspector, including the Special Inspector Certificate of Registration, shall be charged at the rate of one and one-half times the Base Fee.

 B. Special inspectors who wish to be registered for additional categories shall take an examination for each new category. The fee for each additional examination shall be charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee.

 C. The fee for renewal of a Special Inspector Certificate of Registration covering one or more types of inspection for which the registrant has been qualified is $25.00.

 D. The fee for a special inspector to repeat an examination shall be charged at the rate of one times the Base Fee. 22.900E.070 Certification of fabrication plants.

 A fee of three times the Base Fee shall be charged for certification of an approved fabricator's manufacturing plant at the time of initial application for approval. The fee to renew an approved fabricator's manufacturing plant certification is one and one-half times the Base Fee.

 22.900E.080 Revisions to current special inspection authorizations.

 When changes to the authorized special inspections or inspectors are requested, separate from a permit revision, a fee shall be charged for each additional change, after the first such change. The fee is one-half times the Base Fee for any changes that occur at one time for a single permit. All fees shall be paid prior to final Department approval of the special inspections.

 CHAPTER 22.900F - COMPLIANCE AND OTHER INSPECTIONS 22.900F.010 Monitoring vacant buildings.

 A. A quarterly reinspection fee shall be charged as set forth in Table F-1 for reinspections of buildings closed pursuant to or in response to the requirements of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code. Building and premises shall be maintained per the standards of the Housing and Building Maintenance Code, Land Use Code, Solid Waste Code and Weeds and Vegetation Ordinance.

 Table F-1 - MONITORING VACANT BUILDINGS

 Condition of Premises Fee

 Building is closed to entry and premises are in Base Fee x 1.5 compliance with applicable codes.

 Building is closed to entry and premises are not in Base Fee x 2.5 compliance with applicable codes.

 Building is not closed to entry regardless of compliance Base Fee x 3 with applicable codes.

 B. The Department shall send a bill to the taxpayer and/or owner of record of each property inspected.

 22.900F.020 Noise fees.

 A. Certain construction and land use proposals require noise survey reviews. Project review shall be charged according to Table F-2. Any hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision is required, hourly fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 B. Applications for noise variances shall be charged according to Table F-2 except for applications for temporary noise variances as components of a master filming permit issued pursuant to SMC 15.35.010 which shall be charged as part of the single fee for the master filming permit. Renewal of noise variances shall be assessed at the same rate.

 Table F-2 - NOISE FEES

 Type Permit Fee Project Review Fee

 Temporary noise variance $100 None (No separate fee when issued as part of a master filming permit)

 Economic/technical variance in $100 $110 per hour residential zones (2-hour deposit)

 Economic/Technical variance in $250 $110 per hour commercial/industrial zones (2-hour deposit)

 Noise survey reviews See Table D-2 See Table D-2

 22.900F.030 Research and inspection on Notices of Violation.

 The fee to conduct research to issue a certificate to clear the title records of a property cited with a Notice of Violation shall be charged at the rate of one- half times the Base Fee. If an inspection in the field is also performed an additional fee at the rate of one times the Base Fee shall be charged. 22.900F.040 Advisory Housing and Building Maintenance Code and condominium conversion inspection.

 A. The fee for advisory inspections requested pursuant to the Housing and Building Maintenance Code or inspections required by the Condominium Conversion Ordinance shall be charged at the rate of two and one-half times the Base Fee for inspecting a building and one housing unit plus a charge at the rate of one- half times the Base Fee for inspecting each additional housing unit in the same building. No additional fee shall be charged for one follow-up inspection, if requested.

 B. Additional reinspections requested or required after the first reinspection shall be charged a fee at the rate of one times the Base Fee for each building and one housing unit plus one-fourth times the Base Fee for each additional housing unit in the same building.

 C. Refunds. Refunds of housing fees shall be calculated as specified in Table F-3.

 Table F-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS of HOUSING FEES (Advisory housing and required condominium conversion inspections)

 Stage in Review Process Inspection Fee Amount Eligible for Refund

 Written request received by DCLU; 100% but initial file setup not started

 File set up, but inspection not 100% minus (2 x Base Fee and .5 x undertaken Base Fee for each unit in excess of 1 unit)

 Inspection has been made and the 0% (No refund allowed) building is found to be in compliance at initial inspection

 22.900F.050 House Barge Licenses.

 The fee for a house barge license is $330.00. The fee to renew a house barge license is $165.00.

 CHAPTER 22.900G - FEES COLLECTED FOR OTHER DEPARTMENTS 22.900G.010 Fees for Department of Neighborhoods review.

 The following fees shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods and deposited in the General Fund.

 A. Certificate of Approval Fees. There is a charge for a Certificate of Approval as required by all applicable ordinances for the construction or alteration of property in a designated Special Review District, Landmark, Landmark District, or Historic District of $10.00 for construction costs of $1,500.00 or less, plus $10.00 for each additional $5,000.00 of construction costs up to a maximum fee of $1,000.00 except that when an applicant applies for a certificate of approval for the preliminary design of a project and later applies for a certificate of approval for a subsequent phase or phases of the same project, a fee shall only be charged for the first application. There is an additional charge of $10.00 for a Certificate of Use Approval in the Pioneer Square Preservation District, the Pike Place Market Historical District and the International Special Review District.

 B. Special Valuation Program For Historic Properties. There is a charge of $250.00 for review by the Seattle Landmarks Preservation Board of applications for special tax valuation for historic properties pursuant to the Historic Property Act (RCW Chapter 84.26). A fee for Board review of proposed alterations to historic properties shall be charged according to the schedule of fees set forth in Section 22.900G.010A (Certificate of Approval Fees).

 22.900G.020 Fees for review by the Seattle Transportation Department and the Seattle Public Utility.

 The fees shown in Table G-1 shall be collected by the Department for transfer to the Seattle Transportation Department (SeaTran) or the Seattle Public Utility (SPU).

 Table G-1 - SEATTLE TRANSPORTATION Department

 and SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITY Fees Work for Which Fee is Charged Amount of Fee Department 1. Building Grade Sheetbuilding grade $220 SPU sheet 2. School Use and School Development $110 per hour SeaTran Advisory Committee ReviewsSchool Use and School Development Advisory Committee Reviews 3. Major Institution Master Plansmajor $110 per hour SeaTran institution master plans 4. Processing of Right-of-way $110 per hour SPU Dedicationsright-of-way dedicationsdedications 5. Shoringshoring and $110 per hour SeaTran ExcavationexcavationSeattle Transportation Dept. Review1

 Note to Table G-1: 1 A separate street use permit must be obtained from SeaTran under Title 15 if excavation or shoring will occur in the public right-of-way. This fee is collected for SeaTran for shoring projects adjacent to the public right-of-way; it is for the review of utility conflicts, bonding, and temporary use of the right-of-way, and for a deposit to pay for inspections during construction.

 22.900G.030 Fees for review by the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health.

 A. Fees for fuel gas piping shall be collected by the Director of Public Health. The basic fee for gas piping installations is $75.00 for one through four outlets, and $10.00 for each additional outlet. A minimum of $75.00 is nonrefundable.

 B. The fee shall not apply to the installation of any domestic hot-water heaters or any other domestic gas-fired appliance connected to a plumbing system whenever such appliance or heater is included in a plumbing installation for which a basic plumbing permit has been issued.

 C. A reinspection fee for fuel gas piping of $40.00 may be assessed for each inspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called is not complete or when corrections called for are not made. This is not to be interpreted as requiring inspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of this Code, but as controlling the practice of calling for inspection or reinspection.

 Reinspection fees may be assessed when the permit is not properly posted on the work site, the work to be inspected is not under test, and for failure to make required corrections. To obtain a reinspection the applicant shall file an application therefor in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose, and pay the reinspection fee in accordance with this code. In instances in which reinspection fees have been assessed, no additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees have been paid.

 22.900G.040 Fees for review by the Seattle Arts Commission.

 The fee for services furnished by the Seattle Arts Commission is $50.00 per hour. The minimum charge is $200.00.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1998. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1998.

 ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____.

 ___________________________________ City Clerk (SEAL) MT/md 99_00FeeOrd.doc 11/13/98 V 3

 1

```
