

********

**Council Bill Number: 112337**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119238**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and providing for Assisted Living facilities by amending Sections 23.45.004, 23.47.004, 23.49.026, 23.50.012, 23.54.015, 23.54.030, 23.54.035, and 23.84.032, and adding new Sections 23.45.082, 23.47.035, and 23.48.035.

**Status:** PASSED AS AMENDED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 30, 1998
   
**Vote:** 6-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 2, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 2, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Assisted Living Facilities Ordinance

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 14, 1998
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** EXTENDED-CARE-FACILITIES, MULTI-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, LAND-USE-CODE

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 119151, 119217, 117202, 118794, 119239, 118414, 118409

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 WHEREAS, the City's Comprehensive Plan, originally adopted in 1994 and most recently amended in 1997, includes a housing goal of allowing the elderly the opportunity to remain in their own neighborhood as their housing needs change; and

 WHEREAS, the City's Comprehensive Plan includes a housing policy that calls for allowing and encouraging a range of housing types for the elderly, including but not limited to independent living, various degrees of assisted living, and skilled nursing care facilities; and striving to increase opportunities for the elderly to live in ground-related housing with services nearby;

 WHEREAS, the community benefits when children and older adults have opportunities to interact with one another, the City's Land Use Code should not only allow such intergenerational opportunities but encourage them, and the City Council intends to facilitate such opportunities through this amendment to the Land Use Code and through future ordinances;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection A of Section 23.45.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119151, is further amended as follows:

 23.45.004 Principal uses permitted outright.

 A. The following principal uses shall be permitted outright in all multifamily zones:

 1. Single-family dwelling units;

 2. Multifamily structures;

 3. Congregate residences;

 4. Adult family homes;

 5. Nursing homes;

 6. Assisted Living facilities;

7. Institutions meeting all development standards;

~~7~~8. Major Institution and Major Institution uses within Major Institution Overlay Districts subject to Chapter 23.69;

~~8~~9. Public facilities meeting all development standards;

~~9~~10. Existing cemeteries; and

~~10~~11. Public or private parks and playgrounds including customary buildings and activities.

 Section 2. A new Section 23.45.082 is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 23.45.082 Assisted Living Facilities Use and Development Standards.

 A. Assisted Living facilities shall be subject to the development standards of the zone in which they are located except as provided below:

 1. Density. Density limits do not apply to Assisted Living facilities; and

 2. Open Space. Open space requirements do not apply to Assisted Living facilities.

 B. Other Requirements

 1. Minimum unit size. Assisted Living units shall be designed to meet the minimum square footage required by WAC 388-110-140.

 2. Facility kitchen. There shall be provided a kitchen on-site which services the entire Assisted Living facility.

 3. Communal area. Communal areas (e.g., solariums, decks and porches, recreation rooms, dining rooms, living rooms, foyers and lobbies that are provided with comfortable seating, and gardens or other outdoor landscaped areas that are accessible to wheelchairs and walkers) with sufficient accommodations for socialization and meeting with friends and family shall be provided:

 a. The total amount of communal area shall, at a minimum, equal twenty percent (20%) of the total floor area in Assisted Living units. In calculating the total floor area in Assisted Living units, all of the area of each of the individual units shall be counted, including counters, closets and built-ins, but excluding the bathroom;

 b. No service areas, including, but not limited to, the facility kitchen, laundry, hallways and corridors, supply closets, operations and maintenance areas, staff areas and offices, and rooms used only for counseling or medical services, shall be counted toward the communal area requirement; and

 c. A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet of the required communal area shall be provided outdoors, with no dimension less than ten (10) feet. A departure from the required amount and/or dimension of outdoor communal space may be permitted as part of the design review process, pursuant to 23.41.012A.

 Section 3. Subsection E and Chart A of Section 23.47.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 119217, is further amended as follows:

 23.47.004 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 E. Residential Uses.

 1. Residential use in single-purpose residential structures. Residential use in single-purpose residential structures is permitted as an administrative conditional use, unless:

 a. the structure is located within an area in which the use is either permitted outright or prohibited, as shown on the Map 23.47.004 A; or

 b. the use is a nursing home, in which case it is permitted outright, unless it is located in a Pedestrian-Designated zone, in which case the use is prohibited; or

 c. the structure is located within a zone which has a height limit of 85 feet or higher, in which case the use is prohibited.

 2. Residential use in mixed use structures. Residential use in mixed-use development is permitted outright in NC1, NC2, NC3 and C1 zones, provided that nursing homes are permitted in all zones except in Pedestrian-Designated zones at street level (See Section 23.47.040). Except in Pedestrian Designated zones at street level, where the provisions of Subchapter IV of Chapter 23.47 shall apply, the street-level non-residential use portion of an Assisted Living facility in a mixed use development may include, in addition to the uses permitted in Section 23.47.042, uses associated with the Assisted Living facility, such as activity rooms, administrative offices, lounges, mail room, dining area, or lobby, provided that the non-residential portion of the development does not include private living units. All other provisions of Subchapter IV of Chapter 23.47 shall apply.

 COMMERCIAL USES: CHART A

 For Section 23.47.004

 ZONES NC1 NC2 NC3 C1 C2 I. COMMERCIAL USE

 A. Retail Sales and Service 1. Personal and Household Retail Sales and Services - Multipurpose convenience P P P P P stores - General retail sales and P P P P P service - Major durables sales, P P P P P service and rental - Specialty food stores P P P P P

 2. Medical Services P P/CU1 P/CU1 P/CU1 P/CU1

 3. Animal Services2

 - Animal health services P P P P P - Kennels X X X X P - Animal shelters X X X X X

 4. Automotive Retail Sales and Services - Gas Stations P P P P P - Sales and rental of X P P P P motorized vehicles - Vehicle repair, minor P P P P P - Vehicle repair, major X P P P P - Car wash X P P P P - Towing services X X X P P - Automotive parts or P P P P P accessory sales

 5. Marine Retail Sales and Services X P P P P - Sales and rental of large boats - Vessel repair, minor P P P P P - Vessel repair, major X X X S S - Marine service station P P P P P - Dry storage of boats X P P P P - Recreational marinas S S S S S - Commercial moorage S S S S S - Sale of boat parts or P P P P P accessories

 6. Eating and Drinking Establishments - Restaurants without P P P P P cocktail lounges - Restaurants with X P P P P cocktail lounges - Fast-food restaurants P P P P P (750 square feet and under) - Fast-food restaurant CU CU CU CU CU (over 750 square feet) - Tavern CU CU P P P - Brewpub CU CU P P P

 7. Lodging CU CU CU CU CU - Hotel X X P P P - Motel X X P P P - Bed and breakfast P3 P3 P P P

 8. Mortuary Services X P P P P

 9. Existing Cemeteries14 P P P P P

 B. Principal Use Parking X P P P P

 Non-Household Sales and Service

 1. Business support services P P P P P 2. Business incubator P P P P P 3. Sales, service and rental of X P P P P office equipment 4. Sales, service and rental of X X P P P commercial equipment and construction materials 5. Sale of heating fuel X X P P P 6. Heavy commercial servic es X X X P P - Construction services X X X P P - Commercial laundries X X X P P

 D. Offices

 1. Customer service office P P P P P

 2. Administrative office P P P P P

 E. Entertainment

 1. Places of Public Assembly

 - Performing arts theater X P P P P - Spectator sports X P P P P facility - Lecture and meeting X P P P P halls - Motion picture theater X P P P P - Adult motion picture X X X X X theater - Adult panorams X X X X X

 2. Participant Sports and Recreation

 - Indoor P P P P P - Outdoor X X X4 P P

 F. Wholesale Showroom X X P P P

 G. Mini-Warehouse X X P P P

 H. Warehouse X X P P P

 I. Outdoor Storage X X X5 P P

 J. Transportation Facilities

 1. Personal transportation X X P P P services 2. Passenger terminals X X P P P 3. Cargo terminals X X X S P 4. Transit vehicle base X X X CCU6 CCU6 5. Helistops X X CCU7 CCU7 CCU7 6. Heliports X X X X X 7. Airport, land-based X X X X X 8. Airport, water-based X X X X S 9. Railroad switchyard X X X X X 10. Railroad switchyard with X X X X X mechanized hump

 K. Food Processing and Craft Work

 Food processing for human P P P P P consumption Custom and craft work P P P P P

 L. Research and Development P P P P P Laboratories

 II. SALVAGE AND RECYCLING

 A. Recycling Collection Station P P P P P B. Recycling Center X X X P P C. Salvage Yard X X X X X

 III UTILITIES .

 A. Utility Service Uses P P P P P B. Major Communication Utility8 X X X CCU CCU C. Minor Communication Utility8 P P P P P D. Solid Waste Transfer Station X X X X X E. Power Plants X X X X X F. Sewage Treatment Plants X X X X X G. Solid Waste Incineration X X X X X Facility H. Solid Waste Landfill X X X X X

 IV. MANUFACTURING

 A. Light Manufacturing X P P P P B. General Manufacturing X X X P P C. Heavy Manufacturing X X X X X

 V. HIGH IMPACT USES X X X X X

 VI. INSTITUTIONS

 A. Institute for Advanced P P P P P Study

 B. Private Club P P P P P

 C. Child Care Center P P P P P

 D. Museum P P P P P

 E. School, Elementary or P P P P P Secondary

 F. College P P P P P

 G. Community Center P P P P P

 H. Community Club P P P P P

 I. Vocational or Fine Arts P P P P P School

 J. Hospital P P P P P

 K. Religious Facility P P P P P

 L. University P P P P P

 M. Major Institutions P P P P P within a Major Institution Overlay District subject to Chapter 23.69

 VII. PUBLIC FACILITIES

 Jails X X X X X

 Work-Release Centers9 CCU CCU CCU CCU CCU

 VIII. PARK AND POOL/RIDE LOT

 Park and Pool Lots P10 P P P P

 Park and Ride Lots X X CU CU CU

 IX. RESIDENTIAL11

 A. Single-Family P/CU12 P/CU12 P/CU12 P/CU12 CU12 Dwelling Units

 B. Multi-Family P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU CU Structures

 C. Congregate P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU CU Residences

 D. Floating Homes S S S S S

 E. Mobile Home Park X X X P CU

 F. Artist Studio/ P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU CU Dwelling

 G. Caretaker's P P P P P Quarters H. Adult Family P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU P Homes I. Home Occupations P13 P13 P13 P13 P13

 J. Nursing Homes P P P P P

 K. Assisted Living P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU CU facility

 X. OPEN SPACE

 Parks P P P P P

 Playgrounds P P P P P

 XI. AGRICULTURAL USES

 Animal Husbandry X13 X13 X13 X13 P

 Horticultural Uses P P P P P

 Aquaculture P P P P P

 P - Permitted

 X - Prohibited

 CU - Administrative Conditional Use

 CCU - Council Conditional Use

 S - Permitted only in the Shoreline District, when permitted by the Seattle Shoreline Master Program

 1. Medical service uses over ten thousand (10,000) square feet, within two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet of a medical Major Institution Overlay District boundary, shall required administrative conditional use approval, unless included in an adopted Major Institution Master Plan or located in a downtown zone. See Section 23.47.006.

 2. The keeping of animals for other than business purposes shall be regulated by Section 23.47.026.

 3. In existing structures only.

 4. Outdoor participant sports and recreation uses are permitted at the Seattle Center.

 5. Outdoor storage is permitted at the Seattle Center, subject to the provisions of Section 23.47.011.

 6. New transit vehicle bases accommodating one hundred fifty (150) or fewer buses or existing transit vehicle bases seeking to expand.

 7. Permitted only as an accessory use according to Section 23.47.006.

 8. See Chapter 23.57 for regulation of communication utilities.

 9. Subject to dispersion criteria in Section 23.47.006

 10. Permitted only on parking lots existing at least five  (5) years prior to the proposed establishment of the park and pool lot.

 11. See subsection 23.47.004E.

 12. An accessory dwelling unit added to a single-family residence shall be allowed outright and shall not require a separate conditional use permit. The unit shall be considered accessory to the single-family residences, shall meet the standards listed for accessory dwelling units in Section 23.44.025 and shall not be considered a separate dwelling unit for all development standard purposes in commercial zones.

 Permitted only as an accessory use.

 Section 4. A new Section 23.47.035 is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 23.47.035 Assisted Living Facilities Use and Development Standards.

A. Assisted Living facilities shall be subject to the development standards of the zone in which they are located except as provided below:  1. Density. Density limits do not apply to Assisted Living facilities; and

 2. Open Space. Open space requirements do not apply to Assisted Living facilities.

 B. Other Requirements

 1. Minimum unit size. Assisted Living units shall be designed to meet the minimum square footage required by WAC 388-110-140.

 2. Facility kitchen. There shall be provided a kitchen on-site which services the entire Assisted Living facility.

 3. Communal area. Communal areas (e.g., solariums, decks and porches, recreation rooms, dining rooms, living rooms, foyers and lobbies that are provided with comfortable seating, and gardens or other outdoor landscaped areas that are accessible to wheelchairs and walkers) with sufficient accommodations for socialization and meeting with friends and family shall be provided:

 a. The total amount of communal area shall, at a minimum, equal twenty percent (20%) of the total floor area in Assisted Living units. In calculating the total floor area in Assisted Living units, all of the area of each of the individual units shall be counted, including counters, closets and built-ins, but excluding the bathroom;

 b. No service areas, including, but not limited to, the facility kitchen, laundry, hallways and corridors, supply closets, operations and maintenance areas, staff areas and offices, and rooms used only for counseling or medical services, shall be counted toward the communal area requirement; and

 c. A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet of the required communal area shall be provided outdoors, with no dimension less than ten (10) feet. A departure from the required amount and/or dimension of outdoor communal space may be permitted as part of the design review process, pursuant to 23.41.012A.

 Section 5. A new Section 23.48.035 is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

23.48.035 Assisted Living Facilities Use and Development Standards.  A. Assisted Living facilities shall be subject to the development standards of the zone in which they are located except as provided below:

 1. Density. Density limits do not apply to Assisted Living facilities; and

 2. Open Space. Open space requirements do not apply to Assisted Living facilities.

 B. Other Requirements

 1. Minimum unit size. Assisted Living units shall be designed to meet the minimum square footage required by WAC 388-110-140.

 2. Facility kitchen. There shall be provided a kitchen on-site which services the entire Assisted Living facility.

 3. Communal area. Communal areas (e.g., solariums, decks and porches, recreation rooms, dining rooms, living rooms, foyers and lobbies that are provided with comfortable seating, and gardens or other outdoor landscaped areas that are accessible to wheelchairs and walkers) with sufficient accommodations for socialization and meeting with friends and family shall be provided:

 a. The total amount of communal area shall, at a minimum, equal twenty percent (20%) of the total floor area in Assisted Living units. In calculating the total floor area in Assisted Living units, all of the area of each of the individual units shall be counted, including counters, closets and built-ins, but excluding the bathroom;

 b. No service areas, including, but not limited to, the facility kitchen, laundry, hallways and corridors, supply closets, operations and maintenance areas, staff areas and offices, and rooms used only for counseling or medical services, shall be counted toward the communal area requirement; and

 c. A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet of the required communal area shall be provided outdoors, with no dimension less than ten (10) feet. A departure from the required amount and/or dimension of outdoor communal space may be permitted as part of the design review process, pursuant to 23.41.012A.

 Section 6. A new subsection C of Section 23.49.026 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117202 , is further amended as follows:

 23.49.026 General ~~area~~ requirements for residential uses.

C. Assisted Living Facilities Use and Development Standards.  1. Assisted Living facilities shall be subject to the development standards of the zone in which they are located except as provided below:

 a. Density. Density limits do not apply to Assisted Living facilities; and

 b. Open Space and Common Recreation Area. Open space and common recreation area requirements do not apply to Assisted Living facilities.

 2. Other Requirements

 a. Minimum unit size. Assisted Living units shall be designed to meet the minimum square footage required by WAC 388-110-140.

 b. Facility kitchen. There shall be provided a kitchen on-site which services the entire Assisted Living facility.

 c. Communal area. Communal areas (e.g., solariums, decks and porches, recreation rooms, dining rooms, living rooms, foyers and lobbies that are provided with comfortable seating, and gardens or other outdoor landscaped areas that are accessible to wheelchairs and walkers) with sufficient accommodations for socialization and meeting with friends and family shall be provided:

 (1) The total amount of communal area shall, at a minimum, equal twenty percent (20%) of the total floor area in Assisted Living units. In calculating the total floor area in Assisted Living units, all of the area of each of the individual units shall be counted, including counters, closets and built-ins, but excluding the bathroom;

 (2) No service areas, including, but not limited to, the facility kitchen, laundry, hallways and corridors, supply closets, operations and maintenance areas, staff areas and offices, and rooms used only for counseling or medical services, shall be counted toward the communal area requirement; and

 3) A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet of the required communal area shall be provided outdoors, with no dimension less than ten (10) feet. A departure from the required amount and/or dimension of outdoor communal space may be permitted as part of the design review process, pursuant to 23.41.012A.

 Section 7. Chart A for Section 23.50.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118794, is further amended as follows:

 23.50.012 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 INDUSTRIAL USES CHART A for Section 23.50.012

 Uses Zones

 I. Manufacturing

 A. Light manufacturing P P P B. General manufacturing P P P C. Heavy manufacturing CU X or CU1 P or CU2

 II. High-impact Uses. X X or CU3 X or CU4

 III. Commercial A. Retail Sales and Service 1. Personal and household sales P P P and services 2. Medical services P/CU5 P/CU5 P/CU5 3. Animal services a. Animal health services P P P b. Kennel X P P 4. Automotive retail sales and P P P service 5. Marine retail sales and P P P service 6. Eating and drinking establishment a. Fast food restaurants over CU CU CU 750 square feet b. Fast food restaurants P P P under 750 square feet c. Restaurants with or P P P without cocktail lounges d. Tavern P P P e. Brewpub P P  P 7. Lodging CU CU CU 8. Mortuary service P P P 9. Existing cemeteries P P P 10. New cemeteries X X X

 B. Principal use parking, surface area P P P or garage

 C. Nonhousehold sales and services P P P

 D. Office P P P

 E. Entertainment 1. Places of public assembly a. Performing arts theater P P P b. Spectator sports P P P facility c. Lecture and meeting halls P P P d. Motion picture theater P P P e. Motion picture theater, X X X adult f. Adult panorams X X X 2. Participant sports and recreation a. Indoor P P P b. Outdoor P P P

 F. Wholesale showroom P P P

 G. Mini-warehouse P P P

 H. Warehouse P P P

 I. Outdoor storage P P P

 J. Transportation Facilities 1. Personal transportation P P P services 2. Passenger terminal P P P 3. Cargo terminal P P P 4. Transit vehicle base CU CU CU 5. Helistop CCU CCU CCU 6. Heliport X CCU CCU 7. Airport, land-based X CCU CCU 8. Airport, water-based X CCU CCU 9. Railroad switchyard P P P 10. Railroad switchyard with X X CU mechanized hump

 K. Food processing and craft work P P P

 L. Research and development P P P laboratory

 IV. Salvage and Recycling A. Recycling collection P P P station B. Recycling center P P P C. Salvage yard X X P

 V. Utilities A. Utility services use P P P B. Major communication CU CU CU utility6 C. Minor communication P P P utility6 D. Solid waste transfer X CU CU station E. Power plant X CCU P F. Sewage treatment plant X CCU CCU G. Solid waste X CCU CCU incineration facility H. Solid waste landfills X X X

 VI. Institutions A. Institute for P P P advanced study B. Private clubs EB EB EB C. Child care center P P P D. Museum EB EB EB E. School, elementary or EB EB EB secondary F. College EB EB EB G. Community center EB EB EB H. Community club EB EB EB I. Vocational or fine P P P arts school J. Hospital EB CU8 EB K. Religious facility EB EB EB L. University EB EB EB M. Major institutions., EB EB EB subject to the provisions of Chapter 23.69

 VII. Public Facilities A. Jails X X X B. Work-release centers X X X C. Other public CCU CCU CCU facilities

 VII. Park and Pool/Ride Lots A. Park and pool lots P7 P7 P7 B. Park and ride lots CU CU CU

 IX. Residential A. Single-family X X X dwelling units B. Multi-family X X X structures C. Congregate residences X X X D. Adult family homes X X X E. Floating homes X X X F. Mobil home park X X X G. Nursing homes X X X H. Artist's EB/CU EB/CU EB/CU studio/dwelling I. Caretaker's quarters P P P J. Assisted Living X X X facility K. Residential use CU CU CU except artist's studio/dwelling and caretaker's quarters in a landmark structure or landmark district

 X. Open Space A. Parks P P P B. Playgrounds P P P

 XI. Agricultural Uses A. Animal husbandry X X X B. Horticultural use X X X C. Aquaculture P P P

 I. Manufacturing A. Light manufacturing P P P B. General manufacturing P P P C. Heavy manufacturing CU X or CU1 P or CU2

 II. High-impact Uses. X X or CU3 X or CU4

 III. Commercial A. Retail Sales and Service 1. Personal and household sales P P P and services 2. Medical services P/CU5 P/CU5 P/CU5 3. Animal services a. Animal health services P P P b. Kennel X P P 4. Automotive retail sales and P P P service 5. Marine retail sales and P P P service 6. Eating and drinking establishment a. Fast food restaurants over CU CU CU 750 square feet b. Fast food restaurants P P P under 750 square feet c. Restaurants with or P P P without cocktail lounges d. Tavern P P P e. Brewpub P P  P 7. Lodging CU CU CU 8. Mortuary service P P P 9. Existing cemeteries P P P 10. New cemeteries X X X

 B. Principal use parking, surface area P P P or garage

 C. Nonhousehold sales and services P P P

 D. Office P P P

 E. Entertainment 1. Places of public assembly a. Performing arts theater P P P b. Spectator sports P P P facility c. Lecture and meeting halls P P P d. Motion picture theater P P P e. Motion picture theater, X X X adult f. Adult panorams X X X 2. Participant sports and recreation a. Indoor P P P b. Outdoor P P P

 F. Wholesale showroom P P P

 G. Mini-warehouse P P P

 H. Warehouse P P P

 I. Outdoor storage P P P

 J. Transportation Facilities 1. Personal transportation P P P services 2. Passenger terminal P P P 3. Cargo terminal P P P 4. Transit vehicle base CU CU CU 5. Helistop CCU CCU CCU 6. Heliport X CCU CCU 7. Airport, land-based X CCU CCU 8. Airport, water-based X CCU CCU 9. Railroad switchyard P P P 10. Railroad switchyard with X X CU mechanized hump

 K. Food processing and craft work P P P

 L. Research and development P P P laboratory

 IV. Salvage and Recycling A. Recycling collection P P P station B. Recycling center P P P C. Salvage yard X X P

 V. Utilities

 A. Utility services use P P P B. Major communication CU CU CU utility6 C. Minor communication P P P utility6 D. Solid waste transfer X CU CU station E. Power plant X CCU P F. Sewage treatment plant X CCU CCU G. Solid waste X CCU CCU incineration facility H. Solid waste landfills X X X

 VI. Institutions A. Institute for P P P advanced study B. Private clubs EB EB EB C. Child care center P P P D. Museum EB EB EB E. School, elementary or EB EB EB secondary F. College EB EB EB G. Community center EB EB EB H. Community club EB EB EB I. Vocational or fine P P P arts school J. Hospital EB CU8 EB K. Religious facility EB EB EB L. University EB EB EB M. Major institutions., EB EB EB subject to the provisions of Chapter 23.69

 VII. Public Facilities A. Jails X X X B. Work-release centers X X X C. Other public CCU CCU CCU facilities

 VII. Park and Pool/Ride Lots A. Park and pool lots P7 P7 P7 B. Park and ride lots CU CU CU

 IX. Residential A. Single-family X X X dwelling units B. Multi-family X X X structures C. Congregate residences X X X D. Adult family homes X X X E. Floating homes X X X F. Mobil home park X X X G. Nursing homes X X X H. Artist's EB/CU EB/CU EB/CU studio/dwelling I. Caretaker's quarters P P P J. Assisted Living X X X facility K. Residential use CU CU CU except artist's studio/dwelling and caretaker's quarters in a landmark structure or landmark district

 X. Open Space A. Parks P P P B. Playgrounds P P P

 XI. Agricultural Uses A. Animal husbandry X X X B. Horticultural use X X X C. Aquaculture P P P

 P = Permitted X = Prohibited CU = Administrative conditional use CCU = Council conditional use EB = Permitted only in a building existing on October 5, 1987

 1. The Heavy Manufacturing uses listed in subsection B10 of Section 23.50.014 may be permitted as conditional uses. All other Heavy Manufacturing uses are prohibited.

 2. Heavy Manufacturing uses may be permitted as a conditional use within the Queen Anne Interbay area as provided at subsection C of Section 23.50.014.

 3. The High-impact uses listed at subsection B10 of Section 23.50.014 may be permitted as conditional uses.

 4. High-impact 1 uses may be permitted as a conditional use as provided at subsection B5 of Section 23.50.014.

 5. Medical service uses over 10,000 square feet, within 2,500 feet of medical Major Institution Overlay District boundary, shall require administrative conditional use approval, unless included in an adopted major institution master plan or located in a downtown zone. See Section 23.50.014.

 6. See Chapter 23.57 for regulation of major and minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices.

 7. Park and pool lots are not permitted within three thousand feet (3,000') of downtown.

 8. Hospitals may be permitted as a conditional use where accessory to a research and development laboratory or an institute for advanced study as provided by subsection B15 of Section 23.50.014.

 Section 8. Chart A for Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by CB 112403, is further amended as follows:

 23.54.015 Required parking. Chart A for Section 23.54.015

 23.54.015 Required parking. Chart A for Section 23.54.015 PARKING

 Use Parking Requirements

 Adult care center1 1 space for each 10 adults (clients)or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 adults (clients).

 Adult family home 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Adult motion picture theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Adult panoram 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Assisted Living facility 1 for each 4 Assisted Living units plus 1 for each 2 staff members on-site at peak staffing time; plus 1 barrier-free passenger loading and unloading space, plus loading berth requirements per 23.54.035.

 Airport, land-based (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Airport, water-based (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Animal services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Animal husbandry (retail area only) 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Aquaculture (retail area only) 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Artist's studio/dwelling 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Automotive parts or accessory sales 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Ball courts 1 per court.

 Bed and breakfast 1 for each dwelling, plus 1 for each 2 guest rooms or suites.

 Bowling alley 5 for each lane.

 Brewpub 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Business support services 1 for each 2,000 square feet

 Business incubators 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Car wash 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Caretaker's quarters 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Cargo terminal 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Cemetery None.

 Child care center1 1 space for each 10 children or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 children.

 Colleges1 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Commercial laundries 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Commercial moorage 1 for each 140 lineal feet of moorage.

 Communication utilities 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Community centers 1, 2 and 1 for each 80 square feet of floor community clubs 1, 2 area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or 1 for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Community centers owned and 1 for each 555 square feet. operated by the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR) 1, 2, 3

 Congregate residences 1 for each 4 residents.

 Construction services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Custom and craft work 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Dance halls (dance floor and table 1 for each 100 square feet. area)

 Dry storage of boats 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Family support centers located in 1 for each 100 square feet. community centers owned and operated by the Seattle DOPAR 3

 Floating homes 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Food processing for human 1 for each 1,000 square feet. consumption

 Gas station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 General retail sales and services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Ground-floor businesses in None, maximum of 10. multi-family zones

 Heavy commercial services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Heliports (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 High-impact uses 1 for each 1,500 square feet or as determined by the Director.

 Horticultural uses (retail area 1 for each 350 square feet. only)

 Hospitals 1 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 5 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Hotels 1 for each 4 sleeping rooms or suites.

 Institute for advanced study1 1 for each 1,000 square feet of administrative offices and similar spaces; plus 1 for each 10 fixed seats in all auditoria and public assembly rooms; or 1 for each 100 square feet of public assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Institutes for advanced study in 3.5 for each 1,000 square feet of single-family zones (existing) office space; plus 10 for each 1,000 square feet of additional building footprint to house and support conference center activities,or 37 for each 1,000 square feet of actual conference rooms to be constructed, whichever is greater.

 Kennel 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Lecture and meeting hall 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Major durables, sales, service, and 1 for each 2,000 square feet. rental

 Manufacturing, general 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, heavy 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, light 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Marine service station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Medical services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Miniature golf 1 for each 2 holes.

 Mini-warehouse 1 for each 30 storage units.

 Mobile home park 1 for each mobile home.

 Mortuary services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Motels 1 for each sleeping room or suite.

 Motion picture studio 1 for each 1,500 square feet

 Motion picture theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Multi-family structures4 except Lots containing 2-10 dwelling those listed below units: 1.1 for each dwelling unit. Lots containing 11-30 dwelling units: 1.15 for each dwelling unit. Lots containing 31-60 dwelling units: 1.2 for each dwelling unit. Lots containing more than 60 dwelling units: 1.25 for each dwelling unit In addition, for all multi- family structures whose average gross floor area per dwelling unit, excluding decks and all portions of a structure shared by multiple dwelling units, exceeds 500 square feet, an additional .0002 spaces per square foot in excess of 500 shall be required up to a maximum additional .15 spaces per dwelling unit; and When at least 50 percent of the dwelling units in a multi- family structure have 3 bedrooms, an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 3 bedrooms shall be required; and Any multi-family structure which contains a dwelling unit with 4 or  more bedrooms shall be required to provide an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 4 or more bedrooms.5

 Multi-family structures containing 1.5 spaces per unit with 2 or more dwelling units with 2 or more bedrooms. The requirement for bedrooms, when within the area units with 3 or more bedrooms impacted by the University of contained above shall also apply. Washington as shown on Map A All other requirements for units following this section with fewer than 2 bedrooms shall be as contained above. 5

 Multi-family structures, when 1.5 spaces per unit. within the Alki area as shown on Map B following this section

 Multi-family development, for those 1 for each dwelling unit. ground-related structures within the development with 10 units or fewer

 Multi-family structures for 1 for each 4 dwelling units. low-income elderly and low-income disabled

 Multi-purpose convenience store 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Museum1 1 for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, not containing fixed seats; or 1 for every 10 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; plus 1 space for each 250 square feet of other gross floor area open to the public.

 Non-household sales and services, 1 for each 2,000 square feet. except sales, service and rental of office equipment

 Nursing homes 6 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 3 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Office, administrative 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Office, customer service 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Outdoor storage 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Parks None.

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 for each 350 square feet. indoor, unless otherwise specified

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 for each 350 square feet. outdoor, unless otherwise specified

 Passenger terminals (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Performing arts theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Personal transportation services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Playgrounds None.

 Power plants 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Private club1 1 for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or 1 for every 8 fixed seats of floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Railroad rights-of-way None.

 Railroad switchyard 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Railroad switchyard with mechanized 1 for each 2,000 square feet. hump

 Recreational marinas 1 for each 75 lineal feet of moorage.

 Recycling center 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Recycling collection station None.

 Religious facility1 1 for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms.

 Research and development laboratory 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Restaurant 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Restaurant, fast-food 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Sales, service and rental of 1 for each 2,000 square feet. commercial equipment

 Sale and rental of large boats 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sale and rental of motorized 1 for each 2,000 square feet. vehicles

 Sales, service and rental of office 1 for each 350 square feet. equipment

 Sale of boat parts or accessories 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Sale of heating fuel 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Salvage yard 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 School, private elementary 1 for each 80 square feet of all and secondary1, 2 auditoria and public assembly room, or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each staff member.

 School, public elementary 1 for each 80 square feet of all and secondary1, 2, 7 auditorium or public assembly rooms, or 1 for every 8 fixed seats in auditoriums or public assembly rooms, containing fixed seats, for new public schools on a new or existing public school site.

 Sewage treatment plant 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Single-family dwelling units 1 for each dwelling unit

 Skating rink (rink area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Solid waste transfer station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Specialty food stores 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Spectator sports facility 1 for each 10 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Sport range 1 for each 2 stations.

 Swimming pool (water area) 1 for each 150 square feet.

 Taverns 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Transit vehicle base 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Universities8 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Utility service uses 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle repair, major 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle repair, minor 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vessel repair, major 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vessel repair, minor 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vocational or fine arts school 1 for each 2 faculty and full-time employees; plus 1 for each 5 students (based on the maximum number of students in attendance at any one time).

 Warehouse 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Wholesale showroom 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Work-release centers 1 for each 2 full-time staff members; plus 1 for each 5 residents; plus 1 for each vehicle operated in connection with the work-release center.

 1 When permitted in single-family zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of Seattle Transportation, may allow adult care and child care centers locating in existing structures to provide loading and unloading spaces on-street when no other alternative exists.

 2 Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall they be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they contain bleachers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers, the parking requirement for the entire gymnasium shall be one (1) parking space for every eight (8) fixed seats. Each twenty inches (20") of width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed seat for the purposes of determining parking requirements. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no parking requirement for the gymnasium. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center, the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each three hundred and fifty (350) square feet. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center owned and operated by the Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR), the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each five hundred fifty-five (555) square feet.

 3 When family support centers are located within community centers owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined parking requirement by up to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%), pursuant to Section 23.54.020 I.

 4 Parking spaces required for multi-family structures may be provided as tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.

 5 Bedroom--Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code which, in the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a bedroom.

 6 When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the Director may waive some or all of the parking requirements.

 7 For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements shall be determined based on the new construction. When an existing public school on an existing public school site is remodeled, additional parking is required if an auditorium or other place of assembly is expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additional parking is required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor area or increase in number of seats only. If the parking requirement for the increased area or seating is ten percent (10%) or less than that for the existing auditorium or other place of assembly, then no additional parking shall be required.

 8 Development standards departure may be granted or required pursuant to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce the required or permitted number of parking spaces.

9 Child care facilities, when co-located with Assisted Living facilities, may count the passenger load/unload space required for the Assisted Living facility toward its required passenger load/unload spaces.

 Section 9. Subsection B of Section 23.54.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118414, is further amended as follows:

 23.54.030 Parking space standards.

 B. Parking Space Requirements. The required size of parking spaces shall be determined by whether the parking is for a residential or nonresidential use. In structures containing both residential and nonresidential uses, parking which is clearly set aside and reserved for residential use shall meet the standards of subsection B1; otherwise, all parking for the structure shall meet the standards of subsection B2.

 1. Residential Uses.

 a. When five (5) or fewer parking spaces are provided, the minimum required size of a parking space shall be for a medium car, as described in subsection A2 of this section.

 b. When more than five (5) parking spaces are provided, a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the parking spaces shall be striped for medium vehicles. The minimum size for a medium parking space shall also be the maximum size. Forty percent (40%) of the parking spaces may be striped for any size, provided that when parking spaces are striped for large vehicles, the minimum required aisle width shall be as shown for medium vehicles.

c. Assisted Living facilities. Parking spaces shall be provided as in subsections a and b above, except that a minimum of two spaces shall be striped for a large vehicle.

 2. Nonresidential Uses.

 a. When ten (10) or fewer parking spaces are provided, a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the parking spaces may be striped for small vehicles. A minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the spaces shall be striped for large vehicles.

 b. When between eleven (11) and nineteen (19) parking spaces are provided, a minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the parking spaces shall be striped for small vehicles. The minimum required size for these small parking spaces shall also be the maximum size. A maximum of sixty- five percent (65%) of the parking spaces may be striped for small vehicles. A minimum of thirty- five percent (35%) of the spaces shall be striped for large vehicles.

 c. When twenty (20) or more parking spaces are provided, a minimum of thirty-five percent (35%) of the parking spaces shall be striped for small vehicles. The minimum required size for small parking spaces shall also be the maximum size. A maximum of sixty-five percent (65%) of the parking spaces may be striped for small vehicles. A minimum of thirty-five percent (35%) of the spaces shall be striped for large vehicles.

 d. The minimum vehicle clearance shall be at least six feet nine inches (6' 9y) on at least one (1) floor, and there shall be at least one (1) direct entrance from the street for all parking garages accessory to nonresidential uses and all principal use parking garages which is at least six feet nine inches (6' 9y) in height.

 Section 10. Table A for Section 23.54.035 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118409, is further amended as follows:

 23.54.035 Loading berth requirements and space standards.

 A. Quantity of Loading Spaces.

 Table for Section 23.54.035 A

 Low Demand Medium Demand High Demand

 Animal services Agricultural uses Airport, land-based

 Business incubator Airport, water-based

Assisted Living facilities

 Business support Automotive parts or accessory Cargo terminals sales

 Car wash Eating and drinking Commercial laundries establishments services

 Custom and craft work Heavy commercial services Construction services except commercial laundries and construction services

 Entertainment uses Institute for advanced study Food processing for human consumption

 Gas station Mini-warehouse High-impact uses

 Helistop and heliport Mortuary services Hospitals

 Institutions, except Passenger terminal Manufacturing hospitals and institutes for advanced study

 Lodging Personal and household retail Outdoor storage sales and services

 Marine retail sales, Recycling collection stations Recycling center services (separate facilities)

 Medical services Research and development Sale of heating fuel laboratory

 Offices Sales, service and rental of Sales, service and equipment rental of commercial equipment and construction materials

 Personal transportation Transit vehicle base Salvage yard services

 Sales and rental of Utilities Warehouse motorized vehicles

 Towing services Vehicular repair, Wholesale showroom major and minor

 Section 11. Section 23.84.032 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by CB 112403, is further amended as follows:

 23.84.032 "R."

 "Residential use" means any one (1) of the following uses:

 1. "Adult family home" means a residential use as defined and licensed by the State of Washington in a dwelling unit.

 2. "Artist's studio/dwelling" means a combination working studio and dwelling unit for artists, consisting of a room or suite of rooms occupied by not more than one (1) household. 3. "Assisted Living facility" means a multifamily residential use licensed by the State of Washington as a Boarding Home pursuant to RCW 18.20, for people who have either a need for assistance with activities of daily living (which are defined as eating, toileting, ambulation, transfer [e.g., moving from bed to chair or chair to bath], and bathing) or some form of cognitive impairment but who do not need the skilled critical care provided by nursing homes. An Assisted Living facility contains multiple Assisted Living units. An Assisted Living unit is a dwelling unit permitted only in an Assisted Living facility.

~~3~~4. "Caretaker's quarters" means a residential use accessory to a nonresidential use consisting of a dwelling unit not exceeding eight hundred (800) square feet of living area and occupied by a caretaker or watchperson.

~~4~~5. "Congregate residence" means a dwelling unit in which rooms or lodging, with or without meals, are provided for nine (9) or more nontransient persons, excluding single- family residences for which special or reasonable accommodation has been granted.

~~5~~6. "Domestic violence shelter" means a dwelling unit managed by a nonprofit organization which provides housing at a confidential location and support services for victims of family violence.

~~6~~7. "Floating home" means a dwelling unit constructed on a float, which is moored, anchored or otherwise secured in the water.

~~7~~8. "Mobile home park" means a residential use in which a tract of land is rented for the use of more than one (1) mobile home occupied as a dwelling unit.

~~8~~9. "Multifamily structure" means a structure or portion of a structure containing two (2) or more dwelling units.

~~9~~10. "Nursing home" means a residence, licensed by the state, that provides full-time convalescent and/or chronic care for individuals who, by reason of chronic illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves. No care for the acutely ill or surgical or obstetrical services shall be provided in such a residence. This definition excludes hospitals or sanitariums.

~~10~~11. Single-family dwelling unit" means a detached structure containing one (1) dwelling unit and having a permanent foundation. The structure may also contain an accessory dwelling unit.

 Section 12. Within thirty (30) months from the effective date of this ordinance, or longer if necessary to enable study of a sufficient number of facilities established to substantiate the study, DCLU shall submit to the City Council an evaluation of Assisted Living facilities. This study shall evaluate elements of the facilities such as but not limited to:

 Attributes of the facilities, e.g.:

 Services provided to the residents

 Average number of units per facility

 Average age of residents

 Number of couples

 Number of residents still driving or maintaining cars on site

 B. Traffic and parking impacts, including loading and unloading spaces;

 C. Amount and design of communal area, particularly outdoor areas;

 D. Use, location and design of non-residential (e.g., commercial, institutions) street level spaces;

 E. Compatibility of use and structure with neighboring development; and

 F. A discussion of permitting and enforcement issue, particularly those presented by independent senior housing units co-located with Assisted Living units in continuum care facilities.

 In preparing this study, DCLU shall consult with plan reviewers and permitters, developers and care providers, facility staff, residents and neighbors, industry representatives and the State Department of Social and Health Services. DCLU may make recommendations based on the findings of the study.

 Section 13. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 14. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1998. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1998. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 V 4

```
