

********

**Council Bill Number: 112321**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119193**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to enter into an agreement with Service America Corporation for managing and operating food and beverage concession facilities located within certain buildings at Seattle Center subject to the terms and conditions in the Agreement.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 19, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 22, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:**
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 8, 1998
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, SEATTLE-CENTER, EATING-AND-DRINKING-PLACES, OPERA-HOUSE, ARENA, EXHIBITION-HALL

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS: Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with Service America Corporation substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto as Attachment A, and identified as CONCESSION AND CATERING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SERVICE AMERICA CORPORATION under which Service America Corporation shall have the exclusive concession, right and privilege to manage and operate at Seattle Center the food and beverage concession facilities located within the Opera House, the Mercer Arena and the Exhibition Hall subject to the conditions and provisions in this Agreement, during an initial term commencing on March 25, 1998 and continuing for a period of forty-one (41) months and six (6) days through August 31, 2001.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _______ day of _______________ 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of _________________, 1998. _____________________________________ President ______________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _______ day of _______________________, 1998. __________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this ________ day of __________________________, 1998. __________________________________ City Clerk V #3

 CONCESSION AND CATERING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SERVICE AMERICA CORPORATION

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 SECTION I - DEFINITIONS 1

 1.1 Definitions of Terms 1

 SECTION II - GRANT OF CONCESSION AND CATERING RIGHTS 3

 2.1 Exclusive Food and Beverage Concession Right 3 2.2 Non-Exclusive Food and Beverage Concession Right 4 2.3 Non-Exclusive Catering Right 4 2.4 Use of Exhibition Hall Kitchen for Off-Site Catering 4 2.5 Obligation to Rent Exhibition Hall Kitchen and Equipment to Others 4 2.6 Duty to Provide Service 4 2.7 Obligation to Provide Continuous Service 4 2.8 Right to Waive Exclusive Concession Right 5 2.9 Obligation to Estimate and Recommend Food Service Fees 5 2.10 Pouring Rights 5

 SECTION III - TERM 5

 3.1 Term 5

 SECTION IV - REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 5

 4.1 City's Representations 5 4.2 SAC's Representations 6 4.3 Disclaimer of Representations and Warranties 7 4.4 Survival of Representations and Warranties 7

 SECTION V - REVENUE ALLOCATION 7

 5.1 Payment for Services 7 5.2 Allocation of Profits and Losses 7 5.3 Payment of Profits and Losses 8 5.4 Proration of Fees in the Event of Early Termination 8

 SECTION VI - REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING 9

 6.1 Budget Projections and Labor Costs 9 6.2 Monthly Reports 9 6.3 Year End Report 9 6.4 Maintenance of Records 9 6.5 Accounting Systems 10 6.6 Confidentiality 10

 SECTION VII - OPERATING STANDARDS 11

 7.1 Product and Service Standards 11 7.2 Menus and Prices 12 7.3 Seattle Center Opera House Concession Service 12 7.4 Deliveries 12 7.5 Uniforms 12 7.6 Drinking Awareness Program 12 7.7 Cash Handling 13

 SECTION VIII - USE OF PREMISES 13

 8.1 Occupancy and Enjoyment of Food Service Premises 13 8.2 Access to City's Premises 13 8.3 Parking 13 8.4 Inspection 14 8.5 Care of Premises 14

 SECTION IX - OPERATING RESPONSIBILITIES 14

 9.1 Cleaning 14 9.2 Utilities 14 9.3 Trash Removal 15 9.4 Biodegradable Products/City's Right to Ban Polystyrene 15 9.5 No Nuisance or Objectionable Activity 15

 SECTION X - TAXES, LICENSES AND COMPLIANCE 15

 10.1 SAC's Licenses and Permits 15 10.2 Compliance With Laws 16 10.3 Taxes 16 10.4 Nondiscrimination & Affirmative Action 16 10.5 Women's and Minority Business Enterprise Utilization 16 SECTION XI - PREMISES, EQUIPMENT AND EXPENDABLES 17

 11.1 Facilities to be Provided by City 17 11.2 Facilities to be Provided by SAC 17 11.3 Premises Maintenance 18 11.4 Equipment, Maintenance and Repair 18 11.5 Graphics 19 11.6 Inventory of Equipment and Supplies 19

 SECTION XII - EMPLOYEES 19

 12.1 Staffing 19 12.2 Identification 20 12.3 Appearance 20

 SECTION XIII - INSURANCE AND BONDING 20

 13.1 Coverage 20 13.2 Authorized Carriers. 21 13.3 Evidence of Insurance 21 13.4 City's Right to Secure Insurance 21 13.5 Assumption of Risk 22 13.6 Failure to Maintain Insurance 22

 SECTION XIV - INDEMNIFICATION 22

 14.1 Indemnification 22

 SECTION XV - CONTINGENCIES 22

 15.1 Failure to Perform Excused 22 15.2 Damage or Destruction 23 15.3 Condemnation 23

 SECTION XVI - TERMINATION 24

 16.1 When Terminated 24 16.2 Termination for Cause 25 16.3 Termination Due to Mercer Street Corridor Development 25 16.4 Rights and Duties Upon a Termination 25

 SECTION XVII - NOTICES 25

 17.1 Requirements for Notice 25 17.2 When Given 26

 SECTION XVIII - ASSIGNMENT AND BINDING EFFECT 26

 18.1 Assignment, Subcontracting and Sale 26 18.2 Binding Effect 27

 SECTION XIX - MISCELLANEOUS 27

 19.1 Entire Agreement 27 19.2 Modification 27 19.3 Headings 27 19.4 Waiver 27 19.5 Relationship of Parties 27 19.6 Dispute Resolution; Governing Law; Venue 28 19.7 Remedies Cumulative 28 19.8 Limited Effect of Approval by Seattle Center Director 28 19.9 Negotiated Agreement 28 19.10 Consents and Approvals 28

 Signature Page 29

 Acknowlegment 30

 EXHIBITS

 Exhibit A Exhibition Hall Kitchen Charge Exhibit B Inventory

 CONCESSION AND CATERING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SERVICE AMERICA CORPORATION

 This Agreement is made this ____ day of ______________, 1998, by and between SERVICE AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation having its principal place of business at 300 First Stamford Place, Stamford, Connecticut 06902 ("SAC"), and The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("City"), operating through its Seattle Center Department ("Seattle Center") and its Director of Seattle Center.

 In consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the Parties agree as follows:

 SECTION I

 DEFINITIONS

 1.1 Definitions of Terms.

 The capitalized Terms used in this Agreement shall have the following meanings:

 A. Agreement means this Concession and Catering Agreement, as from time to time amended in accordance with the terms hereof.

 B. Approval means the prior written consent of a Party hereto or a designated representative thereof.

 C. Catering means the provision of food and/or beverages paid for by a licensee or tenant of the facility in which the service is provided.

 D. Concessions means food and/or beverage sales made directly to individuals; Provided, however, that the term "Concession" shall not include "no-host" bars provided in conjunction with Catering services.

 E. Event Service Order means that form used and prepared by Seattle Center to outline a licensee's or tenant's event requirements.

 F. Fiscal Year means that twelve month period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31.

 G. Food Products means all food and beverages, and shall include alcoholic beverages, candy and confections.

 H. Food Services means all food and beverage services to be provided hereunder, including dining, Catering, and Concession services, at or through fixed and portable Concession stands, roving vendors, snack bars, liquor bars, or any other areas on the Premises where food products are sold or served.

 I. General Support Services means all of the general overhead services provided by SAC directly related to its operations under this Agreement, and shall include but not be limited to the following: one annual visit to the Premises by corporate and regional management, or as Approved by the Seattle Center Director; facility design services related to improvements Approved by the Seattle Center Director; corporate purchasing; accounts payable (including payments to all purveyors); corporate human resources; accounting support; management information systems to provide financial statements; tax department services; and law department services.

 J. Gross Receipts means the total income received by SAC as a result of conducting business in, on, or from the Premises and includes but is not limited to on-site or off-site Catering income; Subcontracting Income; waiver fees; proceeds from all retail and wholesale sales of food, beverages and services for cash, barter, exchange or credit, regardless of collections; all deposits not refunded to purchasers; orders taken although filled elsewhere; fees; commissions; and rental receipts including charges for the use of the Exhibition Hall kitchen and equipment therein by third parties. The term Gross Receipts does not mean or include (i) any City, county, state or federal sales or other such taxes; (ii) gratuities collected by or for the benefit of SAC's employees which are actually distributed to SAC's employees; (iii) bad debts; and (iv) the amount of any charitable contribution collected by SAC on behalf of any customer.

 K. Losses shall mean the excess of the sum of Operating Expenses and SAC's monthly fee over Gross Receipts.

 L. Monthly Accounting Period means each monthly period in accordance with SAC's accounting calendar, which is arranged on a 4/4/5 week basis for each quarter.

 M. Operating Expenses means all costs, charges and expenses demonstrated to have been incurred in connection with the Food Services operations at Seattle Center, except as specifically excluded or provided elsewhere in this Agreement. Operating Expenses shall include but not be limited to the following:

 (1) Cost of goods sold, including food, beverages, merchandise and supplies, procurement, distribution, quality control and carrying costs.

 (2) Labor costs, including wages, taxes, benefits as accrued, retirement plans and benefits services.

 (3) The General Support Services in an amount not to exceed .75% (3/4 of 1%) of the Gross Receipts per Fiscal Year. In the event the General Manager of SAC determines that the amount of General Support Services actually incurred by SAC may exceed this percentage, the SAC General Manager shall promptly inform the City of such potential overage. In the event the Parties are unable to agree to a revision in the amount of the General Support Services payable hereunder or the manner in which the overage will be absorbed prior to thirty (30) days before the commencement of the succeeding Fiscal Year, the matter shall be resolved by mediation in accordance with Section 19.6 of this Agreement.

 (4) Other costs, charges and expenses, including, but not limited to, charges for workers' compensation, general liability and other insurance maintained pursuant to this Agreement, credit card accounts, bank charges, extraordinary financial costs Approved in advance by the Seattle Center Director, telephone charges, uniforms and identification badges and costs of licenses, permits, information systems, invoice processing, proprietary materials, flowers, decorations, and other services, to the extent directly related to the Food Services operation.

 (5) The City agrees that SAC is allowed an Operating Expense of 1% of Gross Receipts per Fiscal Year, or a total yearly expense of $10,000.00, whichever is lower, for repairs and maintenance to SAC's Titled Equipment.

 N. Premises means those portions of the Seattle Center made available to SAC for use under this Agreement, and includes such office space at the Seattle Center as is reasonably necessary for SAC to conduct its operations. The term Premises does not include SAC's Titled Equipment.

 O. Profits shall mean the excess of Gross Receipts over the sum of Operating Expenses and SAC's monthly management fee.

 P. Seattle Center Director means the Director of the City's Seattle Center Department or his or her designee.

 Q. Subcontracting Income means income paid to SAC as a result of Food Services provided by subcontractors.

 R. Titled Equipment means all equipment provided or purchased by SAC for use in performing this Agreement.

 SECTION II

 GRANT OF CONCESSION AND CATERING RIGHTS

 2.1 Exclusive Food and Beverage Concession Right.

 With the exception of pouring rights, which are reserved to the City pursuant to Section 2.9 of this Agreement, the City hereby grants to SAC for the Term and upon the conditions and provisions herein, the exclusive concession, right and privilege to manage and operate at Seattle Center the food and beverage Concession facilities located within the Opera House, the Mercer Arena, and the Exhibition Hall. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.4 of this Agreement, SAC shall also have control of the Exhibition Hall kitchen and associated storage space.

 2.2 Non-Exclusive Food and Beverage Concession Right

 The City hereby grants to SAC for the Term and upon the conditions and provisions herein, the non-exclusive right and privilege to provide food and beverage Concession services elsewhere at the Seattle Center when requested to do so by the Seattle Center Director or by a Seattle Center licensee or tenant.

 Following execution of this Agreement by each of the Parties, SAC shall be included on the official Seattle Center list of pre- approved caterers for all of the Seattle Center facilities with the exception of the KeyArena.

 2.3 Use of Exhibition Hall Kitchen for Off-Site Catering.

 SAC may utilize the Exhibition Hall kitchen and equipment to provide private off-site catering services provided such activities do not conflict with the Food Services to be provided to the Seattle Center and its licensees and tenants under this Agreement.

 2.4 Obligation to Rent Exhibition Hall Kitchen and Equipment to Others.

 At the request of the Seattle Center Director, SAC shall rent the Exhibition Hall kitchen and all equipment therein to other caterers for food preparation in conjunction with an event conducted in a Seattle Center facility. The kitchen rental charged shall be in accordance with the attached Exhibit A, which shall be subject to periodic adjustment by the substitution of a revised Exhibit subject to Approval of the Seattle Center Director rather than by formal amendment. Rental of the Exhibition Hall kitchen to others shall be by written agreement which requires the user to secure insurance in types and amounts sufficient to protect against damage to the facility and equipment therein, and to return the Premises to SAC in a clean and orderly condition, at the user's expense.

 2.5 Duty to Provide Service.

 SAC shall provide in accordance with industry standards, the Seattle Center and each of its licensees and tenants with the type, level, quality and quantity of Food Services reasonably requested at the time and locations stated on an Event Service Order; provided, that irrespective of the request of a licensee or tenant SAC shall not provide its services in a manner that violates the terms of this Agreement or in locations which the licensee or tenant has no right to occupy.

 2.6 Obligation to Provide Continuous Service.

 SAC shall operate and conduct its business in a first-class and reputable manner consistent with industry standards.

 2.7 Right to Waive Exclusive Concession Right.

 SAC shall make every effort to satisfy the specific needs of Seattle Center licensees and tenants with regard to customer service, menu choices and price. In the event SAC is unable to provide the specific food services requested by a licensee or tenant, SAC shall have the right to waive its exclusive Concession right and to charge to Seattle Center licensees or tenants a fee for such waiver. The fee to be charged shall be negotiated between SAC and the licensee or tenant, shall be recommended in writing to, and shall be subject to the Approval of, the Seattle Center Director.

 2.8 Obligation to Estimate and Recommend Food Service Fees.

 Upon request of the Seattle Center Director, SAC shall estimate and recommend to the City an appropriate amount of compensation to be charged to Seattle Center licensees and tenants who desire to utilize the services of other food service providers.

 2.9 Pouring Rights.

 The City retains the right and has the sole authority to enter into contracts for the exclusive sale of food or beverages in any of the Premises subject to this Agreement. The City shall take steps to ensure that any costs of converting equipment to accommodate the sale of a particular food or beverage will be borne by the vendor, and such costs will not be at the expense of SAC, nor charged to the City as an Operating Expense under this Agreement.

 SECTION III

 TERM

 3.1 Term.

 This Agreement shall commence as of March 25, 1998, and shall continue for a period of forty-one (41) months and six (6) days, through August 31, 2001.

 SECTION IV

 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

 4.1 City's Representations.

 City represents and warrants to SAC as follows:

 A. that it has been validly formed and duly exists as a Municipal Corporation under the laws of the State of Washington and that it is duly qualified to do business in the State of Washington;

 B. that it has the sole right and authority to occupy the Premises; that it has the full right and authority to grant to SAC the rights conferred by this Agreement, and that it is not prevented from entering into this Agreement by any statute, regulation, or order of the State of Washington or other governmental authority, or by any license, debt instrument, lease, contract, or other agreement or instrument binding upon it or any of its property;

 C. that it is duly authorized to enter into this Agreement and has taken all necessary action to obtain such authorization, and that no consent of or notice to any other individual, private entity or governmental authority is required in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement;

 D. that it has the right and authority to enter into this Agreement by its charter or ordinances, by any statute, regulation or order of the State of Washington or any other governmental authority, or by any license, debt instrument, lease contract, or other agreement or instrument binding upon it or any of its property;

 E. that this Agreement, when properly executed by both Parties, shall constitute a valid and binding agreement, enforceable by SAC in accordance with its terms;

 F. that to the best of its knowledge, there is no suit or proceeding pending or threatened with respect to the Premises that would adversely affect the Premises, or the operation thereof; and

 G. that it will use its best efforts at all times to ensure that the Premises subject to this Agreement in which Concession services are to be provided are booked to the fullest extent possible.

 4.2 SAC's Representations.

 SAC represents and warrants to the City as follows:

 A. that it has been validly formed and duly exists as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware and that it is duly qualified to do business in the State of Washington;

 B. that it has the right and authority to enter into this Agreement by its corporate charter or by-laws, by any statute, regulation or order of the State of Delaware or any other governmental authority, or by any license, debt instrument, lease contract, or other agreement or instrument binding upon it or any of its property;

 C. that it is duly authorized to enter into this Agreement and has taken all necessary action to obtain such authorization, and that no consent of or notice to any other individual, private entity or governmental authority is required in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement;

 D. that this Agreement, when properly executed by both Parties, shall constitute a valid and binding agreement, enforceable by the City in accordance with its terms;

 E. that to the best of its knowledge, there is no suit or proceeding pending or threatened that would adversely affect the ability of SAC to perform its obligations under this Agreement; and

 F. that SAC has not been induced to enter into this Agreement by any statement contained in the City's Request for Proposal or any other representations, verbal or written.

 4.3 Disclaimer of Representations and Warranties.

 By entering into this Agreement, the City expressly does not warrant that sales of food or beverages will meet or exceed any particular amount or that any portion of the Premises subject to this Agreement will remain open and available for public events or performances.

 4.4 Survival of Representations and Warranties.

 The representations and warranties of each Party set forth in this Section shall survive the

 execution and termination of this Agreement.

 SECTION V

 REVENUE ALLOCATION

 5.1 Payment for Services.

 In consideration of the services provided by SAC hereunder, the City shall pay SAC a management fee of $40,000 annually, payable in monthly installments of $3,333.34. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Parties agree that the fee payable to SAC for the months of January, February and March of 1998 was $6,458.33, and shall be $3,333.34 thereafter. SAC shall collect and account for all Gross Receipts and pay all Operating Expenses. Each monthly installment due SAC pursuant to the Section shall be deducted by SAC from the Gross Receipts remaining after payment of the monthly Operating Expenses.

 5.2 Allocation of Profits and Losses.

 For each Fiscal Year this Agreement is in effect, the following allocation of Profits and Losses shall apply: (a) in the event of Losses, the City shall pay SAC of all SAC's Losses and, in addition, pay SAC $11,000; (b) in the event Profits are less than $11,000, SAC shall retain all of such Profits and the City shall pay SAC the difference between the amount of Profits and $11,000; (c) in the event Profits equal or exceed $11,000 but are not more than $62,000, SAC shall retain $11,000 from such Profits and the City shall receive the remaining Profits; and (d) in the event Profits exceed $62,000, the City shall receive the first $40,000 in Profits and the remainder shall be split equally between the Parties. The timing and mode of payment is detailed in 5.3.

 The Parties agree that for the purpose of the allocation of Profits and Losses pursuant to this Section, the Gross Receipts and Operating Expenses for the full 1998 Fiscal Year (1/1/98 - 12/31/98) shall be used, even though the commencement date of this Agreement is March 25, 1998. For the period January 1, 2001, through August 2, 2001, the distribution of Profits between the Parties, or the payment to SAC for its guaranteed share of Profits, shall be prorated accordingly.

 5.3 Payment of Profits and Losses.

 A. Within 30 days after receipt by the City of the June accounting as provided in Section 6.2 hereof, (i) SAC shall calculate the Profits or Losses for the six-month period of January 1 through June 30; (ii) if there is a Profit for such six-month period which is $40,000 or less, SAC shall pay to the City all of such Profit; (iii) if there is a Profit for such six- month which is greater than $40,000, SAC shall retain for itself one-half of the profit which exceeds $40,000 and (iv) if there is a Loss for such six-month period, the City shall reimburse SAC in full for such Loss.

 B. Within 30 days after receipt by the City of the December accounting as provided in Section 6.2 hereof, (i) SAC shall calculate the Profit or Loss for the six-month period of July 1 through December 31 and for the Fiscal Year; and (ii) taking into account any payment made pursuant to Section 5.3.A. hereof, SAC or the City shall make a payment to the other, such that, after such payment has been made, SAC shall have been reimbursed for all Losses which have occurred at any time during the Fiscal Year, the City shall have received all Profits totaling $40,000 or less for the Fiscal Year, and the Parties shall have split equally all Profits over $40,000 for the Fiscal Year. In the event that SAC's share of the Profits is less than $11,000 for any Fiscal Year, the City shall remit to SAC the difference between the Profits actually received by SAC for such Fiscal Year and $11,000, no later than January 31 of the following Fiscal Year.

 C. All payments shall be in lawful money of the United States of America or in a money order or check payable in such form. All payments to the City hereunder shall be sent to the Manager of the Accounts Payable Office, c/o Seattle Center Fiscal Services, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington, 98109, or to such other address as the Seattle Center Director shall specify by notice to SAC.

 5.4 Proration of Fees in the Event of Early Termination.

 In the event that this Agreement is terminated by either Party at any time before the expiration of the Term for any reason whatsoever, the City shall pay SAC, not later than thirty (30) days after the termination date, a prorated portion of the guarantee based on the number of months, or a portion of a month, that this Agreement is in effect during the Fiscal Year in which the Agreement is terminated. Any partial month that the Agreement is in effect shall be included in any such calculation. For example, if this Agreement is terminated on July 15, 1999, the guarantee shall be prorated for six (6) months fifteen (15) days of the Fiscal Year 1999, or $27,625.00 ($51,000.00 ( 12 months X 6.5 = $27,625.00).

 SECTION VI

 REPORTING AND RECORD KEEPING

 6.1 Budget Projections and Labor Costs.

 Not less than thirty days before the first day of each month during which this Agreement is in effect, SAC shall submit to the Seattle Center Director a proposed budget for the following month identifying all events at which SAC intends to provide Food Services and the projected Operating Expenses for each event. The projected Operating Expenses shall be subject to the approval of the Seattle Center Director. In the event the Director does not approve the projected Operating Expenses for a particular event, such Operating Expenses shall be subject to negotiation between the Parties and the decision of the Director approving or rejecting any expenses shall be final. SAC further agrees that it will provide written notice to the Seattle Center Director of any labor negotiations which will or may result in increased labor costs for services to be provided under this Agreement. The Director shall have the right to review all such proposed labor agreements prior to their execution and no increased labor costs shall be included as Operating Expenses under this Agreement unless such costs have been Approved by the Director.

 6.2 Monthly Reports.

 Within 15 days after the end of each Monthly Accounting Period, SAC shall submit to the City an accounting, by event, of all Gross Receipts and Operating Expenses for such Monthly Accounting Period. The accounting shall include for each event in each facility the following data: the Event Service Order number, event name, the amount of Gross Receipts, the date of the event, the location of the event, the nature of the service, the estimated attendance and the per capita revenues. The accounting shall also include sufficient receipts, invoices, payroll information (i.e., the number of employees, hours worked and amount paid, by event) and such other supporting documentation as is necessary to document the operating costs being charged. The reports shall be formatted to correspond with the "event type" categories currently used by the Seattle Center and to the extent feasible, shall be provided in disk as well as paper form, utilizing a computer application Approved by the Seattle Center Director.

 6.3 Year End Report.

 Within thirty (30) days after the end of each Fiscal Year, SAC shall submit to the City an accounting of all Gross Receipts and Operating Expenses for such Fiscal Year. To the extent feasible, SAC shall provide the City disk as well as paper copies of the accounting, utilizing a computer application Approved by the Seattle Center Director.

 6.4 Maintenance of Records.

 SAC shall establish and maintain, either at the Seattle Center or at its offices, an accounting system for its operations at the Premises in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices consistently applied, and SAC shall maintain in King County books and records for its operations hereunder for a period of three (3) years after the end of the Term of the Agreement. The City, at its expense, may cause its designated accountants to audit all records retained by SAC pertaining to operations at the Premises upon reasonable notice during the Term of this Agreement and for a period of three (3) years after the end of the Term of the Agreement.

 6.5 Accounting Systems.

 SAC shall use such inventory control systems, sales slips, equipment as is customary in the industry and SAC's other recreational services accounts to record Gross Receipts. SAC shall not utilize cash registers in its operations without the prior Approval of the Seattle Center Director. All systems, equipment and sales slips shall be subject to inspection by the City, its officers, employees and representatives, during such hours that the Premises are operating or during regular business hours. Any such inspection shall be made so as not to interfere with SAC's business.

 6.6 Confidentiality.

 In the course of performing services hereunder, the City or its employees or agents may be exposed to trade secrets or other confidential or proprietary information and materials of SAC ("Confidential Information"). To the extent such Confidential Information is provided to the City in documentary or electronic form, SAC shall include on the face or at the head of the document or record a notation that it contains Confidential Information. Consistent with its legal obligations, the City agrees to use its best efforts to hold in confidence and not use or disclose any Confidential Information, except that the City may use or disclose Confidential Information (a) to its employees and affiliates or others to the extent necessary to perform hereunder, provided that SAC is first notified of the information that will be provided to any party outside of the City and provided further that such information is disclosed only after such party is required to maintain it in confidence as required hereunder; (b) to the extent expressly authorized by SAC; or (c) to the extent that the City demonstrates that such information is in the public domain. In the event any request is made for materials which SAC has designated as containing Confidential Information, the City will notify SAC of the request pursuant to RCW 42.17.330 and SAC shall take such action as it deems necessary and appropriate to prevent the release of such information and the City shall have no further obligation in this regard. In the event SAC does not take action to prevent the disclosure of its Confidential Information within the time periods required by law, SAC shall be deemed to have authorized the release of such information and the City shall not be liable to SAC in the event the Confidential Information is released. Upon SAC's request, and consistent with its legal obligations, the City will promptly return all Confidential Information, and any copies thereof. In the event of a breach or a threatened breach of this Section, SAC shall be entitled to all remedies available at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, a temporary restraining order or injunction to prevent disclosure or use of any Confidential Information. This Section shall survive termination of this Agreement.

 SECTION VII

 OPERATING STANDARDS

 7.1 Product and Service Standards.

 All Food Services provided to patrons on the Premises shall conform with industry standards and SAC shall implement and enforce reasonable and appropriate rules and regulations to ensure that its employees conform at all times to the standards required hereunder. SAC and its employees shall not make or permit any misrepresentation as to kind, quality, weight, or price of food or beverages offered for sale. The location of points of sales, methods of sale, and prices charged for commodities sold or business transacted under the provisions of this Agreement at all times shall be subject to the supervision, direction and Approval of the Seattle Center Director. A copy of the then current Concession price schedule shall be displayed at each Concession facility on the Premises in such a manner so as to be easily viewed by the public whenever the Concession facility is open for business. SAC shall strictly adhere to the established prices as set forth in the then current price schedule. In the event the City becomes aware that SAC is not adhering to the current established price schedule, it shall notify SAC of such departure in writing, and SAC shall immediately cure such default. SAC's failure to do so within 24 hours of receipt of written notice from the City shall be grounds for immediate termination of this Agreement. No tobacco product sales or advertising shall occur on the Premises. All food products sold or kept for sale by SAC on the Premises shall be first quality, shall conform to all applicable federal, state, county and city food laws, ordinances and regulations, and shall meet the following minimum requirements:

 A. Meat, poultry and aquatic foods and food products must have been inspected or approved by the United States Department of Agriculture or the Seattle King County Department of Public Health and must satisfy the following standards:

 (1) Fish and poultry must be wholesome and of a quality equivalent to grade "A" or "1".

 (2) Beef shall be of a "choice" grade and shall be used as 100% beef only; additives shall not be used as extenders.

 (3) No meat products containing pork or meal (texturized vegetable protein) shall be used.

 (4) Canned food must carry the "Fancy" label.

 B. No products having a shelf life indicated by code shall be used outside the code period unless properly preserved prior to the end of the code period. All code tables shall be available to Seattle Center employees if requested.

 C. At no time shall any cooked meat product be rewarmed for sale on the day following its cooking on the Premises.

 D. At no time shall any "refrozen product" be used on the Premises.

 E. All food products shall be stored in properly working refrigeration units, heat units, and dry storage units, as appropriate.

 F. All popcorn shall be freshly popped.

 G. Baked goods and dairy products shall be used within the pull dates indicated, unless they have been properly frozen.

 H. Use of food products containing sulfites must be publicly posted at all concession stands.

 7.2 Menus and Prices.

 For each Fiscal Year, SAC shall submit proposed menus and prices to the Seattle Center Director for Approval on or before the preceding November 1. SAC shall submit proposed menus and/or price increase to catering and/or concessions within thirty (30) days of the proposed new menu and/or fee structure. In the event no written response is provided by the City within the thirty (30) day review period, SAC's proposed changes shall be deemed acceptable.

 7.3 Seattle Center Opera House Concession Service.

 All Concession service in the Seattle Center Opera House dining area shall be with china, glassware, non-plastic flatware and linen tablecloths. The sale of wine and champagne in this facility is mandatory and spirited liquors may be offered if warranted, compatible with Washington State Liquor Laws. Beer may be offered consistent with the Washington State Liquor Laws, subject to the Approval of the Seattle Center Director.

 7.4 Deliveries.

 Deliveries shall be made to and on the Premises prior to 11:00 a.m. and in a manner that minimizes congestion and disruption to users of Seattle Center, unless otherwise authorized by the Seattle Center Director.

 7.5 Uniforms.

 SAC shall provide, maintain and launder, as necessary, uniforms of a color and design appropriate to each facility and Approved by the Seattle Center Director.

 7.6 Drinking Awareness Program.

 SAC shall implement and maintain a continuing alcohol awareness educational program for all employees serving alcohol to the public. This training shall include age identification, diplomatic ways to refuse service, and legal responsibilities. All SAC employees serving alcohol to the public at the Seattle Center shall participate in such training at least annually, and SAC shall provide the City with documentation of the content of and attendance at each such training program. SAC shall submit to the Seattle Center Director for Approval, proposed graphics on alcohol awareness, to be displayed in all facilities.

 7.7 Cash Handling.

 Prior to signing this Agreement, SAC shall provide the City with a written copy of its cash handling procedures for the Premises, which shall be reviewed annually by the City and subject to the Approval of the Director. SAC shall promptly notify the City of any changes to the cash handling procedures. Any theft or loss of cash attributable to the failure of SAC or it employees to comply with the Approved cash handling procedures or otherwise attributable to an act or omission of SAC or its employees shall be borne solely by SAC and shall not be deducted from Gross Receipts nor charged as an Operating Expense to the City under this Agreement.

 SECTION VIII

 USE OF PREMISES

 8.1 Occupancy and Enjoyment of Food Service Premises.

 Subject to the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 8.4 of this Agreement, the City shall permit SAC to occupy and quietly enjoy the Exhibition Hall Kitchen without hindrance or molestation from the City.

 8.2 Access to City's Premises.

 In addition to the right to occupy the Premises, SAC and its agents, employees, suppliers and other such persons necessary for SAC to render services contemplated herein, shall have access to additional areas of the Seattle Center facilities as is necessary or appropriate to provide the services contemplated herein, subject to customary and reasonable security precautions. When providing services hereunder, SAC's agents, employees, suppliers and other persons necessary to its operations shall be entitled to free admission to the Premises through a reasonably convenient entrance designated by the City, use of restrooms, changing rooms and like areas, and access to the areas where Food Products are to be sold.

 8.3 Parking.

 The City shall provide SAC with four (4) parking permits for such Seattle Center parking facility as the Director shall from time to time designate. SAC shall also be permitted to park two delivery vehicles in or near the "technical services" parking area located between the Opera House and Memorial Stadium. The charge for any additional parking utilized by SAC shall be at the established Seattle Center parking rate in effect at the time of such parking space use, and shall not be included as an Operating Expense under this Agreement.

 8.4 Inspection.

 The City shall have access to the Premises at any reasonable times for the purposes of inspecting, repairing, altering or improving any property owned by or under the control of the City , provided that such access and inspections do not unnecessarily interfere with SAC's operation. This right of access shall not impose on the City any obligation to make any repair, except as specifically provided in this Agreement. SAC shall deliver to the City a key to enable the City, at any time, to unlock each of the doors in, upon, and about the Premises, excluding SAC's vaults, safes, and files. The City shall have the right to use any and all means that the Seattle Center Director deems proper to obtain entry to the Premises in an emergency, without liability to SAC except for any failure to exercise due care for SAC's property.

 8.5 Care of Premises.

 SAC shall not damage or in any manner deface the Premises and shall not cause or permit anything to be done whereby any Seattle Center facility shall be in any manner defaced or damaged. SAC shall submit a written notice to the Seattle Center Director regarding the circumstances of any Premises damage or destruction within forty-eight (48) hours after any such event. In the event that during the period of SAC's use, the Premises are damaged or defaced by the willful misconduct, default, or negligence of SAC, SAC shall pay to the City such sum as is reasonably necessary to restore that damaged portion of the Premises to its condition immediately prior to the occasioning of such damage, and such costs shall not be charged to the City as an Operating Expense hereunder.

 SECTION IX

 OPERATING RESPONSIBILITIES

 9.1 Cleaning.

 SAC shall be responsible for maintaining in an orderly, clean and sanitary condition all areas of the Premises under its control, including but not limited to food preparation and storage areas, bar and counter tops, Exhibition Hall kitchen, commissary areas and the areas behind and immediately adjacent to the bar, Concession stands, and facilities in which Catering is taking place. The City shall clean all other areas of the Premises.

 9.2 Utilities.

 SAC shall not install any equipment that will exceed or overload the capacity of any utility facility. If any equipment installed by SAC requires additional utility facilities the same shall be installed only in accordance with plans and specifications Approved by the Seattle Center Director. The City shall not be liable for any failure or interruption of water, gas or electrical supply, or for loss of property, or for injury or damage to any person or property resulting from steam, gas, electricity, water, rain or snow that may leak or flow from or into any part of any Seattle Center building, or from the pipes, appliances or plumbing of a building or from any other place unless such damage is caused by the willful misconduct, negligent acts or omissions of the City.

 9.3 Trash Removal.

 All waste foods shall be kept in closed containers until removed from the Premises. Lard, grease and similar materials shall be kept in airtight containers. SAC shall collect, sort and separate into such categories as may be legally required, all solid waste products on the Premises and recycle all such products that are locally accepted for recycling. Each separately sorted category of waste products shall be placed in separate receptacles Approved by the Seattle Center Director. The City shall pick up and dispose of the trash from locations designated by the City. The City reserves the right to refuse to collect or accept from SAC any waste product that is not sorted and separated as required by law, ordinance, rule or, regulation, or this Agreement, and to require SAC to arrange for the collection of the same at SAC's sole cost and expense using a contractor satisfactory to the City. SAC shall pay all costs, fines, penalties and damages that may be imposed on the City or SAC as a consequence of SAC's failure to comply with the provisions of this Section, and such costs shall not be charged to the City as an Operating Expense hereunder.

 9.4 Biodegradable Products/City's Right to Ban Polystyrene.

 Whenever possible, SAC shall use biodegradable products for containers and supplies used on the Premises except in and for the Opera House. Cans and bottles shall not be used as serving containers in any facility. SAC shall not purchase plastic beverage cans and/or polystyrene foam food and beverage containers nor make any contracts with vendors/suppliers who would supply such materials in providing services pursuant to this Agreement.

 9.5 No Nuisance or Objectionable Activity.

 SAC shall not permit any excessive or objectionable noise, odor, dust, vibration, or other similar substance or condition to remain on or be emitted from the Premises; shall not create any nuisance in or adjacent to the Premises; and shall not do anything on the Premises that will create a danger to life or limb.

 SECTION X

 TAXES, LICENSES AND COMPLIANCE

 10.1 SAC's Licenses and Permits.

 SAC shall obtain prior to commencing its operations, and shall maintain throughout the Term of this Agreement, all licenses and permits required for its operations hereunder, including an alcoholic beverage license. Such alcoholic beverage license shall name The City of Seattle as a co-licensee pursuant to WAC 314-12-030. SAC shall at all times scrupulously observe all restrictions, rules and conditions of all such licenses and permits and shall use its best efforts at all times to avoid any loss or suspension thereof. Prior to undertaking any Food Services under this Agreement, SAC shall submit to the Director a photocopy or facsimile copy of a current and valid Business License issued by The City of Seattle and a current and valid Food Service Establishment Permit issued by the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health. In the event any license or permit expires during the Term of this Agreement then, prior to next providing Food Services hereunder, SAC shall obtain and deliver to the Director documentation of its possession of current and valid licenses and permits. The City shall use its best efforts at all times to observe scrupulously all rules and regulations pertaining to such licenses to avoid loss or suspension thereof.

 10.2 Compliance With Laws.

 The Parties shall comply at all times with federal, state, county and city law, regulations and codes pertaining to or affecting their occupancy of and operations at the Premises.

 10.3 Taxes.

 SAC shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies and assessments arising from its activities and use of the Premises.

 10.4 Nondiscrimination & Affirmative Action:

 SAC shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC"), notably SMC Ch. 20.44, and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 During the performance of this contract, SAC agrees as follows:

 SAC will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, creed, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. SAC will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, color, sex, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer, recruitment, or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship. SAC agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

 SAC will, prior to commencement and during the term of this contract, furnish to the Executive Services Director (as used herein Director means the Executive Services Director or his/her designee) upon his/her request and on such form as may be provided by the Director therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by SAC in implementing the terms of these provisions, and will permit access to his/her records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Director for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with this provision.

 If upon investigation the Director finds probable cause to believe that SAC has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provisions, SAC and the contracting authority shall be so notified in writing. The contracting authority shall give SAC an opportunity to be heard, after ten (10) days' notice. If the contracting authority concurs in the findings of the Director, it may suspend the contract and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to SAC, pending compliance by SAC with the terms of these provisions.

 Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be a material breach of this contract.

 10.5 Women's and Minority Business Enterprise Utilization.

 SAC shall make a good faith effort to utilize women's and minority business enterprises as contractors, suppliers or otherwise.

 SECTION XI

 PREMISES, EQUIPMENT AND EXPENDABLES

 11.1 Facilities to be Provided by City.

 SAC accepts all Premises in their "as is" condition. The City disclaims all representations, statements, and warranties, express or implied, with respect to the condition of the Premises or the use and occupancy authorized other than those contained herein. In the event any portion of the Premises subject to this Agreement is determined by a person having authority to be in violation of any building or safety code then upon reasonable and prompt notice thereof, the City agrees to cure the violation and to indemnify and hold SAC harmless from any penalties or other costs associated with such violation.

 11.2 Facilities to be Provided by SAC.

 Upon commencement of and throughout the Term of this Agreement SAC, at its sole expense, shall purchase such equipment and furnishings as are necessary to conduct its operations under this Agreement. All such equipment and furnishings shall be included in the inventory of Titled Equipment and the costs of depreciation shall not otherwise be charged as an expense to the City. All equipment and furnishings to be installed shall be Approved by the Seattle Center Director. For Catered events, SAC shall supply all linens and tableware and all other equipment that is required for the Catering service to be provided.

 11.3 Premises Maintenance.

 In those portions of the Premises used for Food Services, the City shall timely make and pay for all repairs to the Premises and utility systems provided by it and occasioned by normal wear and tear, so as to permit SAC to operate in an efficient and sanitary manner.

 11.4 Equipment, Maintenance and Repair.

 The City will at all time protect and defend, at its own cost and expense, SAC's Titled Equipment from and against all claims, liens and encumbrances of creditors of the City and shall take all reasonable steps to keep all Titled Equipment free and clear of all such claims, liens and encumbrances. The City shall not, without SAC's prior written consent, remove the Titled Equipment from the Premises, or attempt or purport to sell, pledge, mortgage, or otherwise encumber any of the same. The Titled Equipment is and shall remain personal property owned by SAC. SAC shall label each item of the Titled Equipment "Property of Service America Corporation," which label may not be removed by the City.

 This Agreement shall constitute a Security Agreement in and to the Titled Equipment governed by Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code. SAC will prepare and the City will promptly and duly execute and deliver to SAC such further documents and assurances and take such further action as SAC may from time to time reasonably request in order to more effectively carry out the intent and purpose of this provision and to establish and protect the rights, interests and remedies created or intended to be created in favor of SAC hereunder, including, without limitation, the execution and filing of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements or a Notice of Lease; provided that any expense associated therewith shall be borne solely by SAC. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the City hereby authorizes SAC to file any such financing statement or Notice of Lease without the signature of the City.

 SAC shall promptly notify the City of any Titled Equipment requiring repair. All such equipment shall be repaired promptly, without the prior Approval of the Director; provided, however, that whenever the cost of repair exceeds the purchase price of comparable replacement equipment, SAC shall inform the City of such condition and the Parties shall mutually agree as to whether such equipment should be replaced. The replacement of any such equipment shall be at SAC's sole expense, subject to the provisions of Section 1.1. M. (5).

 On a quarterly basis SAC shall conduct an on-site evaluation with City staff of areas within SAC's control. SAC shall keep the Premises and all improvements, alterations and additions thereto, and SAC's fixtures, furnishings and trade equipment, at all times in a neat, clean, and sanitary condition and shall permit no waste, damage, or injury thereto.

 11.5 Graphics.

 All graphic designs, text and images of any type or nature to be viewed by the general public and placed upon or affixed to any of the Premises or used on operating materials and/or vehicles in connection with the Premises including but not limited to menus, printed materials, advertising and other promotional materials and the location thereof, shall be subject to the Approval of the Seattle Center Director.

 11.6 Inventory of Equipment and Supplies.

 Prior to the execution of this Agreement SAC shall prepare and deliver to the City an updated inventory of all equipment, Smallwares, food, beverage, paper and plastic products to be used by SAC in delivering Food Services under this Agreement, which inventory shall be subject to Approval by the Director and further described in Exhibit "B".

 SECTION XII

 EMPLOYEES

 12.1 Staffing.

 Prior to the commencement of this Agreement and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of each successive Fiscal Year during which this Agreement is in effect, SAC shall identify and provide the City with the salaries of the on-site General Manager, Executive Chef, Director of Catering and Director of Operations, or their functional equivalents. The salaries of such persons shall be subject to the Approval of the Seattle Center Director and shall not be changed without the Director's written consent. SAC shall employ an on-site General manager. SAC shall propose a candidate as replacement when necessary, which proposed replacement shall be subject to Approval by the Seattle Center Director. SAC's General Manager shall be designated as its authorized representative and shall oversee all operations on and from the Premises. SAC shall also employ sufficient staff in accordance with industry standards to perform the Food Services described in this Agreement. Upon receipt of notice from the City of any reasonable and significant objection to any of SAC's employees, including the general manager, the employment of such employee shall be discontinued and a suitable person shall be promptly substituted; provided however, that the City's right to require replacement of an SAC employee, and SAC's obligation to comply with any such request shall be subject to restrictions imposed upon SAC by any federal, state or local statute, law, code, regulation or ordinance or by any collective bargaining agreement or other contract affecting such employee. The City agrees not to hire or otherwise engage the services of SAC's management-level employees during the Term, and for a period of one year following termination of this Agreement. The City agrees that such employees have acquired special knowledge, shills and contacts as a result of being trained by SAC. If the City hires or permits employment of any such employee in any food service operation conducted directly or indirectly by the Seattle Center within the restricted period, it is agreed by the City that SAC will suffer damages, and the City will pay SAC as liquidated damages an amount equal to three times the annual salary of any such employee. This Section will survive the termination of this Agreement.

 12.2 Identification.

 SAC shall cause all non-management employees to prominently display their names on either uniforms or badges. SAC shall keep records at all times so as to assure proper identification of its employees.

 12.3 Appearance.

 All of SAC's non-administrative employees shall be required to wear Approved uniforms while on duty. Gum chewing, smoking, and drinking of alcoholic beverages by staff members while on or off duty shall not be allowed in any service area.

 SECTION XIII

 INSURANCE AND BONDING

 13.1 Coverage.

 Coverage shall be provided for liability for any injury, death, damage and/or loss of any sort sustained by any person, organization or corporation in connection with or arising out of any act or omission of SAC or its officers, employees, agents or assigns or of the City, its officers, employees, agents or assigns and SAC, its officers, employees, agents or assigns, jointly, upon the Premises and for any activity performed by SAC under this Agreement and shall include, but need not be limited to the following types (described in insurance industry terminology):

 A. A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an occurrence form, including the usual coverages known as:

 1. Premises/Operations Liability.

 2. Products/Completed Operations.

 3. Personal/Advertising Injury.

 4. Contractual Liability.

 5. Independent Contractor's Liability.

 6. Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability.

 7. Liquor Liability/Host Liquor Liability (as applicable).

 The limitations of liability shall not be less than Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence and Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) annual aggregate. Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed to the City and is subject to the approval of the City's Risk Manager.

 B. A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles. The limitations of liability for bodily injury and property damage subject to such coverage shall not be less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per person and One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence.

 C. A policy of Workers' Compensation to comply with all applicable workers' compensation, occupational disease, and occupational health and safety laws, statutes, and regulations to the full extent applicable. Such workers' compensation and occupational disease requirements shall include coverage for all employees suffering bodily injury (including death) by accident or disease, which arises out of or in connection with the performance this Agreement. Each insurance policy obtained under this Agreement (1) shall name the City of Seattle as an additional insured; (2) shall state that the coverages provided to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days' prior written notice to the City; and (3) shall contain a "separation of insureds" or "severability of interests" clause indicating essentially that "except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought." Insurance coverage and/or limits may be altered or increased as necessary, with the prior Approval of the City's Risk Manager, to reflect the type of or exposure to risk.

 13.2 Authorized Carriers.

 All insurance described herein shall be obtained from insurance companies approved by the City's Risk Manager and duly authorized to issue such policies in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker, and having a rating of A-VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide.

 13.3 Evidence of Insurance.

 This Agreement shall be expressly conditioned upon SAC delivering to the City's Risk Manager copies of the following documents:

 (a) All policy declaration pages, showing the policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 (b) The endorsement naming the City of Seattle as an additional insured, showing each policy number, and signed by an authorized representative of the insurer, on Form CG2026 (ISO), or comparable form.

 (c) A copy of the "separation of insureds" or "severability of interests" clause.

 13.4 City's Right to Secure Insurance.

 Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the City shall have the right to procure and maintain the commercial general liability insurance coverage required by this Agreement if it is able to do so at a lower cost than SAC would pay for equivalent coverage. SAC shall take all such steps as are reasonably necessary to permit the City to procure and/or maintain any such insurance.

 13.5 Assumption of Risk.

 The placement and storage of personal property on the Premises shall be the responsibility, and at the sole risk, of SAC.

 13.6 Failure to Maintain Insurance.

 The failure by SAC to maintain the insurance required by this Agreement in full force and effect during its Term shall constitute a default and material breach of this Agreement by SAC.

 SECTION XIV

 INDEMNIFICATION

 14.1 Indemnification.

 SAC shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City, its agents and employees, from and against any and all claims, demands, judgments, losses, and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) resulting from any negligent or reckless act or omission or any willful misconduct of SAC or any of its employees or agents, in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.

 City shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless SAC, its agents and employees, from and against any and all claims, demands, judgments, losses, and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) resulting from any negligent or reckless act or omission or any willful misconduct of City or any of its employees or agents, in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.

 SECTION XV

 CONTINGENCIES

 15.1 Failure to Perform Excused.

 Neither Party hereto shall be liable to the other Party for any nonperformance, in whole or in part, of its obligations under this Agreement caused by the occurrence of any contingencies beyond the reasonable control of the Parties, including but not limited to declared or undeclared war, sabotage, insurrection, riot, or other acts of civil disobedience, acts of a public enemy, acts of governments or agencies affecting the terms of this Agreement, strikes, labor disputes, acts of third parties not within the control of the party whose performance is affected, shortages of fuel, failures of power, accidents, fires, explosions, floods or other acts of Force Majeure. In the event that any such contingencies occur, the Party whose performance is affected shall have a reasonable time in which to resume performance and such Party's nonperformance shall not constitute a default under Section 16.2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event SAC's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement is temporarily impaired by any such contingency, the Seattle Center, its licensees and/or tenants shall have the right to utilize substitute food service providers in any area of the Premises, without liability to SAC of any kind. If a Party is unable to resume full performance for a period of 45 days, either Party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement on 30 days' prior written notice to the other. No suspension shall result in an extension of the expiration date of this Agreement unless specifically agreed upon, in writing, by the Parties. If SAC has knowledge that any actual or potential labor dispute is impairing or threatening to impair performance under this Agreement, SAC shall immediately give notice, including all relevant information, to the City. SAC shall make all reasonable efforts to prevent and mitigate the effects of any interruption in service, whether occasioned by an act of Force Majeure or otherwise.

 15.2 Damage or Destruction.

 If any portion of the Premises is damaged by fire or other casualty, preventing SAC from providing the services contemplated by this Agreement, the City will, within thirty (30) days after learning of such damage, notify SAC in writing of the time necessary to repair or restore such damage, as estimated by the City's architect, engineer or contractor. If such estimate states that repair or restoration of all or such damage that caused to the Premises or to any other portion of the Premises necessary for SAC's occupancy cannot be completed within One Hundred and Twenty (120) days from the date of such damage, then either Party shall have thirty (30) days within which to terminate this Agreement.

 15.3 Condemnation.

 A. Full Taking. If all or substantially all of the Premises are taken for any public or quasi-public use under any applicable law or by right of eminent domain, or are sold to the condemning authority in lieu of condemnation, then this Agreement will terminate as of the later of the date when the condemning authority takes physical possession of, or the date it takes title to, the Premises.

 B. Partial Taking.

 (1) City's Termination of Agreement. If only part of the Premises is thus taken or sold, and if after such partial taking, in the City's reasonable judgment, alteration or reconstruction is not economically justified, then the City may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to SAC not later than 120 days after the taking.

 (2) SAC's Termination of Agreement. If over 20% of the Premises is thus taken or sold and the City is unable to provide SAC with comparable replacement Premises on the Seattle Center grounds, SAC may terminate this Agreement if in SAC's reasonable judgment the Premises cannot be operated by SAC in an economically viable fashion because of such partial taking. Such termination by SAC must be exercised by written notice to the City given not later than 60 days after SAC is notified of the taking of the Premises.

 (3) Effective Date of Termination. Termination by the City of SAC will be effective as of the date when physical possession of the applicable portion of the Premises is taken by the condemning authority.

 (4) Election to Continue Agreement. If neither the City nor SAC elects to terminate this Agreement upon a partial taking of a portion of the Premises, the City shall continue to pay SAC in compliance with Section 5; Provided, however, that such payments shall be reduced by a percentage equal to the percentage of Gross Receipts generated on the portion of the Premises taken compared to total Gross Receipts, measured from the inception of this Agreement until the date of taking.

 (5) Awards. Notwithstanding any rights of the City to compensation for or in lieu of condemnation or taking, SAC may proceed against the condemning authority for a separate condemnation award for any Losses occasioned by such condemnation, whether incurred for expenses or income prior to or subsequent to the commencement hereof, together with its relocation costs.

 SECTION XVI

 TERMINATION

 16.1 When Terminated.

 Unless sooner terminated as provided in this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate at the expiration of the Term.

 16.2 Termination for Cause.

 Either the City or SAC may terminate this Agreement prior to the expiration of the term only in the event of a material default on the part of the other Party. In such event, the Party who wishes to terminate this Agreement shall deliver to the other Party written notice describing the breach in reasonable detail and proposing steps to be taken to cure the breach and specifying a period of time, which shall not be less than thirty (30) days, in which the breaching Party must either remedy the breach or cease performance under this Agreement.

 In the event the breaching Party elects to continue performance, it shall either cure the breach, or provide a written statement of the steps to be taken in order to do so, within the period of time specified in the written notice of the breach. If the cure or statement of intent to cure is satisfactory to the non-breaching Party, that Party shall consent to a continuation of performance, which consent shall not be withheld or delayed unreasonably. If the cure or attempted cure is unsatisfactory, the non-breaching Party may terminate the Agreement and pursue such remedies as may be available at law or in equity in addition to observing the other terms contained herein as to termination of this Agreement.

 16.3 Termination Due to Mercer Street Corridor Development.

 In the event the City commences development of any nature whatsoever along the Mercer Street Corridor prior to the expiration of the Term, the Seattle Center Director may cancel this Agreement. The cancellation of the Agreement must be preceded by a written notice from the Director to SAC six (6) months prior to such effective cancellation date. In the event of such early cancellation, SAC shall not be entitled to any compensatory or other damages .

 16.4 Rights and Duties Upon a Termination.

 The following provisions shall apply in the event of a termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever:

 A. Delivery of Premises. SAC shall remove its property from the Premises and shall deliver to the City the Premises and all property thereon belonging to the City in the same condition as existed at the time the Premises and property were delivered to SAC except (1) ordinary wear and tear, (2) loss or damage occurring without the primary negligence or fault of SAC, and (3) damage occurring as a result of fire, flood, or other, like unavoidable casualty or occurrence occurring without the primary negligence of SAC.

 B. Final Accounting. SAC shall deliver to the City, within twenty-five (25) days of the effective date of termination, a final accounting setting forth the information described in Section 6.3 hereof, and shall remit to the City all amounts owed as of the effective date of termination, after withholding all amounts to which SAC might be entitled under any provision of this Agreement. If no amount is owed to the City and money is owed to SAC, the City shall remit such amount to SAC with thirty (30) days of receipt of an invoice.

 C. Final Inventory and Supplies. SAC shall submit to the City within twenty (20) days of the date of termination, a schedule of all inventory, supplies and other expendables purchased by SAC for its operations hereunder and to the extent usable by the City or by SAC's successor, the City or SAC's successor shall reimburse SAC in an amount equal to SAC's invoice cost for such inventory and supplies within thirty (30) days thereafter.

 SECTION XVII

 NOTICES

 17.1 Requirements for Notice.

 All notices required by this Agreement, including any notice as to changes of address, shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally, by overnight mail or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested to:

 If to Seattle Center: Seattle Center Director Seattle Center Department The City of Seattle 305 Harrison Street Seattle, WA 98109 Telephone: (206) 684-7330 Facsimile: (206) 233-3950

 If to SAC: with a copy to: Service America Corporation 300 First Stamford Place Stamford, Connecticut 06902 Att: Senior Vice President Att: General Counsel Telephone: (203) 975-5900 Facsimile: (203) 975-5949

 17.2 When Given.

 Notice complying with the requirements of Section 17.1 shall be deemed given on the date delivered.

 SECTION XVIII

 ASSIGNMENT AND BINDING EFFECT

 18.1 Assignment, Subcontracting and Sale.

 SAC shall not subcontract, assign or otherwise transfer to another person or entity any of its responsibilities or other aspects of this Agreement without the prior Approval of the Seattle Center Director; Provided, however, that the City shall not withhold its consent to an assignment to a successor to substantially all of SAC's business, whether by contract or operation of law Any such assignment, subcontract, sale or transfer shall be subject to all the terms and provisions of this Agreement. In the event of any assignment of this Agreement SAC shall cause to be delivered to the Seattle Center Director, simultaneously with such assignment, sale, or transfer, an instrument, in writing, executed by the assignee, grantee or transferee, in which the assignee, grantee, or transferee shall assume and agree to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement on SAC's part, which have not been fully performed previously.

 The City shall not assign its rights, nor secure the assumption of its obligations under this Agreement, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of SAC.

 18.2 Binding Effect

 Subject to Section 18.1, this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns and representatives.

 SECTION XIX

 MISCELLANEOUS

 19.1 Entire Agreement

 This Agreement, together with Exhibits A, which are attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, constitutes the final, complete and exclusive written expression of the intentions of the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous communications, representations, agreements, promises or statements, whether oral or written, by a Party or between the Parties.

 19.2 Modification

 No modification or amendment of the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the authorized representatives of the Parties hereto.

 19.3 Headings

 The Section headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

 19.4 Waiver

 No action other than a written notice by one Party to the other specifically stating that such notice has the effect of a waiver shall constitute a waiver of any particular breach or default of such other Party. No such notice shall waive SAC's failure to fully comply with any other term, condition, or provision of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any City officer, employee or agent may have of any breach or default of, or noncompliance with, such other term, condition, or provision. No waiver of full performance by either Party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of fees or charges for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 19.5 Relationship of Parties.

 The Parties intend that SAC shall be a licensee of the City and an independent contractor thereto. Nothing herein shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture or agency relationship between the Parties and neither shall have the authority to obligate or bind the other in any respect.

 19.6 Dispute Resolution; Governing Law; Venue.

 This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of Washington. In the event the Parties are unable to resolve any dispute which may arise in the course of performing this Agreement, the Parties agree to engage in mediation conducted under the auspices of the Washington Arbitration and Mediation Service or a similar service by a mediator agreeable to the Parties. Either Party may serve a written demand for mediation upon the other. The Parties agree to cooperate in scheduling the mediation not more than ten (10) days after a Party serves written notice to mediate upon the other. Each Party may be represented at the mediation by attorneys. The Parties shall each bear their respective costs incurred in connection with the mediation, except that they shall share equally the fees and expenses of the mediator and the costs of the facility for the mediation. In the event the Parties are unable to resolve the dispute by mediation, either Party may bring an action against the other in Superior Court for King County, Washington. The Parties shall bear their own legal expenses in connection with any such action.

 19.7 Remedies Cumulative.

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. Each Party shall also have any other remedy given by the law. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 19.8 Limited Effect of Approval by Seattle Center Director.

 Action of the Seattle Center Director pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official action by any other City Department or official that may be required by law, City Charter, ordinance, rule or regulation before SAC may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking.

 19.9 Negotiated Agreement.

 The Parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any Party on the basis of such Party's draftsmanship thereof.

 19.10 Consents and Approvals.

 Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as an assurance that any request for Approval will be granted or that the City, as the City, will grant consents, approvals or modifications hereunder for the purpose of compliance with the conditions of any permit, approval, or license sought or obtained by SAC.

 The City shall respond to any written request for Approval by SAC within ten (10) days following receipt of said request. If the City disapproves of the request, it shall so state, in writing, and indicate the reasons therefor. If the City fails to disapprove any request in the manner stated, the request shall be deemed Approved.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by having their authorized representative(s) affix their signatures in the spaces below:

 SERVICE AMERICA CORPORATION THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By ______________________________ Name Virginia Anderson, Director ______________________________ Seattle Center Department Title

 ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______day of ______________________________, 19____, before me personally appeared

 _________________________________, to me known to be the person(s) described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the same as a free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written.

 ____________________________________________ Signature ____________________________________________ (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ss COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of _____________________________, 19____, before me personally appeared ________________________________ to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and, under oath, stated that she was authorized by ordinance to execute said instrument.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written. ____________________________________________ Signature ____________________________________________ (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires:

 Passed by the City Council the _______ day of _______________ 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of _________________, 1998. _____________________________________ President ______________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _______ day of _______________________, 1998. __________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this ________ day of __________________________, 1998. __________________________________ City Clerk V #3

```
