

********

**Council Bill Number: 112376**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119173**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Transportation Department; authorizing the Director of Transportation to enter into an agreement with the Economic Development Council of Seattle & King County to implement the Commuter Challenge Program.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 5, 1998
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 12, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 12, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 21, 1998
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** TRANSPORTATION-DEMAND-MANAGEMENT, COMMUTERS, CONSULTANT-CONTRACTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Transportation Department; authorizing the Director of Transportation to enter into an agreement with the Economic Development Council of Seattle & King County to implement the Commuter Challenge Program.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle (hereinafter "the City"), and the Economic Development Council of Seattle & King County (hereinafter "the EDC") desire to continue to support the Commuter Challenge Program; and

 WHEREAS, the City does not have sufficient staff available to implement such program within the time required and wishes to engage the EDC to perform this work; and

 WHEREAS, the EDC has signified a willingness to act as the lead agency to perform this necessary work; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Director of Transportation and recommended by the Mayor, said Director is authorized to enter into an agreement substantially in the form attached hereto with the EDC providing compensation of up to Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) for activities implementing the Commuter Challenge Program.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after

 presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1998. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1998. ___________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 "COMMUTER CHALLENGE PROGRAM" SERVICE AGREEMENT

 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into between the Economic Development Council of Seattle and King County, (hereinafter called "the EDC") and The City of Seattle, (hereinafter called "the City") acting by and through the Seattle Transportation Department (hereinafter called "SEATRAN") and the Director thereof.

 WHEREAS, the City and the EDC, via its Commuter Challenge Program, desire to recognize exceptional Commute Trip Reduction Programs and provide educational seminars about the value of these kinds of programs to employers and developers that would not otherwise be afforded such an opportunity.

 WHEREAS, the City does not have sufficient staff available to complete the services within the time required and is desirous of engaging the EDC under this agreement to perform the work; and

 WHEREAS, the EDC has signified a willingness to act as the lead agency in order to perform the necessary work; NOW, THEREFORE,

 In consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants, and performance contained herein, it is mutually agreed as follows:

 I. TERM OF AGREEMENT

 This agreement shall be effective January 1, 1998. All substantive work must be performed and costs incurred pursuant to this Agreement on or before October 31, 1998, and all invoices must be submitted on or before October 31, 1998, unless this Agreement is terminated earlier or extended pursuant to the provisions hereof. This Agreement shall terminate December 31, 1998.

 II. SCOPE OF WORK

 The Scope of Work to be performed by the EDCs Commuter Challenge Program on behalf of the City is specified in Attachment A, "Scope of Work," which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

 III. SCHEDULE AND REVIEWS

 The schedule for completion of work elements is specified in Attachment A, "Scope of Work," which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

 The City reserves the right to modify any draft product from the EDCs Commuter Challenge Program. The EDC's Commuter Challenger Program Manager shall revise each draft product in response to the City's comments.

 IV. BUDGET

 The budget for the work to be accomplished under this Agreement is approximately Seventy-eight Thousand Dollars ($78,000.00), of which up to Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) shall be payable in the form of compensation to the EDC, and approximately Twenty eight Thousand Dollars ($28,000.00) shall be separately expended by the City in the form of in-kind services provided for the benefit of the Commuter Challenge Program.

 V. PAYMENT

 The EDC's Commuter Challenge Program Manager shall submit to The City of Seattle SEATRAN Director's Office a written report describing the progress made during the term of this Agreement with respect to each of the tasks specified in the Scope of Work. The report shall accompany the invoice. The report shall describe, as applicable, among other matters, products and programs implemented; and contacts made in the community and with Seattle employers, developers, organizations, and community leaders.

 Compensation for the work performed by the EDC under this Agreement shall be payable according to the schedule set forth immediately above. The Director of SEATRAN shall make payment within 30 days after receipt of the invoice and progress report, provided said official determines the EDC's performance, as described in such progress report, satisfies the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 The maximum compensation payable to the EDC under this Agreement is $50,000.00.

 The payments described above shall be full compensation for work performed and/or services rendered and for all other expenses and incidentals necessary to support the work of the staff person employed to perform the tasks and produce the deliverables specified in Attachment A.

 VI. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 The EDC and every contractor and consultant of the EDC that is engaged for work related to this Agreement, at their respective expense, shall comply with all Federal, State, and local laws applicable to the work being done under this Agreement. In particular, the EDC shall:

 A. Licenses and Similar Authorizations: The EDC, at no expense to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 B. Taxes: The EDC shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities and undertakings under this Agreement; taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements; and taxes on the EDC's interest in this Agreement and any leasehold interest deemed to have been created thereby under Chapter 82.29A RCW.

 C Use of Recycled Content Paper: The EDC shall, whenever practicable, use recycled content paper on all documents submitted to the City.

 D. Americans with Disabilities Act: The EDC shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) in performing its obligations under this Agreement. In particular, if the EDC is providing services, programs, or activities to City employees or members of the public as part of this Agreement, the EDC shall not deny participation or the benefits of such services, programs, or activities to people with disabilities on the basis of such disability. Failure to comply with the provisions of the ADA shall be a material breach of, and grounds for the immediate termination of, this Agreement.

 E. Involvement Of Former City Employees The EDC shall give notice to the Director specifying the name of each person who was employed by the City at any time during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding the proposed commencement date of such person's work under this Agreement and to whom the EDC expects to assign any work on to contractually engage for any of the work under this Agreement. If such former City officer or employee, in the course of his/her official City duties, was involved in, participated in or acted on any matter related to this Agreement, the EDC shall not permit any such former City officer or employee to perform any work under this Agreement until one (1) year after the date such former City officer or employee's City employment ended..

 F. No Conflict Of Interest The EDC confirms that the EDC does not have a business interest or a close family relationship with any City officer or employee who was, is, or will be involved in the consultant selection, negotiation, drafting, signing, administration, or evaluating the Consultant's performance. As used in this section, the term "EDC" shall include any employee of the EDC who was, is, or will be involved in the negotiation, drafting, signing, administration, or performance of the Agreement. As used in this section, the term "close family relationship" refers to the following: spouse or domestic partner; any dependent parent, parent-in-law, child, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law; or any parent, parent-in-law, sibling, uncle, aunt, cousin, niece or nephew residing in the household of a City officer or employee described above.

 VII. AGREEMENT MODIFICATIONS

 Either party may request any number of changes in these provisions. Every change to this Agreement that is mutually agreed upon shall be incorporated as a written amendment to this Agreement. No variation or alteration of any of the terms of this Agreement shall be valid unless and until made in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 VIII. SUBCONTRACTS

 The EDC shall subcontract those portions of the work to those individuals and firms that are specified by the Commuter Challenge Steering Committee.

 IX. TERMINATION

 A. For Convenience: The City may terminate this Agreement for its convenience, at any time by giving notice thereof, in writing and not less than twenty (20) days prior to the effective date of termination, to the EDC specifying the effective termination date. If this Agreement is terminated by the City pursuant to this subsection, the EDC will be paid an amount equal to one- twelfth of the maximum compensation payable hereunder for each full month of work satisfactorily performed by the EDC plus a pro rata share for any partial month of work satisfactorily performed, less all amounts previously paid to the EDC pursuant to this Agreement.

 The EDC agrees that the payment provided in this section shall fully and adequately compensate it and its contractors and subcontractors for all profits, costs, expenses, losses, liabilities, damage, taxes, and charges of any kind whatsoever (whether foreseen or unforeseen) attributable to the termination of this Agreement.

 B. For Default: In the event either party fails to comply with any provision of this Agreement (a "default"), and fails to cure such default within twenty (20) days after receiving from the non-defaulting party written notice specifying such default, then the non-defaulting party immediately thereafter may terminate this Agreement by delivering written notice of such termination to the defaulting party; provided, that if the nature of the obligation is such that more than twenty (20) days are required for performance, then the party receiving such notice shall not be in default if it commences performance within such twenty (20) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 C. For Reasons Beyond the Control of the Parties: Either party may terminate this Agreement without recourse by the other party, where performance is rendered impossible or impracticable for reasons beyond the terminating party's reasonable control, such as but not limited to an act of nature; war or warlike operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including strike, walkout or lockout; sabotage; or superior governmental regulation or control. In the event of termination of the Agreement as provided for in this subsection, the City shall make payment to the EDC through the date of termination as provided in Subsection IX-A.

 D. Non-appropriation: In the event the City's legislative authority does not appropriate funds to pay for the work contemplated in this Agreement, the City may terminate this Agreement by providing the EDC's Commuter Challenge Program Manager written notice of termination twenty (20) days in advance of the effective date of termination. In the event of termination of this Agreement as provided in this subsection, the City shall reimburse the EDC all reasonable expenses and obligations incurred through the date of termination. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the City shall not be obligated to pay the EDC any amount in excess of the amount of funds appropriated to pay for the EDC's satisfactory work under this Agreement.

 X. NONDISCRIMINATION AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

 The EDC agrees to comply with all state and local laws prohibiting discrimination with regard to race, color, sex, marital status, secular orientation, political ideology, age, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. The following provisions of Seattle Municipal Code 20.44.040 shall be deemed to be incorporated herein:

 "During the performance of this Agreement, the EDC agrees as follows:

 "The EDC will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of creed, relation, race, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupation qualification. The EDC will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their creed, religion, race, color, sex, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rate of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship.

 "The EDC agrees to post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment notices to be provided by the Director or the City's Executive Services Department (hereinafter called 'ESD') or its director (hereinafter called 'ESD Director') setting forth the provisions on this nondiscrimination clause. The EDC will take affirmative action to ensure that all of its employees, agents and subcontractors adhere to these provisions.

 "The EDC will, upon request of the ESD Director, furnish to the ESD Director on such form as may be provided therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by The EDC in implementing the terms of this provision, and will permit access to its records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the ESD Director for the purpose of investigations to determine compliance with these provisions.

 "If, upon investigation, the ESD Director determines that there is probably cause to believe that the EDC has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provision, the EDC shall be so notified in writing. SEATRAN shall give the EDC an opportunity to be heard, after ten days notice. If SEATRAN concurs in the findings of the ESD Director, SEATRAN my suspend of terminate this Agreement in accordance with the law. Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be material breach of this Agreement.

 "The foregoing provision shall be inserted in all subcontracts for work covered by this Agreement:"

 The EDCs sworn statement specifically setting forth what affirmative action The EDC will take to ensure equality of opportunity in employment during the term of this Agreement is attached hereto and, by this reference, is incorporated herein.

 The EDC shall not illegally discriminate against any employee who is paid with funds received from the City pursuant to this Agreement or against any applicant for such employment because of Vietnam era/disabled veterans status. This obligation shall extend but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading demotion, transfer, recruitment, advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training.

 XI. WOMEN AND MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE REQUIREMENTS:

 A. General. As used in this Agreement, the term "WMBE" shall refer to Women's Business Enterprises (WBEs), Minority Business Enterprises (MBEs), Combination Business Enterprises (CBEs), and Minority Women's Business Enterprises (MWBEs), collectively.

 1. During the term of this Agreement, the EDC shall make a good faith effort to utilize WMBEs in performing the Agreement, whether as consultants, contractors, suppliers, or in any other capacity;

 2. Require that all of the EDC's consultants and contractors make affirmative efforts to utilize WMBEs in performance of the Agreement;

 3. Maintain records reasonably necessary for monitoring compliance with the provisions of SMC 20.46A, and submit such information as may be requested by the ESD Director in order to monitor and enforce compliance; and

 4. Require that contractors and consultants maintain records reasonably necessary for monitoring their compliance with the provisions of SMC 20.46A, and that they submit such information as may be requested by the ESD Director in order to monitor and enforce compliance.

 The EDC shall comply with the requirements set forth in SMC 20.46A, ESD Rules (formerly SHRR Chapter 120), and this Agreement regarding utilization of WMBEs. Failure to meet the WBE and MBE utilization requirements will be considered a material breach of contract. The ESD and the Director will monitor compliance with the WMBE requirements throughout the life of this Agreement. The EDC shall submit such reports and information as ESD may deem necessary to determine compliance. Expenditures paid to WMBEs will be evaluated to determine compliance with the EDC's original WBE and MBE utilization commitment.

 B. Certified WMBEs

 Businesses used to meet the WMBE requirements must be certified by the Washington State Office of Minority and Women Business Enterprises (OMWBE) and have done business or sought to do business with or within The City of Seattle.

 C. Sanctions For Noncompliance

 Failure to comply with SMC Ch. 20.46A may result in the imposition of sanctions including but not limited to:

 1. Withholding of funds;

 2. Imposition of a civil fine or penalty;

 3. Termination of the Agreement based upon a material breach of the WMBE Agreement provisions; and

 4. Disqualification of the EDC, contractor or consultant or other business from eligibility for providing goods and services to the City for a period not to exceed five years.

 D. No Third Party Rights

 The parties agree that the provisions of this section are not intended to create any third party rights. Any actions taken by ESD with respect to this Agreement are for the purposes of enforcing and implementing the provisions of SMC Ch. 20.46A, and not for the purpose of benefiting any particular entity.

 XII. AUDIT

 The EDC shall permit the City and/or any other governmental agency that is involved in the funding of the project (hereinafter referred to as "Agency"), from time to time as the City Auditor or the Director or Agency deems necessary (including up to six years after the final payment or release of withheld amounts has been made under this Agreement), to inspect and audit at any and all reasonable times in King County, Washington, or at such other reasonable location as the City Auditor and/or Agency selects, all pertinent books and records of the EDC and any consultants or other person or entity that has performed work in connection with or related to the EDC's services under this Agreement to verify, among other things, that the compensation or other consideration provided to the EDC has been appropriate, and that the contracted-for services were provided in a timely manner; and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City and/or Agency to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof, upon the City Auditor's, Director's, or the Agency's request. The EDC shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the City and Agency is a condition of any subcontract, agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to perform work in connection with or related to the EDC's services under this Agreement. All audit findings, except those for performance audits, will be governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), subpart 31, which is hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement. The rights specified in this section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. The EDC shall include this provision in every subcontract and agreement for consulting services entered into to implement this Agreement.

 XIII. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR

 The EDC shall be deemed an independent contractor for purposes of this Agreement. No employee of the EDC or of any of its contractors or consultants shall in any manner be deemed to be an employee or agent of the City. The EDC is not granted any express or implied right or authority to assume or create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of or in the name of the City or to bind the City in any manner or thing whatsoever.

 XIV. CONTRACT EXTENSION

 In the event that both SEATRAN and the EDC, each in its sole discretion, desire to extend the current Agreement, SEATRAN and the Commuter Challenge Program Manager will review the Commuter Challenge Program's performance under this Agreement prior to November 30, 1998. SEATRAN and the Commuter Challenge shall:

 A. Review implementation activities completed and associated costs of the Commuter Challenge program, to date; and

 B. Compare expenditures to budget, review procedures, identify issues and propose solutions; and

 C. Discuss potential work activities made apparent in such review and an associated expenditure budget for any future contract period.

 If the project is to be continued, the EDC's Commuter Challenge Program Manager shall assist City staff in developing a scope of work for the extended term and presenting the same to the City's elected officials, as requested by the Director. The performance of any of the activities described in this section shall not obligate either party to extend this Agreement, and either party may choose to not extend the Agreement at any time prior to the execution by both parties of a written amendment extending the Agreement.

 XV. INDEMNIFICATION

 The EDC shall indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out of or resulting from the EDCs negligent, reckless or willful performance or lack of performance under this Agreement. The EDC waives any immunity under industrial insurance (Title 51 RCW), it may have to claims brought against it by the City in connection with this Agreement. The indemnification provided in this section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 XVI. WAIVERS

 Nothing other than a written document signed personally by the Director specifically declaring the City's or SEATRAN's intent to waive a particular breach or default by the EDC shall constitute a waiver of such breach or default. No such notice shall waive the EDCs failure to fully comply with any other term, condition, or provision of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any City officer, employee, or agent may have of any breach or default of, or noncompliance with, such other term, condition or provision. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of compensation for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 XVII. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; the failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 XVIII. CAPTIONS.

 The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 XIX. SEVERABILITY

 Should any clause, phrase, sentence or paragraph of this Agreement be declared invalid or void, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect if such remainder continues to conform to the terms and requirements of applicable law and the intent of this Agreement.

 XX. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT

 The parties hereto acknowledge that this document is a negotiated Agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this document reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of that party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS THEREOF the parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year last written below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE By ___________________________________________ Daryl Grigsby, Director Seattle Transportation Department Date

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL OF SEATTLE & KING COUNTY

 By ______________________________________________ Art Scheunemann, President Date: ______________________________

```
