

********

**Council Bill Number: 112431**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate portions of the Wallingford Neighborhood Plan and amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.47, relating to single purpose residential development.

**Status:** DO NOT PASS
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 19, 1998
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Growth Planning and Civic Engagement
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** AMENDMENT, COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, WALLINGFORD, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, RESIDENTIAL-BUILDINGS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate portions of the Wallingford Neighborhood Plan and amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.47, relating to single purpose residential development.

 WHEREAS, on July 25, 1994, by Ordinance 117221, the City Council adopted the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, which includes a neighborhood planning element; and

 WHEREAS, City Council Resolution 28966, adopted August 1, 1994, established a Neighborhood Planning Program for the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, a coalition of Wallingford neighborhood stakeholders came together to form Team Wallingford in the spring of 1995 for the purpose of preparing a Neighborhood Plan as provided for in the City of Seattle Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, Team Wallingford convened monthly meetings open to everyone and regularly attended by several dozen citizens throughout the next three years; and

 WHEREAS, Team Wallingford conducted an extensive Phase I outreach process featuring a citizen survey, "road show" presentations at community group meetings, displays at community events and a well-attended validation celebration, all of which led to creation of a generally recognized Vision for the community as a small town in the big city; and

 WHEREAS, this outreach process also created a list of priority planning topics and led to selection of members for a Steering Committee and Plan Review Board to lead Phase II planning; and

 WHEREAS, subcommittees were formed and consultants were hired to study and prepare analyses and recommendations on the issues of Transportation, Land Use/Urban Village, Housing, Business Health, Human Services, Community Building and Capital Facilities; and

 WHEREAS, a final plan incorporating Key Integrated Strategies, additional activities for implementation and activities for long term consideration was completed, reviewed and approved by the Plan Review Board and validated by the community in response to a community-wide mailer and validation meeting; and

 WHEREAS, the overall vision of the Wallingford Plan is consistent with the goals and policies of Seattle's Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, a SEPA checklist has been prepared and an addendum to the Comprehensive Plan Final Environmental Impact Statement was issued on July 30, 1998; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the proposed amendments are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan, as adopted by Ordinance 117221 and last amended, is hereby amended as follows:

 A. The Table of Contents of the Neighborhood Plans volume of the Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended to add Wallingford, as shown in Attachment 1.

 B. The Wallingford Plan goals and policies, as shown in Attachment 2 to this Ordinance, are hereby incorporated into the Neighborhood Plans volume of the Comprehensive Plan.

 C. The Land Use Element of the Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended as shown in Attachment 3 to this Ordinance to confirm the designation and growth targets for the Wallingford Residential Urban Village.

 D. The Neighborhood Plans volume, Wallingford section, is hereby amended to include the capital facilities and utilities inventory and analyses and transportation analyses shown in Attachment 4 to this Ordinance.

 E. The following maps are hereby amended to reflect the final designation and boundaries of the Wallingford Residential Urban Village, as shown in Attachment 5 to this Ordinance:

 - Future Land Use Map

 - Land Use Figure 1

 - Land Use Figure A-1

 - Land Use Figure 8, and

 New large scale urban village boundary map, Land Use Figure 8 is hereby added.

 F. Land Use Appendix B is hereby amended to reflect the final growth targets for the Wallingford Residential Urban Village, as shown in Attachment 6 to this Ordinance.

 Section 2 The amendments contained in Section 1 of this ordinance constitute an adopted neibhborhood plan for purposes of SMC 23.34.008(D)(2).

 Section 3. Residential use in single-purpose residential development within commercial zones in the Wallingford Urban Village, established by adoption of this ordinance, shall continue to be permitted by conditional use, except where prohibited as show on a new map entitled "Wallingford Urban Village" to be added to subsection 23.47.004(E) of the Seattle Municipal Code. Further, the densities permitted for the residential use in single-purpose residential structures, where permitted, within the Wallingford Urban Village shall be as established in SMC Subsection 23.47.009D1.

 Section 4. Section 23.47.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 118794, is further amended as follows:

 SMC 23.47.004 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 A. All uses shall either be permitted outright, prohibited or permitted as a conditional use according to Chart A, and this Section, except to the extent that Chart A may be superseded by Chapter 23.67, Southeast Seattle Reinvestment Area, or by Chapter 23.73, Pike/Pine Overlay District.

 B. All permitted uses shall be allowed as either a principal use or as an accessory use, unless otherwise indicated in Chart A.

 C. In pedestrian-designated zones, certain street-level uses shall be required according to the provisions of Section 23.47.042.

 D. The Director may authorize a use not otherwise permitted in the zone in a landmark structure, subject to the following criteria:

 1. The use shall not require significant alteration of the structure; and

 2. The design of the structure makes uses permitted in the zone impractical in the structure, or the permitted uses do not provide sufficient financial return to make use of the structure feasible; and

 3. The physical impacts of the use shall not be detrimental to other properties in the zone or vicinity or to the public interest.

 E. Residential Uses.

 1. Residential use in single-purpose residential structures.

 A. Residential use in single-purpose residential structures is permitted as an administrative conditional use, unless

 (1) the structure is located within an area in which the use is either permitted outright or prohibited, as shown on the Map 23.47.004 A, or

 (2) the use is a nursing home, in which case it is permitted outright, unless it is located in a Pedestrian- Designated zone, in which case the use is prohibited, or

 (3) the structure is located within a zone which has a height limit of 85 feet or higher, in which case the use is prohibited.

 2. Residential use in mixed use structures.

 Residential use in mixed-use development is permitted outright in NC1, NC2, NC3 and C1 zones, provided that nursing homes are permitted in all zones except in Pedestrian-Designated zones (See Section 23.47.040).

~~E~~.)) F. Public Facilities.

 1. Except as provided in subsection E2 below, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this chapter shall also be permitted outright or as a conditional use, subject to the same use regulations, development standards and conditional use criteria that govern the similar uses. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi-judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 2. Other Permitted Uses in Public Facilities Requiring City Council Approval. Unless specifically prohibited in Chart A, uses in public facilities that are not similar to uses permitted outright or permitted as a conditional use under this chapter may be permitted by the City Council. Uses in public facilities shall meet the development standards of the zone in which they are located. The City Council may waive or modify applicable development standards or conditional use criteria according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Subchapter III, Council Land Use Decisions, with public projects considered as Type IV quasi- judicial decisions and City facilities considered as Type V legislative decisions.

 3. In all commercial zones, uses in public facilities not meeting development standards may be permitted by the Council if the following criteria are satisfied:

 a. The project provides unique services which are not provided to the community by the private sector, such as police and fire stations; and

 b. The proposed location is required to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 c. The waiver or modification to the development standards is necessary to meet specific public service delivery needs; and

 d. The relationship of the project to the surrounding area has been considered in the design, siting, landscaping and screening of the facility.

 4. Expansion of Uses in Public Facilities.

 a. Major Expansion. Major Expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections E1 and E2 above according to the same provisions and procedural requirements as described in these subsections. A major expansion of a public facility use occurs when the expansion that is proposed would not meet development standards or exceed either seven hundred fifty (750) square feet or ten (10) percent of its existing area, whichever is greater, including gross floor area and areas devoted to active outdoor uses other than parking.

 b. Minor Expansion. When an expansion falls below the major expansion threshold level, it is a minor expansion. Minor expansions may be permitted to uses in public facilities allowed in subsections E1 and E2 above according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, for a Type I Master Use Permit when the development standards of the zone in which the public facility is located are met.

 5. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

~~F~~.)) G. Home occupations and the keeping of animals shall be permitted as accessory uses in commercial zones, according to the standards of Section 23.47.025, Home occupations, and Section 23.47.026, Standards for the keeping of animals.

 ZONES

 NC1 NC2 NC3 C1 C2

 I. COMMERCIAL USE

 A. Retail Sales and Service

 1. Personal and Household Retail Sales and Services

 - Multipurpose convenience stores P P P P P - General retail sales and service P P P P P - Major durables sales, P P P P P service and rental - Specialty food stores P P P P P

 2. Medical Services P P/CU1 P/CU1 P/CU1 P/CU1

 3. Animal Services2

 - Animal health services P P P P P - Kennels X X X X X - Animal shelters X X X X X

 4. Automotive Retail Sales and Services

 - Gas Stations P P P P P - Sales and rental of X P P P P motorized vehicles - Vehicle repair, minor P P P P P - Vehicle repair, major X P P P P - Car wash X P P P P - Towing services X X X P P - Automotive parts or P P P P P accessory sales

 5. Marine Retail Sales and Services

 - Sales and rental of X P P P P large boats - Vessel repair, minor P P P P P - Vessel repair, major X X X S S - Marine service station P P P P P - Dry storage of boats X P P P P - Recreational marinas S S S S S - Commercial moorage S S S S S - Sale of boat parts or P P P P P accessories

 6. Eating and Drinking Establishments - Restaurants without P P P P P cocktail lounges - Restaurants with X P P P P cocktail lounges - Fast-food restaurants P P P P P (750 square feet and under) - Fast-food restaurant CU CU CU CU CU (over 750 square feet) - Tavern CU CU P P P - Brewpub CU CU P P P

 7. Lodging

 - Hotel X X P P P - Motel X X P P P - Bed and breakfast P3 P3 P P P

 8. Mortuary Services X P P P P

 9. Existing Cemeteries P P P P P

 B. Principal Use Parking X P P P P

 Non-Household Sales and Service

 1. Business support services P P P P P 2. Business incubator P P P P P 3. Sales, service and rental of X P P P office equipment 4. Sales, service and rental of X X P P P commercial equipment and construction materials 5. Sale of heating fuel X X P P P 6. Heavy commercial services X X X P P - Construction services X X X P P - Commercial laundries X X X P P

 D. Offices 1. Customer service office P P P P P 2. Administrative P P P P P

 E. Entertainment

 1. Places of Public Assembly

 - Performing arts theater X P P P P - Spectator sports X P P P P facility - Lecture and meeting X P P P P halls - Motion picture theater X P P P P - Adult motion picture X X X X X theater - Adult panorams X X X X X

 2. Participant Sports and Recreation - Indoor P P P P P - Outdoor X X X4 P P

 F. Wholesale Showroom X X P P P

 G. Mini-Warehouse X X P P P

 H. Warehouse X X P P P

 I. Outdoor Storage X X X5 P P

 J. Transportation Facilities

 1. Personal transportation X X P P P services 2. Passenger terminals X X P P P 3. Cargo terminals X X X S P 4. Transit vehicle base X X X CCU6 CCU6 5. Helistops X X CCU7 CCU7 CCU7 6. Heliports X X X X X 7. Airport, land-based X X X X X 8. Airport, water-based X X X X S 9. Railroad switchyard X X X X X 10. Railroad switchyard with X X X X X mechanized hump

 K. Food Processing and Craft Work 1. Food processing for human P P P P P consumption 2. Custom and craft work P P P P P

 L. Research and Development Laboratories

 II. SALVAGE AND RECYCLING A. Recycling Collection P P P P P station B. Recycling Center X X X P P C. Salvage Yard X X X X X

 III. UTILITIES A. Utility Service Uses P P P P P B. Major Communication X X X CCU CCU Utility8 C. Minor Communication P P P P P Utility8 D. Solid Waste Transfer X X X X X Statopm E. Power Plants X X X X X F. Sewage Treatment Plants X X X X X G. solid Waste Incineration X X X X X Facility H. Solid Waste Landfill X X X X X

 IV. MANUFACTURING A. Light Manufacturing X P P P P B. General Manufacturing X X X P P C. Heavy Manufacturing X X X X X

 V. HIGH IMPACT USES X X X X X

 VI. INSTITUTIONS

 A. Institute for Advanced P P P P P Study B. Private Club P P P P P C. Child Care Center P P P P P D. Museum P P P P P E. School, Elementary or P P P P P Secondary F. College P P P P P G. Community Center P P P P P H. Community Club P P P P P I. Vocational or Fine Arts P P P P P School J. Hospital P P P P P K. Religious Facility P P P P P L. University P P P P P M. Major Institutions P P P P P within a Major Institution Overlay District subject to Chapter 23.69

 VII. PUBLIC FACILITIES

 Jails X X X X X Work-Release Centers9 CCU CCU CCU CCU CCU

 VIII. PARK AND POOL/RIDE LOT A. Park and Pool Lots P10 P P P P B. Park and Ride Lots X X CU CU CU

 IX. RESIDENTIAL11 A. Single-Family Dwelling P/CU12 P/CU12 P/CU12 P/CU12 CU12 Units B. Multi-Family Structures P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU CU C. Congregate Residences P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU CU D. Floating Homes S S S S S E. Mobile Home Park X X X P CU F. Artist Studio/Dwelling P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU CU G. Caretaker's Quarters P P P P P H. Adult Family Homes P/CU P/CU P/CU P/CU P I. Home Occupations P13 P13 P13 P13 P13 J. Nursing Homes P P P P P

 X. OPEN SPACE A. Parks P P P P P B. Playgrounds P P P P P

 XI. AGRICULTURAL USES

 A. Animal Husbandry X13 X13 X13 X13 P B. Horticultural Uses P P P P P C. Aquaculture P P P P P

 P - Permitted

 X - Prohibited

 CU - Administrative Conditional Use

 CCU - Council Conditional Use

 S - Permitted only in the Shoreline District, when permitted by the Seattle Shoreline Master Program

 1. Medical service uses over 10,000 square feet, within 2,500 feet of a medical Major Institution Overlay District boundary, shall required administrative conditional use approval, unless included in an adopted Major Institution Master Plan or located in a downtown zone. See Section 23.47.006.

 2. The keeping of animals for other than business purposes shall be regulated by Section 23.47.026.

 3. In existing structures only.

 4. Outdoor participant sports and recreation uses are permitted at the Seattle Center.

 5. Outdoor storage is permitted at the Seattle Center, subject to the provisions of Section 23.47.011.

 6. New transit vehicle bases accommodating 150 or fewer buses or existing transit vehicle bases seeking to expand.

 7. Permitted only as an accessory use according to Section 23.47.006.

 8. See Chapter 23.57 for regulation of communication utilities.

 9. Subject to dispersion criteria in Section 23.47.006

 10. Permitted only on parking lots existing at least five years prior to the proposed establishment of the park and pool lot.

~~11. Residential uses in mixed-use development are permitted outright in NC1, NC2, NC3 and C1 zones. Single-purpose residential structures, other than nursing homes, are permitted in NC1, NC2, NC2/R, NC3, NC3/R and C1 zones as an administrative conditional use according to the provisions of Section 23.47.023, except where the height limit is 85 feet or higher. All residential uses other than nursing homes, in C2 zones are subject to an administrative conditional use approval. Nursing homes are permitted outright in all commercial zones, whether in a mixed use structure or as a single-purpose residential use, except in Pedestrian-Designated Zones (see Section 23.47.040)~~.))

11. See subsection 23.47.004E.

 12. An accessory dwelling unit added to a single-family residence shall be allowed outright and shall not require a separate conditional use permit. The unit shall be considered accessory to the single-family residences, shall meet the standards listed for accessory dwelling units in Section 23.44.025 and shall not be considered a separate dwelling unit for all development standard purposes in commercial zones.

 13. Permitted only as an accessory use.

 Section 5. Subsection B of 23.47.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 118794, is further amended as follows:

 B. The following uses identified as administrative conditional uses on Chart A of Section 23.47.004, may be permitted by the Director when the provisions of this subsection and subsection A are met:

 1. Fast-food restaurants which have a gross floor area greater than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet are identified as heavy traffic generators and may be permitted as a conditional use according to the following criteria:

 a. The design of the structure, including architectural treatment, signage, landscaping and lighting, is compatible with other structures in the vicinity; and

 b. Appropriate litter-control measures are provided; and

 c. The applicant, if required by the Director, prepares an analysis of traffic, circulation and parking impacts, and demonstrates that the use does not:

 (1) Cause significant additional traffic to circulate through adjacent residential neighborhoods, or

 (2) Disrupt the pedestrian character of an area by significantly increasing the potential for pedestrian-vehicle conflicts, or

 (3) Create traffic or access problems which will require the expenditure of City funds to mitigate, or

 (4) Interfere with peak-hour transit operations, by causing auto traffic to cross a designated high-occupancy vehicle lane adjacent to the lot, or

 (5) Cause cars waiting to use the facility to queue across the sidewalk or onto the street, or

 (6) Interrupt established retail or service frontage designed to serve pedestrians;

 d. In addition to the criteria in subsections B1a, B1b and B1c, in pedestrian-designated zones, the use shall not:

 (1) Include a drive-in facility, or

 (2) Provide any accessory parking, or

 (3) Attract a significant number of customers who drive to the pedestrian district for the primary purpose of patronizing the business. This shall be determined by a transportation analysis of travel modes and patterns of customers of similar businesses in the same or similar commercial areas, which shall be prepared by a traffic consultant retained by the applicant;

 e. Fast-food restaurants which are drive-in businesses shall also comply with the provisions of Section 23.47.028, Standards for drive-in businesses.

 2. Taverns and brewpubs in NC1 and NC2 zones may be permitted as conditional uses. A tavern or brewpub in an NC1 or NC2 zone shall be evaluated according to the following criteria:

 a. The size of the tavern or brewpub, design of the structure, signing and illumination shall be compatible with the character of the commercial area and other structures in the vicinity, particularly in areas where a distinct and definite pattern or style has been established.

 b. The location, access and design of parking shall be compatible with adjacent residential zones.

 c. Special consideration shall be given to the location and design of the doors and windows of taverns and brewpubs to ensure that noise standards will not be exceeded. The Director may require additional setbacks and/or restrict openings on lots which abut residential zones.

 d. Taverns and brewpubs shall not generate traffic which creates traffic congestion or further aggravates spillover parking on residential streets.

 3. Park-and-ride lots in NC3, C1 and C2 zones may be permitted as conditional uses.

 a. Conditional Use Criteria.

 (1) The park-and-ride lot shall have direct vehicular access to a designated arterial improved to City standards.

 (2) If the proposed park-and-ride lot is located on a lot containing accessory parking for other uses, there shall be no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the park-and-ride lot and the other uses.

 b. Mitigating Measures. Landscaping and screening in addition to that required for surface parking areas, noise mitigation, vehicular access controls, signage restrictions, and other measures may be required to provide comfort and safety for pedestrians and bicyclists and to insure the compatibility of the park-and-ride lot with the surrounding area.

 4. Single-purpose Residential Structures may be permitted outright, permitted as an administrative conditional use or prohibited as provided by subsection 23.47.004E.~~in NC1, NC2, NC2/R, NC3, NC3/R, and C1 Zones.~~ In order to conserve the limited amount of commercially zoned land for commercial uses, single-purpose residential structures shall generally not be allowed in commercial zones. However, additions to, or on- site accessory structures for, existing single-family structures are permitted outright. Where~~S~~single- purpose residential structures may be permitted ~~in NC1, NC2, NC2/R, NC3, NC3/R and C1 zones~~ as an administrative conditional use, such a permit may be granted only when the following circumstances exist:

 a. Due to location or parcel size, the proposed site is not suited for commercial development; or

 b. There is substantial excess supply of land available for commercial use near the proposed site, evidenced by such conditions as a lack of commercial activity in existing commercial structures for a sustained period, commercial structures in disrepair, and vacant or underused commercially zoned land; provided that single-purpose residential development shall not interrupt an established commercial street front. As used in this subsection, an "established commercial street front" may be intersected by streets or alleys, and some lots with no current commercial use.

 5. Residential Uses in C2 Zones.

 a. In order to conserve the limited amount of commercially zoned land for commercial uses, residential uses in single-purpose or mixed-use structures shall generally not be allowed in C2 zones. However, additions to, or on-site accessory structures for existing single-family structures shall be permitted outright. Residential uses in single-purpose or mixed- use structures may be permitted in C2 zones as administrative conditional uses according to the following criteria:

 (1) Availability of Suitable Land for C2 Activities. Residential uses shall generally be discouraged in areas which have limited vacant land and where, due to terrain and large parcel size, land is particularly suitable for commercial rather than residential development.

 (2) Relationship to Transportation Systems. Residential uses shall generally be discouraged in areas with direct access to major transportation systems such as freeways, state routes and freight rail lines.

 (3) Compatibility With Surrounding Areas. Residential uses shall not be allowed in close proximity to industrial areas and/or in areas where nonresidential uses may create a nuisance or adversely affect the desirability of the area for living purposes.

 b. Residential uses required to obtain a shoreline conditional use shall not be required to obtain an administrative conditional use.

 6. Residential Use in International Special Review District. Single- purpose residential structures shall be permitted outright in those parts of the International Special Review District east of the Interstate 5 Freeway as provided in Section 23.66.330.

 7. Low-income Housing Projects. Single-purpose residential structures for low-income housing projects shall be permitted outright in all commercial zones if:

 a. Applications for a reservation of tax credits for 1988 and 1989 under the low-income tax credit program administered by the Washington State Housing Finance Commission have been filed on or before March 15, 1988; or

 b. A nonprofit corporation has purchased sites, signed options or entered into real estate purchase agreements prior to March 15, 1988.

 8. Development of a medical service use over ten thousand (10,000) square feet, outside but within two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet of a medical Major Institution overlay district boundary, shall be subject to administrative conditional use approval, unless included in an adopted master plan. In making a determination whether to approve or deny a medical service use, the Director shall determine whether an adequate supply of commercially zoned land for businesses serving neighborhood residents will continue to exist. The following factors shall be used in making this determination:

 a. Whether the amount of medical service use development existing and proposed in the vicinity would reduce the current viability or significantly impact the longer-term potential of the neighborhood-serving character of the commercial area; and

 b. Whether medical service use development would displace existing neighborhood-serving commercial uses at street level or disrupt a continuous commercial street front, particularly of retail and personal services uses, or significantly detract from an area's overall neighborhood-serving commercial character.

 9. Change of One Nonconforming Use to Another.

 a. A nonconforming use may be converted by an administrative conditional use authorization to a use not otherwise permitted in the zone based on the following factors:

 (1) New uses shall be limited to those first permitted in the next more intensive zone;

 (2) The relative impacts of size, parking, traffic, light, glare, noise, odor and similar impacts of the two (2) uses, and how these impacts could be mitigated.

 b. The Director must find that the new nonconforming use is no more detrimental to property in the zone and vicinity than the existing nonconforming use.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1998. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1998. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____. ___________________________________ City Clerk (SEAL) ATTACHMENTS

 ATTACHMENT 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS - THE CITY OF SEATTLE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS

 ATTACHMENT 2 WALLINGFORD GOALS AND POLICIES

 ATTACHMENT 3 AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT

 ATTACHMENT 4 CAPITAL FACILITIES AND UTILITIES INVENTORY AND ANALYSES AND TRANSPORTATION ANALYSES

 ATTACHMENT 5 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENTS - Urban Village Boundaries

 ATTACHMENT 6 AMENDMENTS TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE APPENDIX B

 ATTACHMENT 7 WALLINGFORD URBAN VILLAGE - MAP AMENDING SMC SEC. 23.47.004 - SINGLE PURPOSE RESIDENTIAL (Ver.1)

```
