

********

**Council Bill Number: 112485**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119411**
********

 AN ORDINANCE adding a new section 4.20.430 to the Seattle Municipal Code, adopting an Information Technology Professional Compensation Program.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 22, 1999
   
**Vote:** 5-0 (Excused: Choe, Drago, McIver, Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 25, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 24, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 30, 1998
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** WAGES-AND-SALARIES, PROFESSIONAL-AND-TECHNICAL-WORKERS, PERSONNEL-ADMINISTRATION, CITY-EMPLOYEES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE adding a new section 4.20.430 to the Seattle Municipal Code, adopting an Information Technology Professional Compensation Program.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. There is added to Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 4.20 a new Section 4.20.430, as follows:

 4.20.430 Information Technology Professional Compensation Program- Description

 A. There is established an Information Technology Professional Compensation Program to which positions identified as "Information Technology Professional" will be assigned. The Personnel Director is authorized to implement the Information Technology Professional Compensation Program substantially in accord with the "Comprehensive Human Resources Strategy for Information Technology Positions," which is incorporated by this reference. Revisions to titles and compensation components must be approved by the City Council. The titles and pay zones established for the Information Technology Professional Compensation Program are:

 TITLE PAY ZONE (UPON PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION )

 Information Technology Professional C, Exempt $21.88 - $29.53

 Information Technology Professional B, Exempt $25.85 - $34.89

 Information Technology Professional A, Exempt $29.82 - $40.27

 Information Technology Professional C $21.88 - $29.53

 Information Technology Professional B $25.85 - $34.89

 Information Technology Professional A $29.82 - $40.27

 Effective January 5, 2000, the pay zones will be increased by 2.565% to reflect a market adjustment as follows:

 TITLE PAY ZONE (01/05/00)

 Information Technology Professional C, Exempt $22.44 - $30.29

 Information Technology Professional B, Exempt $26.51 - $35.78

 Information Technology Professional A, Exempt $30.58 - $41.30

 Information Technology Professional C $22.44 - $30.29

 Information Technology Professional B $26.51 - $35.78

 Information Technology Professional A $30.58 - $41.30

 B. The Personnel Director shall recommend to the City Council for approval market adjustments to the pay zones based on a labor market analysis of selected benchmark positions to be conducted as needed, and/or at least every two years with the biennium budget. Program incumbents will receive the equivalent percentage adjustment to their base salary to retain a strong competitive position in the labor market.

 C. The Personnel Director will recommend to the City Council the assignment of each position within the Information Technology Professional category to a pay zone, and will establish criteria for subsequent allocation of positions as needed. Affected incumbents may appeal allocations in accordance with the Personnel Rules.

 D. Each employee appointed to a position within the Information Technology Professional Compensation Program will be assigned a base rate of pay within the pay zone by the appointing authority, and with the Personnel Director's approval. If the rate of pay received by an incumbent immediately prior to assignment to the Information Technology Professional Compensation Program is higher than the upper limit of the pay zone recommended by the Personnel Director, or is higher than the rate established for the position by the appointing authority upon program implementation, the employee will retain an incumbency rate of pay until any market adjustments to the pay zone equal or exceed the incumbency rate; provided, the incumbency rating shall be maintained only as long as the duties assigned to the position are commensurate with the rate of pay.

 E. The appointing authority may award a market premium of up to twenty- five percent (25%) of base salary, not to exceed one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the maximum rate of pay zone A to any employee appointed to an exempt position in the Information Technology Professional Compensation Program with the concurrence of the Personnel Director that the employee possesses and is required to use technological skills that are at a premium in the current labor market. The market premium shall be discontinued when the skills that it compensates are no longer in demand by the City, or are no longer so scarce in the labor market as to present a recruiting or retention problem. The market premium shall be considered part of regular compensation for purposes of withholding retirement contributions and determining retirement benefits for affected employees who are members of the City Employees Retirement System.

 F. For positions in the Information Technology Professional Compensation Program that are included in the City's classified service, "Information Technology Professional" shall constitute the class series and the pay zone shall constitute the classification for all relevant provisions of the Seattle Municipal Code and Personnel Rules.

 Section 2. Prior to legislating position allocations for this program, the Personnel Director shall provide to the City Council a program implementation summary that shall include base salary recommendations for affected incumbents.

 Section 3. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event another ordinance has heretofore been enacted that amended any section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code amended or recodified herein, that earlier amendment should be effectuated with equal dignity to this ordinance if at all possible in the codification of the Seattle Municipal Code and by the courts, notwithstanding the use in this ordinance of an obsolete version of that part of the Seattle Municipal Code on which to show intended amendments.

 Section 4. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event a subsequent ordinance refers to or amends a section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code amended or codified herein, but the later ordinance fails to account for the change made by this ordinance, the two sets of amendments should be given effect together if at all possible.

 Section 5. It is the express intent of the City Council that this ordinance makes only those changes to the Seattle Municipal Code shown by striking out, inside double parentheses, text to be deleted, and underlining text to be added. To this end, errors in showing the pre- existing Seattle Municipal Code are to be disregarded, and no change in the Seattle Municipal Code is intended thereby.

 Section 6. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons and circumstances.

 Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 1999 and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of _______________, 1999.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ________________, 1999.

 ____________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ________________, 1999.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Norma McKinney/ks 420430 5/23/00 V #7

 City of Seattle Information Technology Human Resources Strategy

 COMPREHENSIVE HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY

 FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY POSITIONS

 Developed by an Interdepartmental Team

 Team Leads: Matt Lampe, Enterprise Technology Director Lidia Santiesteban, Classification/Compensation Director

 Team Members: John Anthony, City Light Information Technology Leigh Barreca, City Light Information Technology Nora Connors, Recruiting Services Carla Coward, Classification/Compensation Patrick Dadosio, Enterprise Technology Lori Hale, Information Technology Training Mike Herrin, Summit Project Teresa Lombardi, SPU Information Technology Mike Nagan, ESD Information Technology Jack Robinson, Policy Development Mark Sheppard, SPU Information Technology Bonnie Snedeker, City Performance Team Kathy Steinmeyer, Policy Development Rona Zevin, Interactive Media & Distr. Computing

 COMPREHENSIVE HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY POSITIONS

 Introduction Vision and Objectives HR Strategy Classification and Compensation Plan Training & Employee Development Recruiting and Hiring Staff Resources for IT Projects Contractors Sunset positions Temporary assignments Summary Recommendations

 VI. Evaluation

 I. INTRODUCTION

 Staff and staff training have been identified in the City's recently adopted Information Technology Agenda as critical issues for the effective and efficient use of technology. The Gartner Group estimates that adequately trained technical support staff is 25 percent more productive and 40 percent more effective in troubleshooting and resolving problems than IT support staff with less than adequate training. Adoption of new technologies to support the business needs of the City, as set forth in the IT Agenda, will require that City staff be adept in the use of these new technologies for the development, management and support of applications. Attracting, training, and retaining IT staff has become a critical concern for the City all the way to the very top of the organization.

 The national demand for skilled IT professionals outstrips the available supply by 10 percent on average and 30 percent in key technologies. This trend is expected to continue with the increasing demand generated by the need to respond to Year 2000 problems, and the increased demand for more modern systems and the improved business practices they support. In the IT- intensive Pacific Northwest, competition for staff is even greater. In general, the Gartner Group "Real Decisions Study" found that City IT staff were compensated at less than the market for comparable positions, and they received less training. Well trained IT staff are essential as they are much more efficient at providing service to users, and reducing overall IT costs.

 The Information Technology Agenda declared that the City must retain, hire, and train essential IT staff, and sought a comprehensive review of its human resources strategy for Information Technology positions, including:

 Gaining an understanding of what attracts IT staff to City employment and what retains them, including lifestyle, stability, flexible work environments, challenging projects and other factors.

 Determining the City's key technologies in order to identify skills to focus on when attracting and developing IT staff, including supporting certification.

 Determining appropriate compensation in order to attract and retain IT staff. This examination may need to be accompanied by an assessment of hiring and recruiting practices for IT positions and whether they should be exempt or a part of "civil service," like most City employees.

 This document has been prepared by a Citywide team, coordinated by the Personnel Division and Enterprise Information Technology, with the active participation of several major departmental IT managers and their staff. The strategy has been reviewed by the Informational Technology Architectural Review Committee (IT ARC).

 II. VISION AND OBJECTIVES

 This comprehensive strategy is designed to help meet the following vision for human resources and information technology:

 The City is able to attract and retain IT professionals to meet the City's technology needs, through an attractive package of compensation, working conditions, technical challenge, and opportunity for enhancing skills.

 Strategic and critical technologies are identified and recognized in both the training and compensation elements of the human resources strategy.

 Employees are motivated and enabled to keep their skills attuned to changes in technology and to apply those skills to City projects.

 The City has structured opportunities for promising individuals through internship and transitional positions to develop technical skills and assume an appropriate professional position.

 The City recognizes that the use of contractors is appropriate to supply those specialty skills that the market demands and the City's requirements do not support immediate City employment. (Note: Mentoring skills are an important factor here -- i.e. contractors working with City staff to transfer skills/knowledge to them.

 Information technology is a rapidly changing field, with new technologies providing opportunities to meet emerging business needs. The current marketplace in which the City must compete, offers many opportunities with very high rewards for successful outcomes; e.g. stock options in start-up companies offer reward potential beyond the parameters of City employment.

 An initial analysis of City Information Technology positions has shown that the City work environment, with regular hours, family- oriented benefits, and technological challenge has supported staff retention in the face of higher monetary reward at other organizations. However, without improved flexibility in compensation, both retention and future recruitment are threatened.

 While important, compensation is but one element of a successful strategy. In their People Management Maturity Model the Software Engineering Institute, identifies basic elements which include, in addition to compensation, training, work environment, staffing and performance management. Organizations at the higher levels of organizational maturity also demonstrate such elements as competency development, participatory culture, team-based practice, and people management innovation.

 To achieve the vision, this Comprehensive Human Resources Strategy will address:

 Classification and Compensation

 Objective: Provide flexible classification and compensation mechanisms that can properly respond to variable demand in the volatile IT marketplace.

 Training & Employee Development

 Objective: Provide opportunity for employees to enhance their skills and gain new competencies to meet the demands of changing technology.

 Hiring/Recruiting (Employment Process)

 Objective: Two phases: 1 Improve the recruiting and hiring process by reducing the number of steps, thereby speeding up the process. 2 Clearly communicate the benefits of City employment to potential City employees.

 IT Employee & Project Management

 Objective: Address alternatives to traditional employment for specialty skills and short-term high technology assignments and projects.

 III. HR STRATEGY

 A. CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION PLAN

 Introduction

 The demand for skilled Information Technology employees has outpaced the supply. As of the first quarter 1998, approximately 350,000 job openings exist in the technology sector. It is not uncommon for IT organizations to experience 10% or greater vacancy rates. The cost of hiring, training and retraining employees is rising and is expected to continue to rise. This classification/compensation pay proposal is just one piece of an overall Information Technology human resources strategy that also includes proposals for training, retraining and more flexible hiring practices.

 Objectives

 To support the changes in the City's culture such as pay plans that offer ownership/accountability, relationship to the market, flexibility, mobility, ease of understanding and administration.

 To increase departmental involvement in determining position classification and compensation.

 To encourage employees to view pay incentives as a reward for contributing to the value of the organization.

 To maximize flexibility for work assignments.

 To provide opportunities for employees to expand current jobs, learn new skills and increase their level of competency.

 The technology field is dynamic and perpetually evolving. The market demands that positions in this field match the evolution of the occupation. At the present time, the need for specialized skills changes faster than the City can adjust job classifications and pay levels. Therefore, a system linked to the market and responsive to its influences is needed for the effective management of these positions. We recommend a broadband compensation system to meet these challenges.

 Plan

 Allocation Criteria

 Definition: A position considered for this broadband is currently a non-represented senior level or higher Information Technology position.

 The types of positions to be included in this plan meet the following criteria:

 The position is an Information Technology position, which includes those positions that:

 Plan, establish standards and specifications for network computer systems, ensure and monitor adherence to standards and specifications; or

 Develop computer systems applications including the analysis of business, scientific or engineering needs; or

 Develop, install, manage or maintain local area network and mainframe computer systems or server environments with their operating and application software; or

 Develop, install, manage or maintain telecommunications systems with their operating and application software; or

 Provide user support through a structured environment for the above systems.

 The position is not an Executive, Manager or Strategic Advisor (the Executive, Manager/Strategic Advisor level positions would be handled under either the APEX, Manager, or Strategic Advisor Pay Plans).

 Positions that are included in this classification/compensation system will be eligible for overtime and executive leave as shown in the following table :

 Zone Overtime Eligible Executive Leave Eligible

 C Yes No

 B Yes No

 A Determination of FLSA exempt status will be made on a position- by-position basis as part of the position review and allocation. Determination of FLSA exempt status will be made on a position- by-position basis as part of the position review and allocation.

 Premium No Yes

 Determination of Civil Service exempt status will be made on a position-by-position basis as part of the position review and allocation. Criteria for exempting positions from the classified service by legislative action are as follows: Positions "requiring a particularly high degree of professional responsiveness and individual accountabilityelating" or

 Positions "requiring a confidential or fiduciary relationship with the appointing authorityelating" or

 Judicial positions "requiring insulation as a third branch of government.

 Positions that are determined to meet the requirements for allocation to the premium pay range are those with very high technical skill levels with high market demand. These positions, by definition, are positions that satisfy the established criteria of "requiring a particularly high degree of professional responsiveness and individual accountabilityelating". All positions awarded premium pay for "hot skills" will be exempt from civil service.

 Overtime Eligibility:

 Hourly employees are eligible to receive overtime compensation for all hours worked beyond 40 in a work week. Salaried FLSA exempt employees are ineligible for overtime compensation regardless of the number of hours worked in a work week.

 Pay Structure

 IT Broadband will parallel the Manager and Strategic Advisor bands.

 Market Adjustment -anagement At least eEvery two years or more often if needed, the salary levels delimiting the ranges of the broadband will be reviewed against market factors. Individual salaries within the band will be adjusted by the range adjustment to remain competitive with the information technology labor market (average if different at the high and low end of the band), unless;

 an individual position is specifically adjusted as described below;

 an individual who has received a market premium pay component is no longer determined, in the review below, as appropriate for continued premium pay;

 this market adjustment will be in lieu of a COLA.

 Periodic Review for Key Factors - Every two years, the base salary placement will be reviewed as to major changes in technical skills being applied to the work and to the determination of whether skills employed are appropriate for market premium recognition. Market premium pay may be decreased based on the review described in Attachment #3 below. Employees who do not receive market premium pay will retain incumbency pay in the event that a recommendation based on a change in work duties includes a reduction in base pay for the position. While receiving incumbency pay the employee will not receive any salary increase due to range adjustment, until such time as their incumbency pay no longer exceeds the recommended base pay.

 Other specific plan recommendations are outlined in attachments 1 through 3.

 Attachment #1 - Allocation Process and IT Point Factor Matrix

 Attachment #2a - Market Adjustments & Salary Survey Comparison

 Attachment #2b - Salary Placement Guidelines & Transition Rules

 Attachment #3 - Market Premium Pay & Criteria for Allocation of Premium Pay

 Attachment #1

 Allocation Process

 An approval process for allocation to this group similar to that of the current Manager/Strategic Advisor plans is recommended. The Class/Comp Unit will apply an Information Technology point factor matrix to each position using position description questionnaires (PDQs) for analysis to determine initial placement in a pay zone. Once the position is allocated, the appointing authority will have the discretion to determine the specific pay point, up to the maximum of the allocated zone.

 IT Point Factor Matrix

 Definition: A position considered for this broadband is currently a senior level or higher Information Technology position.

 Dimension Descriptions: (Please see Page 19 for scoring summary)

 1. Technical - Applications

 Types of expertise:

 Applications Development

 Data Administration

 Data Architecture

 Programming

 Web Development

 Geographic Information Systems (GIS)

 Computer-Aided Drafting and Design (CADD)

 Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition

 Quality Assurance

 Level

 A Factors: Technical lead of application development for very complex systems. Data architect for Citywide or highly complex corporate (City or large dept.) data systems. Enterprise lead for WEB based systems. Technical knowledge of programming languages, environments and large scale relational databases, and application to complex system problems.

 Expertise with control systems for real-time operations.

 Technical knowledge of project lifecycle stages, testing tools.

 Integration, regression unit testing standards and practices.

 Examples of work performed:

 Technical lead of business application development of very large departmental or Citywide complex projects.

 Technical lead of business application integration of very large systems which run across multiple departments or divisions.

 Database modeling for Citywide large departmental system or corporate structure, requiring data models to interact with existing systems to align with business requirements for systems of high complexity.

 Lead responsibility for architecture and implementation of Webs on Citywide basis with transaction processing applications.

 Develop application development standards and methodologies.

 Lead responsibility for ongoing development for testing and project lifecycle.

 Lead transition from mainframe to client/server.

 B Factors:

 Technical lead for project management of moderately complex applications.

 Database administration for complex systems.

 Business analysis for complex system or applications.

 Data modeling for systems of moderate complexity.

 Uses variety of WEB tools to manage environment.

 Technical knowledge of programming languages, environments and Relational Data bases (RDBM), GIS and CADD.

 Examples of work performed:

 Technical lead of business application development of moderately complex projects.

 Perform database administration functions for large department or Citywide systems.

 Database modeling for individual systems to align with business requirements for systems of moderate complexity.

 Maintain Web sites including DNS, gateways & security systems.

 Develop GIS and CADD applications.

 Administer GIS databases and drawing management systems.

 Maintenance of SCADA for utility operations (including emergency response).

 C Factors: Work is more routine, involving projects with lower scope, criticality or complexity.

 Business applications for moderately complex systems or applications.

 Use of tools that require specific knowledge, but maybe support newer technologies (WEB, RDBM)

 Technical knowledge of programming languages, environments or RDBM's.

 Examples of work performed:

 Participation in business application development, technical lead limited to small, narrowly complex projects. May provide specialized knowledge.

 Perform routine and limited database administration functions.

 Creative programming responsibility for web site components.

 Creation of test plans, change control and migration tools.

 2. Technical - Operating Environments

 Types of expertise:

 Desktop Management

 LAN Management

 Enterprise Server Management

 Web Server Management

 GIS/CADD Server and Workstation Management

 Level

 A Factors: Design and develop complex enterprise server systems. Overall responsibility for operating systems and system programming for enterprise systems. Enterprise lead for LAN management and implementation of enterprise distributed Directory Structure.

 Enterprise WEB architect for transaction processing systems.

 Highly proficient expertise in at least one large scale operating environment, such as SP2, Unix, NT, WIN 95, Novell or mainframe.

 Overall responsibility for large LAN/user support environment.

 Expertise with GIS/CADD and survey technology, including Global Positioning Systems (GPS).

 Examples of work performed:

 Overall manager of complex multi-server environment for mission critical, enterprise systems.

 Overall responsibility for operating systems and systems programming for enterprise server environment.

 Overall management of LAN environments, with network management responsibility.

 Overall management responsibility for user support environment.

 Overall Web architect for enterprise transactions applications via Web tools.

 Overall management of GIS/CADD technology to support survey, design and maintenance of City land and infrastructure data.

 B Factors: Project management to install LANs and servers of moderate complexity.

 Operations lead for support functions for enterprise server systems.

 System programming for complex mid-frame or mainframe server environments.

 Specialized skill in one or more enterprise operating environments.

 Expertise with GIS/CADD/GPS.

 Examples of work performed:

 Planning installation and management of complex multi-server networks.

 Overall operations responsibility for enterprise server environments.

 System programming for broad range of requirements for mission critical and complex departmental and enterprise applications.

 Team management for Web systems infrastructure.

 Design and implementation of specialized GIS/CADD servers and workstations.

 C Factors: Technical knowledge to support desktop or server operating systems through routine tasks and installations. troubleshooting and maintenance of desktop and LAN systems. Operations management responsibility for systems services related to servers. Examples of work performed: Supports all aspects of desktop management. Provides planning, installation and maintenance of LAN systems & Web servers.

 Operations management of enterprise server environment.

 System programming for enterprise servers for routine tasks.

 3. Technical - Infrastructure

 Types of expertise:

 Network Design

 Router Management

 Switch Management

 Firewall Management

 Level

 A Factors: Lead architect for highly complex systems, networks, intranet, internet and remote communications. Extensive knowledge of network or switch design, protocols for data transmission. Completes complex designs in the absence of clear guidelines or instructions to follow.

 Expertise with SCADA infrastructure.

 Planning, installation and management of highly complex network architecture that includes voice, data, video and wireless technologies.

 Design and implement networks in support of highly complex corporate applications.

 Examples of work performed:

 Overall technical lead in data network management.

 Overall data network architect for WAN/LAN.

 Architect of complex telephone switching environment.

 Designs and manages SCADA instrumentation and communications.

 Operating responsibility for enterprise internet, extranet and LAN/WANs.

 B Factors: Design and or project manage voice, data, video and wireless networks of moderate complexity. Ability to integrate new technology in support of projects to develop and implement telephone or data network systems. Technical lead for infrastructure in support of a major department application. Examples of work performed: Design of networks of moderate complexity. implementation of network migration projects.

 Project management of complex network installations or telephone system moves.

 Project management of new technology implementations for telephone system or data networks.

 C Factors: Independent installation of networks and components. Knowledge of router or switch installation and troubleshooting. Knowledge of telephone systems and specification. Examples of work performed: Installation of networks, remote connections. Routine router installation and maintenance.

 Monitors network activity and troubleshoots routine problems with hubs, routers, and switches.

 Telephone network management, troubleshoots telephone switch problems.

 4. Project Management - Refers to responsibility for the following activities of project management beyond the

 technical lead responsibilities:

 Project Development

 Ensuring Product Delivery

 Vendor Management

 Planning, Organizing and Scheduling

 Budget Management

 Management of Project Staff

 Level

 A Factors: Plans, develops, creates, implements and evaluates significant programs to achieve broad objectives. Defines measurements and is accountable for accomplishments. Is vested with substantial delegated discretionary authority to develop and execute program policy and to allocate program resources. Examples of work performed: Develops and manages project budget(s) including budget adjustments and contract management.

 Responsible for the procurement of a wide variety of applications, software, hardware and network equipment.

 Manages a staff of subordinates with direct and indirect supervision.

 Develops project plans, monitors milestones and is accountable for accomplishments.

 Coordinates, integrates and provides leadership for/with a diverse representation of work groups and project staff in order to complete project objectives.

 Responsible for communicating project operating policies and procedures, and/or resolving customer service issues.

 Develops, recommends and implements policies of a programmatic or operational nature.

 B Factors: Provides recommendations for development of significant programs. Implements programs by developing procedures and processes. Manages resources to achieve program objectives targeted by senior decision-makers.

 C Factors: Manages programs of limited impact to City or external constituents. Provides input on program implementation for more significant programs.

 Administers procedures and processes to achieve specific objectives.

 Provides customer service interface.

 5. Communications Contribution and Impact - Refers to responsibility for:

 Technical Writing

 Presentations

 Customer Service Orientation

 Negotiation

 Strategic Marketing

 Training

 Level

 A Factors: Represent the City on highly visible, sensitive and controversial issues before external constituencies. Defuse troublesome issues related to City policies and procedures.

 Manage and promote relationships with significant external constituencies.

 Examples of work performed:

 Manage the development and implementation of project specific training programs.

 Negotiate the procurement of IT hardware and software with vendors.

 Develop and deliver both technical and user briefing in order to provide project understanding or gain acceptance.

 Work with user community to develop customer acceptance, provide feedback, or resolve significant customer service issues.

 B Factors:

 Represents department or functional area on a variety of issues before external constituencies.

 Defuses potentially troublesome issues related to department policies and procedures.

 Manages relationships with significant external constituencies.

 Resolves significant problems and gathers external feedback through facilitating group processes.

 C Factors: Represents functional area by communicating program or operating policies and procedures. Resolves significant customer service issues.

 6. Matrix Contribution and Impact - Refers to coordinating and/or integrating functions, systems, or programs and bringing the IT perspective to the table, influencing, and/or facilitating the work of individuals, groups or teams across functional departmental and/or jurisdictional lines without full managerial/supervisory control, including the management of non- employees such as contractors and volunteers.

 Level

 A Factors: On an on-going and consistently substantial basis, coordinates, integrates, and provides leadership for teams and other organized work groups with diverse representation across functional, departmental and/or jurisdictional lines, to achieve important outcomes requiring coordination and integration of diverse perspectives, skill sets, competencies and resources.

 Examples of work performed:

 Facilitates discussions between individuals or groups with diverse perspectives, skill sets, competencies and resources in order to accomplish project goals.

 Coordinates the development of a common vision.

 Provides leadership, focus and direction without having direct managerial responsibility.

 B Factors: Regularly coordinates, integrates, and provides leadership for both standing and ad hoc teams engaged in organized problem- solving, policy development, or service delivery across functional, departmental and/or jurisdictional lines.

 C Factors: Periodically coordinates, integrates and provides leadership for initiatives which involve cross-functional, -departmental, or - jurisdictional ad hoc teams.

 Is this a premium market specialty? _____Yes ____No Points ____(225 pts possible)

 Why?_____________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________

 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BROADBAND SCORING

 SUMMARY TABLE

 Dimension Weight Rating (Level of Contribution)

 (% of Total - based on relative importance) A B C NA

 1. Primary Technical Expertise (Applications, Operating Environments & Infrastructure) 54% 500 250 100 0

 2. Secondary Technical Expertise (Applications, Operating Environments & Infrastructure) 10% 100--- 100 50 0

 3. Project Management 12% 100 60 30 0

 4. Communications 12% 100 60 30 0

 5. Matrix Contribution 12% 100 60 30 0

 6. Market Premium --- 225 --- --- ---

 Summary:

 Total Points possible is 1,1251,125 Need a minimum of 200 points to be in the program If a position's point values are between 200 and 424 they are in pay zone C Between 425 and 649 they are in pay zone B

 Between 650 and 1,1251,125 they are in pay zone A

 An additional 225 points may be awarded for Market Premium. Need at least 725 total technical points to qualify for market premium pay. A written description must be given as to why this position is considered a premium market specialty.

 Attachment #2a

 Market Adjustments

 Current salary structure information will be used for transition into the broadband and will be adjusted post-implementation if warranted by the market assessment. META Group Inc. job summaries will be used for salary survey purposes (see below). Thereafter the market will be reassessed every two years in conjunction with the Managers, Strategic Advisors and Executive pay plans. The market assessment will be conducted more often should a distinct trend of recruitment and/or retention problems be recognized for these positions.

 IT Position/META Group Inc.

 Salary Survey Comparison

 City Salary Reference META META Salary

 Zone Range Title Title Mid-Point

 C $45,685 - 53,672 - 61,659 Sr. Systems Analyst Business Appl. Developer $48,089

 Sr. Business Appl. Developer $52,195

 Sr. Systems Administrators $51,153

 Sr. Network Engineer - LAN $57,037

 Web Developer/Programmer $53,189

 B $53,975 - 63,412 - 72,850 Prin. Systems Analyst Mgr., Unix Operation Services $64,885

 Sr. Systems Program. - Unix $63,499

 Sr. Systems Program. - RDBMS $59,732

 Database Administrator $61,762

 Webmaster - Content/Marketing $64,797

 Webmaster - Technical $60,878

 Web Database Administrator $61,762

 A $62,264 - 73,174 - 84,084 Key Info Tech Expert Business Technology Consultant $80,141

 Director X (some) Manager, Business Appl. Devt. $73,051

 Note: the Dir title no longer exists - replaced Manager, Unix Systems Engr. $80,098

 by APEX; Info Tech Sr. Manager, LAN Operations $68,385

 Expert was a Project Mgr., Internet/Intranet/WEB $67,858

 proposed new title Web Architect $69,721

 25%

 AbovePay Zone A Max $77,820 - 91,454 - 105,110 Based on Mkt. Demand Sr. Business Technology Consult. $93,814

 Attachment #2b

 Salary Placement Guidelines

 Personnel Director has the authority to make adjustments to salary structure, initial placement in a pay zone and movement between pay zones as follows:

 Initial Placement in a Pay Zone: Point factor analysis using position description questionnaires (PDQ's) completed by the employees and/or their supervisors will be conducted to determine initial placement (allocation) in a pay zone.

 Market Adjustment: As a result of the market adjustments at least every two years the incumbents' salaries may receive an equivalent adjustment. Such adjustment would substitute for formal cost-of-living adjustments (COLA).

 Movement Between Pay Zones: Point factor analysis using position description questionnaires (PDQ's) completed by the employees and/or their supervisors will be conducted to determine movement between pay zones.

 Departments are authorized to make adjustments to individual salaries within the pay zone as follows:

 Growth in Position Responsibilities: The appointing authority may increase a current incumbent's salary not to exceed pay zone maximum to recognize assigned increases to position responsibility that do not result in a change of the nature of the work.

 New Hires: At their discretion, the appointing authority may offer to new hires a salary between range minimum and range midpoint within the appropriate pay zone. Above range midpoint, the appointing authority may offer more than the candidate's current, documented salary, not to exceed pay zone maximum, if needed for recruiting purposes.

 Retention: The appointing authority may consider pay increases which allow the City to be competitive within this labor marketoffer to increase a current incumbent's salary by up to 10% over a documented job offer, not to exceed the salary range maximum if needed for retention purposes.

 Transition Rules

 The Personnel Director will make the allocation to a particular pay zone, and the appointing authority has the discretion to make base salary placement decisions any where within the designated pay zone. For purposes of implementation, participants current rate of pay will be incumbency rated in the event that it exceeds the pay zone maximum. Employees whose current rate of pay is lower than the pay zone minimum will be brought intoin the program at the minimum rate of pay unless the appointing authority approves a higher rate of pay within the designated pay zone.

 Attachment #3

 Market Premium Pay

 25% above the maximum of pay zone A3 is or up to $105,110 available as a market premium. The premium would be available to hire new employees for the City or give to current incumbents who have "hot skills" such as Oracle data base architects, Unix network server system designers, and object program architects (this is not a definitive hot skills list, it is for illustrative purposes only and is expected to change over time). Written documentation would be required. Positions recommended for the Market Premium will be processed through the Information Technology Compensation Committee (ITCC). This committee will be comprised of the Chief Technology Officer and Personnel Director plus 2 or 3 other participants from major departments. Final authority for market premium pay will be the decision of the Personnel Director.

 Criteria for Allocation of Premium Pay

 Up to 225 points may be awarded to give credit for a "hot skill". Those points will be added to the total point factor score. A score of between 725 and 1,1251,125 allows for the awarding of premium pay.

 B. TRAINING AND EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT

 Rapid changes in the information technology field provide a continuous source of new opportunities to use technology to advance the business needs of the City. But these rapid changes also create a constant need for new skills to adapt and use with the evolving information technology. In this climate of change, training and updating skills are critical to the productive use of technology. Research has shown that well-trained information technology staff are much more efficient at providing services to users, trouble-shooting, and resolving problems, and the need for training and skills upgrading is continuous among IT staff as technology develops.

 The objective of the training and development strategies for IT professionals is to ensure that employees are motivated and enabled to keep their skills attuned to changes in technology and that they are able to apply these skills efficiently and effectively to achieve City business purposes.

 Making IT Staff Training a High Priority

 Current Situation: A survey of departments in late 1997 suggests that IT staff generally receive the training necessary to "keep systems up and running and to complete new projects using current technologies." When resources are tight, this level of IT staff training continues because it is viewed as a matter of organizational survival. Departmental feedback also suggests that demand for training is high among a substantial segment of IT staff anagement and that meeting this demand is considered necessary to retain highly marketable IT employees. IT staff training typically is covered by technology budgets and projects anagement not by departmental training allocations. Though training investments are considerably greater for IT staff as a group than for other employees, differences still occur, in how (and how well) training needs are identified and addressed.

 The City will acknowledge that training and updating skills of IT staff is important anagement both to the continued efficient and effective use of information technology and to the retention of quality IT employees. The City will make efforts to invest adequately in training anagement across departments and job categories.

 Training Standard The Gartner Group Real Decisions Study recommends that IT support staff should receive 17 days of training per year, based on its review of best practices in the industry. Gartner Group also estimates that most organizations spend 2-3% of their IT budgets on training anagement but should be spending 5%. A 1996 study by the City Auditor shows Seattle spending about 1% of total IT costs on DP staff training. These figures, while not conclusive, suggest that the City may be under-investing in staff training. While specific training needs will vary by individual employee and job category, City IT managers should explore the feasibility and potential value of establishing a baseline knowledge expectation or training standard.

 Targeting Training/Setting Priorities

 Identify Key Technologies. Information Technology Architectural Review Committee and the Chief Technology Officer will identify key technologies so that the City is developing, attracting, and retaining IT staff with the right skills. Departments management then would have a clearer picture of the City's target technical environments. As a result department's could focus staff development and training efforts on the target technologies. Key potential areas for technology training include Web-based technologies, Database administration and programming, Data access and warehousing, People Soft, and LAN administration. The City will decide the degree to which it is in the business of developing applications, and the key parameters (database engine, object environment, browser based applet focused programming) for its IT environment in the form of a set of technical standards and architectures, as described in the IT Agenda.

 Priorities by Job Groups. The City needs to look at major IT functions, roles or job families (across departments) and to consider what work needs to be done (and how that work may be changing), by whom it is best done, and what skills are needed to ensure employee efficiency, effectiveness, and mobility now anagement and into the future. The City could also address skills that are needed to relate to people and to understand and address business purposes of the organization anagement as well as technical skills. The City could also consider any needed bridging and succession planning strategies and develop the training that supports them.

 Certification for Key Technologies? There is considerable evidence that certification through major vendor programs such as Microsoft or Novell enables more efficient problem management. On the other hand certified staff command a 10% to 20% premium in salary and certification typically costs up to $10,000 per individual. The City will determine whether certification in key technologies will yield improvements in efficiency and retention of IT staff at levels that warrant making these investments anagement and then follow-through if and where certification is warranted.

 Creating Incentives/Establishing Expectations

 Training as a factor in hiring & retention. Department IT administrators report that training and the availability of skill development and opportunities to obtain credentials are a big issue for most new recruits to IT jobs in the City. These people are motivated by a desire to stay abreast with technology and the knowledge that their continued marketability depends upon continuous skill upgrading. They will not accept or remain in a job where their skills are likely to atrophy. It is important to recognize, respond to, and build from this employee motivation to update skills. Training ranks with pay, stability, work environment, lifestyle, and values in the employment decisions of IT professionals. Real Decisions data have also shown that organizations that invest in training have lower staff turnover rates than do those that skimp on training; a minimum of seven days of training per employee is the threshold for retention.

 Establishing expectations for continuous skill development. Departments also have IT staff whose skills are out-of-date and who are not actively seeking to upgrade their skills, some even resist upgrading. The City needs to set an expectation of continuous skills development as the norm. Employees share the responsibility to seek and participate in training and other skills enhancement activities to keep pace with information technology changes.

 Linking training to career development and to pay. Linking skill acquisition with pay level and job mobility or stability is important to create and reinforce an incentive for employees who may, be less motivated or inclined to seek training and develop new skills. Linking skills and pay levels is also important so that the City does not lose proactive employees who increase their market value by developing new skills. Fortunately, the broadband approach based on market considerations will provide the flexibility to recognize and reward skill development and application to address business needs. The City needs to develop paths for growing IT professionals, either from other classifications or from internship career paths.

 Overcoming Barriers

 Isolation of IT employees. IT staff may suffer from isolation anagement within their department or within current job functions or applications, which may offer limited scope or be headed for obsolescence. The City could explore means of bringing together IT employees across major job groups, to share information about changing trends and needs, promoting training priorities and opportunities and providing back-up and support.

 Assure adequate training opportunity. In many departments a handful of IT staff have responsibility for all IT functions anagement including training other staff. The City will provide the assurance that adequate time for training IT staff be included as part of the job. Currently the Parks Department 5 IT professionals support approximately 600 end-users in comparison Industry norms of 1 to 60 or 1 to 80 for a medium complexity environment (according to the Real Decisions data base). The CTO could consider establishing a support level standard (maximum ratio) to be applied across the City. Meanwhile the City will work within and across departments to provide the modes, options, back-up, and support needed to effectively train existing IT staff.

 Resource Gaps. While departments like Seattle City Light, Seattle Public Utility, and Executive Services Technology Division usually are able to find the resources needed to accomplish IT staff training, most other departments find it much more difficult to acquire the necessary resources. Suggest making a resource library available (via In Web). Examples of topics include:

 Quick solutions to most frequently asked basic end user questions such as how to import graphics, format text, etc.

 A listing of recommended and available reading.

 Computer Based trend course offerings, descriptions and objectives.

 Recommend continuing to explore and develop collaborative strategies that maximize training investments, increase access and expand options for General Fund supported departments.

 Creating the Right Mix of Training Options

 Offer a Variety of Modes. Training needs are not always met in a class. The updating of skills can be encouraged through group meetings and seminars. Networking, job shadowing, coaching, and mentoring are non-classroom based methods for developing skills. Using consultants to train City staff in how to maintain and trouble-shoot special applications is one example of effective customized training. Technology-based training (see below) also offers some promise.

 Technology-based Training. Technology-based training tools offer significant advantages. Training is most effective when it is "just in time" (JIT) and the skills will be put to immediate use. "Knowledge bases" allow users to tap online instruction on specific technical topics so that knowledge can be gained when needed. Many vendors are now providing knowledge bases on their products Web-based training tools (Internet or intranet) are being used increasingly. The IT3 should continue to investigate options for IT staff training anagement including technology-based tools anagement and to set up pilot studies. Acquiring computer based training, performance based training and other technology-based training resources centrally and distributing them across the network may prove to be most cost-effective.

 Involve IT Staff in Training Functions. IT staff should be partners in identifying training needs and developing and disseminating information. Support personnel should be identified who can help sponsor and deliver seminars or conduct open house training on specific topics, such as virus protection or web authoring.

 C. RECRUITING and HIRING

 The Information Technology Association recently estimated that there are about 346,000 unfilled high-tech positions at US companies with more than 100 employees. To address the shortage of IT professionals, the City must implement more creative and aggressive recruiting/hiring strategies.

 Although each department conducts their own hiring processes, (which for IT professionals often proves to be frustrating at best, and increasingly, unsuccessful at worst), the Recruiting Services Unit has begun to develop ways to cast a wider net to get the word out on opportunities at the City for IT professionals, as well as marketing the City as a terrific place to work.

 The City has a lot to offer in many of its IT positions in terms of tangible and intangible benefits that are important to the IT population: flexible work hours, growing training resources, telecommuting, informal work atmosphere, excellent benefits, and the appeal of working on interesting projects that serve the public good. Here are some strategies in the works:

 Wider Use of Website Recruiting Resources

 Currently, job vacancies are posted on the City's website (which are frequently passed on to other web-sites by browsers) and mailed to over 250 organizations. Rather than resting on this "passive" approach, we are developing a list of web resources that cater specifically to IT professionals for posting our IT openings. These include sites such as Chief Information Officer magazine on-line for senior positions, Government Technology, the Society for Information Management, local IT associations, diversity recruiting sites, etc. This approach was utilized extensively for the current CTO process, and although it's time consuming to format postings in a variety of ways required of different sites, the response was impressive.

 In conjunction with Employment Services, we are investigating purchasing a software module (such as "ResLink" or other services) which would post openings on large national job sites such as Career Mosaic, E-Span, The Monster Board, Online Career Center, etc. Securing the funds to pay annually for City-wide job postings or City links on one or some of the above is another option. Creating a way to build resumes/applying on-line option would also make it easier to apply.

 In addition, utilization of Listserve Mailing Lists, newsgroups, and IT User group sites for direct targeting on the Internet would be a creative and effective way to get the word out about particular City IT opportunities.

 Development of an IT Recruiting Brochure

 The City needs a brochure to tell a good story and "sell" the City as a desirable employer. It should describe the new directions the City is taking, and the important roles IT, and the candidate will play, as well as overviews of a variety of interesting department IT projects, job titles and standardized software/hardware, and information on how to apply. This can be posted electronically on the City's Website, distributed at IT career fairs, as well at conferences or other events that the City's IT staff attend.

 Attending High Tech Conferences and Industry Trade Shows

 This year the City participated in one large regional high-tech career fair where over 500 resumes were collected. Unfortunately, booths were $3,750. Last year City Light paid the bill, but this year four departments shared the cost. With increased cost sharing from departments and the dedication of more resources to these events, the City could increase our visibility to the IT community. Sponsoring a well-publicized City IT job fair (possibly at Seattle Center) will also be considered.

 Linkages with High Schools and Colleges

 Many departments already have apprenticeship or internship programs, these could be greatly expanded in the IT area to allow the City to "grow our own." Increasingly, technology companies in the private sector have been stepping in as partners to provide resources or sponsorship of similar programs. The City should step up to the plate to take full advantage of these opportunities.

 Hiring and IT Talent/Training Pool

 For a variety of reasons, it often takes too long for departments to conduct hiring processes for participating IT positions. One option will explore the feasibility of creating a pilot program to recruit IT job candidates into a City "IT Talent Pool". This pilot effort could start by creating several permanent positions in ESD for job titles that are frequently open (i.e., Systems Analysts Sr.), and assign them to "float" in different departments to work on IT special projects for 3-6 months each, or to fill pockets temporarily until the department hiring process is completed. This could be supplemented with mentoring, additional training, and salary increases as skills increase.

 They would get training and exposure with different departments and projects (which may sound more appealing to "Generation X" employees), and departments would get assistance on special projects or in temporarily filling an open position. After a year or two, people in these positions would be expected to leave the "IT Talent Pool" and compete to move into a permanent City position.

 Continual Recruiting for High Demand IT Positions

 Rather than waiting for an opening to occur, continuous recruiting on the City's and other websites for positions such as Systems Analyst Sr. will be conducted. This would increase the pool, of applicants in the City's Talent Bank, and give departments a headstart on their hiring processes.

 On-the-Spot Hiring

 At career fairs, we've witnessed large employers conduct interviews and do on-the-spot hiring of IT professionals. It is difficult for the City to compete when department hiring processes often take months, while other companies do it in hours or days. Of course this presents come challenges to the City, but it's worth studying the options where positions have already been advertised as required: publicizing that the City will be doing hiring at a City job fair, department hiring contingent on references/testing, starting at the City as a temp., etc.

 Accelerated Hiring Process

 In order to compete with the private sector for IT candidates, we'll need to accelerate our recruiting and hiring processes. Alternative processes should be evaluated to build in the flexibility we will need to respond quickly to get "hot prospects" on the hook.

 Persons with an interest in available IT positions could subscribe to a City Listserve newsgroup so they could be notified immediately when an opening occurs, or a special "IT talent bank" could be developed so that departments can have broader access to available City talent. Exploration of future modifications to the Personnel ordinance to define circumstances to allow waiving blue and white sheet job flyers advertising may also be appropriate.

 D. STAFF RESOURCES FOR IT PROJECTS

 Options for dealing with special, short term, high tech projects. There are a number of staffing options available to address the variety of project-related needs that exist in the City's high technology work groups today.

 Long Term Projects. Due to the changing nature of the computer technology field, the information technology job market lends itself to frequent short term projects. The staffing needs for these projects are different than those for longer term projects. Large projects, often involving multiple departments and spanning a number of years, are sometimes created using ordinances legislated by the City Council. Positions are often created as part of this legislation and will be used for project development work, ongoing systems maintenance or both. These positions will be filled with regular City employees for the duration of the project (or for an indefinite period of time if the project is ongoing.) The Consolidated Customer Service System and the Summit projects are two such examples.

 Short Term Projects. In contrast, short term high technology projects require alternative staffing approaches. One means of staffing short term projects is to hire contractors. These employees, generally hired for specific technical expertise, are able to fill a skills gap in an existing workforce. In addition, the skills they bring with them may be transferred to existing organization staff. Skill transfer, while critical for retaining new technologies in house, is not automatic. Management must make a concerted effort to ensure that existing staff and contractors are given the opportunity to work together and share business knowledge (existing staff) and technical skills (contractors).

 Contractors. The use of contractors is also beneficial for life cycle projects with distinct phases. One of the many advantages of hiring contractors is that it enables the department to hire the right skills for each phase of the project. By having City employees serve as the project manager and other key technical roles on these projects, the contractors are available to provide the critical technical expertise needed. City employees will ultimately own the system and will staff it when the development and implementation phases are completed. Because City staff and contractors were working side by side, the contractors will have had the opportunity to transfer crucial technical knowledge and skills to City staff.

 Sunset Positions. Sunset positions are a second means of staffing limited-term high technology projects. These are non Civil Service positions created for usually one to three years. At the end of the project, the positions are abrogated and the staff in the positions must leave City employment or find other positions within the City. It is often desirable for the appointing departments to retain staff in sunset positions following the completion of the original project. During their time working for the City, the employees in the sunset positions develop business knowledge, in addition to their technical skills, that will be valuable for future projects.

 Temporary Assignments. Temporary assignments are a third means of staffing short term IT projects. Generally temporary employees are hired for development projects lasting one year or less, or for other limited duration projects (i.e. data conversion). Temporary employees are a good way to fill a staffing gap, especially if the need is not highly technical or requires specialized skills.

 Although a number of options exist for addressing the staffing needs for special, short term high technology projects, the decision of which to use will depend both on management preference and on the labor market. For example, for some in- demand skill areas, it may not be possible to locate temporary employees to do the work and more highly paid contractors may need to be retained. The use of contractors may also provide greater flexibility to the hiring department in terms of personnel requirements, so may prove to be more attractive than temporary or sunseted City positions. The IT Broadband proposed in this document also provides the flexibility to pay existing staff more without incurring the high cost of a contractor.

 IV. SUMMARY - The following is a brief recap of the major points contained in the five sections of the team's recommended IT HR Strategy:

 Classification/Compensation Features

 The compensation system recommended is largely market driven drawing on comparability data.

 The salary band replaces our current senior level and higher technology related pay ranges.

 The pay ranges are not for salary growth but used as a hiring range and will accommodate changes in the body of work.

 Pay Zone allocation is determined by a point factor analysis conducted by Personnel's Classification/Compensation Unit. Job duties must be current or prospective - no retroactive pay will be awarded as part of implementation of this program.

 Appointing authority will have the discretion to place the salary level anywhere within the allocated Pay Zone.

 COLA will not be awarded.

 Market adjustments will be made every two years or as necessary. to the structure.

 Market premium pay can be awarded based on the need to obtain "hot skills" or "hard-to-recruit-for" positions. It can be revoked when the skills become common-place or unnecessary, or when the supply of qualified individuals in the labor pool outstrips the demand.

 A position awarded the market premium pay must already be in the top pay zone and will be exempt from Civil Service.

 Positions allocated to the IT Broadband are generally part of the Civil Service and the employee is salaried, but may still be eligible for overtime pay instead of Executive and Merit Leave.

 Training and Employee Development Features

 IT staff training is essential to the success of the City in utilization of technology.

 Training must be emphasized as a mechanism to develop and retain quality IT employees.

 Target training and set priorities by identifying key technologies, setting priorities by job groups and the exploration of staff certification in key technologies.

 Overcome barriers such as isolation of IT employees, assuring adequate training opportunities and identifying resource gaps.

 Creating the right mix of training options - offer a variety of training modes, technology-based training and involving IT staff in training functions.

 Hiring and Recruitment Features - The City needs to explore new and innovative means of recruiting and hiring IT employees in order to become competitive in the market place, some initiatives include:

 Wider use of national website recruiting resources.

 Development of an IT recruiting brochure that markets the benefits of City employment.

 Participate in technology conferences and industry trade shows to effectively promote City employment and recruit for specific jobs.

 Establish linkages with high schools and colleges to develop internships and on-the-job opportunities.

 Establish and maintain a City-wide hiring and IT talent/training pool for frequently hired positions to facilitate rapid filling of vacancies.

 Pilot programs to enable on-the-spot hiring.

 Staff Resources for IT Projects - The City in implementing new applications or systems often establishes projects of varying size and scope that may require staff resources for specialty skills or discrete functions for short or long periods of time. Currently the City has a variety of ways to accommodate these special staffing requirements which include:

 Use of Contractors.

 Use of Sunset Positions.

 Temporary assignments.

 These approaches are effective and the City will continue to employ these resources as appropriate.

 V. RECOMMENDATIONS

 In conclusion the team recommends the following actions:

 Communicate the principal elements of this strategy and the work program for implementation to the key decision makers and interested parties across the City through a series of briefings. Those to be briefed will include the Personnel Director, ESD Director, Chief Technology Officer, IT Board, IT ARC, Mayor's Office, Council members and staff, other Department Directors and affected IT personnel.

 Draft an ordinance to be submitted by the Personnel Director that authorizes the classification, and compensation pay elements of the IT-HR Strategy and directs the Personnel Director to establish the process and complete the work required to determine the specific positions to be included within the IT broadband.

 The City's IT Training Officer in cooperation with the IT-3 Group is charged with developing the training and employee initiatives recommended as part of this overall IT HR Strategy. This will include development of standards, programs and variety of resources including technology based training as well as classes and peer support.

 Recommendations for improving and expanding the current hiring and recruiting process for IT positions can be implemented immediately, such as creation of a IT Employment Brochure and utilization of WEB based services for IT recruitment. Other strategies such as on-the-spot hiring will be piloted, the results shared and if successful incorporated across the City.

 The City currently employs a variety of resource options for staffing IT projects which are scaleable to the scope and the technical requirements of the work. They include "sunset" or project positions, temporary assignments and use of contractors. This is an effective, flexible strategy and will be continued.

 EVALUATION

 Classification and Compensation Components:

 Once it is determined which positions will be included in the Information Technology compensation program, ESD (Personnel Director) shall provide a baseline report on pre-implementation base pay for all program participants. Thereafter, ESD shall provide a quarterly report on changes in base pay, and analysis of this data, for the first year following implementation. Any subsequent reports will be provided on an as-needed basis. ESD Personnel Division will provide a report no later than 30 days after program implementation that shows the pre-implementation classifications and salary ranges for all allocated incumbents. The purpose of the report will be to provide a baseline for measuring the cost effectiveness of the IT Professional Compensation Program.

 Beginning with the end of the second quarter 1999, ESD Personnel Division will provide base salary analysis reports for each quarter through fourth quarter 1999 that will show changes in classification and compensation rates for all allocated incumbents. The purpose of these reports will be twofold: (a) to measure the actual salary costs associated with the implementation of the IT Professional Compensation Program, and (b) to help detect any adverse impact on one or more particular groups of program incumbents.

 Each quarterly report will also show the numbers of employees, by employing unit, who are awarded the market premium or who lose the market premium because their "hot skills" are no longer in demand. The purpose of this measurement will be to discern whether the premium is being utilized as described in the plan design.

 Evaluation tools for post-1999 will be defined and implemented based on the outcomes of the 1999 measurements.

 Recruiting and Retention Components:

 Upon program implementation, ESD Personnel Division will identify all position vacancies in the program. The employing unit will be responsible for notifying ESD Personnel Division of the length of time required to fill an affected position between the decision to actively recruit and acceptance of a job offer. At the end of 20001999, ESD Personnel Division will produce a report showing minimum, average and maximum lengths of selection processes implemented each quarter and evaluate whether the IT HR Strategy has had any impact on ability to respond effectively to employee turnover.

 Evaluation tools for post-1999 will be defined and implemented based on the outcomes of the 1999 measurements.

 Training and Development Component:

 ESD Personnel Division will develop a report for year-end 20001999, with input from all departments' IT management, to show percentage of training dollars and number of training days invested in training and development of IT professionals (not end-users). The 20001999 report will serve as a baseline for a report of the same data at year-end 20010. An analysis will be conducted for the year-end 20010 report to determine whether an increase in IT training and development (if an increase materializes) has any discernible impact on employee retention.

 Vision and Objectives:

 Within one year following implementation of the IT HR Strategy, ESD Personnel Division shall conduct a survey of IT managers and program incumbents to identify their level of satisfaction relative to the ability of the program to fulfill its vision and objectives, as follows:

 The City is able to attract and retain IT professionals to meet the City's technology needs, through an attractive package of compensation, working conditions, technical challenge, and opportunity for enhancing skills.

 Strategic and critical technologies are identified and recognized in both the training and compensation elements of the human resources strategy.

 Employees are motivated and enabled to keep their skills attuned to changes in technology and to apply those skills to City projects.

 The City has structured opportunities for promising individuals through internship and transitional positions to develop technical skills and assume an appropriate professional position.

 2/17/99 V #6 City Clerk V #5

```
