

********

**Council Bill Number: 112416**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119284**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Executive Services Department; authorizing execution of a lease agreement with the Washington State Department of Transportation for certain property below Interstate 5, south of the Charles Street maintenance shops complex.

**Status:** PASSED AS AMENDED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 7, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 14, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 10, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 12, 1998
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, DEPARTMENT-OF-TRANSPORTATION-WASH-STATE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Executive Services Department; authorizing execution of a lease agreement with the Washington State Department of Transportation for certain property below Interstate 5, south of the Charles Street maintenance shops complex.

 WHEREAS, the City needs outdoor storage space for vehicles, equipment and materials storage that is not available within the complex; and

 WHEREAS, the adjacent State land is not needed exclusively for highway purposes; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Transportation is granted authority to lease property under RCW 47.12.120; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 119091 requires City Council approval for any proposed Executive Services Department lease in excess of five years in duration, including all extensions of the initial term; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Executive Services Director and recommended by the Mayor, said Director is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a lease agreement with the Washington State Department of Transportation, substantially in the form of Attachment "1" attached hereto and identified as "Lease Agreement," providing for occupancy by The City of Seattle of approximately 93,000 square feet of real property shown on Exhibit "A" of Attachment "1" and certain adjacent air space.

 Section 2. The rental payments contemplated by the terms of the lease agreement authorized in Section 1 hereof shall be charged to the appropriate expenditure allowance or allowances in the budget of the Executive Services Department.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 19 ___, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of _______________, 1998. ________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ________________, 1998. _________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ________________, 1998. _______________________ City Clerk

 LEASE AGREEMENT

 THIS LEASE made and entered into this _______________ day of _______________, 19_____, between the WASHINGTON STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, hereinafter called the "State," and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, acting by and through its Executive Services Department, hereinafter called the "City";

 WHEREAS, the land and premises to be leased are not presently needed exclusively for highway purposes: AND WHEREAS, the Department of Transportation is granted authority to lease property under RCW 47.12.120: AND WHEREAS, the State and City deem it to be in the best public interest to enter into this Lease;

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants and performances contained herein, IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED THAT:

 1. PREMISES. The State does hereby lease to the City, and the City does hereby lease from the State, the premises shown as Lot 1, located in Seattle, Washington and known to be a portion of the highway right of way of SR 90, Connecticut St. Interchange: 4th Ave. S. and Transit Ramps, Detail Sheet - City of Seattle, and hachured on Exhibit "A" attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein (hereinafter referred to as the "premises").

 The approximate area of the premises is 93,163 square feet, or 2.139 acres, more or less.[AM1] The vertical limit of the premises is a plane twelve (12) feet below and parallel to the underside of the bridge deck. The City shall have no other rights to use the space above the vertical limit of the premises without the State's prior written approval.

 TERM. The term of this Lease shall be five (5) years, commencing on October 1, 1998, or the date upon which the City takes possession of the premises, whichever date is later ("Commencement Date"). Provided, that if the City is not and has not been in material default during the Term of this Lease, the City shall have the right to extend this Lease for a Five (5) year Renewal Period ("First Renewal Period"); Provided, further, that if the City is not in material default and has not been in material default for the first ten (10) years of the Lease, the City shall have the right to extend this Lease for a second Five (5) year Renewal Period ("Second Renewal Period"); Provided, further that if the City is not in material default and has not been in material default for the first fifteen (15) years of the Lease, the City shall have the right to extend this Lease for a final Five (5) year Renewal Period ("Third Renewal Period"). The First, Second, and Third Renewal Periods shall be on the same terms and conditions as set forth herein except that the rental rate shall be adjusted in accordance with Section Six (6). Rent Adjustments. City shall give notice of its intent to renew this Lease at least sixty (60) days, but not more than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of the Term or the then current Renewal Period. In the event the City has vacated or abandoned the premises, in the State's judgment, City shall not have the right to extend this Lease beyond the stated term or then current Renewal Period without the State's prior written approval.

 PRIOR TERM OF OCCUPANCY. In addition to the Lease term described above, the City and the State acknowledge the use and occupancy by the City of areas shown as Lots 2 and 3 and hachured on Exhibit "A" during the period of February 1, 1997, to the commencement date of this Lease ("Prior Term").

 4. TERMINATION. For failure to pay rent, the State may terminate this Lease on three (3) days written notice. Otherwise, the State may terminate this Lease on sixty (60) days' prior written notice, or as provided for under "Default" provisions contained elsewhere in this Lease. In the event that this Lease is terminated by the State, the City shall not be entitled to any payment or compensation by reason of such termination.

 5. RENT. City covenants and agrees to pay rent for the premises to the State in advance on or before the 1st day of each calendar month during the entire term of this Lease; Provided, that the City's initial rent payment (including but not limited to the amount of rent due for the Prior Term) shall not be due or payable until thirty (30) days after the date this Lease is fully executed. The initial rental rate for this Lease term shall be Six Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($6,500.00) per month, payable at the address designated elsewhere herein for the State. Rent for the Prior Term shall be a single payment from the City to the State in the amount of Fifty-six Thousand Nine Hundred Ten Dollars ($56,910.00). As additional consideration for this Lease, the City agrees to design, install and maintain reasonable perimeter landscaping adjacent to public roads and walkways. Upon prior approval by the State of design and estimated costs, the expense of landscaping installation shall be offset by rent credits not to exceed the equivalent of four (4) months' rent.

 6. RENT ADJUSTMENTS. For rent due for years seven (7) through ten (10) and for rent due for years twelve (12) through fifteen (15), and for rent due for years seventeen (17) through twenty (20) the State will adjust the rent by the percentage of change, if any, in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, United States City Average for All Items (1982-84 equals 100) , as published by the United States Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics ("the CPI"), between the Base CPI as defined below and the CPI for the fourth calendar month immediately preceding the beginning of each subsequent year subject to adjustment. The Base CPI, for the purposes of such adjustment, shall be the CPI for the fourth calendar month immediately preceding the month for which the first rental payment is due under the terms of this agreement. Should the CPI be discontinued, the State shall select another similar index that reflects changes in consumer prices or real estate values, or both, and is commonly used in the real estate industry.

 (By way of illustration only, if the Base CPI is 190 and the CPI for the fourth calendar month before the adjustment year is 195, then the rent for such adjustment year shall be increased by 2.63 percent.) In no event shall the rent be decreased.

 For rent due for the sixth (6th) year, eleven (11th), and for the sixteenth (16th) year of this Lease, the State may secure a market study of rents of comparable property and may at its sole discretion adjust the rent according to the results of the market study. The State shall give notice to the City of the amount of the rent due for the sixth (6th) year, eleven (11th), and sixteenth (16th) year of the term of this Lease no later than ninety (90) days prior to the commencement of each such Lease year, and shall deliver with such notice a copy of every market study upon which the adjusted rent is based.

 7. NONAPPLICABILITY OF RELOCATION ASSISTANCE. The City acknowledges that the signing of this Lease does not entitle the City to assistance under the Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policy (RCW Ch. 8.26).

 8. USE OF PREMISES. No use other than operation of equipment and material storage and vehicle parking lots for use for City vehicles, or by City employees and invitees working in, or on official city business at the Charles Street Shops, shall be permitted without the prior written approval of the State. This Lease does not allow construction of a parking garage or other structure. The City shall obtain prior written approval from the State for any fee or charge to members of the general public that the City allows to use the parking lots or equipment yards on the premises; no such approval shall be required with respect to any City interdepartmental charge or other fee or charge imposed or collected by the City as a consequence of or in connection with the parking of any motor vehicle used by a City employee or the storage of any City equipment or material. Any event or after hours parking by the public shall be at prevailing rates for such use, and the State, at its option, shall share in any income derived from the use of the premises, receiving a share which is consistent with what a landowner would receive from a contract operator, but shall not participate in income derived from City interdepartmental charges, or fees or charges imposed in connection with the parking of motor vehicles used by City employees. In using these premises, the City shall comply with all policies and regulations heretofore or hereafter promulgated by the Department of Transportation relative to the location, operation and maintenance of facilities located on the premises herein described, that are transmitted, in writing, to the City not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date the City is obligated to comply with the same. Direct access to ramps or traveled lanes of limited access highways is not permitted. All grading and construction plans and any changes thereof are subject to approval by the State and must comply with applicable Federal, State and Local ordinances, regulations and environmental requirements. City hereby agrees to hold State harmless from claims or suits resulting from City's failure to comply with such requirements. The use of said premises shall be such that no hazardous or objectionable smoke, fumes, vapor, odors, or discharge of any kind (except those normally associated with the use of motor vehicles) shall be permitted to rise above the grade line of the highway facility located on or above the premises. Signs are not permitted unless completely detailed on a separate plan sheet and approved in writing by State prior to installation. Chain link fences enclosing the premises whether installed by State or City will be maintained by the City. Nothing is to be attached by City to fences without State's prior written approval. The City shall perform or cause to be performed at City's expense all maintenance of the premises which will include, but not be limited to, keeping the premises in good condition, both as to safety and appearance, to the reasonable satisfaction of the State.

 9. STATE'S RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO MAINTAIN AND GRANT UTILITY FRANCHISES AND PERMITS. The State reserves the right for utility franchise and permit holders to enter upon the premises to maintain, repair and enhance existing facilities and install new utilities and, for itself, to grant utility franchises and/or permits across the premises. The State shall require all franchise or permit holders to accomplish their initial installations and all subsequent maintenance work in such a manner as to minimize disruption to the City. The State shall require each franchise or permit holder to restore paving, grading, landscaping and other improvements damaged by the installation, entry, improvement or maintenance work undertaken or performed by or for the utility franchise or permit holder to at least as good a condition as such paving, grading, landscaping and improvements was/were in immediately prior to the commencement of such franchisee's or permittee's entry, improvement, installation or maintenance work.

 The City will not disturb markers installed by a franchise/permit holder and will contact and provide notice to any franchise/permit holder and all owners of underground facilities prior to any excavation. City shall contact the State and call the Underground Utility Locating Service, or its successor organization as part of its efforts to ascertain any and all owners of underground utility facilities and to locate the utility. The City shall not damage legally installed underground utilities. City shall comply with all applicable provisions of Chapter 19.122 RCW relating to underground facilities.

 10. USE OF RIGHT OF WAY UNDER OR ADJACENT TO STRUCTURE. The City agrees to provide protection against vehicular hits or other likely causes of damage arising from the City's use of the premises to all retaining walls and to piers exposed to such potential damage under any elevated highway structure existing on the premises. Such wall and pier protection shall be provided to the reasonable satisfaction of the State prior to occupancy.

 The City shall not weld any metal object to any metal member of any metal structure, nor drill or rivet into nor otherwise fasten anything to any pier or beam on any concrete, metal or wood structure without the State's specific written approval of detailed drawings for such welding, riveting, drilling, or fastening.

 The City shall at its own expense make any provisions it deems necessary to protect users of the premises from any hazards resulting from use and operation of the highway. Such provisions which affect State's structures shall be subject to State's approval, which will not be withheld unreasonably.

 11. ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS. The City represents, warrants and agrees that it will conduct its activities on and off the premises in compliance with all applicable environmental laws. As used in this Lease, "Environmental Laws" means all federal, state and local environmental laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, judicial or administrative decrees, orders, decisions, authorizations or permits, including, but not limited to, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 6901, et. seq., the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 7401, et. seq., the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 1251 , et. seq., the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, 42 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 1101, et. seq., the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 9601, et. seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 2601, et. seq., the Oil Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 2701, et. seq., and Washington or any other comparable local, state, or federal statute or ordinance pertaining to the environment or natural resources and all regulations pertaining thereto. The City understands and agrees that flammable materials, including explosives, petroleum products, paint, solvents, and resins, are not allowed on the site without the express written permission of the State. In the event written permission to store the preceding materials is granted by the State, disposal of such materials shall be in a legal manner by the City.

 State hereby grants permission for the City to bring onto the premises and to reasonably use toxic, hazardous or flammable substances that are regularly used on City's property to carry out the City's own vehicle storage and maintenance objectives and functions that are deemed by the City to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the City's use objectives under this Lease. Pesticides may be used for landscape maintenance in accordance with manufacturer's directions at the City's risk. Disposal of any and all toxic, hazardous, or flammable substances stored, brought on or allowed to be brought onto the premises by the City shall be done in a legal manner by City.

 Prior to initiating any use other than that permitted under this Lease requiring use or storage of, or generating, on the premises, hazardous substances as defined under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA" or "Federal Superfund") (42 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 9601, et. seq.), or the Washington Model Toxic Control Act ("MTCA," Ch. 70.105D RCW, et. seq.), the City covenants and agrees to obtain the State's prior approval. The State may consider approving the specific use, but only after the City can demonstrate to the State that the City has all necessary permits for operation and a hazardous substances emergency response plan. The State's approval of such proposed use shall not be withheld unreasonably.

 Also, as a prerequisite to obtaining the approval contemplated in the immediately preceding paragraph, the City agrees to provide a complete past operating history and history of regulatory compliance with respect to the City's use of the premises. The City agrees to cooperate in any environmental audits conducted by the State's staff or independent third parties where there is evidence of contamination on the premises, or where the State is directed to conduct such audit by an agency or agencies having jurisdiction. City will reimburse the State for the cost of such investigations, where the need for said investigation is determined by an independent adjudicative authority with jurisdiction over such subject matter, to have been caused by the City's operations. City will provide the State with notice of any inspections of the premises, notices of violations, and orders to clean up contamination that are delivered to City during the term of this Lease. City will permit the State to participate in all settlement or abatement discussions involving third parties other than consultants or other independent contractors or agents of the City. In the event that the City fails to take remedial measures as duly directed by a state, federal, or local regulatory agency within ninety (90) days of such notice, the State may elect to perform such work, and the City covenants and agrees to reimburse the State for all reasonable direct and indirect costs associated with the State's work where said contamination is determined to have resulted from the City's use of the premises.

 For the purposes of this Lease, "costs" shall include, but not be limited to, all response costs, disposal fees, investigatory costs, monitoring costs, civil or criminal penalties, and attorney fees and other litigation costs incurred in complying with state or federal environmental laws, which shall include, but not be limited to, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 9601, et. seq.; the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 1251, et. seq.; the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 7401, et. seq.; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. onstructiononstruction 6901, et. seq.; and the Washington Model Toxic Control Act, Ch. 70.105D RCW, et. seq.

 The City hereby agrees to indemnify the State and hold the State harmless for any costs or liabilities associated with the removal or remediation of any hazardous substances (including petroleum and gasoline products) that have been released or otherwise come to be located on the premises after the commencement of the term of this Lease, by the activities of the City or any of its officers, employees, or agents, including those that may have migrated from the site through water or soil to other properties. The State hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless for any and every cost or liability associated with the removal or remediation of any hazardous substances that are (1) located upon the premises prior to the City's occupancy of the premises or the full execution of this Lease, whichever is the earlier; or (2) which come to be located on the premises by any act or omission of the State, or any of its agents, employees, contractors or contractor's subcontractors or any act or omission of any third person or entity.

 The City further agrees to retain any and all liabilities arising from the City's off-site disposal, handling, treatment, storage, or transportation of any hazardous substances, including petroleum products, removed from the site by or for the City. The City and the State's respective obligations to the other party and each such party's liabilities under this Section 11 shall survive the expiration of this Lease.

 12. TAXES, ASSESSMENTS AND UTILITIES. The City agrees to pay all taxes and assessments that are assumed by it, if any, and all taxes and assessments that benefit the premises and/or may hereafter become a lien on the interest of the City in accordance with RCW 79.44.010, and also all taxes that may hereafter be levied or imposed upon the interest of the City or by reason of this Lease. The City is responsible for and agrees to pay for utilities that serve the premises.

 13. STATE'S APPROVAL OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION. The City covenants that any regrading or improvements to be constructed on the premises will not at any time during or after construction either damage, threaten to damage or otherwise adversely affect any part or element of the highway facility or the operation thereof. The State shall be furnished with two sets of complete plans, details and specifications and revisions thereto for grading and all improvements proposed to be placed on the premises, and no work shall be done without prior written approval of such plans by the State. Such approval shall not be withheld unreasonably. All construction work shall be done in conformity with the plans and specifications as approved. The State may take any action necessary, including directing that work be temporarily stopped or that additional work be done, to ensure observation of the plans and specifications, protection of all parts and elements of the highway facility and compliance with State's construction and safety standards. The improvements shall be designed and constructed in a manner which will permit access to the highway facility for the purpose of inspection, maintenance, and construction when necessary.

 14. "AS BUILT" PLANS. Within sixty (60) days following completion of any underground utilities and/or buildings or other construction by the City, City shall furnish State a complete set of reproducibles of "As Built" plans, subject to State's reasonable approval.

 15. STATE'S RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION. The State, for itself, its contractors, agents, and for the Federal Highway Administration, reserves the right to enter upon the premises at any time without notice to the City for the purpose of inspection, maintenance, construction or reconstruction of the highway facility or any element thereof or to perform environmental audits as provided for elsewhere in this Lease. Any loss or interruption of the use of the premises due to the State's exercise of such right will be without compensation by State; except, that if any such loss or interruption occurs without suitable, replacement space being made available for City use as contemplated immediately below, the rent for the premises that is due to the State hereunder shall be prorated on a per- square-foot-per-day basis and shall be proportionately reduced to reflect the amount of space and the number of days that the City's use of all of the premises is lost or interrupted by reason of such State or Federal Highway Administration inspection, maintenance, construction or reconstruction activity. The State shall repair any damage to the premises and any City equipment on the premises that is caused by the Federal Highway Administration or State or any officer, employee, contractor, consultant, or agent of either of the same. The State shall in no way be responsible for any indirect damages due to such action. If City use and occupancy of ten percent (10%) or more of the premises is or will be interrupted or lost to the City as a consequence of the Federal Highway Administration or State's entry under this paragraph for two weeks or more, the State will, in good faith, attempt to find the City suitable, replacement space available on the State's own vacant lands within one- quarter mile of the premises. If such suitable, replacement space is found, the State shall give notice of the availability thereof to the City and make such suitable replacement space available without additional cost to the City for the period that City use of all of the premises is lost or interrupted as a consequence of any entry or inspection, maintenance, construction or reconstruction work by or on behalf of the Federal Highway Administration or State hereunder. If the City deems such replacement space to be suitable and elects to use and occupy the same for the duration of the period that City use and occupancy of the premises or any portion thereof is lost or interrupted because of Federal Highway Administration or State use of the premises or a portion thereof, the City shall continue to pay rent to the State as contemplated herein without proration or reduction. The State and the Federal Highway Administration may, from time to time, go upon the premises for the purpose of inspecting any excavation, construction or maintenance work being done by the City. Entry upon the premises for any other purpose by the State and the Federal Highway Administration shall be conducted with reasonable notice to the City and during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.

 16. INSURANCE. Solely at its own expense, the City is to secure and maintain in effect a policy of insurance issued by an insurer licensed to conduct business in the State of Washington; Provided, that the City may elect to be self-insured, and in so doing, agrees that it shall provide evidence to the State's reasonable satisfaction showing that the City is self-insured in at least the minimum amounts and for the coverages required herein. The insurance policy is to provide liability coverage for the premises and improvements that are the subject of this Lease, including public liability coverage for bodily injury, property this Lease. No changes whatsoever shall be initiated as to the coverages required above without written approval by the State. The State reserves the right to increase the amount of required coverage upon sixty (60) days' prior written notice.

 17. HOLD HARMLESS/INDEMNIFICATION CLAUSE. City, its successors or assigns, will protect, save, and hold harmless the Washington State Department of Transportation, its authorized agents and employees, from all claims, actions, costs, damages, or expenses of any nature whatsoever by reason of the acts or omission of the City, its assigns, agents, contractors, licensees, invitees, and employees. The City further agrees to defend the Washington State Department of Transportation, its agents and employees in any litigation, and pay any settlement or judgments, and costs and attorney's fees associated with claims or actions commenced, arising out of or in connection with acts or omissions of the City, its assigns, agents, contractors, licensees, invitees, and employees under this Lease. This obligation shall not include such claims, costs, damages, or expenses that may be caused by the sole negligence of the Washington State Department of Transportation or any of its authorized agents, contractors, employees or agents; provided, that if the claims or damages are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of (a) the State, or any of its agents or employees and (b) the City or any of its agents, contractors, licensees, invitees, or employees and involves those actions covered by RCW 4.24.115, this indemnity provision shall be valid and enforceable only to the extent of the negligence of the City or the City's agents, contractors, licensees, invitees, and employees. The State shall protect, save, and hold harmless and defend the City and its officers, employees, and agents from all claims, actions, costs, damages, or expenses of any nature whatsoever (including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) arising out of any act or omission of the State or any of its officers, employees, contractors and agents that is related to an activity reserved to, or right exercisable by, the State or any of its officers, agents, employees, contractors or contractor's subcontractors on the premises under this Lease.

 18. NON-DISCRIMINATION. The City, for itself, its successors, and assigns as a part of the consideration hereof, does hereby covenant and agree, as a covenant running with the land, that no person, on the grounds of race, color, creed, national origin, marital status, age, sex or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap shall be unlawfully excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise unlawfully subjected to discrimination in the use of the facility now or hereafter on the premises, that in connection with the construction of any improvements on said lands and the furnishing of services thereon, no such discrimination shall be practiced in the selection of employees or contractors, or by contractors in the selection and retention of their subcontractors, that such discrimination shall not be practiced against the public in their access to and use of the facility and services provided for public accommodation constructed or operated on, over, or under the space of the right of way, and that the City shall use the premises in compliance with all other requirements imposed pursuant to the Revised Code of Washington Chapter 49.60 and Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Subtitle A, Office of the Secretary of Transportation, Part 21 (49 C.F.R. Part 21), and as said Regulations may be amended. The breach of any of the above nondiscrimination covenants shall be a material act of default entitling the State to terminate this Lease in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.

 19. ASSIGNMENT. No rights created by this Lease may be assigned, sublet, or transferred without prior written permission from the State; Provided, that the use of any portion of the premises for the parking of any City employee's motor vehicle, with or without a charge being imposed on such employee for such benefit and regardless of the form of agreement authorizing such particular use, shall not constitute the assignment, subleasing or transferring of any right created by this Lease. The City hereby covenants that it is acting as Principal and not as an agent for any undisclosed principal.

 20. CHARGE FOR LATE PAYMENT. If payment of any sum due State is not received by State or postmarked by the due date, a late charge of one percent (1%) of the amount due and unpaid plus twenty five dollars ($25.00) administration fee shall be added to the amount due and the total sum shall become immediately due and payable to State. Each additional month that the amount due goes unpaid shall be subject to a late charge of one percent (1%) of that month's rent plus an administration fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). Also there shall be a charge of ten dollars ($10.00) for any check returned uncollectible.

 State and City agree that such charges represent a fair and reasonable estimate of the costs incurred by State by reason of late payment. Acceptance of late payment charges and/or any portion of the overdue payment by State shall in no event constitute a waiver of City's default with respect to such overdue payment, nor prevent State from exercising any other rights and remedies granted in this Lease.

 21. DEFAULT TERMINATION OR ABANDONMENT.

 a. Notice of Default: At any time after the occurrence of a default or defaults by either party under this Lease and while any such default remains unremedied, the other party shall have the option of giving notice in writing of its intention to terminate this Lease by personal service upon, or by written notice directed to the party allegedly in breach. Such notice of intention to terminate shall specify the default or defaults then outstanding. The party providing to the other party a Notice of Default shall allow the party allegedly in default thirty (30) days to cure such default EXCEPT that only three (3) days shall be allowed for the curing of a default in the payment of rent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the nature of the obligation is such that more than thirty (30) days is required for performance or cure, then the party alleged in breach shall not be in default if such party commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion. Waiver or acceptance of any default of the terms of this agreement by either party shall not operate as a release of the other party's responsibility for any prior or subsequent default.

 b. Termination and Extension: Except for termination upon for performance or cure, then the party alleged in breach shall not be in default if such party commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion. Waiver or acceptance of any default of the terms of this agreement by either party shall not operate as a release of the other party's responsibility for any prior or subsequent default.

 b. Termination and Extension: Except for termination upon three (3) days notice for non-payment of rent, after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the giving of such notice in the case of default, if one or more defaults described in such notice then remains unremedied, this Lease shall terminate without further notice. The non-defaulting party may in writing, at its option, extend the period allowed for the curing of any default if, in the judgment of the non-defaulting party, an extension is justified.

 c. Assignment for Benefit of Creditors, Insolvency, or Bankruptcy: Appointment of a receiver to take possession of the City's assets, the City's general assignment for benefit of creditors, or the City's insolvency or taking or suffering action under the Bankruptcy Act is a breach of this Lease and this Lease shall terminate immediately.

 d. Performance by State: If the City defaults in the performance or observation of any covenant or agreement contained in this Lease, the State, without notice if deemed by the State that an emergency exists (including but not limited to endangerment of life or the highway facility, either of which is presumed to be an emergency), may direct the City to stop work and may itself perform or cause to be performed such covenant or agreement and may enter upon the premises for such purpose. The City shall repay to the State upon demand the reasonable cost and expense of such performance by the State. Any act or thing done by State under the provisions of this Paragraph shall not be or be construed as a waiver of any agreement or condition herein contained or the performance thereof.

 e. Disposition of Personal Property: Upon termination of this Lease under any provision hereof personal property remaining on the premises shall be removed by the City at its own expense, and in the event of the non-removal of such property, the same shall become the property of the State to be disposed of as it deems appropriate. Further, the City will reimburse the State for any and all reasonable expenses incurred by the State in removing or disposing of such property within 30 days of the date of the State's invoice.

 f. Assumption of Improvements by State: On termination of this Lease for any reason, City will repair any damage to paving (including but not limited to "pot holes") if the premises have been paved, and turn the premises over to State in good usable condition. This work is to be done at City's expense to the reasonable satisfaction of the State.

 g. Vacation of Premises: Upon termination of this Lease, the City shall cease its operations on and/or use of the premises. In the event the City fails to vacate the premises on the date of termination, City shall be liable for any and all costs to the State arising from such failure.

 h. Abandonment: In the event that it becomes apparent in the State's sole judgment that the premises have ceased to be used or have been abandoned for a continuous period of sixty (60) days, the State at its option shall have the right to terminate this Lease, provided due notice of termination shall be given the City not less than thirty (30) days prior to the proposed termination date.

 22. ENCUMBRANCES. The City shall not encumber the premises.

 23. LIENS. Nothing in this Lease shall be deemed to make the City the agent of the State for purposes of construction, repair, alteration, or installation of structures, improvements, equipment, or facilities on the premises. The City acknowledges that the State may not, and shall not, be subject to claims or liens for labor or materials in connection with such activities by the City.

 24. NOTICES. Wherever in this Lease written notices are to be given or made, they will be sent by certified mail addressed to the parties at the address listed below unless a different address shall be designated in writing and delivered to the other party.

 STATE: DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION REAL ESTATE SERVICES MS118 PO Box 330310 Seattle, WA 98133-9710

 CITY: THE CITY OF SEATTLE EXECUTIVE SERVICES DEPARTMENT ATTN: Ms. Barbara Brannan 618 - 2nd AVENUE, ALASKA BUILDING, 14th Floor SEATTLE, WA 98104-2214

 25. BINDING CONTRACT. This Lease shall not become binding upon the State unless and until accepted and approved for the State by the Secretary of Transportation or his duly authorized representative.

 26. MODIFICATIONS. This instrument contains all the agreements and conditions made between the parties hereto and may not be modified orally or in any manner other than by an agreement in writing signed by all parties thereto.

 27. INTERPRETATION. This Lease shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The titles to paragraphs or sections of this Lease are for convenience only and shall have no effect on the construction or interpretation of any part hereof. The parties to this Lease acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Lease reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Lease are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE WASHINGTON STATE

 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION By:_____________________________________ By:________________________________________ Dwight D. Dively JOE PESTINGER, SR/WA Executive Services Director Director, Real Estate Services

 APPROVED AS TO FORM: By:________________________________________ Assistant Attorney General Date:______________________________________

 CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT STATE OF WASHINGTON ss COUNTY OF )

 On this __________ day of ________________________ before me personally appeared Dwight D. Dively, to me known to be the Executive Services Director of The City of Seattle, that executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said City, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument by City ordinance, and that the seal affixed is the official seal of said City.

 GIVEN under my hand and official seal the day and year last above written. ________________________________________________ (Signature) ________________________________________________ (Print or type name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at___________________________ My commission expires

 STATE AGENCY ACKNOWLEDGMENT STATE OF WASHINGTON COUNTY OF

 On this __________ day of ________________________ before me personally appeared Joe Pestinger, to me known to be the duly appointed Director for Real Estate Services for the Washington State Department of Transportation and that he executed the within and foregoing instrument and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said State of Washington, for the uses and purposes therein set forth, and on oath states that he was authorized to execute said instrument. ________________________________________________ (Signature) ________________________________________________ (Print or type name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at___________________________ My commission expires EXHIBIT A

 (Part 1 of 2)

 All those portions of Lots 5 and 6, Block 6; Lots 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block 7; Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block 8, S. Judkins Street, S. Connecticut Street, S. Norman Street and 8th Avenue South, all in Judkins Addition to the Town of Seattle, according to plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 45, records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the southwest corner of said Lot 6, Block 6 of said subdivision; thence South 88used44'18.16" East a distance of 48.10 feet; thence North 06used14'32.00" East a distance of 264.08 feet; thence North 21used50'02.90" East a distance of 270.15 feet; thence North 00used52'39.23" East a distance of 174.00 feet; thence North 56used39'23.37" West a distance of 152.3479 feet; thence South 42used10'26.71" West a distance of 127.07 feet; thence South 05used34'20.01" West a distance of 100.00 feet; thence South 13used13'08.64" East a distance of 98.79 feet; thence South 89used39'38.93" East a distance of 25.00 feet; thence South 00used20'20.11" West a distance of 331.52 feet; thence South 01used15'45.31" West a distance of 148.45 feet to the point of beginning; containing an area of 93,163 square, or 2.139 acres, more or less.

 The specific details and definite location concerning all of which are to be found in that certain map of SR 90, M.P. 0.00 VICINITY, CONNECTICUT ST. INTERCHANGE: 4th AVE. S. AND TRANSIT RAMPS, DETAIL SHEET - CITY OF SEATTLE.

 The vertical limit of the premises is a plane twelve (12) feet below and parallel to the underside of the bridge deck.

 September 29, 1998 version 3

 Brannanet;GBD

 DOTleaseord.doc

 September 29, 1998 version 3

```
