

********

**Council Bill Number: 112463**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119273**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the organization of City government; creating an Office of Housing within the Executive Department; renaming the Department of Housing and Human Services as the Human Service Department; establishing the powers and duties of the Office of Housing; reassigning certain housing functions currently performed by the Department of Housing and Human Services to the Office of Housing; creating a new Housing Operating Fund; redesignating the Department of Housing and Human Services Operating Fund; making provisions for transition and transfer; and, repealing, amending and adding various provisions throughout the Seattle Municipal Code in connection with the reorganization.

**Status:** PASSED AS AMENDED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 23, 1998
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 2, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 2, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 16, 1998
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** GOVERNMENTAL-REORGANIZATION, OFFICE-OF-HOUSING, DEPARTMENT-OF-HOUSING-AND-HUMAN-SERVICES, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, MODERATE-INCOME-HOUSING

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 119273](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_119273.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ______

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the organization of City government; creating an Office of Housing within the Executive Department; renaming the Department of Housing and Human Services as the Human Services Department; establishing the powers and duties of the Office of Housing; reassigning certain housing functions currently performed by the Department of Housing and Human Services to the Office of Housing; creating a new Housing Operating Fund; redesignating the Department of Housing and Human Services Operating Fund; making provisions for transition and transfer; and, repealing, amending and adding various provisions throughout the Seattle Municipal Code in connection with the reorganization.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Office of Housing Created. From and after January 1, 1999, there shall be a new office within the Executive Department known as the Office of Housing.

 Section 2. Department of Housing and Human Services Renamed; Responsibility for Housing Activities Transferred.

 A. On and after January 1, 1999, the Department of Housing and Human Services shall be known as the Human Services Department. From and after that date, except as provided elsewhere in this or another ordinance, all the functions, responsibilities, agreements, obligations, authorizations, powers, equipment, records, appropriations, assets, and liabilities of the former Department of Housing and Human Services pertaining to housing activities shall belong to the Office of Housing and the Director of Housing is authorized to perform and exercise all City responsibilities, duties, obligations and powers related to housing activities theretofore belonging to the Director of the Department of Housing and Human Services, including without limitation any such responsibilities, duties, obligations and powers that may be created by ordinance after the passage of this ordinance, unless otherwise expressly stated in the later ordinance.

 B. For purposes of this ordinance, unless the context otherwise clearly requires, "housing activities" shall mean housing development; applying for and ensuring compliance with conditions for loans, grants and other agreements to finance or subsidize housing; housing repair, weatherization and rehabilitation; purchase, sale or lease of property for housing; management of City property held or used for housing purposes; housing affordability; operating subsidies; assistance to home buyers; and transfer of development rights. Provided, that except as may be provided in any interdepartmental memorandum approved by the Mayor, "housing activities" shall not include rental assistance, any activities related to emergency shelters, or administration of federal assistance provided under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS program or provided for the homeless under the McKinney Act, even if such assistance is used for housing purposes described above.

 Section 3. Current Rules and Policies To Continue.

 From and after January 1, 1999, all rules, regulations, policies, notices, schedules and proceedings in effect on that date with respect to City housing activities of the former Department of Housing and Human Services shall continue to have the same force and effect, unless and until they expire of their own terms or are superseded, but the powers and responsibilities of the Director of the Department of Housing and Human Services associated with housing activities shall be vested in and performed by the Director of the Office of Housing unless otherwise provided by this or another ordinance.

 Section 4. Housing Operating Fund Created.

 There is hereby created a Housing Operating Fund for deposit of funds to be used for operating expenditures of the Office of Housing.

 Section 5. Housing and Human Services Operating Fund Redesignated; Authority to Reallocate Funds.

 The Housing and Human Services Operating Fund is redesignated as the Human Services Operating Fund. The Executive Services Director, under the authority of the Mayor, shall reallocate assets and liabilities from the former Housing and Human Services Fund to either the Housing Operating Fund or the Human Services Operating Fund, in order to effectuate this ordinance.

 Section 6. Authority and Jurisdiction for Housing Activities Transferred to Director of Housing.

 From and after January 1, 1999, any requirement of any contract, deed, lease, instrument, ordinance, rule, plan or policy that the approval, consent, certification or signature of the Director of the Department of Housing and Human Services be obtained for any purpose related to housing activities (including without limitation the development, financing, construction, management, purchase, sale, leasing, affordability or occupancy of housing) shall be satisfied by the approval, consent, certification or signature, as the case may be, of the Director of Housing or the Director's designee, unless otherwise expressly provided by ordinance. From and after January 1, 1999, any real property (or interests therein) used or intended to be used for housing activities under the jurisdiction of the Department of Housing and Human Services as of December 31, 1998 shall be under the jurisdiction of the Office of Housing.

 Section 7. Authority over Personnel Matters Designated.

 From and after January 1, 1999, the Director of the Office of Housing shall have the power to appoint, assign, supervise, and control all the officers and employees in the Office of Housing, and the Director of the Human Services Department shall have the power to appoint, assign, supervise, and control all the officers and employees in the Human Services Department.

 Section 8. Assignment of Personnel.

 Except as set forth in this ordinance, the adopted City Budget or other action by ordinance shall determine the establishment, organization, and reassignment of positions in the Office of Housing and the Human Services Department.

 Section 9. Subchapter V, Chapter 3.14 SMC Redesignated. Subchapter V of Chapter 3.14 of the Seattle Municipal Code is redesignated "Office of Housing."

 Section 10. Office Created -- Mission Statement A new section 3.14.700 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 3.14.700 Office of Housing Created- Mission

 A. There is established in the Executive Department a Office of Housing. The mission of the Office of Housing is to facilitate the substantial development of housing units for individuals earning zero to 120% of median income (low to moderate income households) via the identification and leveraging of public and private resources for such development; to increase the preservation of existing affordable multi-family and single family housing; and to create and operate an efficient, effective organizational structure which aids in the accomplishment of this mission.

 B. The intent of this section is to state generally the mission and activities of the Office. This section shall not be construed to create, establish or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or should be especially protected or benefited, nor to create any entitlement to any benefits or services.

 Section 11. New Section Added -- Purpose. A new section 3.14.710 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 3.14.710 Office -Purpose.

 The office is established to develop comprehensive housing policies, programs, and plans; to act as coordinator and advocate for housing needs; to administrate, coordinate, and operate City housing policies, programs, and functions. The purposes of the Office of Housing are as follows:

 A. Maintain and increase the City's strong commitment to the preservation and development of low-income housing;

 B. Increase the supply of housing from shelter to market-rate in ways that enhance community;

 C. Develop strategies for preserving existing housing units affordable up to 80% of median income, adjusted for family size, while utilizing existing dollars;

 D. Develop strategies that encourage greater preservation and utilization of existing housing stock to increase the supply of affordable housing. Such strategies may include but are not limited to, accessory dwelling unit development, vacant or abandoned building redevelopment or rehabilitation;

 E. Strengthen partnerships to leverage community resources and public and private dollars;

 Section 12. New Section Added -- Appointment and Removal of Director. A new section 3.14.720 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 3.14.720 Director of the Office of Housing - Appointment - Removal.

 The Director of the Office of Housing shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by a majority vote of all members of the City Council, and may be removed by the Mayor upon filing a statement of his or her reasons therefor with the City Council. The Director of the Office of Housing may be referred to as the Director of Housing.

 Section 13. New Section Added -- Duties of Director. A new section 3.14.730 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 3.14.730 Director-Duties.

 Under the direction of the Mayor, the duties of the Director of Housing are as follows:

 A. Oversee and manage the functions of the Office of Housing as set forth in section 3.14.700

 B. Such other functions and duties as may be assigned by ordinance.

 Section 14. New Section Added -- Ancillary Duties. A new section 3.14.740 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 3.14.740 Director-Ancillary duties.

 In order to carry out office functions, the Director of Housing shall have the power to:

 A. Appoint, remove, assign, supervise and control officers and employees in the Office of Housing in accordance with applicable civil service ordinance and rules;

 B. Manage the preparation of the proposed budget for the Office of Housing; authorize appropriate expenditures and carry out the adopted budget; supervise the maintenance of adequate accounting systems and procedures; develop and manage programs; and undertake authorized activities;

 C. Execute, deliver, indorse, modify, accept, administer, perform and enforce such agreements (including without limitation agreements for expert and consultant services, interdepartmental agreements, and agreements with other public entities), instruments, and other documents as he or she shall deem necessary or appropriate to implement ordinances, policies and programs, consistent with applicable laws and ordinances;

 D. Collect amounts owing to the City under housing financing documents and contracts relating to housing development or to the sale of property for housing, and in the administration of the foregoing, subordinate liens or other interests of the City, compromise the City's claims or interests, and release parties and property from obligations and interests in favor of the City, all as he or she shall deem necessary or appropriate in the interests of the City and subject to applicable laws;

 F. Grant and modify leases of real property under the jurisdiction of the Office of Housing, subject to SMC Section 3.24.300, and grant licenses for temporary use of such property, and prescribe and collect rents or charges therefor;

 G. Apply to the federal and State governments for funding available for housing, and take all such actions as may be necessary to comply with federal and State requirements respecting the use of such funds when they are included in the adopted budget of the City or their acceptance is otherwise authorized by ordinance;

 H. Promulgate and amend, in accordance with the City Administrative Code to the extent applicable, rules, regulations and policies to carry out Office of Housing activities; provided that no such rule, regulation or policy shall confer any rights or entitlement upon any person, entity, class or group, nor undertake any legal duty to any person, entity, class or group.

 Section 15. New Section -- Submittal of Work Program. A new section 3.14.750 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 3.14.750 Work program to be adopted by City Council.

 The annual work program for the Office of Housing, showing anticipated tasks, likely work products, and approximate assignments of FTEs shall be set by the City Council. The Council's review of the work program shall be in two (2) steps:

 A. The Director of Housing shall submit a preliminary proposed work program for the following year to the City Council no later than October 1 of the current year for review during the budget process.

 B. By January 15 the following year, the Director of Housing shall submit a revised proposed work program to the City Council. During the first quarter, the City Council shall adopt a resolution setting the final work program for the Office of Housing. This resolution shall guide the work of the Office throughout the year, and any significant changes to the work shall require Council approval.

 Section 16. Chapter 3.20 SMC Redesignated. Chapter 3.20 is redesignated " Human Services Department."

 Section 17. SMC 3.20.010 Amended. Section 3.20.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.20.010 Department Created - Purpose.

 A. There is created a ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services Department for the development of comprehensive ~~housing and housing related services,~~ human services ~~and education~~ policies and plans; to act as coordinator and advocate for social ~~and housing~~ needs and concerns of the City's population; and for the administration, coordination, planning and operation of City programs and functions relating to human problems and needs, including without limitation those of persons who are aged, youth, disabled, ~~veterans~~ unemployed and underemployed, homeless, low-income, have special needs or are otherwise disadvantaged.

 B. The mission of the ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services Department is to strengthen the ability of all people in the Seattle metropolitan area to live, learn, work and participate in safe, strong, and caring communities.

 C. The Department seeks to enhance the quality of life and promote self-reliance, growth, and development of people. To these ends, the Department will strive to provide resources and services, to remove barriers to meeting human needs, and to improve public policies.

 D. The intent of this section is to state generally the mission and activities of the Department. This section shall not be construed to create, establish, or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or should be especially protected or benefited, or to create any entitlement to any benefits or services.

 Section 18. SMC 3.20.030 Amended. Section 3.20.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.20.030 Director-Duties.

 The Director shall be the head of the ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services Department, shall be responsible for the administration of the department and shall:

 A. Appoint, remove, supervise and control officers and employees in the ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services Department  in accordance with civil service rules and regulations;

 B. Develop and manage programs providing the services for which the ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services Department is responsible;

 C. Manage the preparation of the proposed annual budget of the ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services Department, authorize necessary expenditures and enter into contracts for professional and expert services in accordance with the annual budget; develop and manage programs, and supervise development and maintenance of adequate managerial and accounting systems and procedures;

 D. Execute, administer, modify and enforce such agreements and instruments as he or she shall deem reasonably necessary to implement programs consistent with all applicable laws and ordinances, as he or she shall deem appropriate for carrying out the responsibilities, functions, and activities of the Department; apply for grants and donations for departmental programs; and solicit and use volunteer services;

 E. Promulgate rules and regulations to carry out departmental activities pursuant to the Administrative Code, SMC Chapter 3.02; and

 F. Have such other and further powers and duties as shall be prescribed by ordinance.

 Section 19. SMC 3.20.040 Amended. Section 3.20.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.20.040 Divisions of the Department.

 In implementation of the functions contemplated in Section 3.20.010, the Division on Aging and Disability Services, the ~~Housing and~~ Community Services Division, the Division of Family and Youth Services, and the Program Support Division are established as divisions of the ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services  Department. ~~The Office of Education is established within the Department of Housing and Human Services.~~

 Section 20. SMC 3.20.080 Amended. Section 3.20.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.20.080 Division created-Purpose.

 There is created in the ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services Department a Division onAging and Disabilities Services to coordinate City programs directed to or affecting adults with disabilities and the aging; to provide short-term planning and programming related to meeting problems of adults with disabilities and the aging; to assist the Mayor in development of broad policies focusing on such problems; to provide liaison with public and private agencies and groups serving or interested in the aging; to provide staff support to the Technical Advisory Committee on Aging; and to seek and encourage additional funding sources for programs serving adults with disabilities and the aging.

 Section 21. SMC 3.20.120 Amended. Section 3.20.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.20.120 Director-Created-Duties.

 There is created in the ~~Department of Housing and~~ Human Services Department the position of Director of the Division on Aging and Disability Services to be appointed by the Mayor subject to confirmation by a majority vote of all members of the City Council, and such Director, whose office shall not be included in the classified civil service, may be removed by the Mayor upon filing a statement of his reasons therefor with the City Council. The Director shall be responsible under the direction of the Mayor for the administration of the Division on Aging and Disability Services, and shall annually prepare and furnish to the Mayor, City Council, Advisory Committee on Aging, departments of the City and appropriate community organizations a ~~report of))~~plan for the activities of the Division and recommendations for further action.

 Section 22.  SMC 3.60.040 Amended. Section 3.60.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.60.040 Annual Cooperative Agreements.

 The Mayor is authorized subject to and in accordance with the annual budget of the City to enter on behalf of the City annual cooperative agreements with King County for the financing and operation of the functions of the Commission. Mutually agreed upon procedures to accomplish said functions will be established between the King County Department of Public Health and the ~~Department of Human Resources of the))~~ City's Human Services Department.

 Section 23. SMC 3.68.050 Amended. Section 3.68.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 Meetings of the Commission, the minutes of its proceedings, and its findings and recommendations shall be open to the public unless the Commission directs otherwise. The ~~Department of Human Resources))~~Human Services Department shall provide staff and meeting facilities for the Commission and maintain its records.

 Section 24. SMC 3.118.010(B) Amended. Subsection B of section 3.118.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.118.010. Applications for approval.

 B. The applicant shall submit to the City any additional documents or information as may be requested by the Mayor, the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~, or the President of the City Council to assist in reviewing the application.

 Section 25. SMC 3.20.320(E) Amended. Subsection E of section 3.20.320 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.20.320 TDR Bank created.

 E. The ~~Department~~ Office of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ is authorized to negotiate purchases, leases and/or options of TDRs from landmark performing arts theaters, subject to Council approval by ordinance and appropriation of funds. Priority consideration shall be given to TDRs from landmark performing arts theaters with low-income housing that is to be preserved as part of the rehabilitation under a binding commitment from the owner and all others with interests in the property. Landmark performing arts theaters with housing shall not be eligible for TDR bank purchases if any on-site low or low-to-moderate housing is to be eliminated, unless the owner enters into a voluntary agreement satisfactory to the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ that guarantees replacement of any low-income housing with low-income housing, and any low-to-moderate income housing with low-to-moderate income housing, that will remain affordable to low- or low-to-moderate income tenants, as the case may be, or contributes an amount equal to the cost to replace such low- or low-to-moderate income housing with housing affordable to low- or low-to-moderate income tenants, as the case may be, in addition to any agreement or contribution made in order to qualify for housing bonus.

 Section 26. SMC 3.68.070 Amended. Section 3.68.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.68.070 Children and Youth Commission Account.

 There is hereby established in the General Gift and Donations Trust Fund a special account, designated the Children and Youth Commission Account. All donations received for the Commission, revenues from Commission projects or activities, and refunds or other payments to the Commission shall be separated in the account. Interest on investment of account balances shall accrue to the account. Expenditures may be made on the account upon vouchers drawn by the Commission Chair or, as authorized by the Commission, the Director of ~~Housing and~~ Human Services Department as its designee. All necessary appropriations of funds on account are hereby made and authorized.

 Section 27. SMC 5.78.060 Amended. Section 5.78.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.060 Expenditures- ~~Department~~ Office of Housing ~~and Human Services~~.

 The Director of ~~the~~~~Department~~ Housing ~~and Human Services~~ is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to that ~~Department's~~Office's programs in the City's Gift Catalogue or for other housing activities as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ as to payee and purpose.

 Section 28. New Section Added - Director's Authorization. A new section 5.78.190 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 5.78.190 Expenditures - Human Services Department

 The Director of the Human Services Department is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to that Department's programs in the City's Gift Catalogue or for other human services activities as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Human Services Director as to payee and purpose.

 Section 29. SMC 21.04.280(B) Amended.  Subsection B of section 21.04.280 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.04.280 Certification and funding of water and sewer infrastructure extensions.

 B. For housing development or redevelopment projects certified by the ~~Department~~Office of Housing ~~and~~~~Human Services~~ as eligible projects and that are required to construct public infrastructure, Seattle Public Utilities shall fund the actual cost of the public infrastructure prorated according to the percentage of dwelling units that will serve households with aggregate annual incomes no higher than fifty (50) percent of median income; provided that the property owner installs water and electric meters (or submeters, as applicable) in the eligible project and that all public infrastructure and all meter work is performed in a manner acceptable to Seattle Public Utilities. An amount equal to such funding shall be recovered through increased water, wastewater and drainage charges established by ordinance. The ~~Department~~Office of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall certify only those projects that meet the criteria of eligible projects and that also demonstrate to the satisfaction of the ~~Department~~Office that the property owner will comply with all applicable state law, including without limitation public bidding and prevailing wage laws, and with all applicable City law, including without limitation laws pertaining to the prevention of discrimination and women and minority business enterprises. The ~~Department~~Office of Housing ~~and Human Services))~~, in agreement with Seattle Public Utilities, is hereby authorized to develop rules and procedures for certification of, and follow-up reporting by eligible projects to ensure that they satisfy the intent of the ordinance codified in this section.

 Section 30. SMC 21.49.040(B) Amended. Subsection B of section 21.49.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.49.040 Residential rate assistance (Schedule 26/27).

 B. Applicants for Schedule 26/27 shall verify the information required to certify their eligibility for residential rate assistance and shall provide such other data as is deemed appropriate upon forms and in the manner determined by the City's Human Services Department ~~of Housing and Human Services~~.

 Section 31. SMC 21.50.020 Amended.  Section 21.52.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.52.020 Eligibility-Low-income elderly.

 Eligibility for participation in the Conservation Investment Assistance Program shall be determined by the Human Services Department ~~of Housing and Human Services~~ from verified applications and inspection of each home, and such qualifications shall be based on the following criteria for the following classes of low- income persons:

 Low-income Elderly.

 A. The head of household must own the home and must be sixty-five (65) years of age or older; and

 B. Have a gross annual income of less than Five Thousand Six Hundred Seven Dollars ($5,607.00), if single, or Seven Thousand Three Hundred Thirty-one Dollars ($7,331.00), if married; and

 C. Reside in the Seattle City Light service area, use the home solely for a residence and have permanently connected electrical heating facilities as the primary source of heat in the residence; and

 D. The residence of the recipient is without insulation or is equipped with below standard insulation.

 Section 32. SMC 21.52.230(B), (D) Amended. Subsections B and D of section 21.52.230 of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 21.52.230 Program components.

 B. Low-Income Weatherization Program ("LIWP"). The LIWP includes the programs administered by the ~~Department))~~Office of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ which provide financial assistance for weatherization of low-income households. The ~~Department~~Office will establish and administer procedures to screen low-income residents of the City and customers of the City Light Department to determine their eligibility for the LIWP. The LIWP has the following three (3) programs:

 1. Low-Income Electric Program ("LIEP"). LIEP shall provide grants to the low-income customers of the City Light Department (whose primary source of heat is electricity) for the supply and installation of certain energy conservation measures. The Light Fund shall provide the source of funds for LIEP. The LIEP Program shall only be available to residential structures of one (1) to four (4) dwelling units.

 2. Low-Income Weatherization Assistance ("LIWA") Program. The LIWA Program shall provide grants for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures to Seattle residents who are recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) and to low-income, fragile, or elderly Seattle residents whose income is equal to or less than the defined federal eligibility standards and whose primary heat source is natural gas or oil.

 3. Weatherization Urban Development Action Grant ("Weatherization UDAG") Program. The Weatherization UDAG Program shall provide weatherization loans and grants for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures to low-income households whose income is greater than that allowed under the LIWA Program, but less than eighty percent (80%) of the SMSA median family income and whose primary heat source is oil or natural gas. The Weatherization UDAG Program will be implemented by contracts between the City and participating lending institutions on terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~, consistent with the provisions of the Program.

 D. ~~Department~~Office  of Housing ~~and Human Services))~~. The ~~Department~~Office of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall encourage weatherization among those residents of Seattle not served by other components of the CRWP.

 Section 33. SMC 21.52.250 Amended. Section 21.52.250 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.52.250 Low-income Electric Program (LIEP).

 A. The Superintendent and the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ are authorized to enter into an agreement to implement the LIEP, on terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Superintendent and the Director.

 B. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ is authorized to provide weatherization assistance grants to low-income households with electric heat, for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures by qualified contractors, consistent with this chapter. An energy audit shall be conducted by City personnel to determine what energy conservation measures are needed in the dwelling unit. Following installation of the energy conservation measures by a qualified contractor, the work shall be inspected by City personnel for compliance with federal standards and additional City Light standards.

 Section 34. SMC 21.52.260(E) Amended. Subsection E of section 21.52.260 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.52.260 Energy conservation measures described.

 E. 1. Pursuant to the rule-making provisions of the Seattle Administrative Code, Ordinance 102228, as amended, the Superintendent and the Director of ~~the~~~~Department~~ Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may revise the energy conservation measures designated in subsections A and B of this section, provided the revision does not diminish the cost effectiveness of the measure.

 2. Pursuant to the rule-making provisions of the Seattle Administrative Code, Ordinance 102228, as amended, the Superintendent may revise the energy conservation measures designated in subsection C of this section, provided the revision does not diminish the cost effectiveness of the measure. The energy conservation measures designated in this Section 21.52.260 shall be added or deleted only by ordinance.

 Section 35. SMC 21.76.010 Amended. Section 21.76.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.76.010 Program established-Purpose-Administration.

 A program for credits to partially offset the billings for water, wastewater, drainage, solid waste, and street utility services for qualified low-income customers is established in order to provide necessary support for the poor and infirm. Such reductions are intended to offset recent rate increases for such utilities. The  Human Services Department ~~of Housing and Human Services~~ is authorized and directed to administer the program and in such connection may promulgate administrative regulations from time to time in the manner provided in the Administrative Code (Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 3.02) to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter.

 Section 36. SMC 21.76.030(C) Amended. Subsection C of section 21.76.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.76.030 Qualification.

 C. Applicants shall verify such information, and shall provide such other data as is deemed appropriate upon forms and in the manner determined by the Human Services Department ~~of Housing and Human Services~~.

 Section 37. SMC 21.76.040(B) Amended. Subsection B of Section 21.76.04 of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 SMC 21.76.040 Utility low income rates assistance.

 B. Solid Waste. Persons qualified by the Director of ~~Housing and~~ the Human Services Department as eligible recipients of Low Income Rate Assistance (LIRA) shall be granted special rates in the following amounts (stated in monthly rates). The rates for qualified solid waste customers become effective September 1, 1994.

 Section 38. SMC 21.76.050 Amended. Section 21.76.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.76.050 Method of receiving credit.

 Qualified persons receiving drainage, wastewater, water, solid waste or street utility services shall receive credits in the amounts prescribed for in Section 21.76.040 or in equivalent amounts should the billing period be other than monthly; provided, that no qualified person shall receive or accept utility credits to more than one (1) utility bill for the same billing period. The credits shall be made as follows: A. For qualified persons who do not receive a drainage, wastewater, water, solid waste or street utility bill directly, the proper credit amount shall be made on the bill as a reduction to the amount which would otherwise be payable.

 B. For qualified persons who do not receive a drainage, wastewater, water, solid waste or street utility bill directly, but who may pay such utility charges indirectly as part of their rental payment, the proper credit shall be made in the manner determined by the Director of the Human Services Department ~~of Housing and Human Services~~ and the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, including, but not limited to:

 1. A reduction in the amount otherwise payable on the light bills of those qualified persons who do not receive drainage, wastewater, water, solid waste or street utility bills but who do receive a light utility bill,

 2. The issuance of credit vouchers in the names of qualified persons, provided that the credit vouchers shall not be redeemed in cash and shall be honored by the City only when applied to the account through which utility services received by the qualified person are paid.

 Section 39. SMC 21.76.070 Amended. Section 21.76.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.76.070 Violation-Penalty.

 Any person knowingly making any false statement or representation to the Human Services Department ~~of Housing and Human Services~~ with intent to secure benefits to which he or she is not entitled under this chapter shall be guilty of an offense constituting a violation subject to the provisions of Chapter 12A.02 and 12A.04 of this Code (Seattle Criminal Code) and upon conviction thereof may be punished by a civil fine or forfeiture not to exceed Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00).

 Section 40. SMC 22.220.080(E) Amended. Subsection E of Section 22.220.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 E. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services))~~ or his or her designee is hereby authorized to apply to the Director for any departure from the Housing and Building Maintenance Code authorized by this section. No other person is authorized to make such application.

 Section 41. SMC 22.220.090 Amended. Section 22.220.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.220.090 Loans and grants to owners.

 A. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may authorize loans and grants to owners and receivers from the Downtown Housing Maintenance Account described in Section 22.220.100 and/or from such Community Development Block Grant funds or other similarly restricted funds as may have been appropriated for the rehabilitation of rental units downtown or may in the future be appropriated specifically for the repair of low-income rental units pursuant to this chapter. Such loans and grants shall be made only for the reasonable cost of repairs necessary to make low-income rental units habitable and for the reasonable cost of any other repairs to the building in which such units are located which are necessary to make such units habitable. Such loans and grants shall be made only in accordance with the criteria set forth in this section.

 B. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may make grants for repairs necessary to make low-income rental units habitable. The maximum grant amount shall be Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000.00) per unit, to be awarded after the owner has committed his or her own maximum contribution to the repair of a unit.

 C. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may extend loans for the repair of low-income units as follows:

 1. The maximum loan amount shall be Six Thousand Dollars ($6,000.00) per unit.

 2. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may authorize the forgiveness of such loans at a rate of twenty percent (20%) per year, with a maximum forgiveness of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) per year for each year the unit remains available for low- income occupancy, such forgiveness to continue until the entire amount has been forgiven; provided that the unit continues to be available for low-income occupancy during the entire forgiveness period.

 3. The loans shall be made with no interest charged while the unit remains available for low-income occupancy.

 4. If for any reason the units become unavailable for low- income occupancy, the remainder of the loan shall be required to be repaid, and in addition the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may require the immediate repayment of the remaining balance or said Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ and may charge interest on the remaining balance at the then prevailing rate for the Washington State Housing Finance Commission bond program.

 D. The total amount of grants and loans authorized under this section shall not exceed Six Thousand Dollars ($6,000.00) per unit for any three- (3) year period.

 E. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall prescribe such additional terms and conditions of such loans and grants as he or she deems appropriate. Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall promulgate regulations describing the circumstances under which loans and grants will be approved and the general terms and conditions of such loans and grants.

 Section 42. SMC 22.220.100(C) Amended. Subsection C of section 22.220.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 22.220.100 Downtown Housing Maintenance Account.

 C. The moneys in the Account are hereby appropriated for the purposes described above and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay the necessary warrants upon vouchers approved by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ from the appropriated Account.

 Section 43. SMC 22.220.130(B)-(D), (F) Amended. Subsections B, C, D, and F of section 22.220.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 22.220.130 Failure to rent or repair-Administrative investigation and determination.

 B. Application for and Determination on Departures.

 1. If the Director finds low-income rental units that are not habitable, he or she shall notify the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~, who shall have fifteen (15) days to determine if a departure or departures as authorized in Section 22.220.080 is appropriate and, if so, to recommend such departures to the Director.

 C. Determination of Feasibility to Make Units Habitable. After the Director has received and considered the recommendations of the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ on the requested departures, if any, he or she shall, using the standards as prescribed in Section 22.220.070, make a determination as to the feasibility of making the uninhabitable units habitable. The Director may grant, modify, or deny the recommended departures.

 D. Issuance of Complaint and Notice.

 1. If the Director finds that the owner has not made a good-faith effort to rent or that the building contains low-income rental units that are not habitable but could feasibly be made habitable, he or she shall serve upon the owner of the building, as shown upon the records of the Department of Records and Elections of King County, a complaint, identifying the specific low-income rental units which are not being offered for rent in good faith, the specific uninhabitable low-income rental units that could feasibly be made habitable, and, where applicable, the corrective action which the owner must take to make any low-income rental unit habitable and the amount of assistance which may be available to the owner as determined by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~.

 The complaint shall be delivered by personal service, registered mail, or certified mail with return receipt requested, and shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the property. No complaint shall be issued for uninhabitable units if the owner holds a valid permit for the repairs, alterations, or improvements necessary to correct the noted deficiencies and is, in the opinion of the Director, making reasonable progress toward correcting those deficiencies.

 2. The complaint shall:

 a. Contain a notice that a hearing will be held before the Director at a specified time and place not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days after service of the complaint;

 b. Explain that all parties have the right to file an answer to the complaint;

 c. Advise the parties that they may appear in person or by representative and give testimony at the time and place designated in the complaint; and

 d. Advise the parties that they may seek relief and present evidence as to whether or not administrative relief from the strict enforcement of the requirements of this chapter as provided in Section 22.220.120 should be granted.

 3. A copy of the complaint shall be filed with the King County Department of Records and Elections. In addition to serving and posting the complaint, the Director shall mail or cause to be delivered to the occupants of all rental units and/or commercial units in the building a notice informing the occupants of the filing of the complaint and advising them of the relevant procedures.

 F. Report of Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ on Request for Administrative Relief. When administrative relief is sought pursuant to Section 22.220.120, the Director shall request from the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ a report and recommendation analyzing whether application of the duties from which relief is sought would constitute an unconstitutional taking and the nature of the relief which would be appropriate, if any. The Housing ~~and Human Services~~ Director's report shall be made available to the owner and to any member of the public who requests it. The owner and any member of the public shall have fourteen (14) days from the date the report is published to make comments to the Director concerning the appropriateness of the relief requests.

 Section 44. SMC 23.22.024 Amended. Section 23.22.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.22.024 Distribution of preliminary plans.

 If the Director determines that the subdivider has met all the application requirements for the preliminary plat and that the preliminary plat contains sufficient elements and data to furnish a basis for its approval or disapproval, the Director shall affix a file number and date of receipt to the application and promptly forward three (3) copies of the plat and the subdivider's preliminary plans for streets and other improvements to the Director of Transportation. The Director shall also forward a copy of the preliminary plat to each of the following:

 A. Director of Public Health;

 B. Superintendent of City Light;

 C. Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~;

 D. Superintendent of Parks and Recreation;

 E. Director of Seattle Public Utilities;

 F. Chief, Fire Department;

 G. Metropolitan Services Department;

 who shall review the preliminary plat and, within thirty (30) days, furnish the Director with a report as to the effect of the proposed subdivision upon the public health, safety and general welfare, and containing their recommendations for approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat. The reports of the Director of Transportation and the Director of Seattle Public Utilities shall also include a recommendation as to the extent and type of improvements to be provided in dedicated areas and a preliminary estimate of the cost of these improvements.

 Section 45. SMC 23.49.033 Amended. Section 23.49.033 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.033 Priority landmark theater TDR from landmark performing arts theaters in certain downtown zones.

 A. Definitions. The following definitions shall apply for the purposes of this section:

 1. "Landmark performing arts theater" is defined in Section 23.84.024.

 2. "Landmark TDR" is defined in Section 23.84.024.

 3. "Priority landmark theater TDR" means that portion of the development rights eligible for transfer from a landmark performing arts theater that the Directors of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ and Construction and Land Use have approved based on an application by the owner under this section, and that the owner has committed to sell, lease, or option at a price approved by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ based on appraised value.

 4. "Sending site" means the lot which may qualify as a site from which priority landmark theater TDR may be transferred.

 B. Application Procedure.

 1. Application. Any owner of a structure that is, or might qualify as, a landmark performing arts theater, may apply for priority landmark theater TDR by submitting an application in such form as required by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ and the Landmarks Preservation Board, with such supporting information as such Director may require, which may include, but is not limited to:

 a. Detailed plans and specifications including architect- certified calculations of the dimensions of existing and intended improvements;

 b. Site plan and survey;

 c. Line item rehabilitation budget;

 d. Historical financial information for the operations of the landmark performing arts theater and the sending site as a whole;

 e. Pro forma financial information showing the expected results of operations of the landmark performing arts theater and the sending site as a whole after the rehabilitation, in reasonable detail and based on specified reasonable assumptions;

 f. A detailed analysis of available subsidies and funding sources for rehabilitation, preservation, and operation, including tax credits, grants, subsidized loans, and bonus credits for public benefit features, including housing (if applicable), including any commitments for financing;

 g. Consultant reports and contracts;

 h. Management plan for the theater.

 2. Review of Application; Agreement Required.

 a. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall analyze any application for priority landmark theater TDR in consultation with the Director of DCLU, the Director of Neighborhoods and the Landmarks Preservation Board. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall approve a specific number of square feet of priority landmark theater TDR, not exceeding the total amount of TDR available for transfer under the applicable provisions for the zone in which the site is located, as eligible for sale from the site if:

 (i) A structure on the sending site is eligible to qualify as a landmark performing arts theater;

 (ii) The Landmarks Preservation Board and the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~approve the plan of rehabilitation; and

 (iii) Taking into account all other available sources of funding and incentives, a sale of TDR is necessary to fill a financing gap in order to permit the owner to rehabilitate the landmark performing arts theater and to rehabilitate any low- or low- moderate income housing on-site or to replace such housing off-site, and to have a reasonable expectation of receiving a reasonable economic return from the owner's investment, as determined by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~.

 The number of square feet of priority landmark theater TDR may be modified by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~on application of the owner or upon a determination by such Director that any assumptions upon which such determination was based are inaccurate.

 b. After approval by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~of priority landmark theater TDR, the owner shall sign a binding, recordable contract and obtain signatures of all parties holding interest in the site, including mortgagees, committing the owner:

 (i) To sell the priority landmark theater TDR based upon the appraised value, at the price approved by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~, to any purchaser within a specified period approved by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services))~~and to use the sales proceeds as required in subsection E below; and

 (ii) To impose restrictive covenants and easements on the sending site upon such sale consistent with the requirements of the applicable sections of Chapter 23.49 and the Public Benefit Features Rule; and

 (iii) If a controls and incentives agreement for the theater is not already in effect, to execute a controls and incentives agreement in form and content approved by the Landmarks Preservation Board, so as to comply with the definition of landmark performing arts theater in Section 23.84.024.

 c. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall not approve any priority landmark theater TDR if the plan of rehabilitation includes the elimination of low-income or low-moderate income housing or conversion of low-income or low-moderate income housing to another use unless the owner enters into a voluntary agreement satisfactory to the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~that guarantees the replacement of such low-income and low-moderate income housing. Provision of low-income or low-moderate income housing may include new construction, substantial rehabilitation, or preservation of housing that the Director determines would otherwise be converted to uses other than low-income or low-moderate income housing. In each case there shall be recorded covenants limiting the rents and occupancy of the replacement housing for a period of at least twenty (20) years. The housing shall be in a Downtown zone, except that the Director may approve housing elsewhere in the downtown Special Objectives Area (SOA), as defined in the City's ~~Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (CHAS)))~~Consolidated Plan, consistent with the goals and policies of the ~~CHAS))~~Plan (or successor document).

 C. Public Notice. The Director of Construction and Land Use shall maintain a public record of all priority landmark theater TDR approved and available for purchase.

 D. No Use of Other Landmark TDR Until Priority Landmark Theater TDR Has Been Purchased. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Land Use Code, no permit for a project utilizing Landmark TDR to obtain the right to build in excess of base FAR shall be issued if:

 1. At the time the first construction or master use permit application for the project was filed, priority landmark theater TDR, approved by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~, were available for purchase; and

 2. The project does not utilize all available priority landmark theater TDR prior to any use of other Landmark TDR.

 E. Purchase of Priority Landmark Theater TDR; Use of Sale Proceeds.

 1. Any person, including the City, may purchase priority landmark theater TDRs from the owner of the sending lot by complying with the provisions of this section and the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether or not the purchaser is then the owner of an eligible receiving lot or is an applicant for a permit to develop downtown real property.

 Any person purchasing priority landmark theater TDRs other than for transfer to a specific receiving lot, may, at any time prior to the application for a permit using such TDRs, or after any such permit is denied or expires unused, retransfer such TDRs by deed to any other person for such consideration as may be agreed by the parties, subject to approval by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~. Any purchaser of such TDRs (including any successor or assignee) shall have the right to use such TDRs to obtain FAR above the applicable base under the Land Use Code provisions in effect on the date of vesting, under applicable law, of such party's rights with respect to the development of the project intended to use such TDRs, to the same extent as if the TDRs had been purchased on such date. The Director of DCLU may require, as a condition of processing any permit application using TDRs or for the release of any security posted in lieu of a deed for TDRs to the receiving lot, that the owner of the receiving lot demonstrate that the TDRs have been validly transferred of record to the receiving lot, and that such owner has recorded in the real estate records a notice of the filing of such permit application, stating that such TDRs are not available for retransfer.

 2. Any person acquiring priority landmark theater TDRs shall provide security approved by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~in the amount of the "bonus value" for the zone in which the receiving lot is located, (or, if no receiving lot is identified, then the highest "bonus value" for any zone where such TDRs may be used), as set forth in the Public Benefits Features Rule, multiplied by the number of square feet of TDRs to be purchased and on terms acceptable to the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~, prior to effectiveness of any transfer and prior to issuance of a shoring permit for any structure that will use such TDRs. The owner of the sending lot shall be entitled to receive payment only for the approved rehabilitation of the landmark performing arts theater or for reimbursing other sources of funds actually used for such purpose, all under terms approved by the Director of Housing ~~and~~~~Human Services~~. In the event that the owner of the sending lot fails to proceed with or complete the rehabilitation as required and does not become entitled to payment, the use of the TDRs by the purchaser shall not be impaired, and the payment for the TDRs or proceeds of security therefor shall be paid to the City, to be used for the preservation of landmarks in such manner as the City Council shall provide by ordinance.

 F. Other Landmark TDR. Any Landmark TDR not qualifying as priority landmark theater TDR may be transferred under the applicable provisions of the Land Use Code and Public Benefit Features Rule, subject to the preference for priority landmark theater TDR established in this section.

 G. Review of Determinations. Any owner of a sending site aggrieved by any determination made under this section may, within fifteen (15) days of mailing of notice of such determination, petition for review by the Hearing Examiner in accordance with the procedures of Section 23.76.022 for a Type II land use decision, except as otherwise provided in this subsection. In any such proceeding the determination of the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall be entitled to substantial weight, and the burden shall be on the owner to prove that such determination is clearly erroneous or contrary to law.

 Section 46. SMC 23.49.050(A), (D) Amended. Subsections A and D of section 23.49.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 23.49.050 Downtown Office Core 1, ratios for public benefit features.

 A. General Provisions.

 1. No floor area beyond the base FAR shall be granted for any project which causes the destruction of any designated feature of a Landmark structure, unless authorized by the Landmarks Preservation Board.

 2. Additional gross floor area may be permitted up to the maximum limits set forth in Section 23.49.048 when low or low-moderate income housing is included in the development proposal and the following criteria are met:

 a. Gross floor area equivalent to two (2) times the area of the lot shall be earned either:

 (1) Through the provision of public benefit features other than housing, or

 (2) From transfer of development rights from a lot that is an eligible sending site other than based on its status as a low- income housing TDR site, before a housing bonus, or transfer of development rights from a lot that is an eligible sending site based solely on its status as a low-income housing TDR site, may be used.

 b. The housing bonus shall be granted by the Director based on a finding by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~that the proposed housing satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 3. The Director shall review the design of any public benefit feature in subsection B and determine whether the feature, as proposed for a specific project, provides a public benefit and is consistent with the definitions in Chapter 23.84 and the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 4. Except for housing, human services, child care, landmark performing arts theaters, and off-site open space permitted under Section 23.49.009, all public benefit features provided in return for a bonus shall be located on the same lot or abutting public right-of- way as the project in which the bonus floor area is used.

 D. When subsidy review is required according to one (1) or more of the above criteria:

 1. The bonus requested shall be allowed only to the extent that the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~shall determine, pursuant to a subsidy review, that the benefits of such bonus(es), and proceeds of sale of development rights, if applicable, are reasonably necessary to make economically feasible:

 a. The provision of the public benefit feature; and

 b. In the case of a landmark performing arts theater, any replacement by the owner of such theater of low-income housing or low- to-moderate income housing that is reasonably required to be eliminated from the lot on which the theater is located to make the preservation and operation of the performing arts theater economically feasible,

 and

 2. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~may require, as a condition of the bonus, that the owner of the lot upon which the bonus feature is located agree to limit any other subsidies to be received for that lot.

 Section 47. SMC 23.49.052(D) Amended. Subsection D of 23.49.052 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.052 Downtown Office Core 1, transfer of development rights.

 D. Transfer of Development Rights Agreements.

 1. The fee owners of the sending lot shall execute a deed with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless (in the case of TDR from a low- income housing TDR site) such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ or designee for good cause, which deed shall be recorded in the King County real property records. When TDRs are conveyed to the owner of a receiving lot described in the deed, then unless otherwise expressly stated in the deed or any subsequent instrument conveying such lot or the TDRs, the TDRs shall pass with the receiving lot whether or not a structure using such TDRs shall have been permitted or built prior to any conveyance of the receiving lot. Any subsequent conveyance of TDRs previously conveyed to a receiving lot shall require the written consent of all parties holding any interest in the receiving lot from which the conveyance is made. If the TDRs are transferred other than directly form the sending lot to the receiving lot using the TDRs, then after the initial transfer, all subsequent transfer also shall be by deed, duly executed, acknowledged and recorded, each referring by King County recording number to the prior deed.

 2. Any person may purchase any TDRs that are eligible for transfer between blocks from the owner of the sending lot by complying with the applicable provisions of this section and the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether or not the purchaser is then the owner of an eligible receiving lot or is an applicant for a permit to develop downtown real property. Any person purchasing such TDRs may, at any time prior to the application for a permit using such TDRs, or after any such permit is denied or expires unused, retransfer such TDRs by deed to any other person for such consideration as may be agreed by the parties. Any purchaser of such TDRs (including any successor or assignee) may use such TDRs to obtain FAR above the applicable base to the extent permitted under the Land Use Code provisions in effect on the date of vesting, under applicable law, of such person's rights with respect to the issuance of permits for development of the project intended to use such TDRs, to the same extent as if the TDRs had been purchased on such date. The Director may require, as a condition of processing any permit application using TDRs or for the release of any security posted in lieu of a deed for TDRs to the receiving lot, that the owner of the receiving lot demonstrate that the TDRs have been validly transferred of record to the receiving lot, and that such owner has recorded in the real estate records a notice of the filing of such permit application, stating that such TDRs are not available for retransfer.

 3. For transfers that are permitted based on the status of the sending lot as a low-income housing TDR site or a landmark theater/housing TDR site, the owner of the sending lot shall execute and record an agreement, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~for good cause, to provide for the maintenance of the required low-income housing on the sending lot for a minimum of twenty (20) years.

 4. For any transfer that is permitted, or for which the sending lot is granted priority, based on the status of the sending lot as a landmark performing arts theater, the owner of the sending lot shall sign a written agreement with the City with the approval of the Landmarks Preservation Board, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~for good cause. The owner of the sending lot shall agree:

 a. To maintain the structure in compliance with requirements in such agreement approved by the Landmarks Preservation Board, for a period of at least forty (40) years; and

 b. To maintain the primary use of the theater portion of the structure as a performing arts theater for at least forty (40) years, and for so long thereafter as any of the interior features of the theater portion of the structure remain subject to controls under the Landmarks Ordinance, Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code (or successor provisions), unless after the minimum forty (40) year period the owner demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Landmarks Preservation Board that a change of use is required to allow the owner a sufficient economic return under the standards then applicable to proceedings for removal or modification of such controls.

 In the case of a partial purchase of TDRs by the City for the TDR Bank, the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~may allow a shorter period of commitment. Any relief that may be granted from the landmark designation or from any controls or restrictions imposed in connection with that designation, under SMC Chapter 25.12 or otherwise, shall not affect the owner's obligations pursuant to any agreement under this subsection 4.

 5. For any transfer to which subsection D4 applies, a subsidy review shall be required if at the time of the transfer, the lot on which the landmark performing arts theater is located:

 a. Is being or has been used for any off-site bonus; or

 b. Is subject to any restrictions on the use, occupancy or rents of such property resulting from any public subsidy of any nature, direct or indirect, including without limitation any tax benefits, or will become subject to any such restrictions if any such subsidy for which an application has been made is granted.

 6. When subsidy review is required according to one (1) or more of the above criteria:

 a. The transfer of development rights shall be allowed only to the extent that the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall determine, pursuant to a subsidy review, that the benefits of such transfer and the benefits of any off-site bonus, if applicable, are reasonably necessary to make economically feasible:

 (i) The preservation of the landmark performing arts theater, and

 (ii) Any replacement by the owner of such theater of low-income housing or low-to-moderate income housing that is reasonably required to be eliminated from the sending site to make preservation and operation of the performing arts theater economically feasible; and

 b. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~may require, as a condition of the transfer, that the owner of the lot upon which the landmark performing arts theater is located agree to limit any other subsidies to be received for that lot.

 7. A deed conveying TDRs may require or permit the return of the TDRs to the sending lot under specified conditions, but notwithstanding any such provisions:

 a. The transfer of TDRs to a receiving lot shall remain effective so long as any portion of any structure for which a permit was issued based upon such transfer remains on the receiving lot; and

 b. The City shall not be required to recognize any return of TDRs unless it is demonstrated that all parties in the chain of title have executed, acknowledged and recorded instruments conveying any interest in the TDRs back to the sending lot.

 8. Any agreement governing the use or development of the sending lot shall provide that its covenants or conditions shall run with the land and shall be specifically enforceable by The City of Seattle.

 Section 48. SMC 23.49.070(A),(D) Amended. Subsections A and D of section 23.49.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 23.49.070 Downtown Office Core 2, ratios for public benefit features.

 A. General Provisions.

 1. No floor area beyond the base FAR shall be granted for any project which causes the destruction of any designated feature of a Landmark structure unless authorized by the Landmarks Preservation Board.

 2. Additional gross floor area may be permitted up to the maximum limits set forth in Section 23.49.068 when low or low-moderate income housing is included in the development proposal and the following criteria are met:

 a. Gross floor area equivalent to two (2) times the area of the lot shall be earned either:

 (1) Through the provision of public benefit features other than housing; or

 (2) From transfer of development rights from a lot that is an eligible sending site other than based on its status as a low- income housing TDR site; before a housing bonus, or transfer of development rights from a lot that is an eligible sending site based solely on its status as a low-income housing TDR site, may be used.

 b. The housing bonus shall be granted by the Director based on a finding by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~that the proposed housing satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 3. The Director shall review the design of any public benefit feature in subsection B and determine whether the feature, as proposed for a specific project, provides a public benefit and is consistent with the definitions in Chapter 23.84 and the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 4. Except for housing, human services, child care, landmark performing arts theaters, and off-site open space permitted under Section 23.49.009, all public benefit features provided in return for a bonus shall be located on the same lot or abutting public right-of- way as the project in which the bonus floor area is used.

 D. When subsidy review is required according to one (1) or more of the above criteria:

 1. The bonus requested shall be allowed only to the extent that the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~shall determine, pursuant to a subsidy review, that the benefits of such bonus(es), and proceeds of sale of development rights, if applicable, are reasonably necessary to make economically feasible:

 a. The provision of the public benefit feature and,

 b. In the case of a landmark performing arts theater, any replacement by the owner of such theater of low-income housing or low- to-moderate income housing that is reasonably required to be eliminated from the lot on which the theater is located to make preservation and operation of the performing arts theater economically feasible;

 and

 2. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may require, as a condition of the bonus, that the owner of the lot upon which the bonus feature is located agree to limit any other subsidies to be received for that lot.

 Section 49. SMC 23.49.072(D) Amended. Subsection D of section 23.49.072 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.072 Downtown Office Core 2, transfer of development rights.

 D. Transfer of Development Rights Agreements.

 1. The fee owners of the sending lot shall execute a deed with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless (in the case of TDRs from a low-income housing TDR site) such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ for good cause, which deed shall be recorded in the King County real property records. When TDRs are conveyed to the owner of a receiving lot described in the deed, then unless otherwise expressly stated in the deed or any subsequent instrument conveying such lot or the TDRs, the TDRs shall pass with the receiving lot whether or not a structure using such TDRs shall have been permitted or built prior to any conveyance of the receiving lot. Any subsequent conveyance of TDRs to a receiving lot shall require the written consent of all parties holding any interest in the receiving lot from which the conveyance is made. If the TDRs are transferred other than directly from the sending lot to the receiving lot using the TDRs, then after the initial transfer, all subsequent transfers shall also be by deed, duly executed, acknowledged and recorded, each referring by King County recording number to the prior deed.

 2. Any person may purchase any TDRs that are eligible for transfer between blocks from the owner of the sending lot by complying with the applicable provisions of this section and the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether or not the purchaser is then the owner of an eligible receiving lot or is an applicant for a permit to develop downtown real property. Any person purchasing such TDRs may, at any time prior to the application for a permit using such TDRs, or after any such permit is denied or expires unused, retransfer such TDRs by deed to any other person for such consideration as may be agreed by the parties. Any purchaser of such TDRs (including any successor or assignee) may use such TDR to obtain FAR above the applicable base to the extent permitted under the Land Use Code provisions in effect on the date of vesting, under applicable law, of such person's rights with respect to the issuance of permits for development of the project intended to use such TDRs, to the same extent as if the TDRs had been purchased on such date. The Director may require, as a condition of processing any permit application using TDRs or for the release of any security posted in lieu of a deed for TDRs to the receiving lot, that the owner of the receiving lot demonstrate that the TDRs have been validly transferred of record to the receiving lot, and that such owner has recorded in the real estate records a notice of the filing of such permit application, stating that such TDRs are not available for retransfer.

 3. For transfers that are permitted based on the status of the sending lot as a low-income housing TDR site or a landmark theater/housing TDR site, the owner of the sending lot shall execute and record an agreement, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~for good cause, to provide for the maintenance of the required low-income housing on the sending lot for a minimum of twenty (20) years.

 4. For any transfer that is permitted, or for which the sending lot is granted priority, based on the status of the sending lot as a landmark performing arts theater, the owner of the sending lot shall sign a written agreement with the City with the approval of the Landmarks Preservation Board, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~for good cause. The owner of the sending lot shall agree:

 a. To maintain the structure in compliance with requirements in such agreement approved by the Landmarks Preservation Board, for a period of at least forty (40) years; and

 b. To maintain the primary use of the theater portion of the structure as a performing arts theater for at least forty (40) years, and for so long thereafter as any of the interior features of the theater portion of the structure remain subject to controls under the Landmarks Ordinance, Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code (or successor provisions), unless after the minimum forty (40) year period the owner demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Landmarks Preservation Board that a change of use is required to allow the owner a sufficient economic return under the standards then applicable to proceedings for removal or modification of such controls.

 In the case of the partial purchase of TDRs by the City for the TDR Bank, the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~may allow a shorter period of commitment. Any relief that may be granted from the landmark designation or from any controls or restrictions imposed in connection with that designation, under SMC Chapter 25.12 or otherwise, shall not affect the owner's obligations pursuant to any agreement under this subsection 4.

 5. For any transfer to which subsection D4 applies, a subsidy review shall be required if at the time of the transfer, the lot on which the landmark performing arts theater is located:

 a. Is being or has been used for any off-site bonus; or

 b. Is subject to any restrictions on the use, occupancy or rents of such property resulting from any

 public subsidy of any nature, direct or indirect, including without limitation any tax benefits, or will become subject to any such restrictions if any such subsidy for which an application has been made is granted.

 6. When subsidy review is required according to one (1) or more of the above criteria:

 a. The transfer of development rights shall be allowed only to the extent that the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall determine, pursuant to a subsidy review, that the benefits of such transfer and the benefits of any off-site bonus, if applicable, are reasonably necessary to make economically feasible:

 (i) The preservation of the landmark performing arts theater, and

 (ii) Any replacement by the owner of such theater of low- income housing or low-to-moderate income housing that is reasonably required to be eliminated from the sending lot to make preservation and operation of the performing arts theater economically feasible; and

 b. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~may require, as a condition of the transfer, that the owner of the lot upon which the landmark performing arts theater is located agree to limit any other subsidies to be received for that lot.

 7. A deed conveying TDRs may require or permit the return of the TDRs to the sending lot under specified conditions, but notwithstanding any such provisions:

 a. The transfer of TDRs to a receiving lot shall remain effective so long as any portion of any structure for which a permit was issued based upon such transfer remains on the receiving lot; and

 b. The City shall not be required to recognize any return of TDRs unless it is demonstrated that all parties in the chain of title have executed, acknowledged, and recorded instruments conveying any interest in the TDRs back to the sending lot.

 8. Any agreement governing the use or development of the sending lot shall provide that its covenants or conditions shall run with the land and shall be specifically enforceable by The City of Seattle.

 Section 50. SMC 23.49.100(A) Amended. Subsection A of section 23.49.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.100 Downtown Retail Core, ratios for public benefit features.

 A. General Provisions.

 1. No floor area beyond the base FAR shall be granted for any project which causes the destruction of any designated feature of a Landmark structure, unless authorized by the Landmarks Board.

 2. Additional gross floor area may be permitted up to the "maximum FAR with public benefit features including housing" described in Section 23.49.098 when low or low- moderate income housing is included in the development proposal and the following criteria are met:

 a. Gross floor area equivalent to two (2) times the area of the lot shall be earned through the provision of public benefit features other than housing, before a housing bonus may be used.

 b. The housing bonus shall be granted by the Director based on a finding by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~that the proposed housing satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 3. The Director shall review the design of any public benefit feature in subsection B to determine whether the feature, as proposed for a specific project, provides public benefits and is consistent with the definitions in Chapter 23.84 and the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 4. Except for housing, human services, landmark performing arts theaters and child care, all public benefit features provided in return for a bonus shall be located on the same lot or abutting right- of-way as the project in which the bonus floor area is used.

 Section 51. SMC 23.49.102(D) Amended. Subsection D of section 23.49.102 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.102 Downtown Retail Core, transfer of development rights.

 D. Transfer of Development Rights Agreements.

 1. The fee owners of the sending lot shall execute a deed, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless (in the case of TDRs from a low-income housing TDR site) such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ or his or her designee for good cause, which deed shall be recorded with the King County real property records. When TDRs are conveyed to the owner of a receiving lot described in the deed, then unless otherwise expressly stated in the deed or any subsequent instrument conveying such lots or the TDRs, the TDRs shall pass with the receiving lot whether or not a structure using such TDRs shall have been permitted or built prior to any conveyance of the receiving lot. Any subsequent conveyance of TDRs previously conveyed to a receiving lot shall require the written consent of all parties holding any interest in the receiving lot from which the conveyance is made. If the TDRs are transferred other than directly from the sending lot to the receiving lot using the TDRs, then after the initial transfer, all subsequent transfers shall also be by deed, duly executed, acknowledged and recorded, each referring by King County recording number to the prior deed.

 2. Any person may purchase any TDRs that are eligible for transfer between blocks from the owner of the sending site by complying with the applicable provisions of this section and the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether or not the purchaser is then the owner of an eligible receiving site or is an applicant for a permit to develop downtown real property. Any person purchasing such TDRs may, at any time prior to the application for a permit using such TDRs, or after any such permit is denied or expires unused, retransfer such TDRs by deed to any other person for such consideration as may be agreed by the parties. Any purchaser of such TDRs (including any successor or assignee) may use such TDRs to obtain FAR above the applicable base to the extent permitted under the Land Use Code provisions in effect on the date of vesting, under applicable law, of such person's rights with respect to the issuance of permits for development of the project intended to use such TDRs, to the same extent as if the TDRs had been purchased on such date. The Director may require, as a condition of processing any permit application using TDRs or for the release of any security posted in lieu of a deed for TDRs to the receiving lot, that the owner of the receiving lot demonstrate that the TDRs have been validly transferred of record to the receiving lot, and that such owner has recorded in the real estate records a notice of the filing of such permit application, stating that such TDRs are not available for retransfer.

 3. For transfers that are permitted based on the status of the sending lot as a low-income housing TDR site or a landmark theater/housing TDR site, the owner of the sending lot shall execute and record an agreement, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~for good cause, to provide for the maintenance of the required low-income housing on the sending lot for a minimum of twenty (20) years.

 4. A deed conveying TDRs may require or permit the return of the TDRs to the sending lot under specified conditions, but notwithstanding any such provisions;

 a. The transfer of TDRs to a receiving lot shall remain effective so long as any portion of any structure for which a permit was issued based upon such transfer remains on the receiving lot; and

 b. The City shall not be required to recognize any return of TDRs unless it is demonstrated that all parties in the chain of title have executed, acknowledged and recorded instruments conveying any interest in the TDRs back to the sending lot.

 5. Any agreement governing the use or development of the sending lot shall provide that its covenants and conditions shall run with the land and shall be specifically enforceable by The City of Seattle.

 Section 52. SMC 23.49.126(A) Amended. Subsection A of section 23.49.126 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.126 Downtown Mixed Commercial, ratios for public benefit features.

 A. General Provisions.

 1. No floor area beyond the base FAR shall be granted for any project which causes the destruction of any designated feature of a Landmark structure, unless authorized by the Landmarks Preservation Board.

 2. The Director shall review the design of public benefit features listed in subsection B to determine whether the feature, as proposed for a specific project, actually provides a public benefit and is consistent with the definitions in Chapter 23.84 and with the Public Benefit Features Rule. The housing bonus shall be granted by the Director based on a finding by the Director of the ~~Department~~Office of Housing ~~and Human Services~~that the proposed housing satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 3. Except for housing, human services, child care, and off-site open space permitted under Section 23.49.009, all public benefit features provided in return for a bonus shall be located on the same lot or abutting public right-of-way as the project in which the bonus floor area is used.

 Section 53 . SMC 23.49.128(D) Amended. Subsection D of section 23.49.128 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.128 Downtown Mixed Commercial, transfer of development rights.

 D. Transfer of Development Rights Agreements.

 1. The fee owners of the sending lot shall execute a deed, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless (in the case of TDRs from a low-income housing TDR site) such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ for good cause, which deed shall be recorded with the King County real property records. When TDRs are conveyed to the owner of a receiving lot described in the deed, then unless otherwise expressly stated in the deed or any subsequent instrument conveying such lot or the TDRs, the TDRs shall pass with the receiving lot whether or not a structure using such TDRs shall have been permitted or built prior to any conveyance of the receiving lot. Any subsequent conveyance of TDRs previously conveyed to a receiving lot shall require the written consent of all parties holding any interest in the receiving lot from which the conveyance is made. If the TDRs are transferred other than directly from the sending lot to the receiving lot using the TDRs, then after the initial transfer, all subsequent transfers shall also be by deed, duly executed, acknowledged and recorded, each referring by King County recording number to the prior deed.

 2. Any person may purchase any TDRs that are eligible for transfer between blocks from the owner of the sending site by complying with the applicable provisions of this section and the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether or not the purchaser is then the owner of an eligible receiving lot or is an applicant for a permit to develop downtown real property. Any person purchasing such TDRs may, at any time prior to the application for a permit using such TDRs, or after any such permit is denied or expires unused, retransfer such TDRs by deed to any other person for such consideration as may be agreed by the parties. Any purchaser of such TDRs (including any successor or assignee) may use such TDRs to obtain FAR above the applicable base to the extent permitted under the Land Use Code provisions in effect on the date of vesting, under applicable law, of such person's rights with respect to the issuance of permits for development of the project intended to use such TDRs, to the same extent as if the TDRs had been purchased on such date. The Director may require, as a condition of processing any permit application using TDRs or for the release of any security posted in lieu of a deed for TDRs to the receiving lot, that the owner of the receiving lot demonstrate that the TDRs have been validly transferred of record to the receiving lot, and that such owner has recorded in the real estate records a notice of the filing of such permit application, stating that such TDRs are not available for retransfer.

 3. For transfers that are permitted based on the status of the sending lot as a low-income housing TDR site or a landmark theater/housing TDR site, the owner of the sending lot shall execute and record an agreement, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~or his or her designee for good cause, to provide for the maintenance of the required low- income housing on the sending lot for a minimum of twenty (20) years.

 4. For any transfer that is permitted, or for which the sending lot is granted priority, based on the status of the sending lot as a landmark performing arts theater, the owner of the sending lot shall sign a written agreement with the City with the approval of the Landmarks Preservation Board, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~for good cause. The owner of the sending lot shall agree:

 a. To maintain the structure in compliance with such agreement for a period of at least forty (40) years; and

 b. To maintain the primary use of the theater portion of the structure as a performing arts theater for at least forty (40) years, and for so long thereafter as any of the interior features of the theater portion of the structure remain subject to controls under the Landmarks Ordinance, Chapter 25.12 of the Seattle Municipal Code (or successor provisions), unless after the minimum forty (40) year period the owner demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Landmarks Preservation Board that a change of use is required to allow the owner a sufficient economic return under the standards then applicable to proceedings for removal or modification of such controls.

 In the case of a partial purchase of TDRs by the City for the TDR Bank, the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may allow a shorter period of commitment. Any relief that may be granted from the landmark designation or from any controls or restrictions imposed in connection with that designation under SMC Chapter 25.12 or otherwise, shall not affect the owner's obligations to any agreement under this subsection 4.

 5. For any transfer to which subsection D4 applies, a subsidy review shall be required if at the time of the transfer, the lot on which the landmark performing arts theater is located:

 a. Is being or has been used for any off-site bonus; or

 b. Is subject to any restrictions on the use, occupancy or rents of such property resulting from any public subsidy of any nature, direct or indirect, including without limitation any tax benefits, or will become subject to any such restrictions if any such subsidy for which an application has been made is granted.

 6. When subsidy review is required according to one (1) or more of the above criteria:

 a. The transfer of development rights shall be allowed only to the extent that the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ shall determine, pursuant to a subsidy review, that the benefits of such transfer and the benefits of any off-site bonus, if applicable, are reasonably necessary to make economically feasible:

 (i) The preservation of the landmark performing arts theater, and

 (ii) Any replacement by the owner of such theater of low- income housing or low-to-moderate income housing that is reasonably required to be eliminated from the sending lot to make preservation and operation of the performing arts theater economically feasible; and

 b. The Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ may require, as a condition of the transfer, that the owner of the lot upon which the landmark performing arts theater is located agree to limit any other subsidies to be received for that lot.

 7. A deed conveying TDRs may require or permit the return of the TDRs to the sending lot under specified conditions but notwithstanding any such provisions:

 a. The transfer of TDRs to a receiving lot shall remain effective so long as any portion of any structure for which a permit was issued based upon such transfer remains on the receiving lot; and

 b. The City shall not be required to recognize any return of TDRs unless it is demonstrated that all parties in the chain of title have executed, acknowledged, and recorded instruments conveying any interest in the TDRs back to the sending lot.

 8. Any agreement governing the use or development of the sending lot shall provide that its covenants and conditions shall run with the land and shall be specifically enforceable by The City of Seattle.

 Section 54. SMC 23.49.152(A) Amended. Subsection A of section 23.49.152 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.152 Downtown Mixed Residential, ratios for public benefit features.

 A. General Provisions.

 1. No floor area beyond the base FAR shall be granted for any project which causes the destruction of any designated feature of a Landmark structure unless authorized by the Landmarks Preservation Board.

 2. Additional gross floor area may be permitted up to the "maximum FAR with housing" described in Section 23.49.150 when low or low- moderate housing is included in the development proposal and the following criteria are met:

 a. The housing bonus shall be granted only for the production of low or low-moderate housing in a new structure, or in a rehabilitated structure or portion of a rehabilitated structure which was not in residential use as of January 1, 1983.

 b. The housing shall be located in a DMR zone.

 c. The housing bonus shall be granted by the Director based on a finding by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~that the proposed housing satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 d. When the housing option as provided in Section 23.49.164 C is used, the housing provided shall be for low- income households for a period of at least twenty (20) years in order to receive a housing bonus, and the bonus ratio shall be six (6) square feet of commercial floor area for every square foot of housing provided.

 3. The Director shall review the design of any public benefit feature listed in subsection B to determine whether the feature, as proposed for a specific project, provides public benefits and is consistent with the definitions in Chapter 23.84 and the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 4. Except for housing, human services, child care, and off-site open space permitted under Section 23.49.009, all public benefit features provided in return for a bonus shall be located on the same lot or abutting public right-of-way as the project in which the bonus floor area is used.

 Section 55. SMC 23.49.154(D) Amended. Subsection D of section 23.49.154 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.154 Downtown Mixed Residential, transfer of development rights.

 D. Transfer of Development Rights Agreements.

 1. The fee owners of the sending and receiving lots shall execute a deed or an agreement, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~for good cause, which deed or other agreement shall be recorded with the title to both lots.

 2. The agreement or deed shall be for a term which equals or exceeds the life of the project on the receiving lot for which the rights were transferred.

 3. For transfers that are permitted based on the status of the sending site as a low-income housing TDR site, the owner of the sending site shall agree, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending site, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~for good cause, to provide for the maintenance of the required low-income housing on the sending lot for a minimum of twenty (20) years.

 4. The agreement or deed shall state that the development rights transferred from the sending lot to the receiving lot may not be reclaimed unless the project on the receiving lot, or that portion of the project for which the rights were transferred, is demolished. The deed or agreement shall also provide that its covenants and conditions shall run with the land and shall be specifically enforceable by any party or by The City of Seattle.

 Section 56. SMC 23.49.180(B) Amended. Subsection B of section 23.49.180 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.180 Pioneer Square Mixed, transfer of development rights.

 B. Transfer of Development Rights Between Different Downtown Blocks.

 1. Development rights shall not be transferred to receiving lots in PSM zones from lots on different downtown blocks.

 2. Development rights may be transferred from sending lots in PSM zones to receiving lots in DOC1, DOC2 and DMC zones located on a different block when the sending lot contains low-income housing.

 a. Each structure on the sending lot shall have the greater of fifty percent (50%) of total gross floor area or the gross floor area in use as low-income housing on January 1, 1983, committed to low-income housing use.

 b. Sending lots shall have gross floor area equivalent to at least one (1) FAR in low-income housing use.

 c. Principal use surface parking areas shall not be included in the area of the sending lot for purposes of calculating the amount of development rights which may be transferred. Accessory surface parking areas shall be included up to a maximum area of one- quarter (1/4) of the footprint of the structure on the sending lot.

 d. The low-income housing on the sending lot shall be certified by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~as satisfying the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 3. Development rights may be transferred from sending lots in the PSM zone to receiving lots located on different downtown blocks in the DOC1, DOC2 and DMC zones from a sending lot which is proposed for infill development and was vacant as of January 1, 1984.

 a. Lots with structures subject to abatement orders on or before January 1, 1984, and surface parking areas, including lots with minor structures accessory to parking operations, shall be considered vacant for the purpose of this section.

 b. The transfer of development rights may not occur until a certificate of occupancy has been issued for the project proposed on the vacant lot.

 Section 57. SMC 23.49.212(B) Amended. Subsection B of section 23.49.212 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.212 International District Mixed, transfer of development rights.

 B. Transfer of Development Rights Between Lots on Different Blocks.

 1. Development rights shall not be transferred to receiving lots in IDM zones from lots on different downtown blocks.

 2. Development rights may be transferred from sending lots in IDM zones to receiving lots in DOC1, DOC2, and DMC zones when the sending lot contains low-income housing.

 a. Each structure on the sending lot shall have the greater of fifty percent (50%) of the total gross floor area, or the gross floor area in use as low-income housing on January 1, 1983, committed to low-income housing use.

 b. Sending lots shall have gross floor area equivalent to at least one (1) FAR in low-income housing use.

 c. Principal use surface parking areas shall not be included in the area of the sending lot for purposes of calculating the amount of development rights which may be transferred. Accessory surface parking areas shall be included up to a maximum area of one- quarter (1/4) of the footprint of the structure on the sending lot.

 d. The low-income housing on the sending lot must be certified by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~as satisfying the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 Section 51. SMC 23.49.214(D) Amended. Subsection D of section 23.49.214 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.214 Combined lot development.

 D. The affordable housing shall be certified by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~ as satisfying the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 Section 58. SMC 23.49.240(B) Amended. Subsection B of section 23.49.240 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.49.240 International District Residential, transfer of development rights.

 B. Transfer of Development Rights Between Different Downtown Blocks.

 1. Development rights shall not be transferred to receiving lots in IDR zones from lots on different downtown blocks.

 2. Development rights may be transferred from sending lots in IDR zones to receiving lots in the DOC1, DOC2, and DMC zones, when the sending lot contains low-income housing.

 a. Each structure on the sending lot shall have the greater of fifty percent (50%) of the total gross floor area, or the gross floor area in use as low-income housing on January 1, 1983, committed to low-income housing use.

 b. Sending lots shall have gross floor area equivalent to at least one (1) FAR in low-income housing use.

 c. Principal use surface parking areas shall not be included in the area of the sending lot for purposes of calculating the amount of development rights which may be transferred. Accessory surface parking areas shall be included up to a maximum area of one-quarter (1/4) of the footprint of the structure on the sending lot.

 d. The low-income housing on the sending lot must be certified by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~as meeting the guidelines of the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 Section 59. SMC 23.84.024 Amended. Subsection ""Low-income housing TDR site" of section 23.84.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.84.024 "L."

 "Low-income housing TDR site" means a lot meeting the following requirements:

 1. The lot is located in any Downtown zone except PMM, DH-1, and DH-2 zones;

 2. Each structure on the lot shall have the greater of fifty (50) percent of total gross floor area, or the gross floor area in use as low-income housing on January 1, 1983, committed to low-income housing use for a minimum of twenty (20) years in accordance with the Public Benefit Features Rule;

 3. The lot has gross floor area equivalent to at least one (1) FAR committed to low-income housing use for a minimum of twenty (20) years in accordance with the Public Benefit Features Rule; and

 4. The low-income housing commitment on the lot has been certified by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~as satisfying the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 Section 60. SMC 23.84.030 Amended. Subsection "Priority landmark theater TDR" of section 23.84.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.84.030 "P."

 "Priority landmark theater TDR" means that portion of the development rights eligible for transfer from a landmark performing arts theater that the Directors of Housing ~~and Human Services~~, and Construction and Land Use, have approved based on an application by the owner under this section, and that the owner has committed to sell, lease, or option at a price approved by the Director of Housing ~~and Human Services~~based on appraised value.

 Section 61. Earlier Amendments to be given equal effect. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event another ordinance has heretofore been enacted that amended any section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code amended herein, that earlier amendment should be effectuated with equal dignity to this ordinance if at all possible in the codification of the Seattle Municipal Code and by the courts, notwithstanding the use in this ordinance of an obsolete version of that part of the Seattle Municipal Code on which to show intended amendments.

 Section 62. Earlier repeals to be given full effect. In the event any section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code purported to be amended herein has heretofore been repealed, that earlier repeal shall be given full effect, and nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to re-enact or preserve that section or subsection.

 Section 63. Subsequent Ordinances to refer to this ordinance. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event a subsequent ordinance refers to a position or office that was abolished by this ordinance, that reference shall be deemed to be to the new superseding office or position created by this ordinance, and shall not be construed to resurrect the old position or office unless the subsequent ordinance expressly so provides by reference to this ordinance.

 Section 64. Subsequent amendments to be interpreted in light of this ordinance. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event a subsequent ordinance refers to or amends a section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code amended herein, but the later ordinance fails to account for the change made by this ordinance, the two sets of amendments should be given effect together if at all possible.

 Section 65. Typographical errors to be disregarded. It is the express intent of the City Council that this ordinance makes only those changes to the Seattle Municipal Code shown by striking out, inside double parentheses, text to be deleted, and underlining text to be added. To this end, errors in showing the pre-existing Seattle Municipal Code text are to be disregarded, and no change in the Seattle Municipal Code is intended thereby.

 Section 66. Section Headings. The section headings in this ordinance are for reference purposes only. They have no legal effect, and shall not be codified.

 Section 67. Ordinance to be published. The City Clerk shall publish in the City's legal newspaper the title and the first fifteen (15) sections of this ordinance, and a numerical tabulation by Seattle Municipal Code number or Ordinance number of the sections or subsections that are amended by sections __ through __ of this ordinance as the summary of this ordinance, and state as part of that publication that the entire text may be examined electronically at http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us on the Internet, or in paper form at the offices of the City Clerk, First Floor, Seattle Municipal Building, 600 Fourth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98104, or will be mailed upon request.

 Section 68. Severability. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 69. Ratification of consistent prior acts. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 70. Effective Date. Sections __ through __ of this ordinance shall take effect January 1, 1999. (These blanks here and in what is at the moment section 61 can't be filled in until we have the ordinance text finalized.)

 Section 71. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1998, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1998.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor Paul Schell

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1998.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 SLG/eb

 November 10, 1998

 112463.DOC (Ver. 4)

```
