

********

**Council Bill Number: 112513**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119326**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to fees for permits and services of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; amending Table C-2 Zoning Review Fee Calculation.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 14, 1998
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 21, 1998
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 21, 1998
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 7, 1998
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE, FEES, PERMITS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 119255, 119274

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to fees for permits and services of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use; amending Table C-2 Zoning Review Fee Calculation.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Section 22.900C.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, adopted by Ordinance 119255 and amended by Ordinance 119274 is amended as follows:

 22.900C.010 Land use and zoning review fees.

 A. Zoning and land use review fees.

 The Zoning Review and Land Use Fees set forth by Table C-1 shall be added to determine the total fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, Environmentally Critical Area approvals, and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services unless otherwise specified.

 B. Zoning review fees. Zoning reviews for land use permits separate from a building permit shall be charged according to Tables C-1 and C-

 2. Valuation for Table C-2 shall be the value of construction as determined according to Section 22.900D.010. If two or more buildings are allowed under one permit, they shall be assessed zoning review fees as separate buildings. The individual fees shall then be added to determine the total zoning review fee for the land use permit.

 When more than one land use component is included as part of an application, only one zoning review fee shall be charged, in an amount equal to the greatest of the zoning review fees applicable to the land use components included in the application. The minimum zoning review fee shall be $140.00 unless otherwise specified.

 C. Land use review fees.

 The land use review fee for Master Use Permits, Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, Environmentally Critical Area approvals and other miscellaneous reviews, research and services shall be charged according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

 D. Types of Land Use Review Fees.

 Land use review fees are categorized into three types for the purpose of this subtitle.

 1. Type A Land Use Reviews. Type A land use reviews include variances, administrative conditional uses, design reviews and Environmentally Critical Areas exceptions.

 2. Type B Land Use Reviews. Type B land use reviews include all Master Use Permit, Hearing Examiner, Council Land Use Actions and Environmentally Critical Area approvals except those listed in Section 22.900C.010 D1.

 3. Combined Land Use Reviews. Combined land use reviews include one or more components from a Type A land use review combined with one or more components from a Type B land use review in the same project application.

 E. Fee Components of Land Use Review Fees.

 Land use review fees include a minimum land use review fee and may include an hourly fee.

 1. Minimum Land Use Review Fee - All Master Use Permit, Hearing Examiner, Council Land Use Actions and Environmentally Critical Area approvals include a minimum review fee as specified in Table C-1 and described below.

 a. Type A Land Use Reviews.

 (1) The minimum land use review fee for Type A land use reviews is $1,457.00. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 20 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 20 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.

 (2) When more than one Type A component is included as part of an application (e.g. a variance and an administrative conditional use component), only one minimum review fee shall be charged. The minimum land use review fee, when multiple components are included, is applied to administrative and public notice costs and the first 20 hours of review. In addition to the minimum review fee, a fee shall be charged for all review hours in excess of the 20 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.

 b. Type B Land Use Reviews.

 (1) The minimum land use review fee for Type B land use reviews is $1,986.00. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 10 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 10 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.

 (2) When more than one Type B component is included as part of an application (e.g., environmental review and short plat components, or lot boundary adjustment and shoreline substantial development components) only one minimum review fee shall be charged, in an amount equal to the greater of the minimum review fees applicable to the land use components included in the application. The minimum land use review fee, when multiple components are included, is applied to administrative and public notice costs and the first 10 hours of review. In addition to the minimum review fee, a fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 10 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.

 c. Combined Land Use Reviews. The minimum land use review fee for a combined land use review is $2,720. The minimum land use review fee is applied to administrative and public notice costs (other than the cost of environmental review signs) and the first 16 hours of review associated with the application. In addition to the minimum review fee, an hourly fee shall be charged for all hours in excess of the 16 hours of review included in the minimum land use review fee.

 2. Hourly Land Use Fees. For approvals subject to hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, an hourly rate of $175.00 per hour shall be charged for all review hours in excess of the hours included in the minimum land use review fee, unless otherwise specified in Table C-1 below.

 F. Miscellaneous Reviews, Research and Services.

 The minimum land use review fee and the hourly rate for miscellaneous reviews, research and services are as specified in Table C-1.

 G. Time of payment.

 1. Zoning Review Fees: Zoning review fees for land use permits shall be collected at the time of application. Fees collected at the time of application will be based on Department estimates of the total fees due at the time of permit issuance. The final Department fees will be recalculated during review, and any additional amount due shall be collected prior to the issuance of the permit.

 2. Land Use Review Fees:

 a. The following fees are due prior to application or provision of service:

 (1) Pre-application fee. The fee for land use/zoning pre- application conference specified in Table C-1 shall be paid prior to the conference.

 (2) Design review fee. One-half the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($728.50) shall be paid upon application for the design review pre-design process.

 b. The following fees and amounts are due at the time of application or provision of service:

 (1) Minimum land use review fee: The minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 shall be paid at application submittal. For projects entailing hourly fees in addition to the minimum land use review fee, the Director may require an additional deposit to be made at application submittal and periodic progress payments to be made during the application review process.

 (2) Design review fee for Type A land use reviews: The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($728.50) shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.

 (3) Design review fee that is a component of a combined land use review: The second half of the minimum land use review fee specified in Table C-1 ($728.50) plus the difference in the minimum review fee between a Type A and a combined land use approval ($1263.00) shall be paid upon application for the Master Use Permit.

 c. The following fees and amounts are due at the times specified below.

 (1) All outstanding land use fees shall be paid prior to the publication of a decision or recommendation on the application and prior to issuance of the permit. The actual charges and fees paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances are due and payable on demand. In cases where no published decision or recommendation is required, fees owed shall be paid prior to issuance of the permit, or issuance of a letter.

 (2) For Council and Hearing Examiner approvals, the fee due to date plus an estimated charge for future work up to and through final Council or Hearing Examiner action shall be paid at the time the recommendation of the Director is available for public review and before it is forwarded for final action. After final Council or Hearing Examiner action, the actual charges and estimated fee paid shall be reconciled and all outstanding balances shall be due and payable upon demand, and prior to issuance of the permit.

 H. Additional Review.

 In addition to the fees set in Table C-1, review time required on a project prior to, or in lieu of, an application will be charged hourly as determined by the Director.

 I. Correction Penalty Fee.

 After written notice to the applicant, a penalty fee of $250.00 may be charged for each additional correction cycle required due to lack of response from the applicant.

 J. Environmental Review Signs.

 When an environmental review sign is required by the Land Use Code (See Seattle Municipal Code 23.76), a minimum environmental review sign fee of $320.00 shall be charged for the fabrication, installation and removal of the sign according to Table C-1 unless otherwise specified.

 Table C-1 - LAND USE AND ZONING FEES

 MASTER USE PERMIT and ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS APPROVALS

 Land Use Fee For: Type of Land Use Review Fee Minimum Land Use Review Fee Hourly Land Use Fee1 Zoning Review Fee (see

 22.900D.010E,

 explanation of DFI)

 1. Administrative conditional uses (ACUs) A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 2. Design review A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 3. Environmental reviews (SEPA)2 (including projects with more than one addressed site) a. DNSs, mitigated DNSs, other lead agency project review B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 b. DSs and EISs B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 (40-hour deposit) Table C-2

 c. EIS addenda/SEIS B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 (10-hour deposit) Table C-2

 d. PEIS latecomers fees B Reserved Reserved Reserved

 4. Environmental3 Review Sign $320 None None

 5. Environmentally Critical Areas a. Exemption review $175 $175 per hour in

 excess of 1 hour

 of review

 b. Exception and wetland alteration exception A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 c. Yard reduction variance B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 d. Buffer reductions and restoration exceptions A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 e. Short plat cluster housing and ACU to recover development potential B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 6. General Development Plan B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 7. Lot boundary adjustment $875 None $110 per lot

 8. Plan shoreline permit See Council approvals See Council See Council approvals

 approvals

 9. Public benefit feature review $350 $175 per hour in $175 per hour

 excess of 2 hours

 of review

 10. Shoreline permits a. Substantial development permits B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 b. Variances4 and con- ditional uses B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 c. Revisions (not due to required conditions) $350 $175 per hour in $175 per hour

 excess of 2 hours

 of review

 11. Short subdivisions5 B $1,986 $175 per hour $110 per lot

 12. Sidewalk cafints $875 None None

 13. Special accommodation None None $350

 14. Special exceptions B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 15. Structural building overhangs and areaways a. Application as a separate component $350 None None

 b. Included as part of a land use and zoning review None None None

 16. Temporary uses a. Temporary use permit for relocation of police and fire protection None None Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 b. Temporary use permit for more than 4 weeks B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 17. Variances4 A $1,457 $175 per hour None

 18. Vegetation removal6 Class A $250 None None

 Class B $125 None None

 Class C $65 None None

 COUNCIL AND HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

 Land Use Fee For: Type of Land Minimum Land Hourly Land Zoning Review Fee

 Use Review Fee Use Review Fee Use Fee1

 1. Concept approvals (e.g., B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by planned community/ Table C-28 residential develop-ment, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline develop-ments, other general development plans)

 2. Council conditional uses B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 3. Full subdivisions7 B $1,986 $175 per hour $110 per lot

 4. Major Institution a. Master Plans B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 (40 hour deposit) Table C-28

 b. Designation B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-28

 5. Zoning map changes and rezones B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-28

 MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, & SERVICES

 Land Use Fee For: Minimum Land Hourly Land Zoning Review Fee Use Review Fee Use Fee1

 1. Accessory dwelling unit notification $50 None None

 2. Certificate of land use $110 None None

 3. Concurrency (Reserved) (Reserved) (Reserved)

 4. Curbcuts9 $55.00 each commercial; None None $26.00 each residential

 5. Development potential analysis $550.00 $110 per hour in None

 excess of 5 hours of review

 6. Establishing Use for the Record $140 None None

 7. Interpretations10 a. Interpretations $660 None None

 b. Interpretations requested after $880 None None publication of Director's report

 c. Major Institution Master Plan $350 $175 per hour in None

 excess of 2 hours of review

 8. Legal building site letters $660 None None

 9. Major institution anagement review of annual plan $1,300 per year None None

 10. Neighborhood planning (Reserved) (Reserved) (Reserved)

 11. Noise survey review and variance See Table D-2

 12. Notice (additional) 11 a. Land use information bulletin $65 None None (GMR notice)

 b. Reposting large sign or placards $125 None None

 c. Mailed notice $250 None None

 d. Landslide prone notice $190 None None

 13. Open space remainder lots and surplus $625 None $110 per lot state property

 14. Preapplication conference1 $100 None None

 15. Rebuild letters $375 None None

 16. Records research $110 $110 per hour in None

 excess of 1 hour of research

 17. Renewals including shoreline renewals $350 $175 per hour in $175 per hour

 excess of 2 hours of review

 18. Revisions other than shoreline revisions $350 $175 per hour in $175 per hour

 excess of 2 hours of review

 19. School use and school development $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by advisory committee Table C-28 reviews

 Notes to Table C-1:

 1. The hourly fee shall be charged for hours in excess of the review hours covered by the minimum land use review fee.

 2. A flat fee of $430 shall be assessed by DCLU for Determinations of Non-Significance (DNSs) and Mitigated Determinations of Non-Significance (MDNSs) for projects that include City of Seattle landmarks and projects located within a special review or landmark district. No hourly fees shall be assessed for these types of approvals unless DCLU is the lead agency.

 3. The minimum fee of $320 is applied to the cost to fabricate, install and remove the environmental review sign. If the sign is removed or defaced before the final City decision, the applicant will be responsible for paying the vendor contracted with the City to repair or replace the sign.

 4. The single variance fee shall be applicable whether the project requires one or multiple variances.

 5. Includes short subdivisions in Environmentally Critical Areas.

 6. The three classes are defined by Director's Rule 3-94.

 7. Includes full subdivisions in Environmentally Critical Areas.

 8. The zoning fee will be applied only to the portion of the project for which a use permit is being approved. The remainder of the site plan review will be charged $175 per hour.

 9. Curbcut fees are charged only when a separate curbcut permit is applied for, not when the curbcut is part of a development permit application.

 10. The fees for interpretations of SMC Chapters 25.12, 25.20. 25.22, and 25.24 shall be collected by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

 11. Additional notice may be given in circumstances including but not limited to the following: reinstallation of environmental review signs, reposting of the land use review or environmental signs, new component reviews added subsequent to the original notice, revised decisions, and changes to the scope of the project.

 12. This fee is not refundable and shall be applied towards the permit application fee if an application for a permit is made within 6 months of the date of the pre-application conference and if the project is identified by address at the time of the pre- application conference.

 Table C-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF LAND USE AND ZONING FEES1

 Table C-1 - LAND USE AND ZONING FEES

 MASTER USE PERMIT and ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS APPROVALS

 Land Use Fee For: Type of Land Use Review Fee Minimum Land Use Review Fee Hourly Land Use Fee1 Zoning Review Fee (see

 22.900D.010E,

 explanation of DFI) 1. Administrative conditional uses (ACUs) A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 2. Design review A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 3. Environmental reviews (SEPA)2 (including projects with more than one addressed site) a. DNSs, mitigated DNSs, other lead agency project review B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 b. DSs and EISs B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 (40-hour deposit) Table C-2

 c. EIS addenda/SEIS B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 (10-hour deposit) Table C-2

 d. PEIS latecomers fees B Reserved Reserved Reserved

 4. Environmental3 Review Sign $320 None None

 5. Environmentally Critical Areas

 a. Exemption review $175 $175 per hour in

 excess of 1 hour

 of review

 b. Exception and wetland alteration exception A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 c. Yard reduction variance B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 d. Buffer reductions and restoration exceptions A $1,457 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 e. Short plat cluster housing and ACU to recover development potential B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 6. General Development Plan B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 7. Lot boundary adjustment $875 None $110 per lot

 8. Plan shoreline permit See Council approvals See Council See Council approvals

 approvals

 9. Public benefit feature review $350 $175 per hour in $175 per hour

 excess of 2 hours

 of review

 10. Shoreline permits

 a. Substantial development permits B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 b. Variances4 and con- ditional uses B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 c. Revisions (not due to required conditions) $350 $175 per hour in $175 per hour

 excess of 2 hours

 of review

 11. Short subdivisions5 B $1,986 $175 per hour $110 per lot

 12. Sidewalk cafints $875 None None

 13. Special accommodation None None $350

 14. Special exceptions B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 15. Structural building overhangs and areaways

 a. Application as a separate component $350 None None

 b. Included as part of a land use and zoning review None None None

 16. Temporary uses

 a. Temporary use permit for relocation of police and fire protection None None Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 b. Temporary use permit for more than 4 weeks B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 17. Variances4 A $1,457 $175 per hour None

 18. Vegetation removal6

 Class A $250 None None

 Class B $125 None None

 Class C $65 None None

 COUNCIL AND HEARING EXAMINER APPROVALS

 Land Use Fee For: Type of Land Minimum Land Hourly Land Zoning Review Fee Use Review Fee Use Review Fee Use Fee1

 1. Concept approvals (e.g., B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by planned community/ Table C-28 residential develop-ment, public projects, City facilities, plan shoreline develop-ments, other general development plans)

 2. Council conditional uses B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-2

 3. Full subdivisions7 B $1,986 $175 per hour $110 per lot

 4. Major Institution

 a. Master Plans B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 (40 hour deposit) Table C-28

 b. Designation B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-28

 5. Zoning map changes and rezones B $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by

 Table C-28

 MISCELLANEOUS REVIEWS, RESEARCH, & SERVICES

 Land Use Fee For: Minimum Land Hourly Land Zoning Review Fee Use Review Fee Use Fee1

 1. Accessory dwelling unit notification $50 None None

 2. Certificate of land use $110 None None

 3. Concurrency (Reserved) (Reserved) (Reserved)

 4. Curbcuts9 $55.00 each commercial; None None $26.00 each residential

 5. Development potential analysis $550.00 $110 per hour in None

 excess of 5 hours of review

 6. Establishing Use for the Record $140 None None

 7. Interpretations10

 a. Interpretations $660 None None

 b. Interpretations requested after $880 None None publication of Director's report

 c. Major Institution Master Plan $350 $175 per hour in None

 excess of 2 hours of review

 8. Legal building site letters $660 None None

 9. Major institution anagement review of annual plan $1,300 per year None None

 10. Neighborhood planning (Reserved) (Reserved) (Reserved)

 11. Noise survey review and variance See Table D-2

 12. Notice (additional) 11

 a. Land use information bulletin $65 None None (GMR notice)

 b. Reposting large sign or placards $125 None None

 c. Mailed notice $250 None None

 d. Landslide prone notice $190 None None

 13. Open space remainder lots and surplus $625 None $110 per lot state property

 14. Preapplication conference1 $100 None None

 15. Rebuild letters $375 None None

 16. Records research $110 $110 per hour in None

 excess of 1 hour of research

 17. Renewals including shoreline renewals $350 $175 per hour in $175 per hour

 excess of 2 hours of review

 18. Revisions other than shoreline revisions $350 $175 per hour in $175 per hour

 excess of 2 hours of review

 19. School use and school development $1,986 $175 per hour Amount determined by advisory committee Table C-28 reviews

 Notes to Table C-2

 1. Valuation is determined according to Section 22.900D.010C. See Section 22.900C.010B.

 K. Refunds.

 Refunds of land use and zoning fees shall be calculated as specified in Table C-3, except as noted in paragraphs 22.900C.010K 1 and 2 below. See also Section 22.900B.050.

 1. Minimum Land Use Review Fee. Twenty-five percent of the minimum land use review fee set forth in Table C-1 and collected at the application is not refundable.

 2. Other Non-Refundable Fees. The minimum land use review fee for the following services set forth in Table C-1 are non- refundable:

 (a) Requests for renewal;

 (b) Pre-application conferences;

 (c) Interpretations;

 (d) Legal building site letters;

 (e) Certificates of land use;

 (f) Rebuild letters;

 (g) Development potential analysis;

 (h) Establishing use for the record;

 (i) Noise variances;

 (j) Records research; and,

 (k) Revisions.

 3. Calculating Refunds for Land Use and Zoning Review Fees. The amount of refund for land use and zoning review fees shall be calculated as specified in Table C-3. There is no minimum amount required for a refund.

 Table C-3 - CALCULATING REFUNDS OF LAND USE AND ZONING FEES1

 Stage in Review Minimum Land Use Review Hourly Fee Amount to Be Zoning Fee Amount to be Refunded Process Fee Amount to Be Refunded Refunded when Hourly Deposit has been Collected at Application

 Initial Processing Minimum land use review 100% of the hourly deposit 50% of zoning review fee complete and prior to less 25% public notice

 Notice published Minimum land use review 100% of the hourly deposit 10% of zoning review fee fee less 50%

 Review underway but 0% No refund allowed Remainder of the hourly 0% No refund allowed application is not deposit minus accrued approved or report is hourly charges not drafted

 Permit is ready to issue 0% No refund allowed 0% No refund allowed 0% No refund allowed or the report is drafted

 Permit is issued or the 0% No refund allowed 0% No refund allowed 0% No refund allowed report is published

 Note to Table C-3:

 1. Refunds will be based upon the calculations of the total fee.

 Section Any acts made consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section . This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code

 Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ City Clerk V #1a

 (SEAL)

 Traxler

 K: 12/4/98 V #1a

```
