

********

**Council Bill Number: 112675**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119615**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Westwood/Highland Park Neighborhood Plan; amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate portions of the Westwood/Highland Park Neighborhood Plan; amending the Official Land Use Map, Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code to reflect the boundaries of the Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village, and repealing previous neighborhood plans.

**Date passed by Full Council:** August 23, 1999
   
**Vote:** 5-0 (Excused: Choe, Donaldson, Licata, Podlodowski)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 27, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 27, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
   
**Index Terms:** NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, INCORPORATION, URBAN-GROWTH, SOUTH-DELRIDGE, WEST-SEATTLE, HIGHLAND-PARK, DELRIDGE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Westwood/Highland Park Neighborhood Plan; amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate portions of the Westwood/Highland Park Neighborhood Plan; amending the Official Land Use Map, Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code to reflect the boundaries of the Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village; and repealing previous neighborhood plans.

 WHEREAS, on July 25, 1994, by Ordinance 117221, the City Council adopted the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, which includes a neighborhood planning element; and

 WHEREAS, City Council Resolution 28966, adopted August 1, 1994, established a Neighborhood Planning Program for the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, a coalition of Westwood/Highland Park neighborhood citizens came together to form the Westwood/Highland Park planning committee in 1996 for the purpose of preparing a neighborhood plan as provided for in the City of Seattle Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, the Westwood/Highland Park planning committee convened monthly meetings open to everyone and regularly attended by community citizens throughout the next three years; and

 WHEREAS, the Westwood/Highland Park planning committee conducted an extensive phase I outreach process featuring community meetings and workshops, all of which led to creation of a generally recognized vision; and

 WHEREAS, this outreach process also created a list of priority planning topics and led to selection of members for a planning committee to lead phase II planning; and

 WHEREAS, consultants were hired to study and prepare analyses and recommendations on the issues of parks and open space, pedestrian access and amenities, transportation, neighborhood anchors, land use, housing, community development, public safety, and human development; and

 WHEREAS, a final plan incorporating key strategies, and additional activities for implementation was completed, reviewed and approved by the Westwood/Highland Park Planning Committee and validated by the community in response to a community-wide mailer and validation meeting; and

 WHEREAS, the neighborhood planning areas of West Seattle collaborated on a joint effort to develop a human development proposal and a comprehensive "Action Agenda" of transportation system improvements and actions that are recommended to address the existing and future access needs of the entire West Seattle community; and

 WHEREAS, the City's environmental review requirement under SEPA has been fulfilled through issuance of an addendum to the Comprehensive Plan's 1994 Final Environmental Impact Statement on May 13, 1999; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the proposed amendments are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan as adopted by Ordinance 117221 and subsequently amended, is hereby amended as follows:

 A. The table of contents of the neighborhood plans volume of the Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended to add Westwood/Highland Park, as shown in Attachment 1.

 B. The Westwood/Highland Park Neighborhood Plan goals and policies, as shown in Attachment 2 to this ordinance, are hereby incorporated into the neighborhood plans volume of the Comprehensive Plan.

 C. The land use element of the Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended as shown in Attachment 3 to this ordinance to confirm the designation and growth targets for the Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village, to reflect changing the name of the residential urban village from SW Barton Street @ 25th Avenue South to Westwood/Highland Park.

 D. The capital facilities and utilities inventory and analyses serving Westwood/Highland Park, and transportation analysis shown in Attachment 4 to this ordinance are hereby incorporated into the neighborhood plans volume, Westwood/Highland Park section, of the Comprehensive Plan.

 E. The following maps are hereby amended to reflect the final designation and boundaries of the Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village, as shown in Attachment 5 to this Ordinance:

 * Future Land Use Map * Land Use Figure 1 * Land Use Figure A-1

 A new land use figure, containing a large scale map of the Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village is hereby added to the land use element, as shown in Attachment 5 to this ordinance.

 F. Land Use Appendix B is hereby amended to reflect the final growth targets for the Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village, as shown in Attachment 6 to this Ordinance.

 Section 2. The amendments contained in Section 1 of this ordinance constitute an adopted neighborhood plan.

 Section 3. The Official Land Use Map, Section 23.32.016, Seattle Municipal Code, is amended to reflect the boundaries of the Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village as depicted on Attachment 5 to this ordinance.

 Section 4. Pursuant to SMC 23.47.009 (D), single purpose residential structures within the Westwood Highland Park Residential Urban Village shall continue to be permitted by conditional use.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ________ day of __________________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 LIST OF ATTACHMENTS ATTACHMENT 1 AMENDMENTS TO TABLE OF CONTENTS - THE CITY OF SEATTLE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS ATTACHMENT 2 WESTWOOD/HIGHLAND PARK GOALS AND POLICIES ATTACHMENT 3 AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT ATTACHMENT 4 WESTWOOD/HIGHLAND PARK CAPITAL FACILITIES AND UTILITIES INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS, AND WESTWOOD/HIGHLAND PARK TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS ATTACHMENT 5 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENTS ATTACHMENT 6 AMENDMENTS TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE APPENDIX B

 August 18, 1999 Ver.2

 ATTACHMENT 1

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS

 Table of Contents Westwood / Highland Park

 ATTACHMENT 2

 Westwood / Highland Park Goals and Policies

 COMMUNITY CHARACTER

 G1 A diverse community with two distinct areas, Westwood and Highland Park, comprised of a mix of single and multi-family residential areas, significant public facilities, regional and local commercial businesses, and natural resource opportunities that together offer a variety of choices for its residents.

 P1 Encourage and strengthen a community-wide network of safe and convenient connections that unite Westwood and Highland Park and link major open spaces, transit facilities, commercial areas, schools, and other community facilities.

 P2 Seek to reclaim and enhance a major natural resource, Longfellow Creek, as a central linkage promoting recreational, environmental, and historical themes.

 P3 Strive to preserve existing single-family areas and increase the attractiveness of multi-family residential areas that offer a range of attractive and safe housing choices affordable to a broad spectrum of the entire community.

 P4 Promote a system-wide and comprehensive transportation approach for West Seattle that strongly encourages safe, convenient, and efficient local improvements that serve the community.

 P5 Seek to strengthen the neighborhood's economic core, Westwood Town Center (a regional and local retail/service center) and the 16th Avenue Business District.

 P6 Encourage a civic center and recreational complex anchor that serves the entire community for the Denny/Sealth Recreation Area.

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

 G2 A vibrant center of shopping that serves and attracts local residents within both communities.

 P7 Seek to revitalize the Triangle Commercial Core (16th Avenue SW Business District and Westwood Town Center) through pedestrian amenities, parking management, transit enhancements to create an anchor business district that attracts and serves local residents.

 P8 Encourage programs that promote the local business community through collaborative marketing activities and neighborhood celebration events.

 URBAN DESIGN AND COMMUNITY ANCHORS

 G3 A community that reflects the unique local character of the Westwood and Highland Park neighborhoods, with community anchors, a safe and pleasant pedestrian environment, and a positive aesthetic appearance.

 P9 Encourage physical gateway improvements at key entry points and within the business districts that identify Seattle's Westwood and Highland Park neighborhoods.

 P10 Seek to create a sense of place along major streets that visually and functionally promotes the rights of pedestrians through decorative crosswalks, pavings, and landscaping at key intersections.

 P11 Promote a sense of community identity and pride through the use of public artwork, sculptures, and streetscape improvements along major arterials.

 TRANSPORTATION AND PEDESTRIAN SYSTEMS

 G4 A neighborhood that facilitates movement of people and goods with a particular emphasis on increasing pedestrian safety and access, supporting the economic centers, and encouraging a full range of convenient transportation choices to residents.

 P12 Seek to enhance pedestrian access and vehicular and bicycle mobility throughout the neighborhood.

 P13 Encourage the coordination of transportation capital improvements across all of West Seattle.

 P14 Seek to improve arterial streets that promote pedestrian safety and mobility throughout the neighborhood.

 P15 Promote the safe and convenient operation of the Delridge Way SW corridor by seeking to improve traffic flow, intersection operation, transit accessibility, and pedestrian and bicycle facilities.

 P16 Seek to establish excellent east/west pedestrian linkages with pedestrian improvements along SW Trenton Street and SW Thistle Street.

 P17 Seek excellent internal east-west transit linkages within the neighborhood.

 HOUSING AND LAND USE

 G5 A community with both single-family and multi-family residential areas and the amenities to support the diverse population.

 P18 Seek to maintain the character and integrity of the existing single family areas.

 P19 Encourage new housing development that serves a range of income- levels.

 P20 Promote the attractiveness of higher density residential areas through the enhancement of basic infrastructure and amenities.

 P21 Encourage quality design in townhouses, cottage houses, and accessory dwelling units.

 P22 Promote mixed-use projects featuring quality housing opportunities within the Triangle Commercial Core.

 P23 Seek to ensure safe and well-maintained housing.

 P24 Support the Seattle Housing Authority and other non-profits in the development of high quality housing that serves the low-income.

 P25 Encourage new residential development through zoning tools such as Residential Small Lot Development, and incentives in multi-family zones and commercial zones.

 PARKS AND OPEN SPACE

 G6 A community with accessible and functional parks, open space, recreational facilities, and natural systems that are connected to serve Westwood and Highland Park's diverse population.

 P26 Strive to reclaim and enhance the Longfellow Creek corridor by creating a comprehensive trail system that enhances public access and links the neighborhoods to the existing parks and other trail systems and other community attractions.

 P27 Encourage direct public access through observation points to Longfellow Creek and its environs that features the importance of natural systems and the neighborhood's geological history.

 P28 Seek to coordinate the Longfellow Creek Legacy Trail Project with the Delridge neighborhood's creek trail system to help achieve a coordinated community trail system.

 P29 Seek to acquire property for small parks and open space to serve the community.

 P30 Support community-wide recreational opportunities for the Denny/Sealth Recreation Area.

 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY

 G7 A neighborhood that recognizes and supports the diverse human development needs and safety concerns of its changing and diverse population.

 P31 Seek to improve communication between people, organizations, and communities dealing with human development and safety issues.

 P32 Promote the use of Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) techniques in the development of parks, open spaces, pedestrian/bike trails, and traffic improvements.

 ATTACHMENT 3

 AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT

 1. Amend policy L44 as follows:

 L44:

 Designate the following residential urban villages as shown on Land Use Figure 1, above:

 Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village.

 2. Amend land use goal 36 as follows:

 G36:

 Achieve the following 20-year growth targets in residential urban villages:

 Residential Growth

 Westwood/Highland Park approximately 700 households

 ATTACHMENT 4

 CAPITAL FACILITIES AND UTILITIES INVENTORY AND ANALYSIS SERVING THE WESTWOOD/HIGHLAND PARK RESIDENTIAL URBAN VILLAGE AND TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS

 Table 1

 Inventory for Facilities and Utilities Serving

 Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village

 Facility Type Name Location Capacity Information Sources1/Comments

 Fire Station2 SFD 11 SFD 37 1514 SW Holden St. 7300 35th Ave. SW #11 Engine Co. #37 Engine Co. Seattle Fire Department

 Police Station South Precinct 3001 South Myrtle St. 31.87 sq. mi. service area, 1994 population 155,777 Seattle Police Department

 Patrol units are allocated around-the-clock based on calls for service. Location and size of facilities are not critical to service provision.

 Schools3 Roxhill Elementary Highland Park Elementary All 10 Middle Schools All 10 High Schools 9430 30th Ave. SW 1012 SW Trenton St. 375 students 450 students Seattle Public Schools' 1995-1996 Choices, Seattle Public Schools, 1995 Seattle Public Schools database

 Library Southwest Branch 9010 35th Ave. SW 7557 sq. ft, 1990 population served 38,017, or .20 sq. ft/capita + .32 sq. ft/capita in citywide facilities Seattle Public Library Statistical Report, EDL&A, December 1992

 Parks4 Roxhill Park 29th Av. SW & SW Othello St. 14.1 ac: 2 softball fields or 1 football/soccer field, play area, lawns, paths, shelterhouse Open Spaces, Parks and Facilities Inventory, Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation, August 1989

 Other6 Southwest Community Center & Pool 2801 SW Thistle St. >15,000 sq. ft: Indoor swimming pool, meeting room, kitchen, crafts rooms, game room Urban Villages Open Space Analyses, Office of Management and Planning

 Longfellow Creek Natural Area

 Electrical power Duwamish substation 10000 Marginal Way S 294 Megawatts Seattle City Light, October 1996 This village is located in City Light's Southwest forecast area, which has a total capacity 427 of megawatts.

 Water This village is located in the three pressure zones: West Seattle 430/474, West Seattle 488 and West Seattle 575.

 The area is normally served from Cedar River Pipeline #4 and the West Seattle Pipeline terminating at the West Seattle Reservoir (8th Av. SW & SW Trenton St.). The 430/474 zone is gravity fed directly from the West Seattle pipeline, via a 20-inch main in Barton St. The 488 zone is supplied by means of the West Seattle Reservoir Pump Station, via a 30-inch main in 8th Av. SW and SW Thistle St. The 575 zone is supplied by means of the Highland Pump Station and Trenton Turbines via a 24-inch main in 8th Av. SW and a 12-inch main in SW Roxbury.

 See Map for system locations. West Seattle Reservoir: 68 million gallons

 The majority of the pipe network was constructed between 1926 and 1938, predominantly of cast iron. The mains appear to be in generally good order, given the age of the network. Seattle Water Department, October-November, 1996 In the West Seattle 430/474 pressure zone, elevations range from 266- 305 feet above sea level; static water pressure ranges from 55-71 pounds per square inch (psi). In the West Seattle 488 pressure zone, elevations range from 260-328 feet above sea level; static water pressure ranges from 70-99 psi. In the West Seattle 575 pressure zone, elevations range from 295-380 feet above sea level; static water pressure ranges from 85-122 psi. 5 Pressures are considered to be very good.

 Drainage & Wastewater The southeastern portion of the village is served by a Combined system; the western half is served by a Partially Separated system with a Ditch & Culvert drainage system.

 This village is located in the Longfellow Drainage Basin, which covers about 2,685 acres. The Longfellow basin drains into Longfellow creek through a combination of storm drains, detention structures, ditches, overland flow, and combined storm and sanitary sewers, until it empties into the west waterway of the Duwamish River and then into Puget Sound. Longfellow Creek is one of three remaining year-round stream systems that still flow freely in Seattle. About 1/3 of the creek has been piped. Salmon have returned successfully to Longfellow Creek.

 See Map for system locations.

 With Combined systems, existing sewage flows constitute about 5% of pipe capacity, with the remainder for stormwater flows. Capacity of the combined systems in this area is considered adequate. Occasionally, sewer rehabilitation projects which are part of the 6 year Capital Improvement Program are performed in these areas as needed which may in some instances have the added benefit of enhancing the system capacity.

 In areas with ditch & culvert drainage systems, sewage systems are sized for full zoned development and capacity is considered adequate.

 Drainage systems in these areas occasionally lack adequate capacity. CIP projects to provide additional capacity are part of a 15 year program in the City's adopted Comprehensive Drainage Plan. Seattle Drainage and Wastewater Utility, November 1996

 Combined Sanitary/Stormwater System: A system where all sanitary and storm wastewater is carried through the system in one sewer pipe.

 Partial Separation System: A system where the water from street and major parking lot drainage is collected and transferred in one pipe or ditch and culvert system, and the other surface wastewater such as that from roof drains is carried with the sanitary sewer in a sewer pipe.

 Table 2 Expected 6-yr. HH Growth: 191

 Capital Facilities and Utilities Analysis Expected 20-yr HH Growth: 700

 Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village Land Area: 278 Acres

 Facilities needed to accommodate:

 Facility Type 6-year growth6 20-year growth Analysis

 Fire None None expected at this time. Fire Station #1, the closest to this urban village, has an average response time of 4.15 minutes for emergency medical calls and 4.71 minutes for fire calls. Response times for this station meet industry standards, and are expected to for the next 6 years. Fire Station #37 has an average response time of 4.26 minutes for emergency medical calls and 5.17 minutes for fire calls. Industry standards are to maintain a 4-6 minute response time or less for emergency medical calls and a 5-minute or less response time for first response to fire emergencies.

 Police None Additional precinct space may be required. Patrol units are allocated around-the-clock based on calls for service. Location and size of facilities are not critical to service provision. Minor facility modifications will occur as needed and funded.

 Schools School facility expansions or improvements are not expected to be required as a result of growth in this village. Seattle School District physical goals are as follows for: a) Elementary schools: 380-535 students, 4-acre site; b) Middle school: 600-800 students, 12-acre site; and c) High School 1,000-1,600 students, 17-acre site. Currently, about 50% of public school students attend schools in their neighborhoods, and the other 50% choose schools elsewhere.

 Phase One of the School District's Building Excellence program includes demolition and all new construction of Highland Park Elementary school.

 Electricity None A 4th transformer and switchgear bus-section will be added to the Duwamish Substation to increase capacity. Electrical demand from this village is estimated to increase by 0.3 annual average megawatts and 0.5 megawatts in a peak hour in 6 years.

 This village is located in City Light's Southwest forecast area. In 6 years, capacity in this forecast area will be 427 megawatts, and demand is expected to be 398 megawatts. In 20 years, capacity in this forecast area will be 547 megawatts with the listed improvements, and demand is expected to be 471 megawatts. In both years, capacity is more than adequate to meet demand.

 Water None None Current peak day demand estimate: 0.74 million gallons per day (mgd). Peak day demand estimate in 6 yrs: 0.81 mgd or 9% increase. Peak day demand estimate in 20 years: 0.98 mgd or 33% increase. The supply and distribution network is in generally good order and appears to be adequately sized to accommodate demand through 2002. If growth is concentrated in certain locales, it is possible that local improvements would be needed.

 Potential Future Improvements: A new main could be part of a gradual renewal of this section of the distribution grid to increase east-west flow in the 575 pressure zone, at a preliminary cost of $508,000.

 Drainage and Wastewater No new facilities are expected to be required because of new growth.

 The Drainage Control Ordinance requires on-site detention of stormwater runoff associated with new development or significant redevelopment. Limiting the rate of stormwater runoff from these sites more than offsets the increases in sewage flow from increased population density. The net effect of new development/redevelopment in this area will be a decrease in the peak rates of flow during storm events.

 Depending on the concentration of actual development, it is possible that isolated sewer capacity improvements would be needed.

 With Combined systems, existing sewage flows constitute only about 5% of pipe capacity, and wastes from growth will constitute small incremental flows that are not likely to exceed capacity. On-site detention requirements for new growth will address the adequacy of the drainage system for this area.

 In areas with ditch & culvert stormwater systems, sewage systems are sized for full zoned development; capacity is considered adequate to serve growth. Drainage system improvements in the Comprehensive Drainage Plan and on-site detention requirements for new growth will address the adequacy of the drainage system for this area.

 See Longfellow Creek Action Plan 1992 Drainage and Wastewater Utility

 See Basin Plan in 1995 Comprehensive Drainage Plan Update, Seattle Drainage and Wastewater Utility

 Table 3 Transportation Analysis7 for Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village

 Arterial

 Existing Forecast 2010

 Arterial Segment Class Direction V/C ratio V/C ratio

 SW Roxbury St. 35th Ave. SW - Principal Eastbound 0.4 0.4

 16th Ave. SW

 Westbound 0.4 0.5

 SW Roxbury St. 16th Ave. SW - Principal Eastbound 0.5 0.6

 8th Ave. SW

 Westbound 0.6 0.6

 Delridge Way SW SW Roxbury St. - Principal Northbound 0.6 0.6

 SW Henderson St.

 Southbound 0.7 0.8

 Delridge Way SW SW Henderson St. - Principal Northbound 0.6 0.6

 SW Thistle St.

 Southbound 0.8 0.9

 SW Barton St. 35th Ave. SW - Minor Eastbound 0.7 0.7

 25th Ave. SW

 Westbound 1.0 1.0

 SW Barton Pl. 25th Ave. SW - Minor Eastbound 0.6 0.5

 Delridge Way SW

 Westbound 0.8 0.8

 SW Trenton St. 35th Ave. SW - Collector Eastbound 0.5 0.5

 Delridge Way SW

 Westbound 0.6 0.6

 SW Thistle St. 35th Ave. SW - Minor Eastbound 0.1 0.1

 Delridge Way SW

 Westbound 0.1 0.1

 26th Ave. SW SW Roxbury St. - Collector Northbound 0.4 0.4

 SW Barton St.

 Southbound 0.5 0.5

 The volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratio is an indicator of congestion. The table above shows existing (1990) V/C ratios and projections of V/C ratios for a typical evening peak hour in 2010 for all arterials in the Rainier Beach Residential Urban Village. Compare 1990 V/C ratios to the 2010 forecast to see the potential change over 20 years. The V/C ratio can be used to identify areas where neighborhood or citywide transportation plans could encourage changes in travel behavior (e.g., mode, time of travel, destination) or improve operation of the street (e.g., by changing signal timing and the like). The capacity of a street is not a fixed number of vehicles that can never be exceeded. Rather, it is a relative measure of traffic flow.

 Arterial segments with a V/C ratio exceeding 1.0 now or possibly in the future might warrant attention in a neighborhood plan. High V/C ratios may be tolerable if the result is to shift people into other modes, or is a result of the development densities necessary for a vital urban village. Existing conditions: All arterial segments have a V/C ratio below 1.0.

 Martin Luther King Way S, S Henderson St., and Rainier Ave. S are designated as Transit Priority Streets in the Comprehensive Plan.

 Future conditions: The V/C ratio for Renton Avenue South southbound is projected to be 1.2. This figure indicates the attractiveness of this route through southeast Seattle to Renton. Renton Ave. is a minor arterial with an assumed capacity of 700 vehicles per hour. Increases in capacity may be possible, or measures to direct traffic to the principal arterials (Martin Luther King Jr. Way, Henderson Street, and Rainier Ave. South) may be taken. The principal arterials have the capacity available to take traffic from Renton Ave.

 V/C ratios on all other arterial streets in the urban village are below 0.8 under the 2010 scenario.

 ATTACHMENT 5

 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENTS -

 Westwood/Highland Park Residential Urban Village Boundaries

 ATTACHMENT 6 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE APPENDIX B

 LAND USE APPENDIX B Growth Planning Estimates for Urban Centers, Center Villages, Hub Urban Villages, and Residential Urban Villages

 Village

 Land Area in

 Households (HH)

 Employment (Jobs)

 Acres Existing Existing Density (HH/Acre) Growth Target or Planning Estimate (HH Growth) Estimated 2010 Density Existing Existing Density (Jobs/Acre) Growth Target or Planning Estimate (Job Growth) Estimated 2010 Density

 Urban Centers & Center Villages

 Downtown Urban Center Total 945 7421 7.9 NA1 23.4 165119 175 NA1 241

 Belltown Village 216 3492 16.2 6500 46.3 22699 105 4500 126

 Denny Triangle Village 143 514 3.6 3500 28.1 22010 154 23600 319

 Commercial Core Village 275 1435 5.2 1300 9.9 106823 388 27000 487

 Pioneer Square Village 142 376 2.6 21002 17.4 9113 64 48002 98

 Chinatown/Int. Dist. Village 169 1604 9.5 1300 17.2 4474 26 2800 43

 First Hill/Cap. Hill Center Total 912 21673 23.8 NA1 30.0 33393 37 NA1 50

 First Hill Village 225 5896 26.2 2400 36.9 20626 85 6100 119

 Capitol Hill Village 396 12450 31.4 1980 36.4 5284 13 3000 21

 Pike/Pine Village 131 2349 18.0 620 22.7 3963 30 1400 41

 12th Avenue Village 160 978 6.1 540 9.5 3520 22 1200 30

 Univ. Comm. Urban Center Total 770 11611 15.0 NA1 17.8 31427 41 NA1 52

 Univ. Dist. NW Village 289 4324 14.9 16303 20.5 8625 30 30003 40

 Ravenna Village 122 973 8.0 4803 12.0 1580 13 7003 19

 University Campus 359 6313 17.6 03 12.0 21222 59 48003 72

 Northgate Urb. Center Total 410 3291 8.0 NA1 15.3 11366 28 NA1 50

 Uptown Queen Anne Urban Center Total 297 3138 10.6 NA1 15.0 19,000 64 NA1 75

 Hub Urban Villages4

 Ballard 323 4279 13.2 1520 17.9 3518 11 3700 22

 Fremont 339 3766 11.1 820 13.5 6937 20 1700 25

 Lake City 310 2740 8.8 1400 13.3 2827 9 2900 18

 W. Seattle Junction 225 1835 8.2 1100 13.0 3108 14 2300 24

 Aurora Ave N @ 130th St 344 2271 6.6 1260 10.3 4027 12 2800 20

 Rainier Ave @ I-90 415 2043 4.9 1200 7.8 3371 8 3500 17

 South Lake Union 446 461 1.0 1700 4.8 15230 34 4500 44

 Residential Urban Villages4

 Aurora-Licton 288 2106 7.3 900 10.4 NA NA NA NA

 Greenwood 202 1283 6.4 350 8.1 NA NA NA NA

 Upper Queen Anne 103 1063 10.3 300 13.2 NA NA NA NA

 Eastlake 205 2423 11.8 380 13.6 NA NA NA NA

 23rd Ave. S. @ S. Jackson-Union 485 3186 6.6 900 8.4 NA NA NA NA

 Admiral District 103 798 7.8 340 11.1 NA NA NA NA

 Green Lake 107 1439 13.4 400 17.2 NA NA NA

 NA

 Roosevelt 160 1007 6.3 340 8.4 NA NA NA NA

 Wallingford 245 1973 8.1 200 8.9 NA NA NA NA

 Rainier Beach 227 1482 6.5 740 9.8 NA NA NA NA

 Columbia City 313 1639 5.2 740 7.6 NA NA NA NA

~~SW Barton St @ 25th Ave S~~Westwood/Highland Park 278 1654 6.0 700 8.5 NA NA NA NA

 Beacon Hill 171 1844 10.8 550 14.0 NA NA NA NA

 Crown Hill 173 929 5.4 310 7.2 NA NA NA NA

 MLK Jr Wy S @ Holly St 380 1247 3.3 8005 5.4 NA NA NA NA

 South Park 264 997 3.8 350 5.1 NA NA NA NA

 Madison-Miller 145 1486 10.3 400 13.0 NA NA NA NA

 California @ SW Morgan St 139 1104 8.0 300 10.1 NA NA NA NA

 LAND USE ELEMENT APPENDIX B Footnotes Urban centers are not assigned planning estimates. Growth targets for urban centers are established in land use element section C. Growth targets for residential and hub urban villages are established upon adoption of a neighborhood plan. Assumes north Kingdome parking lot and vacant floor area in existing structures is available to accommodate a substantial share of household and employment growth. Separate growth targets for the urban center villages within the University Community Urban Center are not adopted. In acting on the UCCU plan, the City Council reaffirmed the targets for the UCUC as a whole. No additional student housing growth according to UW General Physical Development Plan.

 The areas to which numbers apply for land area, existing households and jobs, planning estimates and existing and planned densities for each hub and residential urban village are the unadopted village boundaries shown in Land Use Appendix A, above. Where adopted boundaries shown in Appendix A have been amended from the unadopted village boundary, acreage, existing households and employment, and densities may be different than indicated in this Appendix B.

 Because of the potential for redevelopment of the Holly Park Garden Community according to a neighborhood plan currently underway, a greater growth planning estimate is established for this area relative to other similar residential urban villages.

 1 For an overview of City facilities, see Community Services and Facilities, Public Utilities Background Report, City of Seattle, Office of Management and Planning, 1990.

 2 The nearest station is listed; Fire and Emergency Medical Services are generally provided by the nearest station. In the case of larger fires, firefighting and medical resources are also dispatched from other stations. Aid units and fire engines are equipped to handle many medical emergencies; medic units are dispatched to more serious medical emergencies.

 3 Through the student assignment plan, the village is served by a number of designated regular elementary schools, and at least six Seattle School District Alternative Schools. School capacities are determined in part by the mix of programs offered and the number of portable classrooms used, and are subject to change. 4 Parks and Other Resources shown are inside the village or within 1/8 mile of the unadopted village boundary. 5 Minimum working pressure of 30 psi is the standard for new construction and 80 psi is the new standard for maximum pressure. Some areas of Seattle exceed the maximum and other areas have less than the minimum pressure.

 6 An explanation of the methodologies used to assess adequacy can be obtained from the Neighborhood Planning Office. 7 The results of this analysis are not intended for measuring concurrency. Previous concurrency analyses contained in the Comprehensive Plan indicate that Level-of-Service standards will not be exceeded by the 20-year growth projected for this area (see Comprehensive Plan Transportation Element).

 21

 6 675ATTV2.DOC

```
