

********

**Council Bill Number: 112710**
********

 AN ORDINANCE establishing licensing requirements and procedures for establishments licensed under Title 66.24 of the Revised Code of Washington to sell liquor for on-premise consumption who permit or allow added entertainment and establishing penalties for violations; this ordinance shall be called the "Added Entertainment Ordinance".

**Status:** Retired 04/09/01
   
**Note:** Common name: Added activities ordinance.

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 1, 1999
   
**Committee:** Public Safety, Health & Technology
   
**Sponsor:** PODLODOWSKI
   
   
**Index Terms:** PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, EATING-AND-DRINKING-PLACES, PERFORMING-ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT-INDUSTRY

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE establishing licensing requirements and procedures for establishments licensed under Title 66.24 of the Revised Code of Washington to sell liquor for on-premise consumption who permit or allow added entertainment and establishing penalties for violations; this ordinance shall be called the "Added Entertainment Ordinance".

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. A new chapter 6.295 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 6.295.010 Legislative Findings.

 Selling alcohol is a privilege granted by the State through its liquor license. Recognizing the potentially significant local impacts that can arise from combining alcohol service and entertainment, state law authorizes the City to establish an Added Entertainment licensing program that requires a liquor licensee to obtain permission from the City before providing entertainment in addition to serving alcohol on the licensed premises.

 Entertainment at venues serving alcohol can contribute to the City's cultural and economic vitality and diversity. The majority of liquor licensees providing entertainment do so in a manner that is consistent with the rights and interests of their customers, neighbors and the public. However, the secondary effects caused by some establishments have seriously harmed the public health, safety, and welfare. Problems associated with entertainment activities at liquor licensed establishments have included: loud, drunken and disorderly crowds that block streets and sidewalks interfering with the public's right of way and causing unreasonable levels of noise for neighbors of such clubs; assaults and brawls, some involving the use of firearms and other weapons that have caused serious injuries and deaths. Responding to these problems, often repeated problems, after they arise is less effective and costs more public resources, particularly police resources, than preventing problems in the first place. In addition, such dangerous situations threaten the public safety of the citizens of this city, including the safety of the police officers responding to such situations.

 The purpose of this ordinance is to promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare by establishing a formal process setting forth fair, content neutral standards for granting, denying or suspending the City's permission for added entertainment without unduly burdensome regulation. In addition, it is the purpose of this ordinance to prevent the secondary effects caused by some establishments that can seriously harm the public health, safety, and welfare and to address such situations in a measured manner, by first providing the licensee an opportunity to take voluntary corrective action to end the pattern of illegal activities associated with the entertainment, and then, if such action is unsuccessful, to temporarily suspend permission to operate such entertainment.

 6.295.020 Definitions.

 For the purpose of this ordinance:

 A. "Added Entertainment" means any dancing, singing, music or other entertainment such as exhibitions, theatrical performances, shows or similar amusements conducted or participated in by patrons, members, entertainers, employees or other persons upon the premises of an establishment licensed under Title 66.24 of the Revised Code of Washington (RCW) to sell liquor for on-premise consumption.

 B. "Board" means the Washington State Liquor Control Board.

 C. "Chief" means the Chief of the Seattle Police Department or the Chief's designee.

 D. "City" means the City of Seattle.

 E. "Director" means the Director of the Executive Services Department or the Director's designee.

 F. "Liquor" has the same meaning as in Title 66 RCW.

 G. "Person" means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, or other public or private organization of any character.

 H. "Premises" means the location where a liquor licensee does business and shall include any room, place, space, or portion thereof, including hallways, bathrooms, parking lots and all other adjoining areas under the licensee's control and accessible to the patrons, employees or members of such establishment.

 6.295.030 Added Entertainment Permit or License Required.

 A. It is unlawful for any person who is licensed under Title 66.24 RCW to sell liquor for on-premise consumption to permit or allow upon the premises of any licensed liquor establishment any added entertainment without first having obtained an "Added Entertainment Permit" or "Added Entertainment License" for that premises as required by this Chapter. An Added Entertainment Permit is required when an event involving added entertainment is operated on no more than one occasion per year lasting no more than three (3) consecutive twenty- four (24)-hour periods. An Added Entertainment License is required for all other added entertainment upon the premises of a licensed liquor establishment.

 B. Grandfather clause. A person who has permission from the City or the State Liquor Control Board to allow added entertainment as of the effective date of this ordinance shall be presumed to be entitled to receive an Added Entertainment license without completion of the initial application or payment of the initial application fee pursuant to Section 6.295.040, unless grounds for denial under Section 6.295.080 or suspension under Sections 6.295.100 or 6.295.120 are determined by the Director to exist. A person eligible for a license under this subsection shall pay the license renewal fee to obtain the license. The term of the license shall be as provided in Section 6.295.170 and may be renewed as provided in Section 6.295.070.

 C. Exceptions. The requirements of this Chapter shall not apply to (1) any entertainment or amusement which consists solely of radios or recorded music without a disc jockey, (2) private events which are not open to the general public and for which there is no admission charge or charge for any food or beverage, (3) events or activities sponsored by the City, (4) facilities holding a nonprofit arts organization liquor license issued pursuant to RCW 66.24.495, (5) facilities holding a Class R liquor license, or (6) any liquor licensee exempted by the Board from obtaining permission for added entertainment from the City.

 D. Content of Entertainment. The content of the added entertainment which an establishment allows or permits shall not be considered in making a decision granting, denying or suspending an Added Entertainment Permit or Added Entertainment License pursuant to this Chapter.

 6.295.040 Application for Permit or License.

 A. Permit Application. A holder of a liquor license issued under Title 66.24 RCW authorizing the sale of liquor for on-premise consumption, intending to hold an event involving added entertainment on no more than one occasion per year, such occasion to last no more than three (3) consecutive twenty-four (24)-hour periods, shall make application for an Added Entertainment Permit to the Director not later than twenty (20) business days before the opening day of the event. The application must be filed on forms provided by the Director. The information provided shall include the following:

 1. The name and address of the applicant.

 2. Location and occupant capacity of the premises to be used for the event.

 3. The type(s) of added entertainment to be allowed or permitted, including but not limited to: dancing, live music with or without dancing, recorded music with dancing, karaoke, theatre, comedy act, film, or other entertainment, the beginning and ending time of the event each day, the expected crowd size, whether the event will involve amplified sound and whether the event will take place in or out of doors.

 4. Whether the applicant or any one of the applicant's, partners, owners, officers, directors, or the establishment's primary manager has, in the last three (3) years, been cited for or convicted of violating laws or ordinances relating to the sale or possession of liquor. For the purposes of this subsection, "convicted" includes any suspended or deferred sentence or acceptance of any deferred prosecution or diversion from formal adjudication.

 5. Whether the applicant or any one of the applicant's partners, owners, officers, directors, or the establishment's primary manager has, in the last five (5) years, been cited for or convicted of violating laws or ordinances relating to the Uniform Controlled Substance Act. For the purposes of this subsection, "convicted" includes any suspended or deferred sentence or acceptance of any deferred prosecution or diversion from formal adjudication.

 6. Payment of the applicable fees required under Section 6.295.060 of this Chapter.

 B. Grant or Denial of Permit Application

 Within ten (10) business days of receiving the complete application, the Director shall grant, grant with conditions or deny a permit. The Director shall notify the applicant in writing if the permit is denied. The grounds for denial shall be the same as the grounds for denial of an Added Entertainment License set forth in Section 6.295.080. The written denial shall state the reason for the denial and provide notice that the applicant may protest the denial and request reconsideration of the denial by the Director. A request for reconsideration shall be in writing and be submitted not less than five (5) business days before the proposed event and may include additional information. If a request for reconsideration is made, the Director shall make a decision as soon as practicable before the proposed event.

 C. License Application. License applications must be filed with the Director on forms provided by the Director and shall include:

 1. The name and business address of the applicant, and the name and address of the applicant's partners, owners, officers, directors, or the establishment's primary manager.

 2. The address of the location for which the Added Entertainment License is sought, together with a floor plan of the premises which shows what portion(s) of the premises will be used for added entertainment, the occupant capacity of the premises, and all points of ingress and egress.

 3. Whether the application is for a new or renewal license.

 4. The type(s) of added entertainment to be allowed or permitted, including but not limited to: dancing, live music with or without dancing, recorded music with dancing, karaoke, theatre, comedy act, film or other entertainment, whether the added entertainment will involve amplified sound, and whether the added entertainment will take place in or out of doors.

 5. Whether the applicant or any one of the applicant's partners, owners, officers, directors, or the establishment's primary manager has, in the past three (3) years, been cited for or convicted of violating laws relating to the sale or possession of liquor. For the purposes of this subsection, "convicted" includes any suspended or deferred sentence or acceptance of any deferred prosecution or diversion from formal adjudication.

 6. Whether the applicant or any one of the applicant's partners, owners, officers, directors, or the establishment's primary manager has, in the last five (5) years, been cited for or convicted of a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act. For the purposes of this subsection, "convicted" includes any suspended or deferred sentence or acceptance of any deferred prosecution or diversion from formal adjudication.

 7. Name and address of a responsible agent resident in King County upon whom service of notice or process may be made.

 8. Payment of the applicable fees required under Section 6.295.060 of this Chapter.

 D. Investigation of Application. Upon receipt of a complete license application, the Director shall circulate the application to the City's Police Department, the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use, the Fire Department, the Health Department and the Department of Neighborhoods, or their functional successors. These departments shall review the application to determine if the proposed operation of the establishment complies with applicable laws and shall make a recommendation to the Director whether the license should be granted, granted with conditions, or denied. The Director may also circulate the application to and seek comment on the application from the Board, and other agencies, community councils and organizations the Director determines may have information relevant to a decision on the application. Upon receipt of a renewal license application, including the renewal license fee, the Director shall circulate the application to the City's Police Department, the Department of Neighborhoods, and other City departments the Director determines may have information relevant to the decision on the application. The Director shall provide an opportunity for the public to comment upon initial and renewal license applications.

 6.295.050 Notice of License Application.

 An applicant for an initial Added Entertainment License shall post a notice of the application upon the proposed premises.

 6.295.060 Fees.

 A. Permit fee. The fee for an Added Entertainment Permit shall be $40 and shall be tendered as part of the complete permit application.

 B. License Renewal fee. The fee for renewal of an Added Entertainment License shall be $290 per year and shall be tendered as part of the complete license application. If the term of the license is less than one year, the license fee shall be prorated on a monthly basis.

 C. Initial Application filing fee. The initial application fee for an Added Entertainment License shall be $355 and shall be tendered as part of the complete license application.

 6.295.070 License Renewals.

 Applications for renewal of an Added Entertainment License must be filed with the Director, on forms provided by the Director, not later than forty five (45) days before the expiration of the current license. The application for renewal shall include any changes pertinent to the application criteria in Section 6.295.040 B. The license renewal fee must be submitted along with the renewal application.

 6.295.080 Grant or Denial of License.

 A. Timing and Contents of Decision. Within thirty (30) days of a complete application for an Added Entertainment License being filed with the Director, the Director shall grant, grant with conditions, or deny the license and communicate the decision to the applicant in writing or communicate to the applicant in writing questions or corrections that must be resolved before the license can be granted,granted with conditions, or denied. All denials must be in writing, and must give specific facts and conclusions supporting the denial. The Added Entertainment License shall specify which types of added entertainment shall be permitted, and any conditions imposed by the Director.

 B. Grounds for Denial of Initial License. The Director shall grant the license unless one or more of the following findings is made:

 1. The applicant's premises do not comply with or fail to meet all of the State or City health, safety, zoning, fire or other laws.

 2. The applicant has not complied with the requirements of Section 6.295.040.

 3. The applicant made a false statement or material omission in the application.

~~~~
 4. The applicant or any one of the applicant's partners, owners, officers, directors, or the establishment's primary manager, has within a year preceding the Director's receipt of the application, owned, operated, or managed a business which a) has been determined by a court or administrative tribunal to constitute a public nuisance b) has ceased operations after a public nuisance action involving such business has been commenced by the City or other governmental unit, or c) has had its liquor license or Added Entertainment License canceled or revoked.

 C. Grounds for Denial of License Renewal. The Director shall grant renewal of the license unless one or more of the findings contained in Subsection B of this Section is made or the licensee has failed to report changes in ownership or management as required under 6.295.070.~~~~

 6.295.090 Appeal of Denial.

 A. If the Director denies an initial license or the renewal of a license, the applicant may appeal that decision to the Hearing Examiner. Appeals must be made in writing and served on the Office of the Hearing Examiner and on the Director no later than ten (10) days after the mailing of the notice of the Director's decision. The Hearing Examiner shall commence a hearing within forty-five (45) days of receiving a notice of appeal. The Hearing Examiner shall conduct a hearing pursuant to the rules of procedure of the Hearing Examiner for the conduct of hearings. The Director and the person to whom the notice of denial and hearing was issued are parties to the hearing and each may call witnesses. The Director shall have the burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that grounds for denial exist and that the license denial is reasonable. The Hearing Examiner shall determine whether the City has established a preponderance of the evidence that the grounds for denial exist and that the required license denial is reasonable and shall affirm, vacate or modify the Director's decision regarding the license denial. If appealed, the Director's decision denying a renewal license application shall be stayed until the Hearing Examiner renders a final decision. If the Hearing Examiner reverses the decision of the Director regarding denial of a license, the Hearing Examiner shall remand the matter to the Director to issue the license.

 B. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision including findings of fact and conclusions of law within fifteen (15) days of the conclusion of the hearing. This decision constitutes the City's final decision in the matter appealed.

 C. A party aggrieved by the City's final decision rendered by the Hearing Examiner on appeal, may seek judicial review of the Hearing Examiner's decision in superior court, if that party applies for a writ of review under Chapter 7.16 RCW from the superior court for King County within fourteen (14) days of the date the Hearing Examiner's decision is issued.

 D. The applicant or licensee may request to meet with the Peer Review Group created in Section 6.295.140 to obtain assistance in developing solutions that address the conditions that are the basis for the denial of the license.

 6.295.100 Suspension.

 Any Added Entertainment License issued under the terms of this Chapter may be suspended pursuant to the Procedure set forth in Section 6.295.110 when:

 1. Any of the conditions which are grounds for denial of an initial or renewal application pursuant to Section 6.295.080 exist;

 2. The licensee has violated any condition of the license.

 6.295.110 Procedure.

 A. Except as provided in Section 6.295.120 where the Director has reasonable cause to believe that grounds for suspension of an Added Entertainment License exist, a warning letter shall be sent to the licensee giving notice of the potential grounds for suspension and notifying the licensee that unless such conditions are corrected within 30 days of the date of the warning letter that the license will be suspended. The licensee shall respond in writing to the Director acknowledging receipt of the warning letter and stating steps licensee will take to correct the conditions outlined in the warning letter.

 B. If the licensee corrects the conditions and no further grounds for suspension occur within 30 days of the date of the warning letter, the Director shall take no further action.

 C. If the licensee (1) does not correct the conditions stated in the warning letter within 30 days of the date of the warning letter (2) commits further violations that are grounds for suspension under this Chapter, within 30 days of the date of the warning letter or (3) has received three (3) previous warning letters within a twelve (12) month period and the Director reasonably believes the licensee has committed a fourth (4th) violation of this Chapter within that twelve (12) month period, then the Director shall send the licensee a notice of suspension. The notice shall state the specific grounds for suspension and that the suspension shall go into effect ten (10) days from the date of the notice unless the licensee, within that time, delivers a written request for a hearing to the Hearing Examiner and the Director.

 D. If the licensee delivers a written request for a hearing to the Hearing Examiner and the Director within the required time period, the Hearing Examiner shall hold a hearing and render the City's final decision on the appeal according to the procedures set forth for license denials in Section 6.295.090. The suspension shall be stayed until the Hearing Examiner renders a final decision.

 E. A party aggrieved by the City's final decision rendered by the Hearing Examiner, may seek judicial review of the Hearing Examiner's decision in superior court, if that party applies for a writ of review under chapter 7.16 RCW from the superior court for King County within fourteen (14) days of the date the Hearing Examiner's decision is issued.

 F. The licensee may request to meet with the Peer Review Group created in Section 6.295.140 to obtain assistance in developing solutions that address the grounds that are the basis for the suspension of the license.

 6.295.120 Summary Suspension.

 The Chief of Police may summarily suspend either an Added Entertainment License or Added Entertainment Permit, if the Chief reasonably believes that the continued operation of the added entertainment poses an immediate threat of serious injury or damage to person or property. The suspension shall take effect immediately, without a prior hearing. The licensee shall be provided an opportunity for a review hearing before the Director within seventy two (72) hours from the issuance of a summary suspension. The review hearing procedure and appeal rights shall be the same as for an appeal of a license suspension under Section 6.295.110, except that the suspension of a license under this section shall not be stayed pending appeal.

 6.295.130 Periods of Suspension.

 A. The first suspension of an Added Entertainment License under Section 6.295.100 within a period of twelve (12) months shall be for a period of thirty (30) days.

 B. The second suspension of an Added Entertainment License under Section 6.295.100 within a period of twelve (12) months shall be for a period of forty-five (45) days.

 C. The third or subsequent suspension of an Added Entertainment License under Section 6.295.100 within a period of twelve (12) months shall result in cancellation of the license. A person who has had an Added Entertainment License canceled may not apply for another Added Entertainment License for a period of one year from the date of such cancellation.

 D. For the purposes of this Section, calculation of the period of twelve (12) months shall not include any period of time during which the license was suspended but shall run consecutively through renewals of the Added Entertainment License.

 E. Before resuming added entertainment following a suspension and as required by the Director, the licensee shall submit a corrective action plan that satisfies the Director that recurrence of the grounds for suspension is unlikely.

 6.295.140 Advisory Group and Peer Review Group.

 A. The Director may appoint an Advisory Group consisting of licensees operating establishments with added entertainment, neighborhood groups, or other interested parties, that may provide input to the Director regarding implementation of the Added Entertainment Permit and Licensing programs.

 B. The Director may appoint a Peer Review Group consisting of licensees operating establishments with added entertainment. Applicants or licensees who desire advice on how to address problems that have led to the receipt of a warning letter or the denial or suspension of an Added Entertainment Permit or License may request to meet with the Peer Review Group to obtain assistance in developing solutions to such problems.

 C. These groups shall be strictly voluntary and members shall not be compensated for participating in this such groups.

 6.295.150 Posting.

 Each Added Entertainment License or Permit must be posted on the premises, in a conspicuous place near the main entrance.

 6.295.160 Transfer.

 No Added Entertainment Permit or License shall be transferable from person to person.

 6.295.170 Term.

 Each Added Entertainment License shall be valid for up to twelve (12) months from the date of issuance and shall expire on the same date as the applicant's liquor license expires; provided that, if the applicant's liquor license is suspended or revoked, the Added Entertainment License shall be deemed to have expired and the applicant must reapply for a new Added Entertainment License upon again obtaining a valid liquor license. Each Added Entertainment Permit shall expire on the expiration date listed on the permit.

 6.295.180 Operating without a License--Penalty.

 Any person holding a liquor license issued under RCW 66.24 who shall permit or allow added entertainment upon its premises without a valid permit or license issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1000) or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that added entertainment is allowed without a valid permit or license shall constitute a separate violation of this Section.

 6.295.190 Coordination of License with State.

 The Director shall coordinate to the greatest extent possible the implementation of the Added Entertainment Permit and Licensing procedures pursuant to this chapter with the licensing procedures of the State Liquor Control Board and State Department of Licensing. The Director is authorized to enter into any agreements necessary with the State Liquor Control Board and/or Department of Licensing to develop such a coordinated program.

 6.295.200 Rules.

 The Director shall make rules necessary to implement and enforce the provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to, conditions which the Director may impose on an Added Entertainment Permit or License.

 6.295.210 Severability.

 If any provision, section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter shall be held void or unconstitutional, all other parts, provisions and sections of this Chapter not expressly so held to be void or unconstitutional shall continue in full force and effect.

 Section 2. By July 1, 2000, the Director shall provide a report to the Council concerning the implementation of this licensing program. At a minimum, this report shall include the following information: the number of licenses or permits issued; number of and conditions under which permits or licenses were denied or suspended; costs of administering the program; coordination efforts with the State Department of Licensing and the State Liquor Control Board; recommendations, if any, for changes to the licensing program; and other information the Director deems necessary.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1999.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 TR

 5/24/99

 V 7

```
