

********

**Council Bill Number: 112724**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119514**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit"); authorizing execution of a First Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement For Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Project.

**Status:** PASSED AS AMENDED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 21, 1999
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 30, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 29, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 14, 1999
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, TRANSPORTATION-MODES, PUBLIC-TRANSIT, REGIONAL-TRANSIT-AUTHORITY, CONSULTANT-CONTRACTS, MASS-TRANSIT, LIGHT-RAIL-TRANSIT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Ord 118927

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit"); authorizing execution of a First Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement For Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Project.

 WHEREAS, on April 20, 1998, pursuant to Ordinance 118927, The City of Seattle executed a Memo-randum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation with the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit") regarding Light Rail Development; and

 WHEREAS, the April 20, 1998 Memorandum of Agreement establishes a foundation for the working relationship between the City and Sound Transit with respect to Sound Transit's effort to develop a light rail system between Seattle and SeaTac including a number of intermediate stations (the "Central Link Project"), describes specific station area planning activities to be undertaken by the City with respect to such project, and sets the stage for future agreements between the parties regarding additional services that may be provided by the City to Sound Transit with respect to such project; and

 WHEREAS, Sound Transit and the City have recognized that greater City involvement is now necessary with respect to the design process for the Central Link Project including design review; design development support; utility coordination; implementation coordination; and mitigation identification, analysis, and development support activities; and

 WHEREAS, Sound Transit and the City are willing to enter into a supplement to their April 20, 1998 Memorandum of Agreement for Interlocal Cooperation regarding Light Rail Development to identify with more particularity additional services and involvement the City shall provide and have with respect to the Central Link Project and the arrangements under which Sound Transit shall compensate the City for such services and involvement; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Director of the Strategic Planning Office and recommended by the Mayor, said Director is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority ("Sound Transit") substantially in the form of the document attached hereto and entitled "First Supplement to Memorandum of Agreement For Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project" pursuant to which the City shall provide, in connection with the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project being developed by Sound Transit, design review services; design development support; utility coordination; implementation coordination; and mitigation identification, analysis and development support to Sound Transit, all in consideration of Sound Transit's reimbursement of expenses incurred by the City in connection with such work.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1999. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1999. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1999. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 June 9, 1999 (Ver. 4 )

 FIRST SUPPLEMENT TO MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION

 between

 Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit)

 and

 The City of Seattle

 For the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project

 This FIRST SUPPLEMENT to that certain April 20, 1998 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION FOR THE CENTRAL LIGHT RAIL TRANSIT PROJECT ("First Supplement") is entered into by and between the CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY (hereinafter referred to as "Sound Transit") and THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereinafter referred to as "the City") as of January 1, 1999.

 RECITALS

 A. Sound Transit desires to ensure that the siting and design of Sound Transit's proposed light rail system within and between the City, Tukwila and SeaTac ("the Central Link Project") are coordinated with local land use and transportation plans prepared pursuant to the Growth Management Act (Ch. 36.70A RCW) and other regulatory measures. Sound Transit further desires to ensure that the siting and design of the Central Link Project are coordinated, as appropriate, with existing and proposed land uses, transportation, and utility systems within the boundaries of the City.

 B. Sound Transit recognizes that the City is responsible for administering state and local transportation and land use laws and development regulations that will apply to the development of the Central Link Project. In carrying out that responsibility, the City desires to ensure that the siting and design of the Central Link Project are compatible with existing and proposed land uses and transportation systems as well as with regional and local planning documents prepared pursuant to the Growth Management Act.

 C. The City and Sound Transit entered into an agreement on April 20, 1998 pursuant to which the parties established the foundation of their working relationship with common objectives for cooperation, described station area planning activities and provided for reimbursement therefor, and set the stage for future agreements to be developed as the services needed by Sound Transit from the City are more clearly defined ("the April 20, 1998 MOA").

 D. The City and Sound Transit entered into another agreement on April 30, 1998 pursuant to which the City provides Geographic Information System ("GIS") products, services, and data to support the activities of Sound Transit ("the GIS MOA"), which agreement may be amended from time to time.

 E. As anticipated by the parties in onstructionIII.E of the April 20, 1998 MOA, Sound Transit desires review by the City of Central Link Project- related design progress on a bi-weekly basis and design documents at various stages of completion. This First Supplement, except as otherwise provided herein, shall cover design review; design development support; utility coordination; implementation coordination; and mitigation identification, analysis and development support activities; through the Central Link Project's Thirty Percent- , Sixty Percent-, and Pre-Final Design Submittal stages, which are scheduled to occur between January 1, 1999, and December 31, 2000.

 F. Sound Transit desires to:

 1. understand City and other, policies, codes and procedures that relate to the Central Link Project's construction, and minimize conflicts regarding permits and approvals;

 2. obtain pre-application review of Central Link Project elements for land use and building code issues as well as for potential street or right-of-way vacations, permits or easements;

 3. obtain, to the extent allowable by law, expedited processing of necessary permits and approvals, design reviews, and, if possible, street or right-of-way vacations, uses, franchises, easements, and utility relocations and service installations; and

 4. secure consistent City responses to similar regulatory issues.

 Now, therefore, in consideration of the covenants and assurances set forth herein, it is mutually agreed as follows:

 I. SCOPE OF SUPPLEMENT

 A. Summary of Reimbursable Tasks

 As noted in Section III.D. in the April 20, 1998 MOA, Sound Transit has requested the City to conduct tasks relating to (1) GIS Services and (2) station area planning, land use planning and input to the environmental process. In addition to these activities, Section III.E. lists potential future activities to be performed by the City including review of design documents at various stages of completion. This First Supplement addresses some additional reimbursable tasks requested by Sound Transit from the City, namely design review services; design development support; utility coordination; implementation coordination; and mitigation identification, analysis and development support, all of which shall be completed in 1999-2000, except as otherwise indicated in this First Supplement.

 B. Definition of Terms

 As used in the First Supplement, the terms and abbreviations shall be defined and/or identified as follows:

 1. Thirty Percent Complete Submittal - A submittal that presents the basic concept of the project including advanced detail on route alignment; station locations; station functional layouts and preliminary station architectural concepts; existing utilities and proposed major utility line relocations; traffic lane configurations; structural types, sizes and locations; urban design concepts; new and proposed right-of-way limits; extent of roadway modifications and other supporting concepts to define the intent of the project. The submittal will include technical memoranda documenting trade off studies undertaken in support of the proposed design.

 2. Sixty Percent Complete Submittal - A submittal that is sufficiently complete to illustrate the entire scope of the work under design so that all reviewers can comment on the overall scope of the project and to support a cost estimate with no items containing a contingency of more than 15% and no significant items with more than a 10% contingency. This submittal shall also include an updated cost estimate. (This submittal is intended to ensure that new, never before seen items of significance do not appear for the first time in the Pre-Final Submittal.)

 3. Pre-Final Submittal The submittal that includes drawings, special provisions and supplemental technical specifications and updated cost estimates that are essentially complete with only items of insignificance needing detailing or checking. All calculations shall be completed and checked in accordance with established quality control procedures. Drawings shall be nearly complete for bidding purposes and shall have incorporated or resolved all comments made during design review of the Sixty Percent Complete Submittal, and other informal reviews. Unresolved comments shall be identified and addressed to the satisfaction of both parties.

 4. Central Link Project - Sound Transit's proposed light rail system within and between the City, Tukwila and SeaTac.

 5. DEIS - Draft Environmental Impact Statement

 6. FEIS - Final Environmental Impact Statement

 7. DSTT - Downtown Seattle Transit Tunnel

 8. LPA - Locally Preferred Alternative

 9. CADD - Computer Aided Design/Drafting

 C. Assumptions

 The following assumptions were used by pertinent City departments in estimating the effort required to provide the services requested by Sound Transit and the costs to be incurred by the City and reimbursed by Sound Transit in connection therewith and under this First Supplement.

 1. All alignment alternatives have been identified in the DEIS and only one alignment will be selected for the LPA. These estimates may need to be revised if Sound Transit increases the number of alternatives for review.

 2. The services undertaken pursuant to this First Supplement will be performed in 1999 and 2000. Additional services beyond what is provided for in this First Supplement can be added through another agreement. Although some construction work may start in the year 2000 for the design/build contracts, this First Supplement does not specifically cover services associated with construction activities.

 3. Unless otherwise stated, these estimates are for work to be performed and reimbursement to be paid with respect to the light rail alignment. The City is willing to assist with additional work outside of the light rail alignment, subject to future agreements.

 4. Unless otherwise stated, these estimates are for work within the City's geographic limits. The City is willing to assist with additional work outside of its City limits, subject to future agreements. Sound Transit must coordinate with Seattle Public Utilities and City Light on any activity relating to or affecting any City facility or service south of the City's southern legal boundary (not utility service area boundary).

 5. Sound Transit or its consultants, other than the City, will develop the actual design plans, except in the case of City Light utility relocations, which will be developed by City Light. Sound Transit will provide the City with a complete plan package for the work to be done in each construction contract let by Sound Transit (which contracts are currently expected to be ten in number). Official City review, per Section II. of this First Supplement, begins with receipt of these complete packages.

 6. Sound Transit will involve the City and seek input in the early stages of design development. Sound Transit will take the lead in coordinating regular City/Sound Transit team communication/meetings.

 7. The City's estimates are based on Sound Transit meeting Sound Transit's schedule for design and construction of the Central Link Project and adhering to the definitions of Thirty Percent-, Sixty Percent- and Pre-Final Project Design Submittal as outlined in Section I.B. of this First Supplement.

 8. In developing plans and specifications for the Central Link Project, Sound Transit shall adhere to the greatest extent possible to the City's CADD standards.

 9. Sound Transit will give the City 15 working days prior notice of the expected delivery date of each plan packages so that the City can prepare for the reallocation of staff to expedite the review.

 10. The City will form one or more interdepartmental teams that will develop a streamlined and expedited permitting process.

 11. Sound Transit will manage and coordinate its consultants' requests for information from the City.

 12. Sound Transit shall assume responsibility for acquiring all necessary property, easements and rights of entry for relocation, design and construction activities or any of the same.

 13. Sound Transit shall work with the City to help coordinate construction and permitting activities necessary to facilitate relocation of displaced owners and tenants so that such activities proceed in the most efficient manner possible.

 14. Major issues will be identified and addressed in the early stages of design. To foster cooperation and to expedite review, issues shall be identified and resolved at the lowest practicable City and Sound Transit staff levels.

 15. The City's estimates do not include effort for activities relating to Station Area Planning as addressed by the April 20, 1998 MOA.

 D. Common Services to be Performed by Appropriate City Departments

 The following services will be performed by appropriate City departments in support of the Central Link Project.

 1. Review and comment on the Draft Design Criteria Manual. Work within the City and with Sound Transit to create a Design Criteria Manual that adequately and accurately addresses the needs and concerns of the City with respect to its ordinances and its design guidelines and standards.

 2. Review and provide comments on technical reports, the DEIS and the FEIS. Work with Sound Transit to identify, evaluate and select appropriate mitigation measures for the FEIS.

 3. Conduct design review of plans, reach consensus on issues among departments and provide unified, consistent comments to Sound Transit.

 4. Work to achieve consensus on policy issues. Advise the City Council and Mayor on policy recommendations in support of formal City actions, including but not limited to an adopted resolution, to inform Sound Transit on the City's positions at major milestones.

 5. Participate in interdepartmental implementation teams.

 6. When possible, integrate Sound Transit construction plans and schedules with plans and schedules of other City capital and maintenance projects to minimize the conflicts during construction and to reduce impacts of the City's long term maintenance projects on Sound Transit operations.

 7. Provide access to public City records and plans. Copying expenses at the City's standard fees may be included as part of the City's consolidated invoice to Sound Transit. [

 8. Work with the community to provide public education and to respond to questions raised through the DEIS and FEIS process.

 E. Services to be Performed by Individual City Departments

 In addition to the activities identified in Subsection I.D., which are common to pertinent City departments, the scope of activities and services to be performed by individual City departments are as follows:

 1. Seattle Transportation Department (SEATRAN):

 a. Assist Sound Transit with design development by participating on Sound Transit/City teams that discuss and resolve design and operational issues. Respond to Sound Transit requests for information, clarification or resolution of design related issues.

 b. Review and work within the City and with Sound Transit to expedite the City review of contract plans provided to the City as Thirty Percent, Sixty Percent, and Pre-Final Design Submittals.

 c. Work within the City and with Sound Transit to expedite permit processing, development of permit agreements that may be required, and resolution of permit conflicts and issues that arise.

 d. Manage and provide central coordination for interdepartmental design review, establish expedited permit processing procedures, and coordinate design standards. Manage the City-wide Project implementation team and all internal technical work groups. Ensure that City operating departments reach consensus and provide unified comments and decisions to Sound Transit.

 e. Support and help facilitate Sound Transit's effort to identify public and private utility conflicts and confirm requirements for relocating public and private utilities including service connections.

 f. Assist Sound Transit with locating public and private utility data including service connections that may be in the Street Use archives.

 g. Work within the City and with Sound Transit to develop agreements establishing commitments for mitigation measures and enhancement requirements. Work with Sound Transit to develop agreements regarding operation and maintenance responsibility of City facilities affected by Sound Transit activity.

 h. Review and/or make recommendations to City Council on street vacation requests.

 i. Work with Sound Transit to develop traffic signal control and priority concepts and procedures.

 2. Seattle City Light (City Light):

 a. Provide engineering direction and oversight regarding electrical system sources/substations, service routing, feeders, infrastructure modifications and connections to the Central Link Project.

 b. Work with Sound Transit to develop an electrical redundancy plan and reliability audits.

 c. Work with Sound Transit to provide efficiently designed service and lighting for specific Central Link Project stations and their immediate surroundings.

 d. Engineer and prepare overhead electrical distribution relocation plans according to City Light's standards to a 90% level by year-end 2000, which plans will include drafted work orders for City Light crews.

 e. Develop underground electrical distribution relocation design concepts at specified locations and then provide such concepts to Sound Transit to be incorporated by Sound Transit into its plans.

 f. Prepare an initial cost estimate of Sound Transit's cost to undertake electrical relocations.

 g. Review and provide written comments for each Sound Transit design product. Participate at regular design meetings in an effort to coordinate design and resolve conflicts prior to formal design submittal reviews.

 h. Work with Sound Transit and with other City departments in a joint effort to minimize electrical infrastructure relocations and to avoid duct bank relocations whenever possible. Sound Transit's corridor design will avoid major City Light infrastructure such as feeder getaways at or near City Light substations, major cable connections, and transmission underground or overhead structures.

 City Light Assumptions:

 * City Light will only approve service and system connections and electrical relocations that do not jeopardize the provision of safe, efficient and reliable electrical service to existing and future City Light customers.

 * The hourly estimate of City Light work under this First Supplement does not include engineering time to perform continuous or major underground relocations in segments D or E/F, generally from Martin Luther King Jr. Way S./McClellan to SeaTac south of City Light's service area. Engineering related to providing underground services requires significantly more time than overhead relocations.

 * Due to lack of design information, the hourly estimate of City Light work under this First Supplement does not include time to evaluate complex relocations in the downtown network area. Also, the City Light hourly estimate does not include time to design new infrastructure south of its service limits (S. 160th Street).

 * Electrical relocation plans will be prepared by City Light under the assumption that in future years, 2001 and beyond, City Light will directly supervise its own crews or its contractors to perform electrical distribution relocations typically in advance of, and in coordination with, Sound Transit's construction schedule.

 3. Seattle Public Utilities (SPU):

 Drainage & Wastewater (Operations & Design)

 a. Review existing sewer and drainage systems for existing conditions and general impacts of the Central Link Project on the systems.

 b. Order and review TV inspections of affected sewer and drainage pipes. c. Determine the impacts on the side sewer and service drain connections.

 d. Review storm water detention plans and calculations.

 e. Review inlet and catch basin locations and other street related drainage.

 f. Assess pipe type, class, grade, depth and maintenance hole size and location and interference.

 g. Locate existing SPU drainage and wastewater systems that relate to proposed Central Link Project route or routes.

 h. Review relocation and/or replacement plans for sewer and drainage pipes.

 Water (Operations & Design)

 i. Review existing water system for existing conditions and general impacts of the Central Link Project design.

 j. Determine the impacts of the Central Link Project on the service connections.

 k. Review maintenance locations and interference.

 l. Locate existing water systems as they relate to proposed Central Link Project route or routes.

 m. Review relocation and/or replacement plans for water pipes.

 Real Property Services

 n. Review preliminary title reports.

 Miscellaneous

 o. Provide material lab services for the standard fees.

 SPU Assumptions

 * Major water lines (pipe diameter greater than 8 inches) will not need to be relocated.

 * Sound Transit will consolidate field verification requests in order to maximize the efficiency of the SPU crew work.

 * The City will track and include SPU's equipment charges related to Sound Transit related fieldwork in its invoices to Sound Transit.

 * SPU's estimates are for work within Seattle's city limits. Note that major pipelines exist south of Seattle's southern city limit and that Central Link Project planning will require additional City involvement in that area.

 4. Executive - Strategic Planning Office (SPO):

 a. Sponsor or co-sponsor major public involvement events with Sound Transit. Represent the City and Sound Transit at numerous smaller meetings with community organizations relating to the alignment, impacts and mitigation.

 b. Manage City response and collaboration with Sound Transit to help resolve ad hoc issues.

 c. Work with Sound Transit and King County to develop and evaluate alternatives for accommodating increased bus traffic on downtown Seattle streets due to the DSTT closure during construction and to the Central Link Project's sole use of the DSTT after construction.

 d. Conduct parking studies around proposed Central Link Project stations to identify potential negative impacts, and develop strategies to mitigate these impacts on the neighborhoods. Develop a detailed parking study proposal in consultation with Sound Transit.

 e. Evaluate system level traffic impacts of alternative alignments and proposed mitigation for the LPA in support of the development of the FEIS and community process through the use of in-house modeling capability. Participate in the review of Sound Transit's traffic analysis in cooperation with Sound Transit, SEATRAN, and King County Metro.

 f. Coordinate the flow of information from Sound Transit into the City's existing public outreach structure including but not limited to the Department of Neighborhood staff and programs such as Neighborhood Service Centers, Public Information Officers, Neighborhood Matching Fund, Citizen Service Bureau, Urban Conservation, etc.

 5. Seattle Fire Department:

 a. Review architectural plans for compliance with Seattle Fire Code and related Building Code requirements associated with fire and life safety systems, and assist with establishing fire protection and life safety system requirements for various construction and occupancy conditions.

 b. Perform technical reviews of the design drawings and specifications for fire protection systems for conformance with nationally recognized standards, equipment listings, and sound engineering principles.

 c. Review design criteria, ventilation and other technical reports for impacts on fire safety and suppression.

 d. Modify computer aided dispatch response protocols to reflect changes in level of response and response routes due to alignment configurations, construction activities and addition of new light rail stations.

 e. Determine extent of life safety system upgrades required, and develop and test pre-incident plans, to include multi-company drills for the existing Burlington Northern Santa Fe downtown tunnel in support of the Sounder Commuter Rail project.

 f. Conduct research for the development of codes, ordinances, inspection programs, and training programs related to fire protection and life-safety for fixed guideway mass transit systems.

 g. Participate on the Fire-Life Safety Committee

 h. Assist with establishing water pressure and hydraulic information, including conducting hydrant flow tests, if needed.

 i. Respond to Sound Transit requests for information, clarification and resolution of design related issues.

 j. Bring Fire Department inspectors into the design process and assist with minimizing differences of understanding among various Fire Department sections.

 6. Department of Design, Construction and Land Use (DCLU):

 a. In advance of receiving actual permit applications, participate on interagency teams, including the Fire-Life Safety Committee, that discuss and resolve design and operational issues associated with implementing the Central Link Project and on the City's work groups addressing urban design, business and public communication and public safety (including conformance with National Fire Protection Association Standard 130). Respond to Sound Transit requests for information, clarification and resolution of design related issues.

 b. Review plan packages for building, mechanical, electrical, grading and drainage code compliance.

 c. Manage and coordinate City-wide comments on the DEIS.

 d. Coordinate City-wide compilation and negotiation of mitigation measures as part of the FEIS. Work with Sound Transit to identify, evaluate and select appropriate mitigation measures for the FEIS.

 e. Review and work within the City and with Sound Transit to expedite the City review of plan packages during 1999 (anticipated to include only the Thirty Percent Design Submittal).

 f. Work within the City and with Sound Transit to expedite the development of permit agreements that may be required.

 g. Work with Sound Transit to help coordinate construction and permitting activities necessary for displaced owners and tenants so that such activities proceed in the most efficient manner possible.

 h. Identify critical sites and projects at pre-application that are located in or adjacent to the identified alignment. Consult and negotiate with applicants to promote Transit Oriented Development. Promote development to advance Sound Transit's goals of community support, clarity surrounding design expectations, avoiding duplicative processes, and minimizing potential disruptions to commercial, residential and industrial properties.

 i. Provide Sound Transit with land use and building permit information to allow Sound Transit to contact applicants about possible conflicts with Sound Transit's proposed right-of-way.

 7. Light Rail Review Panel (LRRP):

 a. Assist Sound Transit in the application of design objectives and guidelines to specific locales.

 b. Drawing on the multi-disciplinary membership of the Arts, Design and Planning Commissions as well as outside interests and experts such as the Pedestrian Advisory Board, Landmarks Preservation Board and Special Review District Boards, serve as an advisory forum for pertinent City staff with policy development and regulatory responsibilities.

 c. Work closely with Sound Transit during the development of design plans.

 d. Provide Sound Transit and City staff with its recommended review procedures and design criteria, in addition to documentation of its deliberation and input to the review process.

 8. Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation:

 a. Advise Sound Transit on light rail elevated and/or at-grade configurations directly affecting park properties including but not limited to Rainbow Point, Ravenna Boulevard, I-90 Trail/Future Sister City Park, Cheasty Boulevard and East Duwamish Greenbelt.

 b. Advise Sound Transit on rail alignments that come close to parks and recreation facilities including but not limited to Rainier Playfield, Rainier Community Center, Columbia, Othello and the relocated Holly Park open spaces.

 c. Respond to information needs associated with negotiation of agreements for Sound Transit's acquisition and/or use of Parks Department-owned properties. Facilitate community involvement and provide executive support for City Council actions and legal processes related to properties affected by Initiative 42 (Ordinance 118477).

 9. Seattle Planning Commission (SPC):

 a. Promote and facilitate community education within Southeast Seattle and Roosevelt neighborhoods regarding potential alignments/stations. This could involve co-sponsoring additional field trips for citizens just getting involved.

 b. Explore mitigation measures and strategies for the LPA by working with City staff, Sound Transit and citizens. Advocate for using these mitigation measures and strategies in making final alignment decisions and mitigation commitments in the FEIS. Continue to work after publication of the FEIS in community education/engagement in creating effective mitigation strategies.

 10. Seattle Arts Commission (SAC):

 a. Identify possible partnerships, collaborations and leveraging between Sound Transit's public art program (STart) and the Seattle Arts Commission's public art program.

 b. Provide technical support to the Sound Transit Art Committee and its staff to ensure that works of art on City property meet the requirements of the Seattle Arts Commission.

 11. Seattle Police Department (SPD):

 a. Review plans, identify and help resolve issues associated with Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED).

 b. Participate on the Fire-Life Safety Committee.

 c. Participate in safety and security discussions.

 F. Services and Items for Future Negotiations

 Recognizing that many services needed by Sound Transit have not yet been determined or clearly defined, the following is a list of additional services and items that have been identified to date and may be covered by future negotiations and agreements. This list is not all inclusive and shall be modified as the Central Link Project progresses.

 1. Services for Sixty through OneHundred Percent Design Submittal stages and services to be provided after 2000.

 2. Project management support for development and administration of a City plan for mitigation and the Southeast Seattle Transit Oriented Community Development Fund or such other fund as may be established under a different name for its agreed upon purpose.

 3. Additional projects that enhance the Central Link Project or public improvements in the vicinity of the light rail alignment.

 4. Implementation of Station Area Plans and other improvements in Seattle neighborhoods.

 5. Design support for enhancements outside of the Central Link Project right-of-way or outside Seattle's geographic limits.

 6. Permitting including coordination (other than as described herein), issuance, and fees.

 7. DCLU plan or design review beyond the Thirty Percent DesignSubmittal.

 8. City Light surface relocations at SeaTac, DSTT relocations, and new hookups in the downtown Seattle network; and water service revisions.

 9. Operating agreements for City facilities affected by Central Link Project including addressing increases to the City's operating and maintenance costs.

 10. Impacts of Central Link Project construction on City services including but not limited to public safety access to roads, buildings and fire hydrants; customer relations issues regarding streets and utilities; impacts on regular City crew work (water, drainage) during construction; and construction inspection for work by Sound Transit on City facilities.

 11. Continued participation after 2000 on the Fire-Life Safety Committee by SEATRAN, Fire Department, DCLU and Police Department representatives.

 12. Potential agreements for the provision of security and traffic management services by Seattle Police Department during construction and ongoing operation of the Central Link Project.

 II. DESIGN SUBMITTALS

 A. Central Link Project Design Consistency With City Standard Plans & Specifications.

 1. Sound Transit shall work in close cooperation with the City during the preparation of preliminary and final plans for the Central Link Project to ensure that, to the greatest extent possible, the objectives identified in Subsections I.F. through I.H. of the April 20, 1998 MOA, and Recital E of this First Supplement are achieved. Except as further provided in this Subsection II.A., the City's standard design plans, specifications and ordinances, as they are to be revised and are currently scheduled for adoption by the middle of 1999, shall be used for all Central Link Project-related work that either (a) is in any City right-of-way, or (b) affects, in any way, any utility or other capital facility or asset that currently is owned or controlled by the City or is expected to be maintained by the City.

 2. The City's Designated Representative as defined in the April 20, 1998 MOA, or another official designated by the City, may permit, from time to time, a deviation from the requirements of Subsection II.A.1. hereof where (i) Sound Transit has requested such permission in writing and has provided a justification for such request and an explanation for how Sound Transit intends to address anticipated City concerns if such permission were granted, either in whole or in part, and a commitment to fund additional Central Link Project costs as required; and (ii) the City's Designated Representative, or other official designated by the City, has consulted and reached consensus among the head(s) or designated representative(s) of each City department that has an interest in whether or not the City's standard plans and specifications should be applied to the portion of the Central Link Project work that is identified in Sound Transit's request, and that Sound Transit's requested deviation from standard plans and specifications is acceptable under the circumstances; and (iii) if necessary, the City's Designated Representative, or other official designated by the City, has been authorized to grant such permission. Any such permission shall be granted in writing by the City's Designated Representative, or other official designated by the City, and shall not be considered as precedent setting.

 3. To ensure the development of the highest quality system, and the most cost-effective resolution of problems, all efforts will be made to identify and resolve major design issues at the earliest possible stage of design development. If conflicts with City or other laws, codes or regulations are identified later in the process, the City is legally obligated, and reserves the right, notwithstanding any other provision in this First Supplement, to require changes to bring the Central Link Project into compliance with any applicable regulations.

 B. Design Submittals.

 1. To expedite design submittal review and to improve product quality, design review and coordination sessions will be held at least on a bi-weekly basis throughout the design phase between affected City Departments and Sound Transit. Sound Transit shall submit Central Link Project plan packages and specifications to the City's Designated Representative, or other official designated by the City, for review and comment by various, appropriate City departments including those listed in Section I hereof. Sound Transit shall submit X complete copies of each plan package. During 1999 and 2000, the City will review plans at the Thirty Percent- , Sixty Percent-, and Pre-Final Design Submittal stages, as defined by Section I.B. of this First Supplement. Design review in later stages of development will be addressed in future agreements. Plans will be submitted to the greatest extent possible in accordance with the City's CADD standards. Sound Transit shall deliver to the City record drawings in a CADD file format for systems within the City limits and the public right-of-way.

 2. Sound Transit shall establish and provide a target schedule for submittals as soon as they are available and they shall notify the City 15 working days prior to anticipated plan submittal dates to ensure that City staff can be reallocated to be dedicated to the expeditious review of Sound Transit documents. If Sound Transit determines that it cannot or is unlikely to meet its anticipated submittal dates, it will notify the City with its revised submittal schedule as soon as any delay is known or suspected.

 C. Immediate City Notice of Incomplete or Inadequate Design Submittals.

 The City's Designated Representative or other official designated by the City shall notify Sound Transit immediately if any plan submittal is incomplete or provides insufficient detail for City review. The incompleteness or insufficiency of any submittal may result in additional time needed for City review(s) at a later stage of design completion and the application of resources that are not included in the City's estimates of work to be performed under this First Supplement.

 D. City Review Schedule.

 The City shall have thirty-five (35) working days to review the Thirty Percent-, Sixty Percent-, and Pre-Final DesignSubmittals. If more than one plan package is submitted during the same review time period, the City shall have forty five (45) working days to review the materials and Sound Transit shall prioritize these multiple plan packages according to importance to Sound Transit's schedule. The City will return significant comments to Sound Transit for any submittal as soon as they are available, and to the greatest extent possible, will accomplish reviews in fewer working days than provided for in thisFirst Supplement.

 E. Resolution of Inconsistencies & Consolidation of City Responses to Design Submittals.

 The City's Designated Representative, or other official designated by the City, shall resolve any inconsistencies among review comments by City departments regarding the Central Link Project's design submittals prior to the review comments being consolidated and transmitted to Sound Transit. After City comments have been addressed by Sound Transit to the parties' mutual satisfaction, the City's approval of any design submittal shall be evidenced in writing from the City's Designated Representative, or other official designated by the City, to Sound Transit's Designated Representative as well as by whatever other approval (if any, other than permit issuance or approval) is contemplated by applicable law or ordinance.

 III. CENTRAL LINK PROJECT DESIGN TO MINIMIZE IMPACTS

 A. Central Link Project Design to Minimize Impact on City Maintenance & Operation Costs.

 The Central Link Project shall be designed to the greatest extent possible to minimize any increase in City maintenance and operation costs directly affected by the Central Link Project. Prior to the issuance of construction permits, Sound Transit and the City shall develop formal agreements, in accordance with overall policy direction established by the Sound Transit Board and the City, to address maintenance and operation issues and associated costs that are likely to be experienced by the City as a direct result of the Central Link Project or operation of the light rail system. Such issues/costs include but are not limited to the reconstruction or realignment of any street, sidewalk, bikeway or utility facility or system; or the retiming or other modification of existing, or the installation of any new, traffic signal or signage, lane marking, street lighting, sidewalk lighting or pathway lighting.

 B. Central Link Project Design to Minimize Travel and Access Disruptions.

 The Central Link Project shall be designed to the greatest extent possible, to minimize disruptions to City businesses and residents during construction. To achieve that result, Sound Transit shall work cooperatively with representatives of businesses and neighborhoods affected by the Central Link Project. Sound Transit shall also work with City departments, including but not limited to SEATRAN, City Light, Fire, Police, Seattle Public Utilities, DCLU, Strategic Planning Office, as well as with their contractor(s), consultants, and other City and public entities. The Central Link Project shall also be designed to ensure that:

 1. The number of streets in contiguous blocks that are closed or permitted to have severely restricted vehicular or pedestrian traffic during the Central Link Project's construction phase are minimized, either by construction being undertaken at varying times of day, in geographic stages, or through other means;

 2. Emergency vehicle, utility maintenance vehicle and fire protection vehicle access to every business and residence adjacent to the Central Link Project construction area, and pedestrian access to each such residence at all times and to each such business during its normal business hours, are preserved;

 3. Vehicular access for types of vehicles other than those identified in Subsection III.B.2. to every residence adjacent to the Central Link Project construction area is preserved except when construction requirements necessitate the complete blockage thereof; and

 4. Reasonable prior notice is provided to property owners, business tenants and neighborhood residents of any loss or change of access to or from their respective properties, tenancies and residences, indicating the expected duration of such loss or change and alternatives that are available to those affected by such loss or change.

 IV. REIMBURSEMENTS

 A. Basis for Reimbursement of City Costs.

 The City shall be reimbursed for services delivered and work performed from January 1, 1999, through December 31, 2000, under the scope of work of this First Supplement. Sound Transit and the City recognize that such services have been estimated based on preliminary information from Sound Transit and that the reallocation of effort based on actual needs may be necessary. Sound Transit and the City have agreed to the amounts estimated by City departments in the chartset forth in Subsection IV.C hereof.

 B. Invoicing by City.

 The City will invoice Sound Transit in equal monthly payments up to each total annual amount identified in this First Supplement unless the parties agree that the annual amounts should be revised.Notwithstanding the foregoing, the first invoice shall combine the monthly amounts from January 1999, through the end of the month in which this First Supplement isfully executed. Within thirty (30) days after Sound Transit's receipt of any City invoice, Sound Transit shall remit the reimbursement in the requested amount.

 C. Monitoring, Reconciliation & Reporting of Costs.

 The City is committed to work efficiently and will closely monitor the time required to complete work products as the scope of work is clarified and the Central Link Project progresses. Both parties agree to monitor and reconcile the actual versus estimated effort quarterly and to negotiate additional funding, a shifting of funds from 1999's allocation to 2000's allocation (or vice versa), or a reduction in services relating to the Central Link Project to the extent that such work cannot be absorbed within the existing estimate of services negotiated between the City and Sound Transit in this First Supplement. The City's Designated Representative, or other designated City official, will coordinate reimbursements for all departments and will provide progress reports to Sound Transit with the quarterly reconciliations. The total amount to be paid as reimbursement under this First Supplement is $4,919,821, with $2,295,131 being the estimated maximum reimbursement payable in 1999, and $2,624,690 being the estimated maximum reimbursement payable in 2000. By mutual agreement (and without the need for a formal amendment of this First Supplement), the parties may reallocate the estimated maximum amount to be reimbursed in either 1999 or 2000 to the other year. At the end of the year 2000, any unspent funds will be returned to Sound Transit, or will be reallocated to additional Central Link Project activities covered by future agreements.

 City Department

 Estimated Amount of Reimbursement

 1999

 2000

 Seattle Transportation Department

 $814,568

 $970,512

 City Light

 $540,280

 $734,910

 Seattle Public Utilities

 $220,000

 $440,000

 Dept. of Design, Construction & Land Use

 $138,405

 TBD

 Light Rail Review Panel

 $95,000

 $95,000

 Executive - Strategic Planning Office

 $331,758

 $242,118

 Fire Department

 $77,000

 $79,000

 Department of Parks & Recreation

 $24,120

 $28,150

 Planning Commission

 $19,000

 $0

 Arts Commission

 $10,000

 $10,000

 Seattle Police Department

 $25,000

 $25,000

 Anticipated Total by Year:

 $2,295,131

 $2,624,690

 Grand Total

 $4,919,821

 V. DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS

 The parties remain committed to resolving issues cooperatively, expeditiously, and at the lowest possible staff level. However, as provided for in the April 20, 1998 MOA, the following is the agreed upon process for dispute resolution:

 A. General.

 The Designated Representatives will use their best efforts to resolve disputes and issues arising out of or related to the tasks covered by thisFirst Supplement. The Designated Representatives will communicate regularly to discuss the status of the tasks to be performed and to resolve any issues or disputes related to the successful performance of thisFirst Supplement. The Designated Representatives will cooperate in providing staff support to facilitate the performance of this First Supplementand the resolution of any issues or disputes arising during the term of thisFirst Supplement.

 B. Notice of Problem or Dispute and Meeting of Designated Representatives

 Each Designated Representative will notify the other in writing of any problem or dispute that the Designated Representative believes should be resolved. The Designated Representatives shall meet within three (3) business days of receiving the written notice in an attempt to resolve the dispute.

 C. Meeting of Directors

 In the event the Designated Representatives cannot resolve a dispute (and that dispute is not subject to some other formal appeal process), the Sound Transit Executive Director or his/her designee and the Director of the City's Strategic Planning Office or his/her designee shall meet within seven (7) business days of receiving notice from a Designated Representative and engage in good faith negotiations to resolve the dispute.

 D. Meetings are Prerequisites to Litigation

 Sound Transit and the City agree that they shall have no right to seek relief under this First Supplementin a court of law until and unless each of these procedural steps is exhausted.

 VI. RECOGNITION OF CITY'S POLICE POWER

 Sound Transit recognizes the right vested in the City pursuant to general law to exercise its police power for the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens and their properties. Nothing in this First Supplement shall be construed as precluding the City from exercising such power in connection with Sound Transit's light rail system except as specifically provided in this First Supplement, and then, only to the extent this First Supplement expressly precludes such exercise.

 VII. PRIORITY FOR STATE OF EMERGENCY SITUATIONS

 The time period required for performance of services under this First Supplement, other than due dates for payments for services rendered, shall be extended to include the length of any delay caused by or resulting from the prohibition or restriction of such action by the State or Federal government, or any fire, flood, storm, power failure, major equipment breakdown, war, labor trouble, accident, riot, act of Nature, or other event beyond the reasonable control of the party obligated to perform such services; provided, that the party adversely affected by such condition shall promptly advise the other party, in writing, of the occurrence of an event of force majeure and make a reasonable attempt to satisfy its obligations hereunder notwithstanding the event of force majeure.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this First Supplement by having its authorized representative affix his/her name in the appropriate space below:

 CENTRAL PUGET SOUND

 REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY

 (SOUND TRANSIT)

 By:_____________________________

 Signature

 _____________________________

 Print or type name

 Date:_____________________________

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:_____________________________

 Signature

 _____________________________

 Print or type name

 Date:____________________________

 Approved as to form: Authorized by Ordinance

 By:

 (Print or type name)

 Legal Counsel

```
