

********

**Council Bill Number: 112887**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Chapter 23.57 and Sections 23.12.100, 23.44.012, 23.45.009, 23.45.016, 23.45.050, 23.45.058, 23.45.066, 23.45.074, 23.47.012, 23.47.024, 23.49.008, 23.49.009, 23.49.208, 23.49.338, 23.50.020, 23.66.122, 23.66.140, 23.66.322, 23.66.332, 23.76.022, 23.76.056, 23.84.006, 23.84.040 and 25.05.675 of the Seattle Municipal Code to clarify regulations, to add additional regulations and to comply with new federal and state telecommunication laws.

**Status:** Retired 04/01/02
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 7, 1999
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** ZONING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, COMMUNICATION-SYSTEMS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 Ordinance_________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Chapter 23.57 and Sections 23.12.100, 23.44.012, 23.45.009, 23.45.016, 23.45.050, 23.45.058, 23.45.066, 23.45.074, 23.47.012, 23.47.024, 23.49.008, 23.49.009, 23.49.208, 23.49.338, 23.50.020, 23.66.122, 23.66.140, 23.66.322, 23.66.332, 23.76.022, 23.76.056, 23.84.006, 23.84.040 and 25.05.675 of the Seattle Municipal Code to clarify regulations, to add additional regulations and to comply with new federal and state telecommunication laws.

 WHEREAS, the City's Comprehensive Plan calls for universal access to state-of-the-art telecommunication services (Utilities G6) and for encouraging the development of telecommunications infrastructure citywide (Economic Development E24); and

 WHEREAS, the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 encourages the growth of the telecommunications industry through deregulation, and places certain limits on local governmental authority to condition or deny applications for personal wireless service facilities; and

 WHEREAS, the Federal Telecommunications Act and subsequent Federal Communications Commission rules preempt local governments' control over exposure to radiofrequency radiation emissions when such emissions comply with federal standards; and

 WHEREAS, the Federal Communications Commission has preempted local government control over certain small receive-only antennas; and

 WHEREAS, the State of Washington amended the State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) in 1996 to exclude certain telecommunications facilities from environmental review; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle recognizes the health, safety and public welfare aspects of telecommunication facilities; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle will encourage creative approaches in siting telecommunication facilities to minimize the unsightly characteristics that may be associated with these facilities, while providing for a wide range of locations and options for providers:

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 23.12.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), which Section was adopted by Ordinance 117929, is amended as follows:

 23.12.100 Telecommunication facilities policies.

 Policy 1: Purpose

 Since public benefits are provided by radio and television broadcast utilities (major communication utilities), opportunities for the location of these uses shall be provided in Seattle in order to allow for continued and improved service to the public. However, these utilities, due to their size and appearance, are incompatible with the character of residential areas, and they create adverse impacts beyond the immediate site.

 The intent of these policies is to recognize the public benefit provided but only allow these utilities in locations where impacts can be mitigated and in a manner that does not lead to an overall increase in new or expanded TV and radio towers. These policies encourage co-location of major communication utilities in non- residential areas and the removal of existing single purpose major communications utilities in residential areas. It is the intent of the City to encourage the relocation of major communication utilities to nonresidential areas. The City shall also provide for the location of ~~other utilities~~minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices that provide telephone and other communication functions.

 Policy 2: Radiofrequency Radiation

 Standards ~~are established~~ to limit exposure to radiofrequency (RF) radiation in order to protect the health and safety of the general public have been established by the Federal Communications Commission.~~These standards shall be administered by the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health and shall apply to utilities broadcasting at frequencies between .1 and 300,000 megahertz. The City shall adopt the standard recommended by the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements and the American National Standard Institute (1990).~~ In the event that mandatory or advisory standards more stringent than those in City codes are established by the federal government they shall become the City standard. SMC Chapter 25.10 Radiofrequency Radiation contains the applicable standards.

 The replacement of existing antennas with new "best available technology" antennas that result in lower levels of radiofrequency radiation at ground level shall be encouraged.

 The following activities shall be subject to review for compliance with radiofrequency radiation standards: the establishment of a new radio or television station transmitting from an existing utility, or any modification or replacement of ~~an~~ existing radio or television antennas resulting in a significant increase in off-site radiofrequency radiation. ~~Minor communication utilities and other RF devices shall be subject to the RF radiation standards, but do not need prior approval from the Health Department.~~For all transmitting antennas, the applicant shall submit a signed copy of the Applicant's Statement of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Compliance, certifying that the transmitting antenna fully complies with all FCC radiofrequency radiation exposure limits. This form shall be accompanied by a Professional Engineer's affidavit as to responsibility for measurements and calculations of the project's compliance.

 Policy 3: Appropriate Zones for ~~Transmission Towers~~Major Communication Utilities

 In order to protect the character and ensure the public safety of residential areas, new major communication utilities, such as radio and television transmission towers, shall not be permitted in single family, multifamily or Neighborhood Commercial 1, 2, or 3 zones. In these zones, expansion of existing towers or on-site replacement may be allowed according to City Council conditional use procedure.

 Policy 4: Minor Communication Utilities

 Minor communication utilities shall be developed in such a manner as to minimize impacts on nearby areas. Consideration shall be given to the following criteria: visual impacts, proximity to schools, neighborhood compatibility, land use and other impacts. The Land Use Code contains regulations concerning location of these facilities.

 Policy 5: Satellite Dishes

 Setback and screening standards shall be established for ~~dish~~ antennas over 4 feet in diameter in order to minimize their visual impact on adjacent residential properties or public parks. Satellite dish antennas, due to their size and (usually) light color, are much more visible than other forms of ~~television receive-only~~ antennas, creating a visual impact.

 Policy 6: Development Standards

 Major communication utilities shall be developed in such a manner as to minimize impacts on nearby areas. Setback, screening and landscaping shall be required in order to minimize visual impacts on adjacent properties, and to provide an appearance as compatible as possible with the uses permitted in the zone. Continuity shall be established with key elements of typical uses within the surrounding area; for example, in or adjacent to single-family areas, peaked roofs, painted metal surfaces, wooden fences, etc., shall be provided.

 Any maintenance, reconstruction, repair, modification or replacement of major communication utility facilities, transmission towers, accessory communication devices or accessory transmitter buildings, or the addition of new telecommunication devices to an existing tower, even if for a station or channel not previously located on the tower, shall be permitted outright provided that the change does not result in an increase in footprint and/or bulk and does not result in noncompliance with ~~established~~FCC radiofrequency radiation standards.

Permitted height~~F~~for minor communication utilities or accessory ~~radio frequency~~communication devices ~~exceeding the height limit~~ in Neighborhood Commercial zones, ~~or~~and in Commercial zones which are adjacent to single family zones~~,~~shall be limited to fifteen feet (15') above the building or zone height limit.~~DCLU shall determine that compliance with the height limit is not feasible, and that the utility will deviate to the least practical extent from this standard.~~

 Minor communication utilities shall be developed in such a manner as to minimize impacts on nearby areas. Consideration shall be given to the following criteria: visual impacts, proximity to schools, neighborhood compatibility, land use and other impacts.

 Accessory radiofrequency devices associated with residential, institutional, or commercial uses in residential zones shall be permitted outright as long as all applicable development standards are met.

 Policy 7: Air Traffic Safety

 A ~~D~~development proposal~~s~~for a major communication utility shall complete Federal Aviation Administration~~FAA~~ review before the City issues a decision on the application.

 Policy 8: Electromagnetic Interference

 The City shall request notification by the Federal Communications Commission of any application submitted to the FCC for new or expanding major communication facilities. At the time the FCC reviews such application, the City shall request that the applicant provide targeted community notice regarding electromagnetic interference, informing residents of remedial procedures the applicant is required to offer under federal regulations. The City shall promote cooperation between broadcasters and the community with respect to interference problems.

 Section 2. Subsection C of Section 23.44.012 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118414, is amended as follows:

 23.44.012 Height limits.

 * * *

 C. Height Limit Exceptions.

 1. ~~Radio and Television Antennas and~~ Flagpoles. Except in the Airport Height District, Chapter 23.64, ~~receive-only radio and television antennas, except for dishes, and~~ flagpoles are exempt from height limits, provided they are no closer to any adjoining lot line than fifty (50) percent of their height above existing grade, or, if attached only to a roof, no closer than fifty (50) percent of their height above the roof portion where attached.

 2. Other Features. Open rails, planters, skylights, and clerestories may extend no higher than the ridge of a pitched roof or four (4) feet above a flat roof. Chimneys may extend four (4) feet above the ridge of a pitched roof or above a flat roof.

 3. Solar Collectors. For height exceptions for solar collectors, not including solar greenhouses, see Section 23.44.046.

4. For height limits and exceptions for communication utilities and accessory communication devices, see Section 23.57.010.

 Section 3. Subsection D of Section 23.45.009 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119242, is amended as follows:

 23.45.009 Structure height-Lowise zones.

 * * *

 D. Rooftop Features.

 1. ~~Radio and television receive-only antennas, except for dish antennas,~~~~f~~Flagpoles~~,~~ and spires for religious institutions are exempt from height controls, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport Height District, provided they are no closer than fifty percent (50%) of their height above existing grade or, if attached only to the roof, no closer than fifty percent (50%) of their height above the roof portion where attached, to any adjoining lot line.

 2. Open railings, planters, skylights, clerestories, greenhouses, parapets and firewalls may extend four feet (4') above the maximum height limit set in subsections A and C of this section. For cottage housing developments, these rooftop features may extend four feet (4') above the eighteen foot (18') height limit.

 3. For cottage housing developments, chimneys may exceed the height limit by four feet (4') or may extend four feet (4') above the ridge of a pitched roof.

 4. Except in cottage housing developments, the following rooftop features may extend ten feet (10') above the maximum height limit established in subsection A so long as the combined total coverage of all features does not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the roof area or twenty percent (20%) of the roof area if the total includes screened mechanical equipment:

 a. Stair and elevator penthouses;

 b. Mechanical equipment;

 c. Play equipment and open-mesh fencing which encloses it, so long as the fencing is at least five feet (5') from the roof edge;

 d. Chimneys~~.~~;

e. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions of Section 23.57.011.

5. For height exceptions for solar collectors, see Section 23.45.146, Solar collectors.

 6. In order to protect solar access for property to the north, the applicant shall either locate the rooftop features listed in this subsection D6 at least ten feet (10') from the north edge of the roof, or provide shadow diagrams to demonstrate that the proposed location of such roof-top features would shade property to the north on January 21st at noon no more than would a structure built to the maximum permitted bulk:

 a. Solar collectors;

 b. Planters;

 c. Clerestories;

 d. Greenhouses;

 e. ~~Dish antennas~~Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, permitted ~~on rooftops by special exception~~ according to the provisions of Chapter 23.57 .011;

 f. Nonfirewall parapets;

 g. Play equipment.

7. For height limits and exceptions for communication utilities and devices, Section 23.57.011.

 * * *

 Section 4. Subsection B of Section 23.45.016 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119242, is amended as follows:

 23.45.016 Open space requirements -- Lowrise zones.

 * * *

 B. Development Standards.

 1. Lowrise Duplex/Triplex Zones and Ground-related Housing in Lowrise 1, Lowrise 2, Lowrise 3 and Lowrise 4 Zones.

 a. Lowrise Duplex/Triplex Zones -- Private Usable Open Space.

 (1) Private usable open space shall be provided at ground level in one (1) contiguous parcel with a minimum area of four hundred (400) square feet, except that in cottage housing developments, the quantity per unit shall be a minimum of two hundred (200) square feet. No horizontal dimension of the open space shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 (2) Private usable open space shall be located a maximum of four (4) feet above or below a private entry to the unit it serves. The floor of the unit accessed by this entry shall have a minimum area of three hundred (300) square feet. This minimum area may include a private garage if habitable floor area of the same unit is located directly above.

 b. Lowrise Duplex/Triplex Zones -- Common Open Space. Required common open space shall be provided at ground level in one (1) contiguous parcel with a minimum area of six hundred (600) square feet, except that in cottage housing developments, the quantity per unit shall be a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) square feet. In cottage housing developments, each cottage shall abut the common open space. No horizontal dimension of the open space shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 c. Lowrise 1, Lowrise 2, Lowrise 3 and Lowrise 4 Zones -- Ground- related Housing.

 (1) In Lowrise 1 zones the required open space shall be provided in one (1) contiguous parcel, except that in cottage housing developments, the open space shall be allotted as described in subsections A2c above and B1c(5) below. In Lowrise 2, Lowrise 3 and Lowrise 4 zones, the required open space for each ground-related dwelling unit is not required to be in one (1) contiguous area, but no open space area shall be less than one hundred twenty (120) square feet. No horizontal dimension of the open space shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 (2) Required open space may be located a maximum of ten (10) feet above or below the unit it serves, except as permitted in subsection B1c(4), provided that the access to such open space does not go through or over common circulation areas, common or public open spaces, or the open space serving another unit.

 (3) At least fifty (50) percent of the required open space for a unit shall be level, provided that:

 i. The open space may be terraced; and

 ii. Minor adjustments in level shall be permitted as long as the difference in elevation between the highest and lowest point does not exceed two (2) feet.

 (4) For additional dwelling units proposed within a structure existing on August 11, 1982, the vertical distance between the unit and the private, landscaped open space may exceed ten (10) feet where the following criteria are met:

 i. Where the structure was constructed with floor-to-floor heights in excess of ten (10) feet, the open space may be located a maximum of ten (10) feet plus the height between floors in excess of ten (10) feet, above or below the unit it serves; or

 ii. Where the structure was constructed with the first floor in excess of two (2) feet above grade, the open space may be located a maximum of ten (10) feet plus the additional height of the first floor in excess of two (2) feet above grade, above or below the unit it serves.

 (5) Lowrise 1 Zone -- Cottage Housing Developments.

 i. At least fifty (50) percent of the required total open space per unit shall be provided as private usable open space in one (1) contiguous parcel. No horizontal dimension of the open space shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 ii. Common open space shall be provided at ground level in one (1) contiguous parcel with a minimum area per unit of one hundred fifty (150) square feet. No horizontal dimension of the open space shall be less than ten (10) feet. Each cottage shall abut the common open space.

 d. Required open space may be located in the front, sides or rear of the structure.

 e. To ensure privacy of open space, openings such as windows and doors on the ground floor of walls of a dwelling unit or common areas, which directly face the open space of a different unit, are prohibited, unless such openings are screened by view-obscuring fences, freestanding walls or wingwalls.

 f. Parking areas, driveways and pedestrian access, except for pedestrian access meeting the Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11, shall not be counted as open space.

 g. Required private usable open space shall be landscaped according to standards promulgated by the Director for ground-related dwelling units.

 2. Lowrise 1, Lowrise 2, Lowrise 3 and Lowrise 4 Zones -- Apartments.

 a. No horizontal dimension for required ground-level open space shall be less than ten feet (10').

 b. Required open space is permitted in the front, sides or rear of the structure.

 c. Parking areas, driveways and pedestrian access, except pedestrian access meeting the Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11, shall not be counted as open space.

 d. In order to qualify as above-ground level open space, balconies, decks, and in L3 and L4 zones, individual unit decks on roofs, shall all have a minimum horizontal dimension of six (6) feet, and a total area of at least sixty (60) square feet, while common roof gardens in L3 and L4 zones shall have a minimum area of two hundred fifty (250) square feet. Common roof garden open space shall be landscaped according to the rules promulgated by the Director.

 e. For cluster development, at least twenty (20) percent of the required open space shall be provided in one (1) contiguous area.

 f. Terraced Housing on a Slope of Twenty-five (25) Percent or More.

 (1) No horizontal dimension for required ground-level open space shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 (2) Required open space is permitted in the front, sides or rear of the structure.

 (3) Parking areas, driveways and pedestrian access, except for pedestrian access meeting the Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11, shall not be counted as open space.

 (4) In order to qualify as above-ground-level open space, rooftop areas shall have a minimum horizontal dimension of at least ten (10) feet and a total area of at least one hundred twenty (120) square feet.

 g. ~~Rooftop open space within the following parameters shall not count toward meeting open space requirements: the area eight feet (8') from and in front of a directional antenna and at least two feet (2') from the back of a directional antenna, or, for an omnidirectional antenna, eight feet (8') away from the antenna in all directions. The Seattle-King County Public Health Department may require a greater distance for paging facilities after review of the Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation (NIER) report.~~. When a transmitting antenna is sited or proposed to be sited on a rooftop where required open space is located, see Section 23.57.011.

 3. Open Space Exception. When all parking and access to parking is uncovered and is surfaced in permeable material, except gravel, the quantity of required ground-level open space shall be reduced by five (5) percent of the total lot area.

 Section 5. Subsection D of Section 23.45.050 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.45.050 Midrise-Structure height.

 * * *

 D. Rooftop Features.

 1. ~~Radio and television receive-only antennas, except dish antennas, f~~Flagpoles and spires for religious institutions are exempt from height controls, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport Height District, provided they are no closer than fifty percent (50%) of their height above existing grade or, if attached only to the roof, no closer than fifty percent (50%) of their height above the roof portion where attached, to any adjoining lot line.

 2. Railings, planters, skylights, clerestories, greenhouses, parapets, and firewalls may extend four feet (4') above the maximum height limit set in subsections A and B of this ~~s~~Section.

 3. The following rooftop features may extend up to ten (10) feet above the maximum height limit set in subsections A and B of this section, so long as the combined total coverage of all features does not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the roof area or twenty (20%) percent of the roof area if the total includes screened mechanical equipment:

 a. Stair and elevator penthouses;

 b. Mechanical equipment;

 c. Play equipment and open-mesh fencing which encloses it, so long as the fencing is at least five feet (5') from the roof edge;

 d. Chimneys;

 e. Sun and wind screens;

 f. Penthouse pavilions for the common use of residents;

 g. Greenhouses which meet minimum energy standards administered by the Director~~.~~;

 h. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions of Section 23.57.011.

 4. For height exceptions for solar collectors, see Section 23.45.146, Solar collectors.

 5. In order to protect solar access for property to the north, the applicant shall either locate the rooftop features listed in this subsection at least ten (10) feet from the north edge of the roof, or provide shadow diagrams to demonstrate that the proposed location of such rooftop features would shade property to the north on January 21st at noon no more than would a structure built to maximum permitted bulk:

 a. Solar collectors;

 b. Planters;

 c. Clerestories;

 d. Greenhouses;

 e. ~~Dish antennas~~Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, permitted according to the provisions of ~~Chapter~~Section 23.57.011;

 f. Nonfirewall parapets;

 g. Play equipment;

 h. Sun and wind screens;

 i. Penthouse pavilions for the common use of residents.

6. For height limits and exceptions for communication utilities and devices, see Section 23.57.011.

 Section 6. Subsection B of Section 23.45.058 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118794, is amended as follows:

 23.45.058 Midrise-Open space requirements.

 * *

 B. Development Standards.

 1. Required open space shall be landscaped according to standards promulgated by the Director.

 2. Ground-related Housing.

 a. The required open space for each unit is not required to be in one (1) contiguous area, but no open space area shall be less than one hundred twenty (120) square feet, and no horizontal dimension shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 b. Required open space may be located in the front, sides or rear of the structure.

 c. Required open space may be located a maximum of ten (10) feet above or below the unit it serves, provided that the access to such open space does not go through or over common circulation areas, common or public open space, or the open space serving another unit, except as permitted in subsection B2e.

 d. At least fifty (50) percent of the required open space for a unit shall be level, provided that:

 (1) The open space may be terraced; and

 (2) Minor adjustments in level shall be permitted as long as the difference in elevation between the highest and lowest point does not exceed two (2) feet.

 e. For additional dwelling units proposed within a structure existing on August 11, 1982, the vertical distance between the unit and the private, landscaped open space may exceed ten (10) feet where the following criteria are met:

 (1) Where the structure was constructed with floor-to-floor heights in excess of ten (10) feet, the open space may be located a maximum of ten (10) feet plus the height between floors in excess of ten (10) feet, above or below the unit it serves;

 (2) Where the structure was constructed with the first floor in excess of two (2) feet above grade, the open space may be located a maximum of ten (10) feet plus the additional height of the first floor in excess of two (2) feet above grade, above or below the unit it serves.

 f. To ensure privacy of open space, openings such as windows and doors on the ground floor of walls of a dwelling unit or common area which directly faces the open space of a different unit are prohibited, unless such openings are screened by view-obscuring fences, freestanding walls, or wingwalls. Fences, freestanding walls, or wingwalls located in setbacks shall be no more than six (6) feet in height in accordance with Section 23.45.014G.

 g. Parking areas, driveways and pedestrian access, except for pedestrian access meeting the Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11-Accessibility, shall not be counted as open space.

 3. Apartments.

 a. No horizontal dimension for required ground-level open space shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 b. Required open space is permitted in the front, sides or rear of the structure.

 c. Parking areas, driveways and pedestrian access, except for pedestrian access meeting the Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11-Accessibility, shall not be counted as open space.

 d. In order to qualify as above-ground open space, balconies and decks shall have a minimum horizontal dimension of at least six (6) feet, and the minimum area shall be sixty (60) feet.

 e. For cluster development, at least twenty (20) percent of the required open space shall be provided in one (1) contiguous area.

f. When a transmitting antenna is sited or proposed to be sited on a rooftop where required open space is located, see Section 23.57.011.

 4. Terraced Housing on a Slope of Twenty-five (25) Percent or More.

 a. No horizontal dimension for required ground-level open space shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 b. Required open space is permitted in the front, sides or rear of the structure.

 c. Parking areas, driveways and pedestrian access, except for pedestrian access meeting the Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11-Accessibility, shall not be counted as open space.

 d. In order to qualify as above-ground open space, balconies ~~or~~and decks shall have a minimum horizontal dimension of at least ten (10) feet, and a total area of at least one hundred twenty (120) feet.

 * * *

 Section 7. Subsection C of Section 23.45.066 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.45.066 Highrise-Structure height.

 * * *

 C. Height Exceptions.

 1. ~~Radio and television receive-only antennas, except dish antennas, f~~Flagpoles and spires for religious institutions are exempt from height controls, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport Height District, provided they are no closer than fifty percent (50%) of their height above existing grade or, if attached only to the roof, no closer than fifty percent (50%) of their height above the roof portion where attached, to any adjoining lot line.

 2. Railings, planters, skylights, clerestories, greenhouses, parapets, and firewalls may extend four feet (4') above the maximum height limit set in subsections A and B of this ~~s~~Section.

 3. The following rooftop features may extend up to ten feet (10') above the maximum height limit, so long as the combined total coverage of all features does not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the roof area, or twenty percent (20%) of the roof area if the total includes screened mechanical equipment:

 a. Stair and elevator penthouses;

 b. Mechanical equipment;

 c. Play equipment and open-mesh fencing which encloses it, so long as the fencing is at least five feet (5') from the roof edge;

 d. Chimneys;

 e. Sun and wind screens;

 f. Penthouse pavilions for the common use of residents~~.~~;

g. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions of Section 23.57.011.

4. For height exceptions for solar collectors, see Section 23.45.146, Solar collectors.

 5. In order to protect solar access for property to the north, the applicant shall either locate the rooftop features listed below at least ten feet (10') from the north edge of the roof, or provide shadow diagrams to demonstrate that the proposed location of such rooftop features would shade property to the north on January 21st at noon no more than would a structure built to maximum permitted bulk:

 a. Solar collectors;

 b. Planters;

 c. Clerestories;

 d. Greenhouses;

 e. ~~Dish antennas~~Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, permitted according to the provisions of ~~Chapter~~Section 23.57.011;

 f. Nonfirewall parapets;

 g. Play equipment;

 h. Sun and wind screens;

 i. Penthouse pavilions for the common use of residents.

6. For height limits and exceptions for communication utilities and devices, see Section 23.57.011.

 Section 8. Subsection B of Section 23.45.074 of the SMC, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 110570, is amended as follows:

 23.45.074 Highrise--Open space requirements.

 * * *

 B. Development Standards.

 1. No horizontal dimension for required open space at ground level or on the roof of the base structure shall be less than fifteen feet (15'), nor shall any open space area be less than two hundred twenty- five (225) square feet.

 2. In order to qualify as above-ground-level open space, balconies, decks, or open space on the roof of a base structure shall be thirty- seven feet (37') or less above existing grade.

 3. Required open space is permitted in the front, side or rear of the structure.

 4. Parking areas, driveways and pedestrian access, except for pedestrian access meeting the Washington State ~~Rules and Regulations for Barrier-Free Design~~Building Code, Chapter 11,  shall not be counted as open space.

 5. In order to qualify as above-ground open space, no horizontal dimension for balconies and decks shall be less than six feet (6'), and the minimum area for balconies and decks shall be sixty feet (60').

 6. When a transmitting antenna is sited or proposed to be sited on a rooftop where required open space is located, see Section 23.57.011.

 Section 9. Subsection G of Section 23.47.012 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is amended as follows:

 23.47.012 Structure height and floor area ratio.

 * * *

 G. Rooftop Features.

 1. ~~Radio and television receiving antennas excluding dish antennas; ham radio towers; s~~Smokestacks, chimneys; flagpoles; and spires for religious institutions are exempt from height controls, except as regulated in 23.64, Airport Height District, provided they are a minimum of ten feet (10') from any side or rear lot line.

 2. Open railings, planters, skylights, clerestories, greenhouses, parapets and firewalls may extend up to four feet (4') above the maximum height limit with unlimited rooftop coverage.

 3. Solar collectors.

 a. In zones with height limits of thirty feet (30') or forty feet (40'), solar collectors may extend up to four feet (4') above the maximum height limit, with unlimited rooftop coverage.

 b. In zones with height limits of sixty-five feet (65') or more, solar collectors may extend up to seven feet (7') above the maximum height limits, with unlimited rooftop coverage.

 4. The following rooftop features may extend up to fifteen feet (15') above the maximum height limit, so long as the combined total coverage of all features listed in this subsection does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the roof area or twenty-five percent (25%) of the roof area if the total includes stair or elevator penthouses or screened mechanical equipment:

 a. Solar collectors;

 b. Stair and elevator penthouses;

 c. Mechanical equipment;

 d. Play equipment and open-mesh fencing which encloses it, so long as the fencing is at least fifteen feet (15') from the roof edge; and

 e. ~~Dish antennas,~~Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions of ~~Chapter~~Section 23.57 .012.

 5. In order to protect solar access for property to the north, the applicant shall either locate the rooftop features listed in this ~~subdivision~~subsection at least ten feet (10') from the north edge of the roof, or provide shadow diagrams to demonstrate that the proposed location of such rooftop features would shade property to the north on January 21st at noon no more than would a structure built to maximum permitted bulk:

 a. Solar collectors;

 b. Planters;

 c. Clerestories;

 d. Greenhouses;

 e. ~~Dish antennas,~~Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, permitted according to the provisions of ~~Chapter~~Section 23.57.012;

 f. Non-firewall parapets;

 g. Play equipment.

 6. Structures existing prior to May 10, 1986 may add new or replace existing mechanical equipment up to fifteen (15) feet above the roof elevation of the structure and shall comply with the noise standards of Section 23.47.018.

7. For height limits and exceptions for communication utilities and accessory communication devices, see Section 23.57.013.

 * * *

 Section 10. Subsection B of Section 23.47.024 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118794, is amended as follows:

 23.47.024 Open space standards.

 * * *

 B. Open Space Development Standards.

 1. When permitted, required usable open space may be provided at ground level or may be provided above ground in the form of balconies, decks, solaria, greenhouses, or roof gardens or decks.

 2. Balconies and decks provided above the ground as open space shall have a minimum area of sixty (60) square feet and no horizontal dimension shall be less than six (6) feet.

 3. Usable open space at ground level, and roof gardens, solaria, and greenhouses provided above ground as open space shall have a minimum area of two hundred fifty (250) square feet. No horizontal dimension shall be less than ten (10) feet.

 4. Required usable open space is permitted at the front, sides, or rear of the structure.

 5. Parking areas, driveways, and pedestrian access to the nonresidential or residential entrances, except for pedestrian access meeting the Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11 -- Accessibility, shall not be counted as open space.

 6. Required open space shall be landscaped according to standards promulgated by the Director.

 7. ~~Rooftop space within the following parameters shall not count toward meeting open space requirements: the area eight (8) feet from and in front of a directional antenna and at least two (2) feet from the back of a directional antenna, or, for an omnidirectional antenna, eight (8) feet away from the antenna in all directions. The Seattle-King County Public Health Department may require a greater distance for paging facilities after review of the Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation (NIER) report.~~When a transmitting antenna is sited or proposed to be sited on a rooftop where required open space is located, see Section 23.57.012.

 Section 11. Subsection C of Section 23.49.008 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is amended as follows:

 23.49.008 Structure height.

 The following provisions regulating structure height shall apply to all property in downtown zones except the DH1, PSM, IDM, and IDR zones.

 * * *

 C. Rooftop Features.

 1. The following rooftop features are permitted with unlimited rooftop coverage and may not exceed the height limits as indicated:

 a. Open railings, planters, clerestories, skylights, play equipment, parapets and firewalls up to four (4) feet above the maximum height limit;

 b. Solar collectors up to seven (7) feet above the maximum height limit; and

 c. The rooftop features listed below may extend up to fifty (50) feet above the maximum height limit, whichever is less, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport Height Overlay District:

~~(1) Major or minor communication utilities;~~

~~(2)~~(1) Religious symbols and that portion of the roof which supports them, such as belfries or spires;

~~(3)~~(2) Smokestacks; and

~~(4)~~(3) Flagpoles

 They shall be located a minimum of ten (10) feet from all lot lines.

 2. The following rooftop features are permitted as long as the combined coverage of all features does not exceed twenty (20) percent of the roof area, or twenty-five (25) percent if the total includes stair or elevator penthouses or screened mechanical equipment. Except in the PMM zone, additional combined coverage of all rooftop features, not to exceed thirty-five (35) percent of the roof area, may be permitted through the Design Review process for Development Standard Departures in Section 23.41.012.

 a. The following rooftop features are permitted to extend up to fifteen (15) feet above the maximum height limit:

 (1) Solar collectors;

 (2) Stair penthouses;

 (3) Play equipment and open-mesh fencing, as long as the fencing is at least fifteen (15) feet from the roof edge;

 (4) Mechanical equipment; and

 (5) Mechanical equipment, whether new or replacement, may be allowed up to fifteen (15) feet above the roof elevation of a structure existing prior to June 1, 1998.

 b. Elevator penthouses are permitted to extend beyond the maximum height limit as follows:

 (1) In the PMM zone, up to fifteen (15) feet above the maximum height limit for the zone.

 (2) Except in the PMM zone, up to twenty (20) feet above the maximum height limit for a penthouse designed for an elevator cab up to eight (8) feet high; or

 (3) Except in the PMM zone, up to twenty-two (22) feet above the maximum height limit for a penthouse designed for an elevator cab more than eight (8) feet high.

c. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, regulated according to Section 23.57.013, shall be included within the maximum permitted rooftop coverage.

 3. Screening of Rooftop Features.

 a. Measures may be taken to screen rooftop features from public view through the Design Review process or, if located within the Pike Place Market Historical District, by the Market Historical Commission.

 b. Except in the PMM zone, the amount of roof area enclosed by rooftop screening may exceed the maximum percentage of the combined coverage of all rooftop features as provided in subsection C2 above.

 c. Except in the PMM zone, in no circumstances shall the height of rooftop screening exceed ten (10) percent of the maximum height of the zone in which the structure is located, or fifteen (15) feet, whichever is greater. In the PMM zone, the height of the screening shall not exceed the height of the rooftop feature being screened, or such greater height necessary for effective screening as determined by the Pike Place Market Historical Commission.

 4. Administrative Conditional Use for Rooftop Features. The rooftop features listed in subsection C1c above may exceed a height of fifty (50) feet above the roof of the structure on which they are located if authorized by the Director through an administrative conditional use, Chapter 23.76. The request for additional height shall be evaluated on the basis of public benefits provided, the possible impacts of the additional height, consistency with the City's land use policies, and the following specific criteria:

 a. The feature shall be compatible with and not adversely affect the downtown skyline.

 b. The feature shall not have a substantial adverse effect upon the light, air, solar and visual access of properties within a three- hundred (300) foot radius.

 c. The feature, supporting structure and structure below shall be compatible in design elements such as bulk, profile, color and materials.

~~d. The feature shall not adversely affect the function of existing transmission or receiving equipment within a five (5) mile radius.~~

~~e~~d. The increased size is necessary for the successful physical function of the feature, except for religious symbols.

5. For height limits and exceptions for communication utilities and accessory communication devices, see Section 23.57.013.

 Section 12. Subsection E of Section 23.49.009 of the SMC, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 23.49.009 Open space.

 * * *

 E. Limitations. Open space satisfying the requirement of this section for any project shall not be used to satisfy the open space requirement for any other project, nor shall any bonus be granted to any project for open space meeting the requirement of this section for any other project. When a transmitting antenna is sited or proposed to be sited on a rooftop where required open space is located, see Section 23.57.013. Open space on the site of any building for which a master use permit decision was issued or a complete building permit application was filed prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section, that is not required under the Land Use Code in effect when such permit decision was issued or such application filed but that would have been required for the same building by this section, shall not be used to satisfy the open space requirement or to gain an FAR bonus for any other project.

 * * *

 Section 13. Subsection B of Section 23.49.208 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113279, is amended as follows:

 23.49.208 International District Mixed, structure height.

 * * *

B. Rooftop features may be permitted according to the provisions of Section 23.66.332.

~~B~~C. In the seventy-five (75) to eighty-five (85) foot height district, structures in excess of seventy-five (75) feet, to a maximum of eighty-five (85) feet, shall be permitted only if fifty (50) percent of the gross floor area, excluding parking, is in residential use.

~~C~~D. In the one hundred (100) to one hundred twenty (120) foot height district, structures in excess of one hundred (100) feet, to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) feet shall be permitted if seventy-five (75) percent or more of the gross floor area, excluding parking, is in residential use, or may be permitted as part of a planned community development, pursuant to Section 23.49.036, Planned community development.

~~D~~E. In the sixty-five (65) to one hundred twenty (120) foot height district, structures in excess of sixty-five (65) feet, to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) feet, may be permitted only as a part of a planned community development, pursuant to Section 23.49.036, Planned community development.

 Section 14. Subsection A of Section 23.49.338 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.49.338 Pike Market Mixed, prohibited uses.

 A. The following uses are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses in areas outside of the Pike Place Market Historic District, Map XIIA:

 1. Drive-in businesses, except gas stations located in parking garages;

 2. Outdoor storage;

 3. Adult motion picture theaters and adult panorams;

 4. Transportation facilities;

 5. Major~~C~~communication utilities;

 6. All general manufacturing uses;

 7. All salvage and recycling uses, except recycling collection stations;

 8. All industrial uses;

 9. Jails; and

 10. Work-release centers.

 * * *

 Section 15. Subsection A of Section 23.50.020, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116596, is amended as follows:

 23.50.020 All Industrial zones-Structure height exceptions and additional restrictions.

 A. Rooftop Features. Where height limits are otherwise applicable to a structure, and except as provided in subsections C4, D4, E4 and F3 of Section 23.50.024, the following conditions shall apply to rooftop features:

 1. ~~Radio and television receiving antennas, excluding dish antennas; amateur radio towers; s~~Smokestacks; chimneys and flagpoles and spires for religious institutions are exempt from height controls, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64, Airport District, provided they are a minimum of ten feet (10') from any side or rear lot line.

 2. Open railings, planters, skylights, clerestories, greenhouses, parapets and firewalls may extend four feet (4') above the maximum height limit with unlimited rooftop coverage.

 3. Solar collectors may extend up to seven feet (7') above the maximum height limit, with unlimited rooftop coverage.

 4. The following rooftop features may extend up to fifteen feet (15') above the maximum height limit, as long as the combined total coverage of all features listed in this subsection does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the roof area, or twenty-five percent (25%) of the roof area if the total includes screened mechanical equipment:

 a. Solar collectors;

 b. Stair and elevator penthouses;

 c. Mechanical equipment; and

 d. ~~Dish antennas,~~Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions of ~~Chapter~~Section 23.57 .015.

 * * *

 Section 16. Section 23.57.001 of the SMC, last amended by Ordinance 118414, is further amended as follows:

 23.57.001 Intent and Objectives.

~~The intent of this chapter is to provide~~This Chapter provides regulations and development standards for major and minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices. The regulations and development standards contained in this Chapter are imposed to minimize the health, safety and visual impact of telecommunication utilities on nearby areas. Development of communication utilities and accessory devices may also be subject to other regulations, such as~~Title 25 of the Municipal Code (~~ Chapter 25.05, SEPA Policies and Procedures, ~~; Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas; Chapter 25.10, Radiofrequency Radiation),~~ in addition to the Land Use Code.

 Section 17. Section 23.57.002 of the SMC, adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.002 Scope ~~of provisions~~and applicability of provisions.

 A. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to communication utilities and accessory communication devices ~~in all zones~~, except as follows:  1. In RSL, SF, LR, MR, HR, and RC zones:

 a. satellite dish antennas one (1) meter (3.28 feet) or less in diameter;

 b. direct broadcast satellite service antennas one (1) meter (3.28 feet) or less in diameter; and

 c. video programming services antennas one (1) meter (3.28 feet) or less in diameter or diagonal measurement.

 2. In NC, C, SCM, DOC, DRC, DMC, DH, IG, IC, and IB zones:

 a. satellite dish antennas two (2) meters (6.56 feet) or less in diameter;

 b. direct broadcast satellite service antennas one (1) meter (3.28 feet) or less in diameter; and

 c. video programming services antennas one (1) meter (3.28 feet) or less in diameter or diagonal measurement.

 3. In PSM, PMM, IDM zones: satellite dish antennas between one (1) meter (3.28 feet) and two (2) meters (6.56 feet);

 B. The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to television broadcast and radio receive-only antennas, Citizen Band radios, and equipment designed and marketed as consumer products such as computers (including internet linkage), telephones, microwave ovens and remote control toys.

~~B~~C. Lots located in the Shoreline District shall meet the requirements of the Seattle Shoreline Master Program in addition to the provisions of this chapter. In the event there is a conflict between the regulations of the Shoreline Master Program and this chapter, the provisions of the Shoreline Master Program shall apply.

 Section 18. Subsection B of Section 23.57.003 of the SMC, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.003 Nonconforming uses and structures.

 * * *

 B. The following activities shall be permitted outright for existing major and minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices which are nonconforming structures: structural alteration to meet safety requirements, replacement on-site, maintenance, renovation or repair. The addition of new telecommunication devices to an existing transmission tower shall be permitted outright, except as follows: no more than a total of fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas which are over four (4) feet in any dimension may be located on an existing tower, unless the applicant submits copies of Federal Communications Commission licenses, as provided in Section 23.57.008 G, showing that all of the existing fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas over four (4) feet in any dimension, plus any proposed additional such horn or dish antenna, are accessory to the communication utility. Physical expansion shall be prohibited, except as may be permitted by ~~Council Conditional Use~~the provisions in each zone.

 Section 19. A new Section 23.57.004 is hereby added to Chapter 23.57 to read as follows:

 23.57.004 Removal of Unused Facilities

 Any major or minor communication utility or accessory communication device that is regulated by this Chapter and that is not operated for a period of six (6) months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner or operator of such unused facility shall remove all equipment, including but not limited to antennas, poles, towers, and equipment shelters associated with the use within six (6) months of the cessation of operation.

 Section 20. Section 23.57.005, adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.005 Permitted and prohibited locations.

 A. Single Family, Residential Small Lot, Lowrise, Midrise, Highrise, ~~and~~ Neighborhood Commercial 1, 2 and 3, and the Seattle Cascade Mixed Zones.

 1. New major communication utilities shall be prohibited.

 2. Physical expansion of existing major communication utilities may be permitted by Council Conditional Use under the criteria listed in Section 23.57.006 and according to development standards in Section 23.57.008.

 3. The following activities shall be permitted outright for existing communication utilities and accessory communication devices: structural alteration to meet safety requirements, replacement on- site, maintenance, renovation, or repair. The addition of new ~~telecommunication~~accessory communication devices or new minor communication utilities to an existing tower shall be permitted outright, except as follows: No more than a total of fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas which are over four (4) feet in any dimension may be located on an existing tower, unless the applicant submits copies of Federal Communications Commission licenses, as provided in Section 23.57.008 G, showing that all of the existing fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas over four (4) feet in any dimension, plus any proposed additional such horn or dish antennas, are accessory to the communication utility.

 B. Commercial 1 and 2 Zones.

 1. New Major Communication Utilities.

 a. Single-occupant major communication utilities may be permitted by Council Conditional Use under the criteria listed in Section 23.57.006 and according to the development standards in Section 23.57.008.

 b. Shared-use major communication utilities may be permitted by Administrative Conditional Use under the criteria listed in Section 23.57.007 and according to development standards in Section 23.57.008.

 2. Physical expansion of existing major communication utilities may be permitted by Council Conditional Use under the criteria listed in Section 23.57.006 and according to development standards in Section 23.57.008.

 3. The following activities shall be permitted outright for existing communication utilities and accessory communication devices: structural alteration to meet safety requirements, replacement on- site, maintenance, renovation, or repair. The addition of new ~~telecommunication~~accessory communication devices or new minor communication utilities to an existing tower shall be permitted outright, except as follows: No more than a total of fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas which are over four (4) feet in any dimension may be located on an existing tower, unless the applicant submits copies of Federal Communications Commission licenses, as provided in Section 23.57.008 G, showing that all of the existing fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas over four (4) feet in any dimension, plus any proposed additional such horn or dish antennas, are accessory to the communication utility.

 C. Downtown Zones.

 1. In Pioneer Square Mixed, International District Mixed, International District Residential, and Pike Market Mixed Zones, new major communication utilities shall be prohibited.

 2. In all other downtown zones, establishment or physical expansion of major communication utilities may be permitted, whether single- occupant or shared, by Administrative Conditional Use under the evaluation criteria listed in Section 23.57.007 and according to development standards in Section 23.57.008.

 3. The following activities shall be permitted outright for existing communication utilities and accessory communication devices: structural alteration to meet safety requirements, replacement on- site, maintenance, renovation, or repair. The addition of new ~~telecommunication~~accessory communication devices or new minor communication utilities, to an existing tower shall be permitted outright, except as follows: No more than a total of fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas which are over four (4) feet in any dimension may be located on an existing tower, unless the applicant submits copies of Federal Communications Commission licenses, as provided in Section 23.57.008 G, showing that all of the existing fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas over four (4) feet in any dimension, plus any proposed additional such horn or dish antennas, are accessory to the communication utility.

 D. Industrial Zones.

 Establishment or physical expansion of major communication utilities, whether single- occupant or shared, may be permitted by Administrative Conditional Use under the criteria listed in Section 23.57.007 and the development standards in Section 23.57.008. The following activities shall be permitted outright for existing communication utilities and accessory communication devices: structural alteration to meet safety requirements, replacement on- site, maintenance, renovation, or repair. The addition of new ~~telecommunication~~accessory communication devices or new minor communication utilities, to an existing tower shall be permitted outright, except as follows: no more than a total of fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas which are over four (4) feet in any dimension may be located on an existing tower, unless the applicant submits copies of Federal Communications Commission licenses, as provided in Section 23.57.008 G, showing that all of the existing fifteen (15) horn and dish antennas over four (4) feet in any dimension, plus any proposed additional such horn or dish antennas, are accessory to the communication utility.

 Section 21. Subsections A and H of Section 23.57.008 of the SMC, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 116295, are amended as follows:

 23.57.008 Development standards.

 A. In Single Family, Residential Small Lot, Lowrise, Midrise, Highrise,~~and~~ Neighborhood Commercial, and Seattle Cascade Mixed zones, physical expansion of a major communication utility may be permitted only when:

 1. The expanded facility will be a shared-use utility, and another broadcaster has contracted to relocate its transmitter to the expanded facility; and

 2. A different existing tower of similar size in the immediate vicinity will be removed within six months of issuance of the certificate of occupancy.

 * * *

H. Equipment shelters and other accessory structures shall comply with the development standards of this Section whether or not physical expansion, as defined in Section 23.84.006, is proposed.

 Section 22. Section 23.57.009 of the SMC, as adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.009 Development standards for minor communication utilities with freestanding transmission towers ~~for minor communication utilities~~ in all zones.

Minor communication utilities with~~F~~freestanding transmission towers ~~for minor communication utilities~~ shall be subject to the access, setback, screening and landscaping requirements for major communication utilities in subsections B, C ~~and~~ E and H of Section 23.57.008 in addition to the standards of each zone as described in this Chapter.

 Section 23. Section 23.57.010 of the SMC, as adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.010 Single Family and Residential Small Lot zones.

 * * *

 B. Accessory Communication Devices.

 1. Receive-only communication devices, regulated by this Chapter pursuant to Section 23.57.002, that are accessory to residential uses and~~which~~ meet the development standards of subsection E are permitted outright;

 2. Communication devices on the same lot~~site~~ as and accessory to institutions, public facilities, public utilities,  major institutions and nonconforming residential uses, which meet the development standards of subsection E are permitted outright.

 C. Uses Permitted by Administrative Conditional Use. Except in special review, historic and landmark districts (see Section 23.57.014),minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices regulated by this Chapter, pursuant to Section 23.57.002, may be permitted as an administrative conditional use under the following conditions, as applicable:

1. In all cases, the applicant shall demonstrate why location in a zone other than a Single Family or Residential Small Lot zone is not feasible;  2.

~~w~~When locating on the same lot as ~~an existing utility or public facility~~but not accessory to institutions, public facilities, major institutions, and non-conforming residential uses,~~may be permitted by Administrative Conditional Use,~~~~according to the following criteria: 1. T~~the proposal shall not result in a commercial intrusion which would be ~~significantly~~substantially detrimental to the residential character of the surrounding residentially zoned area.

~~2~~3. If the proposed minor communication utility is proposed to exceed the permitted height of the zone ~~or is a transmission tower~~, the applicant shall demonstrate ~~the following:~~a. The need for the proposed communication utility to be in a Single Family zone and a justification for the proposed height

why the height of the zone is insufficient;

4.~~b~~. ~~That t~~The materials, shape and color of the proposed utility or device will minimize negative visual impacts on adjacent or nearby residential areas to the greatest extent possible;

5.~~c. That~~The proposed communication utility will not be substantially detrimental to the residential character of an area, for example, through the demolition of residential dwelling units in a residential zone.

6. Within a Major Institution Overlay District, a Major Institution may locate a minor communication utility or an accessory communication device, either of which may be larger than permitted by the underlying zone, when:  a. the antenna is at least one hundred feet (100') from a MIO boundary, and

 b. the antenna is substantially screened from the surrounding neighborhood's view, or is located on a rooftop. The screening requirements of subsection E3 shall not apply to the antennas described in this subsection.

 D. Uses Permitted by Council Conditional Use.

 The establishment or expansion of a minor communication utility other than as described in subsection C above, may be permitted as a Council Conditional Use, pursuant to the following criteria, as applicable:

1. In all cases, the applicant shall demonstrate why location in a zone other than a Single Family or Residential Small Lot zone is not possible;

~~1~~2. The minor communication utility shall not result in a commercial intrusion which would be substantially detrimental to the residential character of the surrounding residentially zoned area~~.~~;

~~2~~3. If the proposed minor communication utility is proposed to exceed the permitted height of the zone ~~or is a transmission tower~~, the applicant shall demonstrate ~~the following:~~a. The need for the proposed communication utility to be in a Single Family zone and a justification for the proposed height

why the height of the zone is insufficient;

4.~~b. That t~~The materials, shape and color of the proposed utility or device will minimize negative visual impacts on adjacent or nearby residential areas to the greatest extent possible;

5.~~c. That~~The proposed communication utility will not be substantially detrimental to the residential character of an area, for example through the demolition of residential dwelling units in a residential zone.

6.If located on a lot developed with a single family dwelling, the proposed minor communication utility will be clearly incidental to the use of the property as a dwelling.

E. Development Standards.

 1. Location. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices regulated pursuant to Section 23.57.002 and amateur radio towers:

 a. ~~Dish~~~~antennas~~ are prohibited in the required front yard, and amateur radio towers are additionally prohibited in side yards.

 b. ~~Dish antennas~~ shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all lot lines, except as provided in subsection ~~D~~E5.

 c. ~~Dish antennas~~when ground-mounted, shall be ~~counted~~included in lot coverage and rear yard coverage calculations. For dish antennas,lot ~~C~~c overage shall be calculated with the dish in a horizontal position.

 d. ~~Dish antennas~~may be located on rooftops of non- residential buildings, but shall not be located on rooftops of principal or accessory structures containing residential uses, except as provided in subsection E5.

~~e. Accessory amateur radio towers may not be located in required front or side yards.~~

 2. Height and Size.

 a. The height limit of the ~~underlying~~ zone shall apply to ~~transmission towers~~minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices. Exceptions to the height limit may be authorized through the approval of an Administrative Conditional Use (see subsection C above) ~~if located on an existing utility or public facility,~~ or a Council Conditional Use (subsection D above).

~~b. The maximum height for dish antennas shall be twelve feet (12') above finished grade, except as provided in subsection E5.~~

~~c~~b. The maximum diameter of dish antennas shall be ~~twelve feet (12')~~six feet (6'), except for major institutions within a Major Institution Overlay District, when regulated through an administrative conditional use in subsection C above.

~~d~~c. The maximum height of an accessory amateur radio tower shall be no more than fifty feet (50') above existing grade. Cages and antennas may extend to a maximum additional fifteen feet (15'). The base of the tower shall be located at a

 distance from any lot line at least one-half (1/2) the height of the total structure, including tower or other support, cage and antennas.

 3. Visual Impacts. Antennas and their supporting structures four feet (4') or more in any dimension shall be as unobtrusive as practicable, including the use of non-reflective materials, and shall be screened from any public park or residentially zoned lot located adjacent to or across a street or alley from the lot as follows:

 a. A screen for freestanding, ground-mounted antennas shall be six feet (6') tall and may be in the form of a view-obscuring fence, wall or hedge ~~and~~which shall be maintained in good condition. Chain link, plastic or vinyl fencing/screening is prohibited.

 b. ~~For an~~An antenna located on a rooftop~~, screening shall be provided to a height equal to two-thirds (2/3) the height above the rooftop of the installed antenna.~~shall be obscured from view by means of antenna location, architectural design, material, shape and color to the maximum extent practicable, as determined by the Director. Siting where the antenna is silhouetted shall be avoided, with preferred locations either flat against a parapet or near the center of the roof. The Director may require camouflage and/or enclosure, such as consolidation with mechanical equipment.

 c. Exceptions. No screening shall be required in the following circumstances:

 (i) As provided in subsection E5;

 (ii) If the antenna is set back from the property line a distance of at least five (5) times its diameter or height, whichever is greater, from any residentially zoned lot or public park;

 (iii) For amateur radio towers, whip antennas, antennas attached to sides of structures, and antennas attached to freestanding transmission towers;

 (iv) If the antenna is adjacent to or across a street or alley from a designated major institution, no screening is required on that frontage.

~~d. The visibility of a minor communication utility on a rooftop shall be minimized by painting it the same color as the building upon which it is located.~~

 4. Access and Signage. Access to transmitting accessory communication devices and to minor communication utilities shall be restricted to authorized personnel by fencing or other means of security. If located on a residential structure or on a public

 utility, warning signs at every point of access to the transmitting antenna shall be posted with information on the existence of radiofrequency radiation.

 5. ~~Special Exceptions for Dish Antenna~~Reception Window Obstruction for Receive-Only Devices. When adherence to all development standards would result in reception window obstruction in all permissible locations on the subject lot, ~~a special exception, according to provisions of Chapter 23.76,~~the Director may grant a waiver~~may be permitted~~ from development standards of subsections E1b, E1d, ~~E2b~~ and E3 of this ~~subs~~Section. The first waiver to be considered will be from the requirement for a ten-foot (10') setback; the second, reduction, then waiver from screening~~; and the third from the maximum permitted elevation up to a maximum of eighteen feet (18')~~. Only if these waived regulations would still result in obstruction shall rooftop location be considered. Approval of a ~~special exception~~waiver shall be subject to the following criteria:

 a. The applicant shall demonstrate that the obstruction is a result of factors beyond the property owner's control, taking into consideration potential permitted development on adjacent and neighboring lots with regard to future reception-window obstruction.

 b. The applicant shall be required to use material, shape and color to minimize visual impact.

 c. If a ~~special exception~~waiver is sought per this subsection to permit a rooftop location, the maximum permitted height of the device shall be four feet (4') above the existing roofline or four feet (4') above the zone height limit, whichever is higher.

 Section 24. Section 23.57.011 of the SMC, as adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.011 Lowrise, Midrise and Highrise zones.

A. Amateur Radio Devices. Amateur radio devices accessory to a residential use which meet the development standards of subsection D are permitted outright.

~~A~~B. Accessory Communication Devices. Communication devices accessory to residential, public facility, public utility, major institution or institutional use are permitted outright when they meet the development standards of subsection ~~C~~D.

~~B~~C. Uses Permitted by Administrative Conditional Use. Except in special review, historic and landmark districts (see Section

23.57.014),~~M~~minor communication utilities  regulated pursuant to Section 23.57.002, may be permitted as an ~~A~~administrative ~~C~~conditional ~~U~~use when they meet the development standards of subsection ~~C~~D  and the following criteria:

 1. The minor communication utility shall not result in a commercial intrusion which would be substantially detrimental to the residential character of the surrounding residentially zoned area.

 2. If the minor communication utility is proposed to exceed the zone height limit ~~or is a transmission tower~~, the applicant shall demonstrate the following:

 (i) The need for the proposed communication utility to be in a residential zone and a justification for the proposed height;

 (ii) That the proposed materials, shape and color of the proposed utility or device will minimize negative visual impacts on adjacent or nearby residential areas to the greatest practicable extent ~~possible~~;

 (iii) That the proposed communication utility will not be substantially detrimental to the residential character of an area, for example, through the demolition of residential dwelling units in a residential zone.

3. Within a Major Institution Overlay District, a Major Institution may locate a minor communication utility or an accessory communication device, either of which may be larger than permitted by the underlying zone, when:  a. The antenna is at least one hundred feet (100') from a MIO boundary, and

 b. the antenna is substantially screened from the surrounding neighborhood's view, or is located on a rooftop. The screening requirements of subsection D3 shall not apply to the antennas described in this subsection.

~~C~~D. Development Standards.

1.  Location. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices regulated pursuant to Section 23.57.002 and amateur radio towers:

 a. ~~Minor accessory communication~~~~and amateur radio towers~~~~may not be located~~are prohibited in a required front or side setback.

 b. ~~Minor communication utilities other than other than freestanding transmission towers , accessory~~

~~communication devices and amateur radio towers~~ may be located in a required rear setback, except for transmission towers.

~~c. In all Lowrise zones, dish antennas shall not be located on rooftops of principal or accessory structures, except as provided in subsection C5.~~

~~d. In Midrise and Highrise zones, minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices may be located on rooftops and may exceed the zone height limit by a maximum of four feet (4')~~.

~~e~~c. In all Lowrise, Midrise and Highrise zones, minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices  may be located on rooftops of buildings, including sides of parapets and penthouses above the roofline. Rooftop space within the following parameters shall not count toward meeting open space requirements: the area eight feet (8') from and in front of a directional antenna and at least two feet (2') from the back of a directional antenna, or, for an omnidirectional antenna, eight feet (8') away from the antenna in all directions. The Seattle-King County Public Health Department may require a greater distance for paging facilities after review of the Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation (NIER) report.~~are prohibited on the outside, except rooftops, of buildings containing the residential units.~~

 2. Height and Size.

 a. The height limit of the ~~underlying~~ zone shall apply ~~for transmission towers~~to minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except as may be permitted in subsection ~~B~~C of this section.

~~b. The maximum height above finished grade for freestanding dish antennas shall be twelve feet (12'), except as provided in subsection C5.~~

~~c~~b. The maximum diameter of dish antennas shall be ~~twelve feet (12')~~six feet (6'), except for major institutions within the Major Institution Overlay District, regulated through an administrative conditional use in subsection C above.

~~d~~c. The maximum height of an amateur radio tower shall be no more than fifty feet (50') above existing grade. Cages and antennas may extend to a maximum additional fifteen feet (15'). The base of the tower shall be located at a distance from any

 lot line at least one-half (1/2) the height of the total structure, including tower, cage and antennas.

 3. Visual Impacts. Antennas and their supporting structures four feet (4') or more in any dimension shall be as unobtrusive as practicable, including use of non-reflective materials, and shall be screened from any public park or residentially zoned lot located adjacent to or across a street or alley from the lot as follows:

 a. A screen for freestanding, ground-mounted, antennas shall be six feet (6') tall, may be in the form of a view-obscuring fence, wall or hedge, ~~and~~which shall be maintained in good condition. Chain link, plastic or vinyl fencing/screening may not be used to meet this requirement.

b. For an antenna located on a rooftop, ~~screening shall be provided to a height equal to two-thirds (2/3) the height above the roof of the installed antenna.~~materials, color and location shall be used to make the antenna and support structure as unobtrusive as practicable. Siting where the antenna is silhouetted shall be avoided, with preferred locations either flat against a parapet or near the center of the roof. The Director may require camouflage and/or enclosure, such as consolidation with existing mechanical equipment.

 c. ~~Exceptions.~~ No screening shall be required under the following circumstances:

 (i) As provided in subsection ~~C~~D5;

 (ii) If the antenna is set back from the property line a distance of at least five (5) times its diameter or height, whichever is greater, from any residentially zoned lot or public park;

 (iii) For amateur radio towers, whip antennas, antennas attached to sides of structures, and antennas attached to freestanding transmission towers;

 (iv) If the antenna is adjacent to or across a street or alley from a designated major institution, no screening is required on that frontage.

 4. Access and Signage. Access to transmitting minor communication utilitiesand to accessory communication devices shall be restricted to authorized personnel by fencing or other means of security. Warning signs at every point of access to the rooftop or common area shall be posted with information on the existence of radio frequency radiation.

 5. ~~Special Exceptions for Dish Antenna.~~Reception Window Obstruction for Receive-Only Devices.~~a.~~ When adherence to all development standards would result in reception window obstruction in all permissible locations on the subject lot, ~~a special exception, according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76,~~the Director may grant a waiver~~may be permitted~~ from the ~~development standards~~screening requirements of subsection~~s C1c, C2b, and C3~~D3. ~~The first waiver to be considered will be from the requirement of subsection C2b, and the second from C3. Only if these waived regulations still result in obstruction shall rooftop location requirements of subsection C1c be considered.~~ Approval of a ~~special exception~~waiver shall be subject to the following criteria:

~~(i)~~a. The applicant shall demonstrate that the obstruction is due to factors beyond the control of the property owner, taking into consideration potential permitted development on adjacent and neighboring lots with regard to future reception-window obstruction.

~~(ii)~~b. The applicant shall use material, shape and color to minimize visual impact.

~~b. If a special exception is sought to permit a rooftop location, the maximum permitted height of the device shall be four feet (4') above the roofline or four feet (4') above the zone permitted height, whichever is higher.~~

~~c. If a special exception is sought from subsection C2b, the maximum permitted height shall be eighteen feet (18').~~

 Section 25. Section 23.57.012 of the SMC, as adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.012 Commercial zones.

 A. Uses Permitted Outright.

 1. In Neighborhood Commercial zones, minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices shall be permitted outright when meeting the development standards of the zone, including the height limit, and subsection ~~C~~B of this Section~~and the height limit of the zone~~.

 2. In Commercial 1 and 2 zones, minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices shall be permitted outright when meeting the development standards of subsection ~~C~~B of this Section. The height limit of the underlying zone shall not apply unless the lot is adjacent to a Single Family zone, in which case the height limit of the zone, with the rooftop features of subsection B below, applies.

~~B. Uses permitted by Administrative Conditional Use.~~1. In Neighborhood Commercial zones, an Administrative Conditional Use shall be required for minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, other than whip antennas, to exceed the height limit of the underlying zone, which includes the rooftop provisions of subsection C1c. Approval shall be pursuant to the criteria of subsection B3.

 2. In Commercial zones, an Administrative Conditional Use shall be required for minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices proposed to be located on lots adjacent to Single Family zones to exceed the height limit of the underlying zone. Approval shall be pursuant to the criteria of subsection B3.

 3. Administrative Conditional Use Criteria.

 a. The applicant shall use material, shape and color to minimize adverse visual impacts on the neighboring residential zone.

 b. The proposal shall not result in a significant change in the pedestrian or retail character of the commercial area.

 c. The applicant shall demonstrate that compliance with the height limit is not feasible and that the proposed height will deviate to the least practicable extent from this standard.

~~C~~B. Development Standards.

 1. Location.

 a. Minor communication utilities, other than transmission towers, and accessory communication devices may not be located within ten feet (10') of any lot line, except that cable chases, underground equipment and equipment inside buildings are not required to provide this setback.

~~b. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices may be located on rooftops and may exceed the zone height limit by a maximum of four feet (4')~~

~~except as permitted in subsection C1c;whip antennas are exempted from the zone height limit.~~

~~c~~b. Except for special review, historic and landmark districts (see Section 23.57.014), ~~M~~minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices may be  located on rooftops of buildings, including sides of parapets and equipment penthouses above the roofline, as follows:

 i. These utilities and devices located on a rooftop of a building nonconforming as to height may extend up to fifteen feet (15') above the height of the building existing as of the date of this ordinance;

ii These utilities and devices may extend up to fifteen feet (15') above the zone height limit or above the height of a building, whichever is less.

The additional height permitted in b(i) and (ii) above is permitted if the combined total of communication utilities and accessory communication devices, in addition to the roof area occupied by rooftop features listed in Section 23.47.012 G4, does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total rooftop area or twenty-five percent (25%) of the rooftop area including screened mechanical equipment.

~~d~~c. ~~Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices shall be prohibited on the outside, except for rooftops, of a building containing residential units~~.  Rooftop space within the following parameters shall not count toward meeting open space requirements: the area eight feet (8') from and in front of a directional antenna and at least two feet (2') from the back of a directional antenna, or, for an omnidirectional antenna, eight feet (8') away from the antenna in all directions. The Seattle-King County Public Health Department may require a greater distance for paging facilities after review of the Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation (NIER) report.

2. Access and Signage. Access to minor communication utilities and transmitting accessory communication devices shall be restricted to authorized personnel by fencing or other means of security. Warning signs at every point of access to the rooftop or common area shall be posted with information on the existence of radiofrequency radiation.

 3. ~~Size~~Height of Amateur Radio Tower. The maximum height of an amateur radio tower shall be no more than fifty feet (50') above grade in zones where the maximum height limit ~~does not exceed~~is fifty feet (50') or less. Cages and antennas may

 extend to a maximum additional fifteen feet (15'). In zones with a maximum permitted height over fifty feet (50'), the height above grade of the amateur radio tower shall not exceed the maximum height limit of the zone.

 4. Visual Impact. Antennas and their support structures four feet (4') or more in any dimension shall be as unobtrusive as practicable, including use of non-reflective materials, and shall be screened from any public park or residentially zoned lot located adjacent to or across a street or alley from the lot as follows:

 a. The screen for a freestanding, at-grade, antenna shall be six feet (6') high, and may be a view-obscuring fence, wall or hedge maintained in good condition. Chain link, plastic or vinyl fencing/screening may not be used to meet this requirement.

b. For an antenna located on a rooftop, ~~screening shall be provided to a height equal to two-thirds (2/3) the height of the antenna.~~materials, color and location shall be used to make the antenna and support structure as unobtrusive as practicable. Siting where the antenna is silhouetted shall be avoided, with preferred locations either flat against a parapet or near the center of the roof. The Director may require camouflage and/or enclosure, such as consolidation with mechanical equipment.

 c. ~~Exceptions.~~ No screening shall be required under the following circumstances:

 (i) As provided by subsection C5;

 (ii) If the antenna is set back from the property line a distance of at least five (5) times its diameter or height, whichever is greater, from any residentially zoned lot or public park;

 (iii) For amateur radio towers, whip antennas, antennas attached to sides of structures, and antennas attached to freestanding transmission towers;

 (iv) If the antenna is adjacent to or across a street or alley from a designated major institution, no screening is required on that frontage.

 5. ~~Special Exceptions~~Reception Window Obstruction for Receive-Only Devices. When adherence to all development standards would result in reception window obstruction in all permissible locations on the subject lot, ~~a Special Exception~~the Director may grant a waiver from the development standards of subsection C4, subject to the following criteria:

 a. The applicant shall demonstrate that obstruction of the reception window is due to factors beyond the control of the property owner, taking into account potential permitted

 development on adjacent and neighboring lots with regard to reception window.

 b. The applicant shall use material, shape and color to minimize visual impact.

 Section 26. Section 23.57.013, as adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended to read as follows:

 23.57.013 Downtown zones.

 * * *

 B. Development Standards.

 1. Access to transmitting minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices shall be restricted to authorized personnel when located on rooftops or other common areas. Warning signs at every point of access to the rooftop or common area shall be posted with information on the existence of radiofrequency radiation.

 2. The height limit of the zone shall not apply to antennas or their support structures, except that Chapter 23.64, Airport Height District, shall apply.

 3. Antennas and their support structures four feet (4') or more in any dimension shall be as unobtrusive as practicable, including use of non-reflective material, and shall be screened from any public park or residentially zoned lot located adjacent to or across a street or alley from the lot as follows:

 a. The screen for a freestanding antenna shall be six feet (6') tall, and may be a view-obscuring fence, wall or hedge maintained in good condition. Chain link, plastic or vinyl fencing/screening may not be used to meet this requirement.

 b. For antennas located on a rooftop~~s~~,~~screening shall be provided to a height equal to two-thirds (2/3) of the height of the antenna.~~materials, color and location shall be used to make the antenna and support structure as unobtrusive as reasonably possible. Siting where the antenna is silhouetted shall be avoided, with preferred locations either flat against a parapet or near the center of the roof. The Director may require camouflage and/or enclosure, such as consolidation with existing mechanical equipment.

 c. ~~Exception.~~ No screening shall be required under the following circumstances:

 (i) As provided by subsection C;

 (ii) For amateur radio towers, whip antennas, antennas attached to sides of structures and any antennas attached to freestanding transmission towers.

4. ~~d~~. Antennas ~~shall be prohibited on the outside, except for rooftops,~~may be located on rooftops of ~~a building containing residential units~~buildings, including sides of parapets above the roofline. Rooftop space within the following parameters shall not count toward meeting open space requirements: the area eight feet (8') away from and in front of a directional antenna and at least two feet (2') from the back of a directional antenna, or, for an omnidirectional antenna, eight feet (8') away from the antenna in all directions. The Seattle-King County Department of Public Health may require a greater distance for paging facilities after review of the Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation (NIER) report.

 C. ~~Special Exceptions~~Reception Window Obstruction for Receive-Only Devices. When adherence to all development standards would result in reception window obstruction in all permissible locations on the subject lot, ~~a special exception, according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76,~~the Director may grant a waiver from subsection B3 ~~may be permitted~~, subject to the following criteria:

 1. The applicant shall demonstrate that the obstruction is due to factors beyond the control of the property owner, taking into account potential permitted development on adjacent and neighboring lots with regard to future reception-window obstruction.

 2. The applicant shall use material, shape and color to minimize visual impact.

 Section 27. Section 23.57.014 of the SMC, adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.014 Special review, historic and landmark districts.~~~~~~In the Pioneer Square Mixed, International District Mixed, International District Residential, and Pike Market Mixed zones, new minor communication utilities are prohibited.~~.

Communication utilities and accessory communication devices for which a Certificate of Approval may be required in IDR, PSM, IDM, PMM (see SMC 25.24) zones, the International Special Review District, the Pioneer Square Preservation District, and the Ballard Avenue (SMC 25.16), Columbia City (SMC 25.20) and Harvard Belmont (SMC 25.22) Landmark Districts shall be sited in a manner that minimizes visibility from public streets and parks and may be permitted as follows:  A. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices may be permitted outright when meeting development standards of the zone and this Chapter, with the following additional height allowance: communication utilities and devices may extend up to four feet (4') above a roof of the structure, regardless of zone height limit.

 B. An Administrative Conditional Use approval shall be required for communication utilities and accessory devices regulated per Section 23.57.002, and which do not meet the requirements of subsection A above. Any action under this Section shall be subject to the Pioneer Square Preservation District and the International Special Review District review and approval and the Department of Neighborhoods Director; in the Ballard Avenue Landmark District by the Ballard Avenue Landmark District Board and the Department of Neighborhoods Director; in the Pike Place Market Historical District by the Pike Place Market Historical Commission, and in the Columbia City Landmark District and the Harvard-Belmont Landmark District by the Landmarks Preservation Board, according to the following criteria:

 1. Location on rooftops is preferred, set back toward the center of the roof as far as possible. If a rooftop location is not feasible, communication utilities and accessory communication devices may be mounted on secondary building facades. Siting on primary building facades may be permitted only if the applicant shows it is impossible to site the devices on the roof or secondary facade. Determination of primary and secondary building facades will be made by the appropriate board or commission.

 2. Communication utilities and accessory communication devices shall be installed in a manner that does not hide, damage or obscure architectural elements of the building or structure.

 3. Visibility shall be further minimized by painting, screening, or other appropriate means, whichever is less obtrusive. Creation of false architectural features to obscure the device is discouraged.

 Section 28. Section 23.57.015 of the SMC, as adopted by Ordinance 116295, is amended as follows:

 23.57.015 Industrial zones.

 A. Permitted Uses. Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices shall be permitted outright when meeting the standards of the zone in which the site is located, except for height limits, and subsection B.

 B. Development Standards.

1. Height limits of the zone shall not apply to antennas or their support structures.

2. Access to transmitting minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices shall be restricted to authorized personnel when located on rooftops or other common areas. Warning signs at every point of access to the rooftop or common area shall be posted with information on the existence of radiofrequency radiation.  3.

 Antennas and their support structures four feet (4') or more in any dimension shall be screened from any public park or residentially zoned lot located adjacent to or across a street or alley from the lot as follows:

~~1~~a. The screen for a freestanding antenna shall be six feet (6') tall, may be a view-obscuring fence, wall or hedge, and shall be maintained in good condition. Chain link, plastic or vinyl fencing/screening may not be used to meet this requirement.

~~2~~b. For an antenna located on a rooftop, including sides of parapets above the roofline,~~screening shall be provided to a height equal to two-thirds (2/3) the height of the antenna.~~non-reflective materials, color and location shall be used to make the antenna and support structure as unobtrusive as practicable. Siting where the antenna is silhouetted shall be avoided, with preferred locations either flat against a parapet or near the center of the roof. The Director may require camouflage and/or enclosure, such as consolidation with mechanical equipment.

~~3. Exceptions~~c. No screening shall be required under the following circumstances:

~~a~~i. As provided by subsection C;

~~b~~ii. For amateur radio towers, whip antennas, antennas attached to sides of structures and any antennas attached to freestanding transmission towers;

~~c~~iii. If the antenna is set back a distance of at least five (5) times its diameter or height, whichever is greater, from any residentially zoned lot or public park.

 C. ~~Special Exceptions~~Reception Window Obstruction for Receive-Only Devices. When adherence to all development standards would result in reception-window obstruction in all permissible locations on the subject lot, ~~a special exception, according to the provisions of Chapter 23.76,~~the Director may grant a waiver from subsection B ~~may be permitted~~, subject to the following criteria:

 1. The applicant shall demonstrate that the obstruction is due to factors beyond the control of the property owner, taking into account potential permitted development on adjacent and neighboring lots with regard to future reception-window obstruction.

 2. The applicant shall use material, shape and color to minimize visual impact.

 Section 29. Subsection A of Section 23.66.122 of the SMC, which Section (regarding the Pioneer Square Preservation District) was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is amended as follows:

 23.66.122 Prohibited uses.

 A. The following uses are prohibited in the entire Pioneer Square Preservation District as both principal and accessory uses:

 Retail ice dispensaries;

 Plant nurseries;

 Frozen food lockers;

 Animal services;

 Automotive retail sales and service, except gas stations located in parking garages;

 Marine retail sales and service;

 Heavy commercial services;

 Fuel sales;

 Sales, service and rental of commercial equipment and construction materials;

 Adult motion picture theaters;

 Adult panorams;

 Bowling alleys;

 Skating rinks;

Major~~C~~communication utilities;

 Advertising signs and off-premises directional signs;

 Transportation facilities, except passenger terminals;

 Outdoor storage;

 Jails;

 Work-release centers;

 General and heavy manufacturing uses;

 Salvage and Recycling uses, except recycling collection stations; and

 High impact uses.

 B. Commercial uses which are vehicle-oriented shall be prohibited in the area of the District identified on Map B. Such uses include, but are not limited to the following:

 Drive-in businesses, except gas stations accessory to parking garages;

 Principal and accessory surface parking areas not in existence prior to August 10, 1981;

 Motels.

 * * *

 Section 30. Subsection C of Section 23.66.140 of the SMC, which Section (regarding the Pioneer Square Preservation District) was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is amended as follows:

 23.66.140 Height.

 * * *

 C. Rooftop Features. The height limits established for the rooftop features described in this subsection may be increased by the average height of the existing street parapet or a historically substantiated reconstructed parapet on the building on which the rooftop feature is proposed. The setbacks required for rooftop features may be modified by the Department of Neighborhoods Director, after a sight line review by the Preservation Board to ensure that the features are minimally visible from public streets and parks within three hundred feet (300') of the structure.

 1. ~~Radio and television receiving antennas excluding~~~~dishes, r~~Religious symbols such as belfries or spires and that portion of the roof which supports them, smokestacks and flagpoles may extend up to fifty feet (50') above the roof of the structure or the maximum height limit, whichever is less, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64 of the Land Use Code, provided that they are a minimum of ten feet (10') from all lot lines.

 2. Open railings, planters, clerestories, skylights, play equipment, parapets and firewalls may extend up to four feet (4') above the roof of the structure or the maximum height limit, whichever is less, with unlimited rooftop coverage.

 3. Solar collectors, excluding greenhouses, may extend up to seven feet (7') above the roof of the structure or the maximum height limit, whichever is less, with unlimited rooftop coverage, provided they are a minimum of ten feet (10') from all lot lines.

 4. The following rooftop features may extend up to eight feet (8') above the roof or maximum height limit, whichever is less, when they are set back a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from the street and three feet (3') from an alley. They may extend up to twelve feet (12') above the roof when set back a minimum of thirty feet (30') from the street. A setback may not be required at common wall lines subject to review by the Preservation Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director. The combined coverage of the following listed rooftop features shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the roof area:

 Solar collectors, excluding greenhouses;

 Stair and elevator penthouses;

 Mechanical equipment~~;~~.

~~Dish antennas~~Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions of Section 23.57.014.

 Additional combined coverage of these rooftop features, not to exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the roof area, may be permitted subject to review by the Preservation Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director.

 5. Structures existing prior to June 1, 1989 may add new or replace existing mechanical equipment up to eight (8) feet above the existing roof elevation when they are set back a minimum of fifteen (15) feet from the street and three feet (3') from an alley; or may extend up to twelve feet (12') above the existing roof elevation when they are set back a minimum of thirty feet (30') from the street, subject to review by the Preservation Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director.

 6. Residential and Office Penthouses.

 a. Residential penthouses may cover a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the total roof surface and may extend up to eight feet (8') above the roof when set back a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from the street property line, or twelve feet (12') above the roof when set back a minimum of thirty feet (30') from the street property line.

 b. Office penthouses shall be permitted only when the footprint of the existing structure is greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and the structure is at least sixty feet (60') in height. When permitted, office penthouses shall be set back a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from all property lines and may cover a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the total roof surface. Office penthouses may extend up to twelve feet (12') above the roof of the structure and shall be functionally integrated into the existing structure.

 c. The combined height of the structure and a residential penthouse or office penthouse, where permitted, shall not exceed the maximum height limit for that area of the District in which the structure is located.

 7. Screening of Rooftop Features. Measures may be taken to screen rooftop features from public view subject to review by the Preservation Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director. The amount of roof area enclosed by rooftop screening may exceed the maximum percentage of the combined coverage of rooftop features listed in subsection C4 above. In no circumstances shall the height of the rooftop screening exceed fifteen feet (15') above the maximum height limit.

8. See Section 23.57.014 for regulation of communication utilities and accessory devices.

 Section 31. Subsection A of Section 23.66.322 of the SMC, which Section (regarding the International Special Review District) was last amended by Ordinance 114623, is further amended as follows:

 23.66.322 Prohibited uses.

 A. The following uses shall be prohibited as both principal and accessory uses in the entire International Special Review District:

 Adult motion picture theaters;

 Adult panorams;

 All general and heavy manufacturing uses;

 All high-impact uses;

 All salvage and recycling uses, except recycling collection stations;

 Automotive retail sales and service;

 Bowling lanes;

Major~~C~~communication utilities;

 Sales, service and rental of commercial equipment and construction materials;

 Drive-in businesses;

 Frozen food lockers;

 Heavy commercial services;

 Marine retail sales and services;

 Medical testing laboratories;

 Mortuary services;

 Motels;

 Outdoor storage;

 Plant nurseries;

 Retail ice dispensaries;

 Shooting galleries;

 Skating rinks;

 Mobile home parks;

 Transportation facilities except passenger terminals;

 Animal services;

 Jails;

 Work-release centers.

 * * *

 Section 32. Subsection C of Section 23.66.332 of the SMC, which Section (regarding the International Special Review District) was adopted by Ordinance 119370, is amended as follows:

 23.66.332 Height

 * * *

 C. Rooftop Features.

 1. The Special Review Board and the Department of Neighborhoods  Director shall review rooftop features to preserve views from Kobe Terrace Park.

 2. ~~Radio and television receiving aerials excluding dishes, r~~Religious symbols such as belfries or spires and that portion of the roof which supports them, smokestacks and flagpoles are exempt from height controls, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64 of this Land Use Code, provided they are at least ten feet (10') from all lot lines.

 3. Open railings, planters, clerestories, skylights, ~~dish antennae,~~ play equipment, parapets and firewalls may extend up to four feet (4') above the maximum height limit and may have unlimited rooftop coverage.

 4. Solar collectors excluding greenhouses may extend up to seven feet (7') above the maximum height limit and may have unlimited rooftop coverage.

 5. The following rooftop features may extend up to fifteen feet (15') above the maximum height limit provided that the combined coverage of all features listed below does not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the roof area:

 Solar collectors, excluding greenhouses;

 Stair and elevator penthouses;

 Mechanical equipment that is set back at least fifteen feet (15') from the roof edge~~.~~;  Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions of Section 23.57.014.

 Additional combined coverage of these rooftop features, not to exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the roof area, may be permitted subject to review by the Special Review Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director.

 6. Structures existing prior to June 1, 1989 may add new or replace existing mechanical equipment up to fifteen (15) feet above the roof edge subject to review by the Special Review Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director. The amount of roof area enclosed by rooftop screening may exceed the maximum percentage of the combined coverage of rooftop features listed in subsection C5 above. In no circumstances shall the height of rooftop screening exceed fifteen feet (15') above the maximum height limit.

 7. Screening of Rooftop Features. Measures may be taken to screen rooftop features from public view subject to review by the Special Review Board and approval of the Department of Neighborhoods Director. The amount of roof area enclosed by rooftop screening may exceed the maximum percentage of the combined coverage of rooftop features listed in subsection C5 above. In no circumstances shall the height of rooftop screening exceed fifteen feet (15') above the maximum height limit.

8. For height exceptions for communication utilities and devices, see Section 23.57.014.

 Section 33. Subsection C of Section 23.76.022 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119096, is amended as follows:

 23.76.022 Administrative appeals.

 * * *

 C. Hearing Examiner Appeal Procedures.

 1. Consolidated Appeals. All appeals of Type II Master Use Permit decisions other than shoreline decisions shall be considered together in a consolidated hearing before the Hearing Examiner.

 2. Standing. Appeals may be initiated by any person significantly affected by or interested in the permit.

 3. Filing of Appeals.

 a. Appeals shall be filed with the Hearing Examiner by five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the fourteenth (14th) calendar day following publication of notice of the decision; provided, that when a fourteen (14) day DNS comment period is required pursuant to SMC Chapter 25.05, appeals may be filed until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the twenty-first (21st) calendar day following publication of notice of the decision. When the last day of the appeal period so computed is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal or City holiday, the period shall run until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) on the next business day. The appeal shall be in writing and shall clearly identify each component of a Type II Master Use Permit being appealed. The appeal shall be accompanied by payment of the filing fee as set forth in SMC Section 3.02.125, Hearing Examiner filing fees. Specific objections to the Director's decision and the relief sought shall be stated in the written appeal.

 b. In form and content, the appeal shall conform with the rules of the Hearing Examiner.

 c. The Hearing Examiner shall not accept any request for an interpretation included in the appeal unless it complies with the requirements of 23.88.020C3c.

 4. Pre-hearing Conference. At the Hearing Examiner's initiative, or at the request of any party of record, the Hearing Examiner may have a conference prior to the hearing in order to entertain pre-hearing motions, clarify issues, or consider other relevant matters.

 5. Notice of Hearing. Notice of the hearing on the appeal shall be mailed by the Director at least twenty (20) days prior to the scheduled hearing date to parties of record and those requesting notice. Notice shall also be included in the next general mailed release.

 6. Scope of Review. Appeals shall be considered de novo. The Hearing Examiner shall entertain issues cited in the appeal which relate to compliance with the procedures for Type II decisions as required in this Chapter, compliance with substantive criteria, determinations of nonsignificance (DNSs), adequacy of an EIS upon which the decision was made, or failure to properly approve, condition or deny a permit based on disclosed adverse environmental impacts and any requests for an interpretation included in the appeal or consolidated appeal pursuant to subsection 23.88.020C3.

 7. Standard of Review. The Director's decisions made on a Type II Master Use Permit shall be given substantial weight, except for determinations on variances, conditional uses, and special exceptions, which shall be given no deference.

 8. The Record. The record shall be established at the hearing before the Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner shall either close the record after the hearing or leave it open to a specified date for additional testimony, written argument or exhibits.

 9. Postponement or Continuance of Hearing. The Hearing Examiner shall not grant requests for postponement or continuance of an appeal hearing to allow an applicant to proceed with an alternative development proposal under separate application, unless all parties to the appeal agree in writing to such postponement or continuance.

 10. Hearing Examiner's Decision. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a written decision within fifteen (15) days after closing the record. The Hearing Examiner may affirm, reverse, remand or modify the Director's decision. Written findings and conclusions supporting the Hearing Examiner's decision shall be made. The Director and all parties of record shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the Hearing Examiner's decision.

 11. Notice of Hearing Examiner's Decision. The Hearing Examiner's decision shall be mailed by the Hearing Examiner on the day the decision is issued to the parties of record and to all those requesting notice. If environmental issues were raised in the appeal, the decision shall also be filed with the SEPA Public Information Center. The decision shall contain information regarding judicial review. To the extent such information is available to the Hearing Examiner, the decision shall contain the name and address of the owner of the property at issue, of the applicant, and of each person who filed an appeal with the Hearing Examiner, unless such person abandoned the appeal or such person's claims were dismissed before the hearing.

 12. Appeal of Hearing Examiner's Decision. The Hearing Examiner's decision shall be final and conclusive unless the Hearing Examiner retains jurisdiction or the decision is reversed or remanded on judicial appeal. Any judicial review must be commenced within twenty-one (21) days of issuance of the Hearing Examiner's decision, as provided by RCW 36.70C.040 ~~.~~, or if the appeal concerns a decision on personal wireless service, the appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the Hearing Examiner's or Council's final decision.

Section 34. Subsection D of Section 23.76.056 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118181, is further amended as follows:

 23.76.056 Council decision on Hearing Examiner recommendation.

 * * *

 D. Any Type IV decision shall be final and conclusive unless Council retains jurisdiction or the decision is reversed or remanded on judicial appeal or appeal to the Shorelines Hearings Board. Any judicial review of a decision not appealable to the Shorelines Hearings Board must be commenced within twenty-one (21) days of issuance of the Council's decision, as provided by RCW 36.70C.040 ~~.~~, except that an appeal of a decision concerning personal wireless service must be commenced within thirty (30) days of issuance of the decision.

* * *

 Section 35. Section 23.84.006 of the SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 118720, is further amended as follows:

 23.84.006 "C."

 * * *

 Communication Devices and Utilities (and Related Terms).

1. "Candelabra mounting" means a single spreader which supports more than two (2) antennas.

~~1~~2. "Communication device, accessory" means a device by which radiofrequency communication signals are transmitted and/or received, such as but not limited to whip, horn and dish antennas, and which is accessory to the principal use on the site. ~~Receive- only television and radio antennas and amateur radio towers are not included in this definition. Communication equipment such as Citizen Band radios, telephones which depend upon wires or cables or hand- held telephones are exempt from the Land Use Code regulations.~~

~~2~~3. "Communication utility, major" means a ~~business~~ use in which the means for radiofrequency transfer of information are provided by facilities with significant impacts beyond their immediate area. These utilities include, but are not limited to FM and AM radio~~,~~and UHF and VHF television transmission towers~~, and earth stations~~. A major communication utility use does not include communication equipment accessory to residential uses; nor does it include the studios of broadcasting companies, such as radio or television stations, which shall be considered administrative offices even if there is point-to-point transmission to a broadcast tower.

~~3~~4. "Communication utility, minor" means a ~~business~~ use in which the means for radiofrequency transfer of information are provided but which generally does not have significant impacts beyond the immediate area. These ~~facilities~~utilities are smaller in size than major communication utilities and include two (2) way, land-mobile, personal wireless services and cellular communications facilities; cable TV facilities; point-to- point microwave antennas; FM translators; and FM boosters with under ten (10) watts transmitting power. A minor communication utility does not include wire, cables, or communication equipment accessory to residential uses; nor does it include the studios of broadcasting companies, such as radio or television stations, which shall be considered administrative offices even if there is point-to-point transmission to a broadcast tower.

~~4~~5. "Dish antenna" means a round parabolic device for the reception and/or transmission of radiofrequency communication signals. Dish antenna may serve either as a major or minor communication utility or may be an accessory communication device. Dish antenna may be either a) a satellite earth station antenna, which receives signals from satellites and which is subject to federal preemption for certain cases, or b) a point-to-point antenna, which receives signals from terrestrial sources.

~~5. "Earth station" means a major communication utility which transmits and receives signals to and from an orbiting satellite and is twenty-five feet (25') in diameter or larger.~~

6. "Personal wireless service" means a commercial use offering cellular telephone service, paging or mobile radio services.

~~6~~7. "Physical expansion of majoror minor communication utilities" means any increase in footprint and/or envelope of transmission towers. Physical expansion does not include an increase in height of the tower resulting from repair, reconstruction, replacement or modification to the antenna, accessory telecommunication devices, transmission tower or accessory building that would result in lower radiofrequency radiation exposure readings at ground level or in greater public safety, as long as the height above mean sea level does not increase by more than ten percent (10%) and in any event does not exceed one thousand one hundred feet (1,100') above mean sea level. Replacement of existing antennas or addition of new antennas is not considered physical expansion, unless such replacement or addition increases the envelope of the transmission tower by such means as utilizing a candelabra mounting consisting of a single spreader which supports more than two antennas. Replacement or expansion of an equipment building is not considered physical expansion.

~~7~~8. "Receive-only communication device~~s~~" means a radiofrequency device with the ability to receive signals, but not to transmit them.

~~8~~9. "Reception window obstruction" means a physical barrier which would block the signal between an orbiting satellite an a land-based antenna.

10. "Satellite dish antenna." See "Dish antenna."

~~9~~11. "Shared-use facility" means a telecommunication facility used by two (2) or more television stations or five (5) or more FM stations.

~~10~~12. "Single-occupant facility" means a telecommunication facility used by only one (1) television station or by one (1) television station and one (1) to four (4) FM stations.

~~11~~13. "Transmission tower" means a tower or monopole  on which communication devices are placed. Transmission towers may serve either as a major or minor communication facility.

~~12. "Candelabra mounting" means a single spreader which supports more than two (2) antennas.~~

14. "Whip antenna" means an omnidirectional antenna, cylindrical in shape, four inches (4") or less in diameter and twelve feet (12') or less in length.

 * * *

 Section 36. Section 23.84.040 of the SMC, which was last amended by Ordinance 117410, is further amended as follows:

 23.84.040 "U."

 * * *

 "Utility service use" means a utility use which provides the system for transferring or delivering power, water, sewage, stormwater runoff, or other similar substances. Examples include electrical substations, pumping stations, cable relay stations, telephone vaults, internet service providers (excluding administrative support offices), and trolley transformers.

 Section 37. Subsection F of Section 25.05.675 of the SMC, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119096, is further amended as follows:

 25.05.675 Specific environmental policies.

 * * *

 F. Environmental Health.

 1. Policy Background.

 a. The use, discharge, disposal, emission or application of toxic or hazardous materials may pose hazards to human health and to plants, animals and ecological systems. Hazardous materials include such things as pesticides, herbicides, and electromagnetic transmissions.

 b. Federal, state and regional regulations are the primary means of mitigating risks associated with hazardous and toxic materials. ~~c. Federal, state and regional regulations cannot always~~ However, such regulations cannot always be developed and implemented to anticipate or eliminate adverse impacts from hazardous materials and transmissions. Public knowledge regarding such hazardous materials and transmissions may develop more quickly than the regulations ~~can react and be implemented~~.

c. To the extent that personal wireless facilities comply with the Federal Communications Commission regulations concerning radiofrequency emissions, the City may not regulate placement, construction, and modification of such facilities on the basis of the environmental effects of such emissions, according to the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996.

2. Policies.

 a. It is the City's policy to minimize or prevent adverse impacts resulting from toxic or hazardous materials and transmissions, to the extent permitted by federal and state law.

 b. For all proposed projects involving the use, treatment, transport, storage, disposal, emission, or application of toxic or hazardous chemicals, materials, wastes or transmissions, the decisionmaker shall, in consultation with appropriate agencies with expertise, assess the extent of potential adverse impacts and the need for mitigation, where permitted by federal and state law.

 c. Subject to the Overview Policy set forth in SMS 25.05.665, if the decisionmaker makes a written finding that applicable federal, state and regional laws and regulations did not anticipate or do not adequately address the adverse impacts of a proposed project, the project may be conditioned or denied to mitigate its adverse impacts. Mitigating measures may include, but are not limited to:

 i. Use of an alternative technology;

 ii. Reduction in the size or scope of a project or operation;

 iii. Limits on the time and/or duration of operation; and

 iv. Alternative routes of transportation.

 * * *

 Section 38. Severability. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, subsection, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 39. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by the Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ............ day of ......................................, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this .............day of ................, 1999

 _______________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this .......... day of .................................., 1999

 _______________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this .......... day of .................................., 1999

 _______________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 09/03/99, 9:45 AM DA fintelord V1

```
