

********

**Council Bill Number: 112860**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119643**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Neighborhood Planning Early Implementation funds; authorizing the Department of Neighborhoods, Seattle Police Department, and Seattle Public Library to enter into agreements for the provision of neighborhood planning goods and services; reducing the expenditure authority from Finance General by $150,000 and increasing the expenditure authority of these departments by a total of $150,000.

**Status:** PASSED
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 7, 1999
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (EXCUSED: CHOE, DRAGO)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 9, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 8, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 23, 1999
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Growth Planning and Civic Engagement
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, POLICE-DEPARTMENT, LIBRARY, DEPARTMENT-OF-NEIGHBORHOODS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Neighborhood Planning Early Implementation funds; authorizing the Department of Neighborhoods, Seattle Police Department, and Seattle Public Library to enter into agreements for the provision of neighborhood planning goods and services; reducing the expenditure authority from Finance General by $150,000 and increasing the expenditure authority of these departments by a total of $150,000.

 WHEREAS, the City Council appropriated $750,000 to the Neighborhood Planning Implementation Account of Finance General in the 1998 Adopted Budget for early implementation of neighborhood plans, which was carried forward into the 1999 budget;

 WHEREAS, the City Council appropriated $1,100,000 to the Neighborhood Planning Implementation Account of Finance General in the 1999 Adopted Budget for early implementation of neighborhood plans;

 WHEREAS, the City adopted Resolution 29783 setting a process and criteria for the use of the $1,850,000 in Finance General, which are referred to as "Early Implementation funds";

 WHEREAS, the Department of Neighborhoods has the responsibility to lead the neighborhood planning implementation activities and pursuant to Resolution 29783 is responsible for administering the Early Implementation funds by recommending projects for Council approval;

 WHEREAS, the City adopted Ordinance 119398 authorizing the Department of Neighborhoods to recognize neighborhood groups to serve as neighborhood planning stewardship organizations to implement neighborhood plans and submit applications for Early Implementation funds;

 WHEREAS, the Department of Neighborhoods has received applications from the following groups for Early Implementation projects: Admiral Neighborhood Planning Coalition, Holly Park Merchants Association and South Park Area Redevelopment Committee;

 WHEREAS, the Department of Neighborhoods reviewed applications for Early Implementation projects and recommends the City Council approve the use of Early Implementation funds for the projects shown in Attachments 1 - 3, and;

 WHEREAS, the City Council intends to implement those projects in some cases by granting the Department of Neighborhoods expenditure authority and in other cases by granting expenditure authority to the Seattle Police Department and the Seattle Public Library;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The City approves the proposed use of Early Implementation funds for the neighborhood plan implementation projects for three neighborhoods summarized in the Executive's recommendations attached to this ordinance as Attachments 1 - 3 and as shown in Tables 1 and 2 in Section 4.

 Section 2. For those projects for which the Department of Neighborhoods is granted expenditure authority, the Department of Neighborhoods is authorized to enter into agreements with each of the following implementing entities for the provision of neighborhood planning goods and services: West Seattle Chamber of Commerce, Holly Park Merchants Association, MLK@Holly Planning Association and South Park Area Redevelopment Committee, as described in Attachments 1 - 3. Such agreements shall be consistent with Resolution 29783 and the terms outlined in the Department of Neighborhoods' recommendations summarized in Attachments 1 - 3. Expenditures are authorized only upon delivery of the neighborhood planning goods and services specified in the agreements.

 Section 3. For those projects for which the Seattle Police Department and the Seattle Public Library is granted expenditure authority, that authorization to expend funds for a particular project is contingent upon the department entering into an agreement with the Department of Neighborhoods. Such agreements shall describe the projects, the goods and services to be delivered, as contained in Attachments 2 and 3, and shall be consistent with Resolution 29783.

 Section 4. In order to implement the neighborhood planning projects listed in Table 1 below, the Department of Neighborhoods is authorized to make expenditures in the amounts shown in Table 1. In order to implement the neighborhood planning projects listed in Table 2 below, the Seattle Police Department and the Seattle Public Library are each authorized to make expenditures in the respective amounts shown in Table 2 of this section.

 Table 1: Projects for which the Department of Neighborhoods (DON) is Authorized to Enter Into Agreements for the Provision of Neighborhood Planning Goods and Services and is Granted Expenditure Authority in the Amounts Shown.

 Neighborhood Planning Project(s) Amount Applicant and Authorized Implementing Entity

 Applicant: Admiral Neighborhood Planning Coalition Architecture and Engineering for Public $37,000 Implementing Entity: Parking $13,000 West Seattle Chamber of Street Character Improvements Commerce

 Applicant and Implementing Entity: Holly Park Merchants Economic Development Analysis for the $7,000 Association Commercial Core with an Emphasis on Feasibility for Mixed Use Development Neighborhood Plan Implementation and $4,000 Activity Newsletter

 Applicant: Holly Park Merchants Association Information Kiosks and Unified Public Art $24,000 Implementing Entity: Campaign MLK@Holly Planning Association

 Applicant and Implementing Entity: South Park Area Promotion of Enhanced Library Service $13,000 Redevelopment Committee Four Kiosks $7,000

 TOTAL, DEPARTMENT OF NEIGHBORHOODS: $105,000

 Table 2: Projects for which the Seattle Police Department and the Seattle Public Library are Authorized to Enter into Agreements with the Department of Neighborhoods and are Granted Expenditure Authority in the Amounts Shown.

 Neighborhood Planning Project(s) Amount Applicant Authorized

 SEATTLE POLICE DEPT.

 Holly Park Merchants Joint Citizen/SPD/SEATRAN Monitored $15,000 Association Speed Control Project

 TOTAL, POLICE: $15,000

 SEATTLE PUBLIC LIBRARY

 South Park Area Library Service for South Park $30,000 Redevelopment Committee

 TOTAL, LIBRARY: $30,000

 Section 5. To provide for the expenditures authorized in Section 4, the expenditure allowance in the indicated SFMS code is increased in the amount indicated as follows:

 Department SFMS Code Amount

 Department of Neighborhoods IP165 $105,000

 Seattle Police Department P40 $15,000

 Seattle Public Library B18 $30,000

 TOTAL: $150,000

 all by reduction, re-appropriation, and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000) from the "Neighborhood Plan Implementation" account (SFMS Code Q5582001) in the 1999 budget of the Department of Finance General to the appropriate expenditure accounts as described in the table above.

 Section 6. Funds appropriated from the Neighborhood Planning Implementation Account in Finance General shall not lapse and shall be carried over each year until fully expended, reallocated by administrative action, abandoned or re-appropriated to other authorized activities.

 Section 7. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 8. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its passage and approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the day of , 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this day of , 1999.

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this day of , 1999.

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this day of , 1999.

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachments:

 Attachment 1: Early Implementation Fund Recommendation for Admiral Neighborhood Planning Coalition

 Attachment 2: Early Implementation Fund Recommendation for Holly Park Merchants Association

 Attachment 3: Early Implementation Fund Recommendation for South Park Area Redevelopment Committee

 common\ORDS&RES\ORDINANC\EIFOrd6\EIFORD6.doc 8/09/99

 Early Implementation Fund Evaluation using Criteria established in Resolution 29783

 Applicant: Admiral Neighborhood Planning Coalition

 Criterion 1: The project must be a high priority element of a proposed neighb orhood plan that has been through the community validation process or a neighb orhood plan for which the Council has taken final action on the approval and a doption package. The project must be discrete and have a defined product or outcome that is likely to be completed within two years. Funds may be used as seed money for concep tual or detailed engineering design, or for a phase of a project

 Architecture and Engineering for Public Parking - This project is an element o f BI2 in the matrix. The project proposes to pay for parking study analysis a nd architecture and engineering work for a layer of public parking which may b e co-located with an assisted living development located near the intersection of California and Ad miral. The planning committee understands that the City is still in the proce ss of determining whether and how it will support the construction of the park ing garage. The expe cted completion date for this project is November 1999. DON's budget authorit y will be increased by $37,000 and the funds will be disbursed to the West Sea ttle Chamber of Commerce for project implementation as pursuant to the scope o f work and contract n egotiated with DON and as consistent with this ordinance. The contract will p rovide that the work product will become the property of the City.

 Street Character Improvements - This project is an element of BI1 in the matri x. The project proposes making improvements to the streetscape on California from Admiral to Hiawatha Park. These streetscape improvements could include b enches and other pede strian amenities. The expected completion date for this project is December 2 000. DON's budget authority will be increased by $13,000 and the funds will b e disbursed to the West Seattle Chamber of Commerce for project implementation as pursuant to the s cope of work and contract negotiated with DON and as consistent with this ordi nance.

 Criterion 2: The project must be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. The project must also be consistent with other adopted City plans, such as the Se attle Comprehensive Transportation Program and the Parks COMPLAN. If the proj ect is subject to Cit y regulatory standards, the project must meet or appear capable of meeting tho se standards.

 These projects are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.

 Criterion 3: The project requires no or minimal increases in City staff or Ci ty contribution for ongoing operation and maintenance. The project must not d uplicate an existing or planned project already included in a departmental CIP or operating budget.

 Both projects are discrete, one-time projects and do not require ongoing suppo rt or staffing. The City is awaiting information from the neighborhood concer ning the parking garage project to determine whether or not to contribute to t he project. Moving f orward on the architecture and engineering study EIF project, however, does no t obligate the City to contribute to the larger garage construction project.

 Criterion 4: If the project is to be implemented by an entity other than the City, the entity must demonstrate that it has the capacity to implement the pr oject in a timely manner, and propose measures the City can use to hold the en tity accountable.

 The West Seattle Chamber of Commerce has the capacity to implement the Garage Architecture and Engineering and Street Character Improvements projects in a t imely manner.

 Any further conditions for this applicant:

 The West Seattle Chamber of Commerce must consult with SEATRAN regarding the p ermits necessary to implement the Street Character Improvements project.

 common Attachment 1

 Early Implementation Fund Evaluation using Criteria established in Resolution 29783

 Applicant: Holly Park Merchants Association

 Criterion 1: The project must be a high priority element of a proposed neighb orhood plan that has been through the community validation process or a neighborhood plan for which the Council has taken final action on the approval and adoption package. The project must be discrete and have a defined product or outcome that is likely to be completed within two years. Funds may be used as seed money for conceptual or detailed engineering design, or for a phase of a project

 Joint Citizen/SPD/SEATRAN Monitored Speed Control Project - This project is a component of Key Strategy I and A-6 in the MLK @ Holly Street plan matrix. The project pro poses to establish a pilot program with SPD and SEATRAN in an effort to decrease speeding along M artin Luther King Jr. Way. To implement this program, SPD will work with the community and SEATRAN to place a Speed Trailer on MLK during one week each quarter followed by a week o f speed enforcement. SPD will track average speeds and the number of tickets issued. At six month and one year intervals, the community and SPD will evaluate the success of the pro ject to determine whether enforcement was able to reduce speeds along the arterial. Another com ponent of this project is outreach to non-English speaking business owners to inform them of this and other crime and safety programs and issues in the area. The project is scheduled fo r completion in the Fall 2000. The Seattle Police Department's budget authority will be increased by $15,000 to manage and implement the project.

 Economic Development Analysis for the Commercial Core with an emphasis on feas ibility for mixed use development - -Development of appropriate scale mixed use buildings in the current commercial core has become even more of a focus for the community since the ad vancement of planning for the light rail station area. The MLK @ Holly Neighborhood Plan c alls for development of a mixed use town center; revitalization of the commercial area; and increased levels of affordable housing and residential stability. The Holly Street Merch ants Association will use Early Implementation funds to contract for an in-depth study of the immedi ate station area to determine the area's future potential to support the redevelopment of existing businesses and the introduction of new mixed use developments with both businesses and housing. The expected results are a pro-forma financial analysis of possible mixed-use development o ptions around the light rail station.. The final report back to the Holly Street Merchants Asso ciation would address development potentials, appropriate fit for the area (height, size, etc.), ser vices desired, and ways of attracting the development (incentives, partnerships). This project is expect ed to be completed by August 31, 2000. DON's budget authority will be increased by $7,000 and the f unds will be disbursed to the Holly Park Merchants Association for project implementation p ursuant to the scope of work and contract negotiated with DON and as consistent with this ord inance.

 Neighborhood Plan Implementation and Activity Newsletter - As noted in the MLK @ Holly neighborhood plan, this community struggles with outreach to business owners a nd residents of an area that has not traditionally operated as a whole or organic neighborhood, a nd which counts dozens of languages within its boundaries. With the redevelopment of the Holl y Park territory and the positioning of a light rail station in the heart of the commercial area, t he group has the opportunity to educate and attract involvement from existing and new people. T he Holly Park Merchants Association proposes to use Early Implementation funding for the pro duction of a newsletter that will help keep the community informed of neighborhood plan imp lementation. These funds will be used for for the publication and printing costs associat ed with the production of three or four newsletters through December 2000, including the translation, mailing, and distribution of the newsletter to key community points. This project is expec ted to be completed by August 31, 2000. DON's budget authority will be increased by $4,000 and the f unds will be disbursed to the Holly Park Merchants Association for project implementation p ursuant to the scope of work and contract negotiated with DON and as consistent with this ord inance.

 Information Kiosks and Unified Public Art Campaign - This project is cited in F-6, F-7 and F-8 of the MLK @ Holly Street plan matrix. The aims of this project are twofold. Th e first component of the project will identify locations for and install two information kiosks on Othello Street and Graham Street. The purpose of these kiosks will be to facilitate the dissemin ation of neighborhood news, promote community events and to help inform the community of changes wit h plan implementation, redevelopment at Holly Park and light rail activities. The se cond component of this project proposes to utilize Early Implementation funds to conduct an art design competition and to use the public art developed through the competition to create a unifyi ng theme throughout the neighborhood. This artwork could be used on gateways or in such streetsca pe improvements as murals and banners. SEED will manage this project with oversight from the MLK @Holly Planning Association. The expected completion date for this project is June 2 000. DON's budget authority will be increased by $24,000 and the funds will be disbursed to the MLK@Holly Planning Association for project implementation as pursuant to the scope of wo rk and contract negotiated with DON and as consistent with this ordinance.

 Criterion 2: The project must be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. The project must also be consistent with other adopted City plans, such as the Seattle Comprehensive Tr ansportation Program and the Parks COMPLAN. If the project is subject to City regulatory standards, th e project must meet or appear capable of meeting those standards.

 These projects are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.

 Criterion 3: The project requires no or minimal increases in City staff or Ci ty contribution for ongoing operation and maintenance. The project must not duplicate an existing or plan ned project already included in a departmental CIP or operating budget.

 SPD has agreed to manage and implement the Joint Citizen/SPD/SEATRAN Monitored Speed Control Project.

 Criterion 4: If the project is to be implemented by an entity other than the City, the entity must demonstrate that it has the capacity to implement the project in a timely mann er, and propose measures the City can use to hold the entity accountable.

 SEED will manage projects on behalf of the stewardship group (Holly Park Merch ants Association) to implement the Information Kiosks and Unified Public Art Campai gn projects. The Holly Park Merchants Association will manage and sub-contract for the econ omic development analysis and for the newsletter.

 Any further conditions for this applicant:

 common Attachment 2

 Early Implementation Fund Evaluation using Criteria established in Resolution 29783

 Applicant: South Park Area Redevelopment Committee

 Criterion 1: The project must be a high priority element of a proposed neighb orhood plan that has been through the community validation process or a neighborhood plan for which the Council has taken final action on the approval and adoption package. The project must be discrete and have a defined product or outcome that is likely to be completed within two years. Funds may be used as seed money for conceptual or detailed engineering design, or for a phase of a project

 Library Service for South Park - This project is a part of Key Strategies KA 1 .01 through KA 1.06 in the South Park matrix. This project will provide bookmobile service to the neighb orhood once a week for an hour and a storyteller for an additional hour. Currently there are no library services in South Park. Services will be provided beginning in September, 1999 and will end in Decembe r, 2000. The Seattle Public Library's budget authority will be increased by $30,000 to manage and i mplement this project.

 Promotion of Enhanced Library Service - This project supports the new bookmobi le service in South Park. Early Implementation funds will be used to notify the public about the bookmob ile, the times it will visit, and its location. These funds will also be used for education materials about library services available in South Park, gathering feedback from the community about the new service, and r esearch of the feasibility of additional library services. The project is expected to be completed by De cember 2000. DON's budget authority will be increased by $13,000 and the funds will be disbursed to the South Park Area Redevelopment Committee for project implementation as pursuant to the scope of work and contract negotiated with DON and as consistent with this ordinance.

 Four Kiosks -- This project is identified in the Additional Activities for Imp lementation in the matrix as NT 2. This activity will result in the purchase and placement of four kiosks in the neighborhood at locations designated in the plan. The project is expected to be completed by December, 2000. DON's budget authority will be increased by $7,000 and the funds will be disbursed to the S outh Park Area Redevelopment Committee for project implementation as pursuant to the scope of work and contract negotiated with DON and as consistent with this ordinance.

 Criterion 2: The project must be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. The project must also be consistent with other adopted City plans, such as the Seattle Comprehensive Tr ansportation Program and the Parks COMPLAN. If the project is subject to City regulatory standards, th e project must meet or appear capable of meeting those standards.

 These projects are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.

 Criterion 3: The project requires no or minimal increases in City staff or Ci ty contribution for ongoing operation and maintenance. The project must not duplicate an existing or plan ned project already included in a departmental CIP or operating budget.

 The Seattle Public Library has agreed to manage and implement the Library Serv ice for South Park project.

 Criterion 4: If the project is to be implemented by an entity other than the City, the entity must demonstrate that it has the capacity to implement the project in a timely mann er, and propose measures the City can use to hold the entity accountable.

 The South Park Area Redevelopment Committee has the capacity to implement the Promotion of Enhanced Library Services and Four Kiosks projects efficiently and in a timely manner.

 Any further conditions for this applicant:

 The South Park Area Redevelopment Committee must work with SEATRAN to secure a ny permits necessary for the implementation of the Four Kiosks project.

 k: Attachment 3

```
