

********

**Council Bill Number: 112935**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119749**
********

 AN ORDINANCE revising the 1999 annual budget by decreasing certain expenditure allowances and increasing certain other expenditure allowances in the 1999 budgets of various City departments and agencies from various City funds to provide for various costs and expenses not provided for in the 1999 Budget by appropriation, reappropriation and transfer from various City funds and subfunds, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 22, 1999
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 24, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 23, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 4, 1999
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, FINANCE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE revising the 1999 annual budget by decreasing certain expenditure allowances and increasing certain other expenditure allowances in the 1999 budgets of various City departments and agencies from various City funds to provide for various costs and expenses not provided for in the 1999 Budget by appropriation, reappropriation and transfer from various City funds and subfunds, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The expenditure allowances in the designated Program Categories of the 1999 Budget of the Department of Finance General are reduced as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount

 Finance General Reserve for Salary 00100 Q5160023 (39,136) & Benefit Jail Services 00100 Q52360 (1,801,000) General Bond Interest 00100 Q5972010 (332,921) /Redemption Fund Total (2,173,057)

 Section 2. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriations were made, the expenditure allowances for the following Program Categories in the 1999 Budget of the Department of Finance General are increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount

 Finance General Harborview Safe Storage 00100 TBD 50,000 Police Review Panel 00100 Q5112001 80,000 Year 2000 Remediation 00100 Q5188905 642,000 Election Expense 00100 Q51170 613,885 State Examiner 00100 Q5142321 130,500 Total 1,516,385

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of One Million Five Hundred Sixteen Thousand Three Hundred Eighty-five Dollars ($1,516,385) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund.

 Section 3. The expenditure allowances in the designated Program Categories of the 1999 Budget of the Department of Finance General are increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount

 Finance General Cumulative Reserve 00100 Q5971166 1,604,000 Subfund/Revenue Stabilization Acct Cumulative Reserve 00100 Q5971161 1,350,000 Subfund/Capital Projects Acct/Unrestricted Subacct Emergency Subfund 00100 Q5971180 2,481,041 Total 5,435,041

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum Five Million Four Hundred Thirty Five Thousand Forty-one Dollars ($5,435,041) from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund to the designated subfunds and accounts. Of this transfer from the General Subfund, Nine Hundred Sixty Three Thousand Dollars ($963,000) represents the amount transferred to the General Subfund from the Street Utility Repayment Fund in the 1999 Adopted Budget.

 Section 4. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses projected to be incurred in 1999 in connection with the World Trade Organization ministerial, but for which insufficient appropriations were made, the expenditure allowances for the following Program Categories in the 1999 Budgets of the following Departments are increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Seattle Transportation 00100 TA001 16,218 Fire Department 00100 F30 639,070 Human Services Dept 16200 H17 30,000 Parks and Recreation 10200 K15 37,300 Police 00100 P40 2,249,843 Seattle Center 11400 S40 51,725 Total 3,024,156

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Three Million Twenty Four Thousand One Hundred Fifty-six Dollars ($3,024,156) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund.

 Section 5. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriation was made, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Human Services Department is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Human Service Dept 16200 H12 70,000

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Seventy Thousand Dollars ($70,000) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund. Any unexpended appropriation authority remaining at year-end shall automatically carry forward from year to year until expended or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 6. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient expenditure authority was given, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Department of Neighborhoods, Neighborhood Matching Fund is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Neighborhoods 00165 IN165 98,395

 by the appropriation hereby made and authorized of the sum of Ninety- eight Thousand Three Hundred Ninety-five Dollars ($98,395) from unexpended and unencumbered balance in the Neighborhood Matching Fund.

 The increased in expenditure authority enables the Department of Neighborhoods to expend existing funds previously received from community cash matches for Neighborhood Matching Fund projects. Any unexpended appropriation authority remaining at year-end shall automatically carry forward from year to year until expended or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 7. As a result of higher than budgeted General Business and Occupation Tax and Utility Tax-Private revenues that are automatically shared with the Park and Recreation Fund ("charter revenues"), the annual General Fund operating transfer-in for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Parks and Recreation is reduced as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Parks and Recreation 10200 K12 (25,200)

 Section 8. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriations were made, the expenditure allowances for the following Program Categories in the 1999 Budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation are increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Parks and Recreation 10200 K13 14,776 Parks and Recreation 10200 K14 58,785 Parks and Recreation 10200 K15 68,579 Parks and Recreation 10200 K16 52,337 Parks and Recreation 10200 K17 27,131 Parks and Recreation 10200 K18 43,112 Parks and Recreation 10200 K19 62,774 Parks and Recreation 10200 K21 22,506 Total 350,000

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($350,000) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund.

 Section 9. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriation was made, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Firemen's Pension Fund is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Firemen's Pension 60200 RF 565,968

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Five Hundred Sixty Five Thousand Nine Hundred Sixty-eight Dollars ($565,968) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund.

 Section 10. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriations were made, the expenditure allowances for the following Program Categories in the 1999 Budget of Seattle Center are increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Seattle Center 11410 S1 125,000 Seattle Center 11410 S1 306,000 Seattle Center 11410 S3 199,000 Seattle Center 11410 S5 80,000 Total 710,000

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Seven Hundred Ten Thousand Dollars ($710,000) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund.

 Section 11. In order to recognize a contractual obligation with SSI Sports, Inc. to invest annually into a fund to pay for the general renovation of KeyArena in the year 2003, the expenditure allowance for the following Project Number in the 1999 Budget for the KeyArena Renovation Fund is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Seattle Center 34050 S2003KA 632,000

 by the appropriation, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Six Hundred Thirty Two Thousand Dollars ($632,000) from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Real Estate Excise Tax I Subaccount.

 Section 12. Consistent with Statement of Legislative Intent #27 that was adopted by City Council as part of the 1999-2000 budget process, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of Seattle Transportation is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Seattle Transportation 00100 TA001 415,000

 by the reduction, reappropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Four Hundred Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($415,000) from the Light Current Account (Q54263) of the Department of Finance General. Any unexpended appropriation authority remaining at year-end shall automatically carry forward from year to year until expended or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 13. Consistent with Statement of Legislative Intent #35 that was adopted by City Council as part of the 1999-2000 budget process and Ordinance 119497, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of Seattle Transportation is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Seattle Transportation 00100 TA001 3,185,000

 by the reduction, reappropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Three Million One Hundred Eighty Five Thousand Dollars ($3,185,000) from the Arterial Major Maintenance Account (Q5953000) of the Department of Finance General. Any unexpended appropriation authority remaining at year-end shall automatically carry forward from year to year until expended or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 14. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriation was made, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Hearing Examiner is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Hearing Examiner 00100 V1X00 5,100

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Five Thousand One Hundred Dollars ($5,100) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund.

 Section 15. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriation was made, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Arts Commission is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Arts Commission 00100 V6A 10,000

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund. Any unexpended appropriation authority remaining at year-end shall automatically carry forward from year to year until expended or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 16. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriation was made, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of Public Health, Seattle & King County is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Public Health 00100 VH 25,000

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Twenty Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund.

 Section 17. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriation was made, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Executive Department, Office for Civil Rights is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Executive: Office of Civil Rights 00100 X1R 25,000

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Twenty Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund.

 Section 18. To correct an inadvertent error in the Adopted 1999 Budget, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Executive Department, Strategic Planning Office, is reduced as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Executive: Strategic Planning Office 00100 X8M (487,068)

 Section 19. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient appropriation was made, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Executive Department, Office of Housing, is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Executive: Office of Housing 16600 XZ1 30,000

 by the appropriation and transfer, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000) from the Supplemental Appropriation Account of the Emergency Subfund. The Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by the appropriation and transfer of a like amount from unexpended and unencumbered balances in the General Subfund. Any unexpended appropriation authority remaining at year-end shall automatically carry forward from year to year until expended or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 20. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient expenditure authority was given, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Executive Department, Office of Housing is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Executive: Office of Housing 16600 XZ1 1,953,003

 by the appropriation hereby made and authorized, of the sum of One Million Nine Hundred Fifty Three Thousand three Dollars ($1,953,003) from the unencumbered and unexpended balance in the Weatherization Program Fund. Any unexpended appropriation authority remaining at year-end shall automatically carry forward from year to year until expended or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 21. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred in 1999, but for which insufficient expenditure authority was given, the expenditure allowance for the following Program Category in the 1999 Budget of the Executive Department, Office of Housing, REACH Trust Fund is increased as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Executive: Office of Housing 16470 XZ470 150,000

 by the appropriation hereby made and authorized of the sum of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000) from the unencumbered and unexpended balance in the REACH Trust Fund. Any unexpended appropriation authority remaining at year-end shall automatically carry forward from year to year until expended or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 22. To recapture those portions of various General Subfund appropriations that were not expended because positions were not filled, the expenditure allowances in the designated Program Categories of the 1999 Budget of the following Departments are reduced as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Municipal Court 00100 M10 (103,593) Municipal Court 00100 M12 (116,448) Executive Department: Office for Civil 00100 X1R (44,064) Rights Office for Economic 00100 X1D (83,388) Development Strategic Planning 00100 X8M (58,083) Office Total (405,576)

 Section 23. To recapture those portions of various appropriations for operating fund departments that were not expended because positions were not filled, the annual General Fund operating transfers-in for the following Program Categories in the 1999 Budgets of the following Departments are reduced as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Seattle Center 11410 S30 (13,524) Human Services 16200 H15 (92,460) Executive Services 503 A11 (30,000) Executive Services 503 A22 (18,861) Department Executive Services 503 A33 (39,147) Department Executive Services 503 A88 (72,612) Department Information Technology 503 A44 (23,937) Construction and 15700 U22 (20,850) Land Use Total (311,391)

 and the corresponding appropriations from the respective operating funds are also reduced in the same amounts.

 Section 24. The City has paid most, if not all, of its Street Utility Refund obligations. A portion of the remaining unspent bond proceeds in the Street Utility Repayment Fund (Fund Number 10510) is hereby transferred to the Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Capital Projects Account (Q5971161) as follows:

 Department Fund Program Category Amount Cumulative Reserve 00100 Q5971161 250,000 Subfund/Capital Projects Acct/ Unrestricted Subaccount

 and the sum of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) shall be transferred from the Street Utility Repayment Fund to the Cumulative Reserve Subfund, Capital Projects Account, Unrestricted Subaccount.

 Section 25. Any action taken consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.

 Section 26. Some of the foregoing appropriations are made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient appropriations have been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the making of the 1999 Budget.

 Section 27. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths vote of all the members of the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ City Clerk 11/22/99 Ver. #3

```
