

********

**Council Bill Number: 112978**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119783**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to Football Northwest's use of Husky Stadium for Seattle Seahawk Football Games during the 2000 and 2001 football seasons.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 29, 1999
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 3, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 1, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 25, 1999
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** ARENAS-AND-STADIUMS, UNIVERSITY-OF-WASHINGTON, FOOTBALL, TRAFFIC, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to Football Northwest's use of Husky Stadium for Seattle Seahawk Football Games during the 2000 and 2001 football seasons.

 WHEREAS, the agreement between the City and the University of Washington approved by Ordinance 111113 provides that mitigation actions for traffic impacts associated with any expansion of the Husky Stadium will be addressed through a workable parking plan and traffic management program for the facility to be reviewed in accordance within City procedures; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 27435 and conditions of Master Use Permit No. 8600342 require City Council approval for any non-University of Washington event at Husky Stadium with an expected attendance over 24,000, and allows the City Council to require the implementation of any and all reasonable parking and transportation measures, as recommended by the Advisory Group; and

 WHEREAS, Football Northwest shall not admit more than 71,000 people at each Seattle Seahawk Football Game at Husky Stadium for the 2000 and 2001 professional football seasons; and

 WHEREAS, Football Northwest has prepared a Proposed Transportation Management Plan for Seahawks Football Interim Use of Husky Stadium to address the traffic and parking problems that will result from having Seattle Seahawk Football Games at Husky Stadium attached hereto as Exhibit A; and

 WHEREAS, the Husky Stadium Advisory Group has considered public and expert comment and information regarding traffic and parking impacts of current stadium operations for Husky Stadium Events and for potential Seattle Seahawk professional football games and made recommendations to supplement Football Northwest's Transportation Management Plan attached hereto as Exhibit B; and

 WHEREAS, Football Northwest will enter into an agreement with the City of Seattle to reimburse the City for the extra costs incurred by the City as a result of Football Northwest's use of Husky Stadium, and substantially conforming to the attached Exhibit C; and

 WHEREAS, environmental review of Football Northwest's use of Husky Stadium for Seahawk football games was completed by the Washington State Public Stadium Authority as part of the Football/Soccer Stadium and Exhibition Center Project Environmental Impact Statement; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council in separate ordinances is implementing a new parking offense for unlawfully parking in a Husky Stadium Event Restricted Parking Zone, authorizing the impoundment of vehicles illegally parked in restricted parking zones and expanding the areas eligible for Husky Stadium Event Restricted Parking Zones;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The City Council hereby approves Football Northwest's use of Husky Stadium for Seattle Seahawk Football Games for up to twelve (12) weekend games with an attendance of no more than 71,000 people each season during the 2000 and 2001 professional football seasons on the following conditions:

 A. Football Northwest shall comply with the measures proposed in the Proposed Transportation Management Plan for Seahawk Football Interim Use of Husky Stadium (TMP), including any addendaattached thereto, attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein. In every instance where Football Northwest states it will perform some action, Football Northwest shall perform such action; and

 B. Football Northwest shall comply with the recommendations of the Husky Stadium Advisory Group attached hereto as Exhibit B. In the event of a conflict between the TMP and recommendations of the Husky Stadium Advisory Group, the recommendations of the Husky Stadium Advisory Group shall control.

 C. Football Northwest shall reimburse the City for all costs incurred by the City in implementing the Transportation Management Plan beyond those costs currently incurred by the City for services provided for Seahawk Games at the Kingdome.

 D. Compliance with the TMP and recommendations of the Husky Stadium Advisory Group shall include, but not be limited to, Football Northwest achieving the goal of 195 vehicles per 1,000 attendees. This goal applies to the area shown in TMP Figure A-1 and attached as Exhibit D. The City recognizes that implementation of additional Restricted Parking Zones within the area identified in Figure A-1 will be necessary if the goal is to be achieved. Therefore, if for reasons beyond Football Northwest's control RPZ's are not implemented in the residential neighborhoods within the identified area, then Football Northwest may apply in writing for the goal to be adjusted by the Director of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use (DCLU). Any adjustment to the goal must be based upon empirical data and in consultation with the Husky Stadium Advisory Group.

 To measure whether this goal is being achieved, Football Northwest shall conduct a minimum of two fan surveys during the first season and one survey during the second season. During the first season, the first survey shall take place at the second regular season home game, and the second survey shall take place at the last regular season home game. During the second season, a survey shall take place at the second or third regular season home game. Findings from the surveys shall be delivered to the Advisory Group within one week of the survey. If, after any of the surveys, the Husky Stadium Advisory Group concludes the goal is not being met, it shall notify Football Northwest of such findings in writing and Football Northwest shall be required to conduct an additional survey at every home game until the goal is met. Football Northwest shall also be required to increase immediately its efforts to achieve compliance with the TMP goal. These additional efforts shall include, but not be limited to: expanded RPZ's, reduced parking prices for lots where underutilization occurs, increased or improved bus service, special promotions or other incentives to use buses, and increased levels of publicity and public education.

 E. Football Northwest shall in the area defined by Figure B and attached as Exhibit E pick up litter along these routes after all Seahawk games.

 F. In addition to submitting reports following the individual surveys, Football Northwest shall report in writing to the Husky Stadium Advisory Group and DCLU the overall first season performance of the TMP by February 15, 2001. DCLU shall, in consultation with the Husky Stadium Advisory Group, make a determination as to whether the goal and objectives of the TMP were achieved during the first season. DCLU shall then present its findings to the City Council by March 31, 2001.

 G. If, after considering DCLU's report, and Football Northwest's report, and holding a public hearing the City Council determines that the goals and objectives of the TMP were not achieved during the first season, it shall adopt written findings and conclusions reflecting this determination, and the City Council may impose additional mitigation measures, restrict the number of attendees, and/or revoke

University of Washington and Football Northwest's authorization to use Husky Stadium for Seahawk games during the 2001 season. Thereafter, the City Council will approve Football Northwest's use of Husky Stadium for a second professional football season only upon the presentation and approval of a revised TMP that includes increased measures designed to properly mitigate traffic and parking problems associated with its use of Husky Stadium.

 Section 2. The Husky Stadium Advisory Group shall meet on a regular basis until the conclusion of the 2001 football season to monitor Football Northwest's compliance with the TMP and recommend any additional measures it feels are appropriate. The TMP and recommendations of the Advisory Group shall be considered a flexible document, subject to change as the circumstances require. For purposes of monitoring compliance with the TMP, the Advisory Group shall include a representative from the University, a representative from the DCLU, Seattle Transportation Department, Seattle Police Department, Strategic Planning Office, Department of Neighborhoods, Metro, Washington State Department of Transportation and interested members of the City University Community Advisory Committee.

 Section 3. Football Northwest's failure to comply with the TMP, Husky Stadium Advisory Group recommendations or the conditions of this approval will subject Football Northwest and the University of Washington to the enforcement provisions contained in Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.90, including actions for legal and equitable relief.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1999. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1999. ___________________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1999. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

[EXHIBIT A:](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~ordpics/112978tmp.htm) PROPOSED TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT PLAN - SEAHAWKS USE OF HUSKY STADIUM, SEPTEMBER 1, 1999, WITH ADDENDA, NOVEMBER 23 1999

 Proposed Transportation Management Plan Seahawk Football Interim Use of Husky Stadium

 ADDENDA TO SEPTEMBER 1, 1999 PLAN

 General Clarification

 1. Residential Parking Zones, throughout document. All references to "residential parking zones," "special event residential parking zones," and "RPZs" are intended to refer to the City of Seattle's "restricted parking zones."

 Specific Revisions

[2. Page 8, Figure 1, Clearance Interval Count Locations.](/~ordpics/112978a3.gif) Count locations remain the same but have been shifted slightly to ensure accurate and consistent before and after traffic counts. Figure 1 Revised is attached.

 3. Page 19, Advocate Supplemental Enforcement. Through discussions with neighbors in the Montlake Community, the following enhancements are proposed to be included in the TMP.

 A representative of the Seahawks will monitor parking in a designated five-contiguous block area within each game-day RPZ at the start of the fourth quarter of every third game. The person will record the number of cars that are parked without a residential permit or a parking ticket. If the number of cars without permits or tickets exceeds ten (10) percent of the total number of cars parked in the designated area, the Seahawks will reimburse the City for an extra Parking Enforcement Officer (PEO) in the non-compliant neighborhood. This extra enforcement will continue for up to three games or until compliance with the 10 percent standard is attained, whichever is comes later. This standard will apply to those game-day RPZ areas in which parking occupancy is greater than 95 percent full. If, by the sixth game, enforcement appears to be effective, this monitoring will not need to continue until the start of the second season. A team of neighborhood representatives and Seahawk consultants can monitor the parking enforcement in each neighborhood that chooses to provide a volunteer for each game that is monitored.

 The monitoring team will use cellular phones to call the SPD dispatcher who, in turn, can contact the police officers and PEOs around Husky Stadium. As a backup measure, the Seahawks will work with the SPD to include spot parking violations in the range of responsibilities to be carried out by the four police officers the Seahawks have added to respond to neighborhood and non-traffic control issues.

 To enhance the ability for neighborhood residents within game-day RPZs to immediately report game-day parking violators, the Seahawks and SPD have developed a three-tiered response program with specific telephone numbers to secure an SPD response.

 * The Seahawks TMP transportation office will establish a specific telephone number and dispatcher who can forward information from a resident to the SPD dispatcher, who, in turn, will relay the complaint by police radio directly to the officers controlling game- day traffic and parking in the vicinity of the stadium; * The general SPD Dispatcher number (206-625-5011), which residents can use themselves to have their complaint relayed by police radio directly to the officers controlling game-day traffic and parking in the vicinity of the stadium; or * In the event of a public safety emergency, call 911.

 These phone numbers will be distributed as part of the mailings to neighbors with other game-day information. (See discussion below regarding sidewalk vending.)

 4. Page 19, Advocate Supplemental Enforcement. The Seahawks will work with the SPD to refine the traffic control assignments to control pedestrians who cross against the pedestrian signals and block the movement of vehicles. As noted in the following section, the Seahawks' efforts to reduce non-compliant sidewalk vendors may also complement pedestrian circulation.

 5. Page 19, Advocate Supplemental Enforcement. The TMP includes provision of a space where vendors can set up to serve fans. This vendor area is currently anticipated to be located in the southwest corner of the area south of the stadium so vendors can serve people near the sidewalk. The Seahawks will manage and monitor this area. The Seahawks will contact existing on-street vendors and will encourage them to use this area. The Seahawks are already working with the Seattle-King County Health Department as part of the food service operations at the Exhibition Center. As part of this program, the Seahawks have retained two sanitarians. The Seahawks are working on contractual arrangements to have the sanitarians available for games at Husky Stadium. One role of these sanitarians is to monitor food service to ensure quality. As part their duties, the Seahawks will ask them to monitor these outside vendors and report non-compliance with their counterparts in the Health Department.

 Another level of monitoring and compliance involves the City's Department of Licensing. The Seahawks have taken the initiative to contact the Licensing Department to inform them of neighborhood concerns and request the Department's assistance in resolving the issue of illegal sidewalk vendors. The Licensing Department makes unscheduled "sweeps" of potential illegal vending situations to monitor and ensure compliance. The Department of Licensing is evaluating the potential for enhanced enforcement at the start of each season and methods to address any continuing community concerns. It is anticipated that the Seahawks' sanitarians will also support these officials in monitoring and reporting compliance.

 In the event a vendor is observed without a proper permit, anyone may call the Seahawks' TMP dispatcher who will forward the complaint to the proper City Department or call the Licensing Department directly at 206-684-8484.

[6. Page 20, Figure 4, University District Metered Parking.](/~ordpics/112978a3.gif) Figure 4 has been updated to reflect current metered parking conditions.

 7. Page 25 Refine Access and Egress Routing Plan. Working with the Husky Stadium Advisory Group, FNW will monitor the incidence of "cut- through" speeding occurring on non-arterial residential streets after Seahawk games at Husky Stadium. The Seahawks on-call TMP office will notify the Seattle Police Department of any concerns related to speeding or other traffic safety complaints and will compile a log listing all such concerns in order to identify specific areas where traffic controls and police enforcement may need to be augmented with additional resources. In consultation with the Husky Stadium Advisory Group, FNW, SPD and SEATRAN will consider and implement appropriate solutions in problem locations, which may include, but need not be limited to, additional signage, closing streets to through traffic, and stationing of additional traffic control officers.

 8. Page 29, Refine Guide-Signing System. The signing plan will include a component to serve three purposes: (1) to warn residents of upcoming games and potential for congestion, (2) to guide game attendees to suitable parking lots or other appropriate destinations, and (3) to guide other traffic not headed to Husky Stadium around areas of potential congestion and road closures. The design of this signing plan will be developed as part of the traffic operations plan and will include some combination of variable or changeable message signs, static signs, or other techniques, depending on what appears to be most effective in conveying the appropriate message. An example of sign type, messages and placement is illustrated on the attachment and will be refined in coordination with SEATRAN, SPD and/or WSDOT.

 Football Northwest has indicated to City Council that it anticipates that static or fixed message signs will work best to warn the public of upcoming games and the potential for event-related traffic congestion. FNW believes that fixed message signs will work better than electronic variable message signs for this purpose because:

 1) the number of variable messages that need to be communicated are minimal - only time of day and day of week vary; 2) they are not restricted by the 8-character restriction per line like electronic signs; 3) they can be located more easily in the neighborhoods without the need to remove parking or impact traffic or pedestrian flow; 4) they do not require the use of generators that may produce unacceptable levels of noise and fumes.

 The Seahawks propose that portable message signs would be located at a number of locations to advise neighbors at least two days in advance of the game and should be posted to advise drivers entering as well as leaving the neighborhood.

 Potential locations of such signs include:

 * Madison Street E and Lake Washington Boulevard E, entering Arboretum * Interstate 5 interchange at NE 45th Street, northbound traffic on off-ramp * Interstate 5 interchange at NE 45th Street, southbound traffic on off-ramp and on 45th east of I-5 * Interstate 5 interchange at NE 50th Street, northbound traffic on off-ramp * Interstate 5 interchange at NE 50th Street, southbound traffic on off-ramp and on 50th east of I-5 * Eastlake Avenue E, northbound south of Roanoke Street * 25th Avenue NE, near NE 50th Street * 35th Avenue NE, near NE 50th Street * NE Ravenna Boulevard, near Roosevelt Way NE * NE 45th Street, in Laurelhurst * NE 45th Street, in Wallingford.

 In addition, guide signs for fans attempting to locate parking and signs that advise fans of the increased fines and towing in Restricted Parking Zones are proposed. An example of location of such signs is presented in the attached map. Like other operational aspects of the TMP a final signing plan will require SEATRAN and WSDOT approval.

 If the Husky Stadium Advisory Group determines that the use of fixed message signs is not effectively communicating the occurrence of event-related traffic congestion on the day of the game to drivers entering the stadium area, then Football Northwest shall either: 1) provide variable or changeable electronic message signs at key portals to the Husky Stadium area on the day of the game; or 2) pay for additional traffic control officers to be posted at key portals, in order to help warn drivers to use other routes to avoid event- related congestion.

 9. Page 29, Seattle Police Department Duty Assignments. Reference should be to Appendix D, not Appendix C.

 10. Page 35, Trash Clean Up - Trash Cans and Recycling Containers. As part of the trash clean-up program, Football Northwest will place trash cans and recycling receptacles in heavily trafficked pedestrian corridors to intercept crowds and reduce littering before it occurs. The exact number and location of these receptacles will be determined based on the availability of suitable locations. Locations being considered include several University of Washington parking lots, sidewalks exiting the vicinity of the stadium, and the Burke-Gilman Trail.

 Portable Toilets - As a related expansion of the effort to keep the areas surrounding the stadium clean and safe, Football Northwest will place portable toilets outside of the stadium area. These are intended to mitigate potential problems of public urination. These will be installed primarily along major pedestrian corridors radiating away from the stadium. The exact placement of portable toilets will depend on the availability of suitable and acceptable locations.

 11. Page 36, Neighborhood Security Patrols. One patrol car will patrol the area north of the University and the other to the south. Each patrol car will involve two officers, not just the one officer as stated in the TMP.

[12. Page 37, Figure 8, Game-Day Litter Clean-Up Area.](/~ordpics/112978a3.gif) The Seahawks will extend the litter clean-up area to the west to Roosevelt Way. This is intended to minimize impacts of football fans that patronize restaurants in the University District. Figure 8 Revised illustrates the expanded clean-up area.

[13. Appendix A, Figure A-1, Vehicle Reduction Goal Boundary.](/~ordpics/112978a4.gif) The boundaries of this area have been clarified with street names as shown on Figure A-1 Revised.

[14. Appendix B, Figure B-2, Existing Road Capacity Inventory.](/~ordpics/112978a5.gif) This figure, extracted from the Environmental Impact Statement for the Football/Soccer Stadium project, shows that Roosevelt Way NE is a three-lane roadway. This is the case only during peak hours during the weekdays. During weekends, when football games would occur, parking is permitted in the "third" lane.

 EXHIBIT B: RECOMMENDATION OF THE HUSKY STADIUM ADVISORY GROUP TO THE SEATTLE CITY COUNCIL ON SEATTLE SEAHAWKS USE OF HUSKY STADIUM FOR THE 2000 AND 2001 NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE SEASONS

 September 1, 1999

 Background

 In approving the expansion of Husky Stadium in 1986 the Seattle City Council established that 24,000 is the approximate attendance that can easily be accommodated by existing, on-campus parking facilities, and required that the University of Washington ("UW") secure City Council approval for any non-UW events of over 24,000 attendance. In approving these non-UW events the Council may require the implementation of any and all reasonable parking and transportation measures, as recommended by "the Advisory Group", established in the ordinance. The Advisory Group members include City departments, other governments and agencies such as the UW and King County Metro, and representatives of adjacent neighborhoods.

 The University of Washington Board of Regents recently approved a lease with Football Northwest, owners of the Seattle Seahawks, for the use of the Husky Stadium for Seattle Seahawk home games during the 2000 and 2001 seasons. With permission from the University of Washington, Football Northwest has applied to the Seattle City Council for permission to use Husky Stadium during the 2000 and 2001 seasons while construction of a new football stadium occurs on the Kingdome site. Home games during an NFL season consist of two preseason, eight regular season and between zero and two playoff games (a total of between ten and twelve games). Allowing Seahawk games to be played at Husky Stadium would increase the number of football games there from six to as many as eighteen per season.

 The Advisory Group has considered public and expert comment and information regarding traffic and parking impacts of current stadium operations for Husky games and for potential Seahawk games. The Group has also reviewed and commented upon draft Transportation Management Plans ("TMP") prepared for and submitted by the proponent Football Northwest.

 Approval of Transportation Management Plan

 The Advisory Group recommends that a TMP substantially the same as the Proposed TMP attached to this recommendation be approved by City Council and implemented by Football Northwest. This TMP proposes many measures designed to mitigate parking and traffic impacts, including: a specific goal limiting the number of vehicles driven to the game, expressed as vehicles per 1,000 attendees arriving at a game; a goal that traffic conditions will return to normal after a game in a period no greater than that for Husky games; extensive free transit service on both regular routes and from identified park and ride sites; incentives to encourage carpool parking, especially at University of Washington parking facilities; and expansion of Residential Parking Zones (RPZs). The TMP calls for frequent monitoring and review of whether the goals are being met, and commits Football Northwest to increase the level of effort or adjust strategies to ensure that the goals are achieved.

 Period and Contingency of Approval

 The approval of Seattle Seahawk use of Husky Stadium should be for the 2000 and 2001 NFL seasons only, with approval for the second season contingent as noted below. The approval should be for NFL Seahawk football games only. Games on the same weekend as Husky Football games and within four hours of a home Mariner game should be avoided to the greatest extent possible. Avoiding same weekend football games at Husky Stadium lessens the impacts to be experienced in the area on any given weekend. Avoiding dual events (less than four hour separation) with the Mariners ensures that the parking resources around Safeco Field and the Kingdome (5,000 plus spaces) are available for use as a park and ride area and avoids the necessity and uncertainties involved in finding alternative attendee parking and re-educating attendees for a single event. The prospect of the transit portion of the TMP effort not working well is potentially as extreme a negative impact as a weekend with a Saturday Husky game and a Sunday Seahawk game. The scheduling limitations arising from trying to coordinate NFL, major league baseball, and PAC10 schedules may prohibit always meeting both conditions. If a schedule conflict with a Mariners game is unavoidable then Football Northwest should be required to contract for parking spaces outside of the Mariners stadium area that are not currently used for Sunday Mariners game parking.

 The Husky Stadium Advisory Group should continue to meet during the Seahawks residency at Husky Stadium to refine, monitor and provide direction to Football Northwest on any changes or additional efforts deemed necessary to meet the TMP goal and objectives during the two- season period. The membership of the group should be expanded to include representatives of the individual neighborhoods most affected by Husky Stadium events, generally those neighborhoods with membership on the City University Community Advisory Committee (CUCAC).

 Football Northwest shall make a report to City Council on the performance of the TMP during the first season by March of 2001. At least a month prior to reporting to City Council Football Northwest shall make that report to the Advisory Group. DCLU shall, in consultation with the Advisory Group, make a determination as to whether or not the goal and objectives of the TMP have been substantially accomplished and shall communicate that determination to City Council at the time of the report from Football Northwest. In the event either DCLU determines, or City Council overrules DCLU to find, that the TMP goal and objectives have not been substantially met, then use of the stadium for a second season is contingent upon City Council approval of a revised TMP with an increased level of effort and potentially new measures to address the problems identified. The revised TMP might also include new goals and/or objectives.

 TMP Goals

 City Council should establish a TMP performance goal limiting the number of vehicles parked within a defined area around Husky Stadium during Seahawk events to 195 vehicles per 1,000 attendees. Compliance with this goal will be measured in the area shown in TMP Figure A-1 (attached). In establishing this goal, the City Council should recognize that implementation of additional Residential Parking Zones within the area identified in figure A-1 will be necessary if the goal is to be achieved. If for reasons beyond Football Northwest's control RPZs are not implemented in residential neighborhoods inside the boundary, then the vehicles per thousand attendees goal will need to be increased to reflect greater availability of free parking near the stadium. The City Council should authorize the DCLU Director to adjust the goal, should it become necessary, based on empirical data and in consultation with the Husky Stadium Advisory Group.

 Compliance with the goal shall be measured by a random sample survey using the survey methodology created for measuring the performance of the Safeco Field TMP. Fine-tuning of the Safeco Field methodology may be necessary to better define the area of influence within which a vehicle is considered to have been driven to a game and to easily convey the boundary of the area to survey respondents.

 The TMP goals and objectives may not be attained for a number of reasons: too many vehicles per 1,000 attendees may park in the defined impact area; the period of traffic congestion after games may exceed that of Husky games; trash collection along pedestrian routes might not be accomplished, transit service may be inadequate or measures to encourage use of transit may not be adequately devised and implemented, and parking impacts may occur in neighborhoods adjacent to Husky Stadium.

 If the TMP goal or objectives are not being met, Football Northwest should be required to immediately increase the level of effort to bring the TMP into compliance with the goal. Additional measures might include, but would not be limited to: expanded RPZs; increased RPZ enforcement; reduced parking prices on-site if underutilization occurs; reduced parking prices at the South Downtown park and ride location if insufficient numbers of fans are riding the bus from that location; increased or improved bus service; special promotions or other incentives to use buses, such as discounts on merchandise or concessions; and increased publicity efforts.

 Monitoring Performance of the TMP

 Attendee surveys should be conducted to monitor TMP performance and goal attainment. A minimum of two fan surveys should be conducted in the first season and one in the second. The first such survey should take place at the second regular season game in the first season at Husky Stadium. The last survey of the first season should be at the last game and provide a basis for assessing the performance during the first season.

 Preliminary findings from each survey should be conveyed to members of the Advisory Group within one week of the event. If the goal has not been met, new measures should be implemented as soon as possible and in no case more than thirteen days from the last surveyed game. A new survey should be taken at the next home game. The cycle of new measure implementation and survey repetition should be required to continue until the goal is being met. Once the TMP goal is achieved the measures being employed should be frozen and only minor changes approved in advance by the City should be approved without the necessity of re-surveying to check performance.

 One exception to the above process is that if Football Northwest fails to achieve the vehicle reduction goal at the second game of the first season, triggering the requirement to repeat the survey, then the next survey should not occur until implementation of any new or expanded game-day RPZs has been completed by SEATRAN.

 Traffic Management

 The plan for traffic flow and control in the area of Husky Stadium should be a modified version of the basic plan now used for Husky games. Included in those modifications should be: improved opportunities to cross the north bound traffic flow on 25th Avenue N.E. post-event; an egress route from University Village to the NE 45th Street Viaduct during periods when the post-event traffic control plan is operating; and provision of signs along arterials and freeways leading to and from the area warning of event-related traffic congestion, with specific times of expected congestion, thereby encouraging the use of other routes and allowing residents to adjust their travel plans to miss pre-game and post-game traffic.

 The Advisory Group considered making changes to the bus staging plan now used for Husky games, with the objective of minimizing the amount of time that Montlake Boulevard is constricted or closed. After extensive discussion, the Group concluded that delaying the staging of buses any later than the middle of the third quarter could seriously impede the effectiveness of the park and ride service, which in turn would undermine the goal of encouraging as many game attendees as possible to ride transit to the game.

 Parking Management and Enforcement

 Along with traffic congestion, parking by event attendees in nearby residential neighborhoods is one of the most significant problems identified by adjacent communities. The most effective regulatory tool available for minimizing parking in neighborhoods is the Residential Parking Zone which restricts parking to residents through the use of parking permits. RPZs also help minimize the number of vehicles driven into the impact area for Seahawk games, thereby helping to reduce traffic congestion during events. RPZs currently exist in parts of the Montlake, Eastlake and the University District communities. New game-day RPZs are desired in Ravenna-Bryant and Laurelhurst. Eastlake and University District residents wish to extend the hours of their current RPZs to include Seahawk games on Sundays. The Advisory Group recommends that, where desired by the neighborhood, the City should expand existing and create new RPZs in any area that is significantly impacted by Seahawk event parking. The City's RPZ criteria, including the requirement that 60 percent of the residents in an area must approve the creation of the RPZ, shall apply (see attached table summarizing RPZ implementation process). Some neighborhoods may qualify for new or expanded RPZs based on parking impacts of Husky games. Those neighborhoods may pursue RPZs during the current Husky season, and those RPZs should remain in effect indefinitely. Some areas may only qualify for an RPZ for Seahawk games. These RPZs should sunset after the 2001 NFL season is completed. To ensure that the new RPZs have the desired results, the City should increase game-day parking enforcement staff proportionate to the increase in area covered by RPZs.

 Football Northwest should be required to assist neighborhoods in the organizational efforts, including information dissemination, polling and data collection, application, implementation, or otherwise to create or modify RPZs. Football Northwest should begin this effort during the 1999 Husky football season in an effort to create as many of the new or expanded RPZs ahead of the 2000 Seahawk season as possible.

 Not all parking impacts will occur in residential areas. Because both parking meters and parking zones with signed parking time limits are not in effect on Sundays, when most Seahawk games will be played, event attendees are likely to park in these locations. Neighborhood business districts may suffer because their regular customers are unable to find parking. Football Northwest should therefore work with business districts near to Husky Stadium, such as the University District, in implementing two-hour zones for Seahawk game days where these restrictions are desired.

 The limited parking at or near Husky Stadium is expected to be in heavy demand for Seahawk games and parking rates will be high. The current $28 fine for illegal parking in an RPZ may not be a significant enough deterrent to illegal parking in RPZs. The City Council should work with the Seattle Municipal Court to increase the parking violation fine to at least $40 in game-day RPZs.

 Towing of vehicles parked in violation of RPZ restrictions is not recommended at this time because of limited towing capacity available to the City compared to the size of Seahawk event and the number of vehicles involved. However if the combination of implementation of new or expanded RPZs, increased fines, and expanded enforcement personnel is not sufficient to deter Seahawk event attendees from parking in neighborhoods, then the City should consider instituting towing of vehicles parked in violation of RPZ restrictions during the second season.

 Public Safety

 Based on past experience with Husky games, adjacent communities have expressed significant concern about the potential for behavior and civility problems in their neighborhoods before and after Seahawk games. Concern has also been expressed about the probability of illegal vending on public sidewalks. The issue of alcohol consumption at Seahawk games has been addressed in the lease agreement between the University of Washington and Football Northwest, which prohibits both the sale and consumption of alcohol at Seahawk games at Husky Stadium.

 To respond to public safety concerns, the Advisory Group recommends that the City should add four regular police officers to the Husky Stadium event staffing plan, for Seahawk games only. These officers would not be assigned traffic duty, but would be posted north and south of Husky Stadium to provide fast response to any public behavior issues or other illegal activity occurring in association with Seahawk games.

 A common problem with major stadium events is the large volume of trash that is thrown away by fans as they walk through adjacent neighborhoods to parking. The Advisory Group recommends that Football Northwest should be required to define an area that includes the primary pedestrian routes to and from the stadium and pick up litter along these routes after all Seahawk games.

 Attachments

 * Husky Stadium Advisory Group Members * Vehicle Reduction Goal Boundary Map * Process for Establishing New Residential Parking Zones in Response to Parking Impacts of Husky and Seahawk Games in Husky Stadium (table) * Proposed Transportation Management Plan Recommendation of the Husky Stadium Advisory Group to the Seattle City Council on Seattle Seahawk Use of Husky Stadium for the 2000 and 2001 NFL seasons. September 1, 1999 Page: 2

 EXHIBIT C: DRAFT OPERATING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND FOOTBALL NORTHWEST

 Exhibit C

 OPERATING AGREEMENT between THE CITY OF SEATTLE and FOOTBALL NORTHWEST

 OPERATING AGREEMENT

 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this ____ day of ___________________, 1999, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereinafter referred to as "the City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, and FOOTBALL NORTHWEST, L.L.C., a limited liability company organized and operating under the laws of the State of Washington.

 RECITALS

 1. Due to the demolition of the Kingdome and construction of a new football stadium for professional football games, Football Northwest has received approval from the University of Washington to use Husky Stadium for professional football games during the 2000 and 2001 Football Seasons (two pre-season, eight regular season and possible playoff games); and 2. Football Northwest agrees to perform its obligations under the Transportation Management Plan drafted to address the traffic impacts associated with its use of Husky Stadium; and 3. Football Northwest anticipates capacity crowds of up to 70,000 people for Games in Husky Stadium; and 4. The efficient movement of traffic and safety of pedestrians in the vicinity of Husky Stadium is of vital concern to the surrounding neighborhoods and the City's economy; and 5. Football Northwest acknowledges its desire to be a good neighbor and to facilitate the safety and convenience of people living in nearby neighborhoods and attending Games at Husky Stadium; and 6. Football Northwest's use of Husky Stadium will entail operational and management efforts requiring the utilization of services and personnel from the City over and above the normal level of City services provided for Seahawk Games at the Kingdome; and 7. Football Northwest desires to contract with the City to provide required traffic control and parking enforcement services in the vicinity of Husky Stadium in connection with Games and to mitigate traffic impacts associated with its use of Husky Stadium; and 8. Through utilization of City Police Department's Police Officers and Parking Enforcement Officers, and other City personnel, the City is ready, willing and able to provide traffic control and parking enforcement services to Football Northwest in consideration of payment for such services and the providing of other consideration as described herein; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the parties' respective obligations described herein, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. DEFINITIONS As used in this Agreement, each of the following italicized terms shall have the meaning ascribed to it below. Words used in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa; a word in any gender includes all other genders.

 a. "Advisory Group" means the Husky Stadium Advisory Group organized for the purpose of monitoring Football Northwest's compliance with the Transportation Management Plan. b. "Chief" means the City's Chief of Police or such official's designee(s). c. "Director of Transportation" means the head of Seattle Transportation (an administrative department of the City) or such official's functional successor or designee(s). d. "DCLU Director" means the head of the City's Department of Design, Construction & Land Use or such official's functional successor or designee(s). e. "Football Season" means the period of time that begins with the first Game played at Husky Stadium and ends with the last Game played at Husky Stadium in any calendar year, which period will usually begin in August and may continue into the next succeeding January. f. "Game" means any NFL football game involving the Seattle Seahawks, including but not limited to any pre-season, regular season, playoff or championship ("Super Bowl") game. g. "Parking Enforcement Officer" means any individual, regardless of rank or actual classification, who is assigned by the City to fill the position of Parking Enforcement Officer and is authorized to enforce parking regulations and direct traffic under the ultimate supervision and control of the Chief. h. "Police Officer" means any sworn law enforcement officer employed by the City, regardless of rank or classification, that is under the ultimate supervision and control of the Chief. i. "Transportation Management Plan" means the attached document developed for Football Northwest's use of Husky Stadium for Seattle Seahawk football games. j. "Traffic and Parking Operations Plan" means the document to be developed for use by Football Northwest, the Seattle Police, SEATRAN, METRO, the University of Washington, and WSDOT to implement the Transportation Management Plan. 2. TERM OF AGREEMENT The term of this Agreement shall commence immediately and remain in full force and effect through the end of the 2001 Football Season. 3. COORDINATION & LIAISON Football Northwest shall coordinate its functions and responsibilities hereunder with the Chief and the Director of Transportation, or as otherwise directed by the City. Day-to-day issues regarding implementation of this Agreement shall be coordinated with the person designated by the Director of Transportation unless the issue directly relates to any act or omission of a City Police Officer or Parking Enforcement Officer, in which case such coordination shall be with the Chief or his designee. Football Northwest's representative for coordination and liaison purposes shall be Jim Kelley or his authorized designee. 4. PARKING AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT a. Parties' General Obligation to Comply With Transportation Management Plan and Traffic and Parking Operations Plan The City and Football Northwest shall comply with all of the requirements respectively imposed upon each such party by the general provisions of the Transportation Management and Traffic and Parking  Operations Plans unless a specific modification of such Plan has been approved for implementation in connection with that particular Husky Stadium use. b. Modifications to Transportation Management and Traffic and Parking Operations Plans Authorized Upon the request of either party, the Advisory Group, the Director of Transportation, DCLU Director, Chief, and the authorized representative(s) of Football Northwest shall meet to review the Transportation Management and Traffic and Parking Operations Plans. On a game to game basis, the Chief and Director of Transportation may make temporary changes to the Transportation Management and Traffic and Parking Operations Plans as each deems necessary and appropriate to address parking and traffic control issues associated with the presentation of Games in Husky Stadium. If changes are made necessary, the Chief and/or Director of Transportation shall notify Football Northwest of those changes. For permanent modifications to the Plans, the party seeking such change shall give notice to Football Northwest, the Advisory Group, Director of Transportation, the Chief and DCLU Director of each such modification and shall be agreed upon by those parties. Any written modification of the Plans shall be incorporated into this Agreement without the need for the execution of a formal amendment of this Agreement and the enactment of authorizing City legislation therefor. The parties recognize that the Plans may not identify all parking and traffic operations concerns or issues that may arise from time to time during the term of this Agreement. Accordingly, the City reserves the right to modify the Plans as the Chief and Director of Transportation deem necessary to address the need for or results of field observations, follow up traffic studies, or other appropriate data. In making any such modifications, the Chief and Director of Transportation will take into account the desire of the parties to prudently control the costs of the services provided under this Agreement and will consider cost-savings suggestions offered by Football Northwest. c. City Assignment of Police & Parking Enforcement Officers to Implement Transportation Management Plan and Traffic and Parking Operations Plan (1) Number of Police & Parking Enforcement Officers Assigned The City shall assign and equip its Police Officers and Parking Enforcement Officers or other City personnel in such a manner as is determined by the Chief to be reasonably needed to implement the Transportation Management Plan and Traffic and Parking Operations Plan. In exercising his discretion under this provision, the Chief will take into account the recommendations and the desire of the parties to limit the number of non-traffic police officers to four (4) as set forth in the TMP and prudently control the costs of the services provided under this Agreement and will consider cost-savings suggestions offered by Football Northwest. (2) Duties Of Assigned Officers The Police Officers and Parking Enforcement Officers assigned to work in implementation of the Transportation Management Plan, Traffic and Parking Operations Plan and this Agreement at any location where any temporary traffic control device has been delivered as contemplated in the Transportation Management Plan shall be responsible for the placement of such traffic control device in the location where such person is either directed to place it or believes it will best serve its function as contemplated in the Transportation Management Plan and Traffic and Parking Operations Plan, and shall be responsible for moving such device from such location to the place where such device is to be picked up and removed for subsequent storage after such Game. Each such Police Officer and Parking Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the control of vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the immediate vicinity of his or her assigned duty station that results from a Game. (3) Activities For Which Officers Are Not Responsible During a Game, Police Officers and Parking Enforcement Officers shall not be subject to assignment pursuant to this Agreement to patrol or provide security in any parking lot but shall only be assigned to control pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic control within the City's right-of-way and, on an on-call basis, to assist with the enforcement of traffic and parking regulations, and to perform such other traffic control and law enforcement duties as may be normally expected of them as Seattle Police Officers or Parking Enforcement Officers. 5. COSTS & PAYMENT a. Costs for 2000 and 2001 Football Seasons Football Northwest shall be liable for all costs incurred by the City's Police Department and Department of Transportation in implementing the Transportation Management and Traffic and Parking Operations Plans beyond those costs currently incurred by the City for services for Seahawk Games at the Kingdome. For purposes of this section, the parties agree that for the 2000 Football Season the annual cost incurred by the City of Seattle's Police Department is $142,522, and for the Department of Transportation it is $41,778 for services for Seahawk Games at the Kingdome. The parties further agree that for purposes of the 2001 Football Season, the annual cost incurred by the City of Seattle's Police Department is $147,510, and for the Department of Transportation it is $43,240 for services for Seahawk Games at the Kingdome. b. Monthly Invoices The City shall invoice Football Northwest monthly for the payment for services provided under this Agreement during the immediately preceding month. All invoices to Football Northwest shall be delivered as a notice, consistent with the address requirements of Section 18 hereof. All invoices shall be due and payable within thirty (30) days after their receipt, without setoff or deduction of any kind or nature. g. Place of Payment All payments due the Seattle Police Department shall be delivered to The City of Seattle, in care of the Seattle Police Department at 600 Third Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104. All payments due the Department of Transportation shall be delivered to Accounts Receivable, 600 Fourth Avenue, Fourth Floor, Seattle, Washington 98104. h. Delinquencies All sums due and owing to the City shall be delinquent if not paid on or before the fifth (5th) day after the date due; in the event of any delinquency, Football Northwest shall also owe to the City a service charge of Fifty Dollars ($50.00), or such larger sum as is established by ordinance, for each month the delinquency continues to cover the additional costs for such delinquency, plus interest on such delinquent sum at a rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%), or such larger percent as is established by ordinance, per month from the date due to the date of payment. i. Returned Check, Non-Sufficient Funds In the event any payment or check for payment is returned for non-sufficient funds, Football Northwest shall owe as an administrative charge an additional $20.00, or such larger sum as is established by Seattle ordinance. 6. INDEMNIFICATION Football Northwest shall defend, indemnify, and hold the City harmless from any and all claims or actions of any kind or nature whatsoever, including workers' compensation claims, in any way arising out of any act or omission of Football Northwest hereunder, including any act or omission of any officer, employee, representative, supplier, assignee, subcontractor, lessee or agent of Football Northwest (which terms shall exclude City employees acting within the scope of their employment in connection with providing services under this Agreement); except that Football Northwest need not defend, indemnify, or hold harmless the City from damages proximately resulting from the sole negligence of the City or any of its officers, employees or agents.

 The City shall defend, indemnify, and hold Football Northwest harmless from any and all claims or actions of any kind or nature whatsoever, including workers' compensation claims, in any way arising from the sole negligence of the City or any of its officers, employees or agents. 7. BREACH OF AGREEMENT a. Defaults Any of the following incidents shall constitute a default under this Agreement: (1) Except in the event of an emergency requiring the assignment of City Police Officers to other duties, the failure by the City to provide the parking and traffic control services pursuant to this Agreement; (2) The failure by any party to perform any other duty imposed upon it under this Agreement. b. Remedies for a default and breach of Agreement (1) Remedies: For a default under onstructiononstruction7.a(1) or (2), the party alleging such default may seek damages or specific enforcement of this Agreement including, where appropriate, the payment of interest on any amount of money due to such party. (2) Process: In the event the representative of one party to this Agreement believes that the other party has defaulted in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and such administrative representative desires relief for such alleged default, said administrative representative shall give notice pursuant to Section 18 hereof advising the other party of the details of such alleged default and demanding appropriate relief for the same. (3) Breach of Agreement: No party shall be in breach of this Agreement unless such party has received notice of an alleged default with a demand to cure the same and has failed to cure such alleged default within thirty (30) days after the receipt of notice by the party allegedly in default advising that it has failed to remit a payment required by this Agreement, and within sixty (60) days after such party's receipt of notice of any other alleged default hereunder. (4) Notice of Cure: Written notice of a party's having cured a breach shall be transmitted to the party alleging the breach on or before the last day of the allowed cure period. c. No Right To Terminate Agreement Except for Failure to Appropriate Funds for Implementation of Agreement Because each party needs to have assurance that parking and traffic control activities are reasonably performed in connection with any Game at Husky Stadium, no party shall have a right to terminate this Agreement for breach. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the term of this Agreement extends beyond the City fiscal year in which this Agreement is executed, then, in the event the City's legislative authority does not appropriate funds for the purpose of continuing the performance of the functions and responsibilities assumed by the City hereunder, this Agreement shall be terminated as of the last day of the last year for which funding was appropriated, and neither party shall be liable to the other for any service or work not performed after the effective termination date or for compensation due for the same. After notice of termination is given by the City hereunder, Football Northwest shall be obligated to continue to perform its obligations under the Agreement through the effective termination date. 8. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS In its use of Husky Stadium, Football Northwest shall comply with all applicable conditions of the University of Washington's Master Use Permit as well as other applicable regulations of the City. 9. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBCONTRACTING Neither party shall assign or subcontract any of its rights, benefits, obligations, or duties under this Agreement except upon prior written consent and approval of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. In the event of any delegation, assignment or subcontract, the party hereto acting as the delegator, assignor, or contractor shall remain fully liable for the full performance of its obligations under this Agreement. 10. NEITHER PARTY IS AGENT OF THE OTHER In no event shall any party hereunder be, become, or be deemed to be, in any way or for any purpose, a partner, associate, joint venturer, agent or legal representative of any other or of any person or entity associated with any other in the conduct of the other's business or otherwise. No party is granted or vested with any express or implied right or authority under this Agreement to assume or to create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of or in the name of any other or to bind any other in any manner or thing whatsoever. 11. WAIVERS No action other than a written notice by one party to the other specifically stating that such notice has the effect of a waiver, shall constitute a waiver of any particular breach or default of such other party. No such notice shall constitute a waiver of a failure to fully comply with any other term, condition, or provision of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge that any officer, employee, or agent of any of the parties may have of any breach or default of, or noncompliance with, such other term, condition, or provision. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of compensation for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance. 12. RIGHT TO INSPECT & COPY CITY RECORDS Any duly authorized representative of Football Northwest shall have, until the expiration of six (6) years after any claim or payment is made under this Agreement, the right to inspect and copy any directly pertinent books, documents, papers and records of the City involving the transaction associated with such claim or payment or other matter related to the same. 13. APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE This Agreement shall be construed under the laws of the State of Washington and the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle, as the same may be amended from time to time. The venue for any action brought hereunder shall be in the King County Superior Court. 14. NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES Notwithstanding any reference to third parties herein, it is expressly understood and agreed that enforcement of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and all rights of action relating to such enforcement shall be strictly reserved to the parties hereto, and nothing contained in this Agreement shall give or allow any such claim or right of action to be asserted by any other or third person or entity whatsoever, including but not limited to any contractor, subcontractor of a contractor, assignee or lessee of either of the parties hereto. It is the express intention of the parties hereto that any person or entity other than the party hereto receiving services or benefits under this Agreement shall be deemed to be an incidental beneficiary. 15. SECTION & SUBSECTION HEADINGS The captions and headings set forth herein are for convenience of reference only, and shall not be construed so as to define or limit the terms and provisions hereof. 16. SEVERABILITY It is understood and agreed by the parties hereto that if any part, term, or provision of this Agreement is by the courts held to be illegal or in conflict with any law, the validity of the remaining portions or provisions shall not be affected, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall be construed and enforced as if the Agreement did not contain the particular part, term, or provision held to be invalid. 17. AMENDMENTS The parties shall meet in April 2001 to review the terms and conditions of this Agreement in light or the parties' experience as of that date, and to negotiate in good faith any desired modification(s) of the Agreement; provided that nothing in this section shall affect the parties' abilities or discretion to modify any portion of this Agreement at any other time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein obligates either party to agree to a modification of this Agreement. Every addition to, deletion of, or other change in, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be in writing, and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto. 18. NOTICES Any notice, demand or request required hereunder shall be in writing and delivered to the intended recipient by (a) personal service; (b) overnight courier; or (c) registered or certified, first class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, at the following address: If to Football Northwest, to: Jim Kelley Football Northwest 110 - 110th Avenue NE, Suite 550 Bellevue, WA 98004 Telephone: (425) 990-7000

 Cc: Richard Leigh

 If to the City, to: Director of Transportation The City of Seattle 600 Fourth Avenue, Fourth Floor Seattle, WA 98104 Telephone: 684-5000

 With a copy to: Police Chief Public Safety Building 600 Third Avenue Seattle, WA 98104 Telephone: 684-5577

 or to other such person or address as any party may, from time to time, designate for itself by notice to the others pursuant hereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a default identified in onstruction8.a(1), (2) or (3), the City may give notice orally to Football Northwest, as appropriate, at the telephone number specified herein for such party. 19. REPRESENTATIONS & WARRANTIES Each of the parties to this Agreement represents and warrants that it possesses the legal authority, pursuant to an official motion, resolution, or other appropriate act passed or taken by the appropriate person or persons associated with it to enter into this Agreement, and that the person or persons signing and executing this Agreement on its behalf has or have been fully authorized by such party to execute this Agreement on its behalf and to validly and legally bind such party to all the terms, performances and provisions herein set forth regarding such party. 20. AGREEMENT AS COMPLETE INTEGRATION This Agreement consists of this 12-page Agreement form, and is a complete integration of all understandings between the parties and their respective successors and assigns. 21. NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated understanding, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties to this Agreement has had its authorized representative execute this document by affixing his signature in the appropriate space below:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE FOOTBALL NORTHWEST, L.L.C.

 By: By: Paul Schell, Mayor Bob Whitsitt, President

[EXHIBIT D:](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~ordpics/112978d.gif) TMP FIGURE A-1 - VEHICLE REDUCTION GOAL BOUNDARY

[EXHIBIT E:](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~ordpics/112978e.gif) TMP FIGURE 8 REVISED - PROPOSED GAME-DAY LITTER CLEAN UP AREA November 19, 1999 Ver #3

```
