

********

**Council Bill Number: 112943**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119757**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; amending the 1999-2000 fee schedule for use of park and recreation facilities and services; amending Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 22, 1999
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 24, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 23, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 4, 1999
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CHOE
   
   
**Index Terms:** FEES, PARKS, RECREATIONAL-FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; amending the 1999-2000 fee schedule for use of park and recreation facilities and services; amending Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2000, Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code (as last amended by Ordinance 119491) is further amended as follows:

 18.28.010. Fee Schedule Established.

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to charge the fees substantially in the form set forth in the fee schedule entitled Exhibit "A" attached to Ordinance 119249 , with amendments made by Ordinances 119491 and __________ (Council Bill No. 112943) for all uses of Parks and Recreation Department facilities identified therein, and to waive or reduce such fees, establish experimental rates, and engage in special promotional and marketing activities as described in Exhibit "A" as conditioned in Sections 18.28.010 through 18.28.040 hereof. This 1999 and 2000 fee schedule supersedes all prior fee schedules to the extent inconsistent therewith.

 Section 2. The Superintendent is authorized to charge the fees pertaining to park and recreation facilities set forth in the attached Exhibit I. Exhibit I shows, by underline, the text being added to pages 4, 15, 16, 20, 21 and 44 of the 1999 - 2000 Fees and Charges Fee Schedule.

 Section 3. The fees shown on the attached Exhibit II constitute a clean rendition of the pages of the fee schedule amended as shown in Exhibit I and shall replace pages 4, 15, 16, 20, 21 and 44 of the fee schedule adopted by Ordinance 119249 as amended by Ordinance 119491.

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1999. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1999. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1999. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 EXHIBIT I Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 1999 & 2000 Fees and Charges - Changes Shown with Underlining

 EXHIBIT II Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 1999 & 2000 Fees and Charges - "Clean Version" October 14, 1999 (Ver. 1 )

 SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

 1999 AND 2000 FEES AND CHARGES 1999 RATES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1999 2000 RATES EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 31, 1999

 ORDINANCE .

 ATTENTION: MasterCard, Visa and American Express credit cards are accepted at selected facilities as a form of payment for the 1999 and 2000 Fees and Charges.

 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEES AND CHARGES

 AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

 AUTHORITY Fees and charges are necessary to provide financial support to the Department of Parks and Recreation for the operation and maintenance of programs, facilities, and park grounds. The revenue generated by these fees constitutes only a portion of funds required for operating and maintaining the Park System. All fees collected from Park and Recreation activities and concessions are used exclusively for the Park System, as these funds are deposited in the Park and Recreation Fund, not the City General Fund.

 The Department proposes fees and charges each year as a part of the annual budget process. Both the Mayor and City Council review and by legislation authorize the Department to collect these fees and charges.

 GENERAL PROVISIONS The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to establish a fee for requested uses not included in this schedule, keeping the Mayor and the City Council advised thereof. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to revise or waive any of the attached fees when it is in the public interest or where it is required to avoid infringing on the first amendment freedom guaranteed by the United States Constitution or the Washington State Constitution. The attached fees are subject to change due to revisions in Washington State taxes, City taxes, or other unforeseen events.

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to approve variances to the fee schedule for special promotional and marketing activities as they may occur to enhance departmental programs. These include but are not limited to use of two for one coupons, 50% discount coupons and free admission days for children. The above may occur at various Department facilities throughout the year.

 The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized to approve the free use of Department facilities by the Associated Recreation Council and recognized recreation Advisory Councils, and other organizations that are open to the public, that further Department goals and programs, and that apply any proceeds to Park and Recreation services.

 In addition to the fees and charges identified herein, the user may be required to pay any additional Department costs resulting from such use and to pay a reasonable portion of the City's costs for traffic control and police services when the user's event requires them.

 FACILITY PHONE NUMBERS Golf Driving Ranges Interbay 285-2200 Jefferson 763-8989

 Golf Courses Jackson Park 363-4747 Jefferson Park (Course) 762-4513 West Seattle (Course) 935-5187 West Seattle Golf Clubhouse Restaurant (Banquets) 932-7577 Green Lake 632-2280 Interbay 285-2200

 Donald Graham Visitor Center (Arboretum) 543-8800

 Moorages and Boat Rentals Lakewood Moorage 722-3887 Leschi Moorage 325-3730 Aqua Marina 722-4660 Mt. Baker Rowing & Sailing Center 386-1913

 PERMIT AND RESERVATION PHONE NUMBERS Concession Permits 684-8002 Special Events/Commercial Use Permits 684-4080 Day Camp Reservations 684-4080 Field Scheduling - League 684-4082 Field Scheduling - Individual 684-4077 Film Rental 684-7077 Picnic Area Reservations 684-4081 Revocable Use Permits 684-7388 Showmobile 684-4080 T elephone Reservations Fee 684-4077 Tennis Center (Indoor) 684-4764 Tennis Center (Outdoor): Tournaments 684-4082 Tennis Center (Outdoor): Individual Play 684-4077

 GOLF COURSES

 Jackson, Jefferson and West Seattle Golf Courses

 The maximum green fee for 18 holes or fewer at any time by any player shall be $30.00, including tax. All greens fees and all other golf facility or service fees (including but not limited to driving range, carts, cars, play cards, lessons, and room rentals) will be established by Municipal Golf of Seattle, Inc. (MGS), consistent with and subject to the contract between MGS, Inc. and the Department as authorized Ordinance 117663. All golf program fees will be prominently posted at all times in each clubhouse.

 GREEN LAKE PITCH 'N PUTT

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000 $3.75 $3.75 9 Holes $2.50 $2.50 9 Additional Holes $3.25 $3.25 Sr. Citizen (65 and over), Junior (18 and under) and handicapped until noon

 INTERBAY GOLF COURSE

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000 $11.00 $11.00 9 Holes, Adults - Weekdays $13.00 $13.00 9 Holes, Adults - Weekends $10.00 $10.00 Juniors and Seniors - Weekdays $13.00 $13.00 Juniors and Seniors - Weekends

 JAPANESE GARDEN (Arboretum)

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000 $2.50 $2.50 Adult (19-64) $1.50 $1.50 Youth (6-18) $1.50 $1.50 College/University Students College/University Student rates are limited to full-time students currently enrolled in an accredited college or university with valid identification. Group rates are not extended to Colleges, Universities or day-care facilities $1.50 $1.50 Senior (65 and over) Free Free Children (0-5)

 Public/Private School Group Rate for grades K through 12. $10.00 $10.00 Group size 1-24 students. $5.00 $5.00 Additional fee for each added group sized between 1 and 12 students.

 School Group Rates are for students only and do no include Adult fees. Organized groups of children attending an educational institution grades K through 12 are entitled to this group fee during the regular school year if advance reservations are made. Advanced reservations of at least two weeks are required to receive these School Group Rates educational discount. Advanced reservations can be made by calling 684-4725 at least two weeks in advance.

 One responsible Adult who has paid admission is required for every group of student as indicated in the following Ratios:

 1:24 for grades 9 - 12 2:24 for grades 7 - 8 1:10 for grades 3 - 6 1: 5 for grades K - 2

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31,2000 Annual Pass $10.00 $10.00 Annual Pass, Individual $20.00 $20.00 Annual Pass, Family

 Annual Family Passes include unlimited admission for all members of an immediate family living in the same household, defined as two adults (parents or guardians) and their children. Annual Passes are valid for twelve months from the month of purchase. Individual Annual Passes include unlimited admission for the person whose name appears on the pass.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Guided Tours Provided by the Japanese Garden Advisory Council

 Public/Private School Groups: Fully accredited and State recognized schools grades 3-12 $10.00 $10.00 Grades 3-12, group size between 1 and 24 students. $5.00 $5.00 Additional guides per each group of 1- 12 students (fee does not include price of admission to the Garden).

 Non-Commercial Groups: colleges, universities, garden clubs and other groups whose principal function is other than tourism. $15.00 $15.00 Group size between 1 and 24 $5.00 $5.00 Additional guides per each group of 1- 12 (fee does not include price of admission to the Garden).

 Commercial Groups: Businesses, organizations, and companies that charge for and conduct tours as a primary function of their business. $25.00 $25.00 Group size between 1 and 24 $10.00 $10.00 Additional guides per each group of 12 (fee does not include price of admission to the Garden).

 The Japanese Garden Advisory Council provides guided tours. The Guides to Tour Group ratio is 1 guide for each group sized between 1 and 12 people. Tours must be booked two weeks in advance. Guide fees must be paid at the time tours are booked. They do not include admission fees to the Garden, which may be paid at Garden on the day of your tour.

 Tours may be rescheduled with 48-hour notice. Rescheduled tours must be taken within 60 days of the original booking. Guide fees for canceled tours are non-refundable.

 SEATTLE AQUARIUM

 1999 Dec 31, 1999 - Dec 31, 2000 Fees Include Tax

 King Co. Non-King Co. King Co. Non-King Co. Resident Resident Resident Resident Regular Admissions $6.75 $8.25 $7.00 $8.50 Adult $6.00 $7.25 $6.25 $7.50 Senior $5.00 $5.50 $5.25 $5.75 Youth 6-18 $3.00 $3.50 $3.25 $3.75 Child 3-5 Free Free Free Free Child 0-2

 Group Discount $6.25 $7.50 $6.50 $7.75 Adult $5.50 $6.75 $5.75 $7.00 Senior $4.25 $5.00 $4.50 $5.25 Youth 6-18 $2.75 $3.00 $3.00 $3.25 Child 3-5 Free Free Free Free Child 0-2

 School Group $5.50 $6.75 $5.75 $7.00 Adult $5.25 $6.25 $5.50 $6.50 Senior $4.00 $4.75 $4.25 $5.00 Youth $2.50 $2.75 $2.75 $3.00 Child 3-5 FFree Free Free Free Child 0-2

 Free admission will be provided to low income citizens through distribution of admission tickets through social agencies such as United Way, etc.

 Combination tickets: Combination tickets for The Aquarium and the Omnidome are available. The Aquarium portion of individual combination tickets is the same as normal group discount rates; The Aquarium portion of group combination tickets is the same as the school group discount rates.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000 Annual Pass $50.00 $50.00 Family Pass $40.00 $40.00 Individual/Senior Pass $97.50 $97.50 Combined Aquarium & Zoo Family Pass $72.50 $72.50 Combined Aquarium & Zoo Individual Pass

 Individual Senior annual passes include unlimited admission for the person registered for the pass. Membership in SEAS is included in the individual pass.

 Family passes include unlimited admission for all members of an immediate family. Immediate family is defined as two adults living together, or parent or guardian; and their children and grandchildren under 18. Membership in SEAS is included in the family pass.

 In addition to these annual passes, the Seattle Aquarium Society (SEAS) will offer and promote enhanced passes/memberships at higher fees as part of their promotional and fund raising activities. The additional amount charged will represent and be recorded as a donation to the Seattle Aquarium Society.

 Education Course Fees

 Per person fees depending on course taken, plus cost of materials, associated administrative cost, and applicable admission fee.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Aquarium Rental Rate (Exhibit Space) $700.00 $725.00 Base Rental Fee, Covers up to 100 people $6.00 $6.25 Sunday through Thursday - per person over 100 people $7.00 $7.25 Friday and Saturday - per person over 100 people

 Monday through Wednesday - Groups up to 50. Fee also applies to non-profit organizations serving the low- income and disadvantaged. (Non-profit organizations may be of any size.) $350.00 $375.00 First 2 hour period $150.00 $150.00 Each additional hour

 Staff fees (When special exceptions are granted to waive or reduce facility rental fees, or additional staff are needed, staff fees will be required. $20.00 $20.00 Fee per hour for each staff person on duty

 Auditorium Rental Rate (Maximum group size of 75 people) $80.00 $80.00 Fee per hour (does not include staff costs)

 Auditorium Rental Concurrent with Exhibit Space Rental (Does not include staff costs. The legal limit on number of guests and stated time for use apply.) $200.00 $200.00 Flat Fee

 Board Room Rental $200.00 $200.00 Daily (8 hours) $100.00 $100.00 Up to 4 hours In addition, if admissions are charged or products or services sold during facility use, 10% of gross receipts will be charged.

 $100.00 $125.00 Birthday Party Fees (Up to two adults, ten children) includes admission

 OTHER SERVICES

 Minimum $367.00 $367.00 Puget Sound on Wheels School Assembly $8.00/person $8.00/person Catering Services

 *The Department will contract catering services by qualified vendors and will charge a minimum of 10% of the vendor's gross revenue, which is based on the vendor charging a minimum of $8.00 per person.

 SEATTLE TENNIS CENTER

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Indoor Courts (1-1/4 hours) $15.00 $15.00 Singles $20.00 $20.00 Doubles $1.00 $1.00 Senior/Handicapped Discount Per Court

 Singles and Doubles court fees may be made available at half price for special group clinics, tournaments, or lessons for low-income youth and senior adults during off-peak times. These programs to be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation.

 $30.00 $30.00 Telephone Reservation Card (Annual) Indoor/Outdoor Courts

 Outdoor Court Reservations (See also "Outdoor Tennis Courts" in RESERVATIONS section. $6.00 $6.00 Reservation Fee. (1 1/2 hours at the Tennis Center). Reservations to be made through The Tennis Center only.

 Non-Peak Time Public Service Play

 Five percent of the total time available on a monthly basis will be allocated to public service playing time. The specific times to be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation with the objective of making the public service time at the non-peak demand times as determined by actual use and demand for the facility. During non-peak periods public service times will be free.

 Special Fees for Tournaments and Special Events

 Charges for high volume usage of courts for tournaments and special events, as well as, rates for tournament management can be obtained by contacting the Tennis Center Senior Recreation Specialist. The Superintendent determines these fees.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 TENNIS LESSONS

 $37.00 $37.00 Private lessons per hour Semi Private Lessons $42.00 $42.00 Two People $47.00 $47.00 Three People $52.00 $52.00 Four People $47.00 $47.00 Private Video Lessons per hour

 Adult Group Lessons $62.00 $62.00 6 sessions $92.00 $92.00 12 sessions

 Adult Play-instruct classes $72.00 $72.00 Per person fee at 4 students for 6 weeks

 Junior Group Lessons $47.00 $47.00 6 sessions $67.00 $67.00 12 sessions

 Tiny Tots $15.00 $15.00 Beginning ages 4-5 30 minutes 6 weeks $20.00 $20.00 Beginning ages 5-7 45 minutes for 6 weeks $25.00 $25.00 Advanced all ages 1 hour for 6 weeks

 A variety of group lessons may be created during the year with the rates to be generally figured at $8.00/hour per person.

 Competitive Flights (Doubles): $58.00 $58.00 7 weeks $50.00 $50.00 6 weeks

 Competitive Flights (Singles): $72.00 $72.00 7 weeks $62.00 $62.00 6 weeks

 Junior Tennis Team $85.00 $90.00 6 week session $90.00 Tournament Team

 Special Events Dbl. Crt. Fee Dbl. Crt. Fee Public Group +10% +10%

 Dbl. Crt. Fee Dbl. Crt. Fee Private Group +20% +20%

 $25.00 $25.00 Rescheduling

 Ball machine rental: (Includes court fees) $25.00 $25.00 1 hour

 $2.00 $2.00 Racket Rental

 Senior Public Court Time Monday, Wednesday and Friday 1:45 P.M. to 3:00 P.M. $1.00 $1.00 Per person fee April 1 through September 30 $2.00 $2.00 Per person fee October 1 through March 31

 SWIMMING POOL FEES

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Recreation Swimming $1.75 $1.75 Ages 1 to 18 years (youth) $2.50 $2.50 Ages 19 through 64 years (adult) $1.75 $1.75 Senior Adult - 65 and older, & Special Populations $1.50 $1.50 Recreational Swim for non- profit youth (ages 1-18) organizations (Advance approval through application required). $20.00 $20.00 Discount Recreational Swim Card - ($22.00 value) $30.00 $30.00 Discount Fitness Swim Card - ($33.00 value) $1.00 $1.00 Promotional Swim Fee (All Ages) Children under one year of age are admitted free and must be accompanied by an adult. $1.00 $1.00 Community Center Swimming -  Use by Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation facilities and programs.

 Swimming Instruction and Aquatic Safety $3.00 $3.25 Ages 18 and under - per lesson $1.50 $1.75 Ages 18 and under (low income families) - per lesson $3.25 $3.50 Ages 19 through 64 - per lesson $3.00 $3.25 Ages 65 and over & Special Populations - per lesson $65.00 $65.00 Summer Swim League $32.50 $32.50 Summer Swim League (low income families) $15.00 $15.00 Personal Instruction - one on one (30 minute lesson) $24.00 $24.00 Personal Instruction - one on two (30 minute lesson)

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Special Courses - Note: prices and course titles may be adjusted to correspond to curriculum modifications made by the American Red Cross. Prices include pool admission and instruction only.

 $25.00 $25.00 Community Water Safety $30.00 $30.00 Advanced Emergency Water Safety $90.00 $90.00 Water Safety Instructor $85.00 $85.00 Lifeguard Training Course $40.00 $40.00 Lifeguard Instructor Course $25.00 $25.00 Community CPR $25.00 $25.00 Standard First Aid $10.00 $10.00 Water Safety Challenge $20.00 $20.00 Instructor Candidate Training $25.00 $25.00 CPR for Professional Rescuer

 Fitness $45.00 $45.00 Monthly unlimited personal fitness "FAST"- Adult $35.00 $35.00 Monthly unlimited personal fitness - "FAST" Senior Adult $3.00 $3.25 Fitness, ages 19-64 years - per lesson (Including Hydrofit, Masters, and Water Exercise $2.25 $2.25 Fitness, ages 65 & over & special populations - per lesson

 Competitive Training Indoor Pools and Mounger Pool (5-lane maximum at Mounger Pool) $30.00 $30.00 6 lanes, 25 yards - $5.00 per lane per hour $20.00 $20.00 4 lanes - per hour $10.00 $10.00 2 lanes - per hour $15.00 $15.00 Deep end only - per hour (Synchronized or Water Polo)

 Colman Pool $64.00 $64.00 8 lanes - per hour $48.00 $48.00 6 lanes - per hour $32.00 $32.00 4 lanes - per hour $16.00 $16.00 2 lanes - per hour

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Rental Fees - Swimming Pools Coin Operated Lockers $ .25 $ .25 1/6 size locker $ .25 $ .25 1/4 size locker $ .50 $ .50 1/2 size locker $ .50 $ .50 Towels, each $1.50 $1.50 Hydrofit Exercise Equipment $1.00 $1.00 Shower use

 Birthday Party Package - A complete birthday party package at pools that includes one hour in the pool, a 30- minute party in the lobby or community center room, water recreation leadership, one spill-proof pre-packaged juice, paper products and favors. (Food items not included.) $150.00 $150.00 Minimum package fee - for a party of 10 children $5.00 $5.00 Additional fee - per child

 Indoor Non-Commercial Pool Rentals Per Hour (Lifeguard staff costs additional.) $38.00 $38.00 30 swimmers or less \ $53.00 $53.00 31 swimmers or more

 Colman Pool Non-Commercial Rentals Per Hour (Lifeguard staff costs additional.) $40.00 $40.00 30 swimmers or less $55.00 $55.00 31 swimmers or more

 Mounger Pool Non-Commercial Rentals Per Hour (Lifeguard staff costs additional.) $75.00 $75.00 Exclusive Use of entire Facility, including both pools and slide

 Commercial Rental Scuba, Canoe & Kayak Class Rentals $50.00 $50.00 30 people or less, plus the addition of a $100 refundable deposit $65.00 $65.00 31 people or more, plus the addition of a $100 refundable deposit

 $76.00 $76.00 Private Groups desiring to rent the pool when it is normally scheduled to be open

 Private groups desiring to have charge events 20% 20% Percentage of event fees to be charged ($40.00 per hour minimum)

 Swim Meets There is a charge for competitive swimming meets which is a base rental fee plus 10% of entry, concession, and spectator fees.

 Base Rental Fee $15.00/hr $15.00/hr When pool is scheduled to be closed, two hour minimum rental. $30.00/hr $30.00/hr When indoor pool is scheduled to be open. $64.00/hr $64.00/hr For Colman Pool.

 Non-operating hours, charges: Individuals and groups desiring to use swimming pools during non-operating hours will be expected to pay the cost of staffing in addition to the rates established above. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation will determine staffing costs.

 $.50 $.50 Swimming Pool Spa Use Fee ((Southwest Pool)- per person $1.00 $1.00 Water Slide Use Fee - per person $.25 $.25 Swimming Pool Sauna Use Fee (Queen Anne Pool) - per person $5.00 $5.00 Swimming Pool Sauna Use Fee (Queen Anne Pool) - 20 admission punch card

 SPECIAL PROVISIONS Colman and Mounger Pools: Admission fees are charged to all persons entering pool area, even if not swimming (except parents watching children in lesson programs). Use of the pools, decks and picnic areas are part of the overall recreation opportunity; pool capacity is based on use of this area.

 WOODLAND PARK ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS

 1999 Dec. 31, 1999 FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000 County Non-County County Non-County Resident Resident Resident Resident Basic Admission Fee

 $7.50 $8.50 $8.00 $9.00 Adult (18-64) $5.25 $6.00 $5.75 $6.50 Youth (6-17) and Handicapped $6.75 $7.75 $7.25 $8.25 Senior (65 and over) and College Student $3.25 $3.75 $3.75 $4.25 Child (3-5) Free Free Free Free Preschool (0-2)

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000 Annual Pass (Annual Passes Are Valid For Twelve Months From Month Of Purchase.)

 $55.00 $55.00 Wolf Pack (Family) - Family annual passes include unlimited admission for all members of an immediate family plus five free guest admissions for non-family members per year. Immediate family is defined as two adults living together, or parent or guardian & their children under 18.

 $40.00 $40.00 Wolf One (Individual)- Individual Passes will be good for unlimited admissions for the pass holder only and fifty percent (50%) discount for two guests per visit.

 $97.50 $97.50 Combined Zoo & Aquarium Family

 $72.50 $72.50 Combined Zoo & Aquarium Individual

 In addition to these annual passes, the Woodland Park Zoological Society will offer and promote enhanced memberships as a part of their promotional and fund raising activities. These higher membership rates will be established by the Woodland Park Zoological Society. Any cost of Zoo Society membership that is greater than the above authorized annual pass rates will represent and be recorded as a donation to the Woodland Park Zoological Society.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Group Rates 10% 10% Percentage discount for organized groups of 20 or more paying persons if they enter the Zoo as a group at one time.

 Advance Purchase - Percentage discount off admissions purchased for a particular date at one time by an organization:

 10% 10% 20-99 Admissions 20% 20% 100-500 Admissions 35% 35% 501-999 Admissions 50% 50% 1000 & Over

 School Groups Rate - Organized groups of children attending an educational institution through 12th grade are entitled to a special group fee during the regular school year if advance reservations are made.

 Programs - All school zoo visits require advance reservation in order to receive the educational discount. To guarantee entry into the Tropical Rain Forest exhibit for your group, you must make advance reservations for timed entry also. Call 684-4850 at least four weeks in advance.

 Fees for School Zoo Visits - Payments are made on the day of your visit in one lump sum. Admission fee for your class with advanced reservations. In order to receive this school rate, one adult chaperon for every six students must be present and remain with their students. Teachers and chaperons accompanying the class pay the student rate.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 $4.25 $4.75 School Group/King County Resident - Per Person $5.00 $5.50 School Group/Non King County Resident - Per Person

 $5.00 $5.00 Materials Fee - Per Class - School groups with advance reservations for docent programs will be charged a materials fee per class which includes a Teacher Information Packet and docent interpretive program.

 $5.00 $5.00 Tropical Rain Forest Materials Fee - Per Class - School groups with advance reservations to visit the Tropical Rain Forest exhibit will be charged a materials fee per class which includes timed entry for the class into the exhibit and a Tropical Rain Forest Teacher Information Packet.

 Admission Fees for School Groups without Reservations. You must enter the zoo as a group and consolidate payment in one check, cash or purchase order to receive your discount.

 Entry into the Tropical Rain Forest exhibit is on a space available basis after 1 p.m. and cannot be guaranteed if advance reservations are not made.

 10% 10% Percentage discount of regular zoo admission for a group of 20 or more. If you do not make advance reservations.

 $5.00 $5.00 Teacher Packets $8.50 $8.50 Teacher Packets With Audio- Visual Aids

 Special Provisions Free admission will be provided to the low-income, handicapped, and elderly citizens of Seattle and King County through distribution of admission tickets to social service agencies.

 Annual passes purchased for entry to other municipal zoos shall allow entry to the zoo when the other municipal zoo allows similar entry to holders of annual passes to the Woodland Park Zoological Gardens.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31. 2000

 Other Fees

 $2.00 $2.00 Pony Ride - Per Ride (including taxes)

 Zoo Doo $50.00 $50.00 Large Pickup $40.00 $40.00 Medium Pickup $35.00 $35.00 Small Pickup $7.00 $7.00 30 Gallon Garbage Can $3.00 $3.00 8 Gallon Garbage Can

 Parking Fee $3.50 $3.50 Private Vehicles All Day $10.00 $10.00 Commercial and School Bus

 DONATION FACILITIES

 $1.00 $1.00 Woodland Park Rose Garden per person $1.00 $1.00 Volunteer Park Conservatory per person

 FACILITY RENTALS

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 CAMP LONG

 Overnight Use/Cabin $35.00 $35.00 Fee per night/cabin $50.00 $50.00 Refundable damage deposit per cabin.

 Group Day Use Booking Fee - For shelters, fire ring, Rock/Glacier Reservations Group Size $15.00/4 hr. $15.00/4 hr. 1-50 $25.00/4 hr. $25.00/4 hr. 51-100 $35.00/4 hr. $35.00/4 hr. 101-150 $45.00/4 hr. $45.00/4 hr. 151-200 $55.00/4 hr. $55.00/4 hr. 201-250

 $40.00 $40.00 Lodge kitchen damage/cleaning refundable deposit

 Meeting Room Rental Fee - "Community Centers, Camp Long, Mt. Baker Rowing and Sailing Facility and Discovery Park Visitors Center".

 Day use, maximum number of participants - 250 Overnight use, maximum number of participants - 120 NOTE: Groups involved with outdoor recreation/education will be given priority for scheduling use of Camp Long Social/Meeting Room(s).

 DISCOVERY PARK

 Visitor's Center Social Room Rental Fee - See Community Centers, Camp Long Mt. Baker, and Discovery Park Visitors Center.

 COMMUNITY CENTERS, CAMP LONG CARKEEK ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION CENTER DISCOVERY PARK VISITOR CENTER LANGSTON HUGHES CULTURAL ARTS CENTER MT. BAKER ROWING & SAILING FACILITY GREEN LAKE SMALL CRAFT CENTER AND PRITCHARD BEACH HOUSE

 The Department charges rental fees for the use of social and meeting rooms and gymnasiums at community centers, Camp Long, Carkeek Environmental Education Center, the Discovery Park Visitor Center, Langston Hughes, Mt. Baker Rowing and Sailing Facility, Green Lake Small Craft Center and Pritchard Beach House according to classifications of usage. Meeting rooms and gymnasium space is available only during times Department and Advisory Council programs are not scheduled. Uses are determined by classification A, B, or C as defined below:

 Class A Use: Non-Commercial Use, open to the public. No admission fee, vendor fee, and/or donation is requested or received.

 Class A use is reserved for advertised non-commercial public events/meetings. (If scheduled outside normal community center operating hours, see Class B use.)

 Class B Use: Fund Raising, open to the public, where an admission fee, vendor fee and/or donation is requested or received; or any commercial use which is open to the public. Class B use is reserved for public events/meetings. The rental involves a commercial purpose or there is an admission charge, vendor fee and/or a donation is received.

 Non-profit agencies serving youth, seniors, the disabled or low- income populations. A non-profit agency sponsored event/meeting for youth, seniors, and the disabled or low-income populations in the City of Seattle, which is closed to the public or open to the public with an admission fee.

 Any Class A use scheduled outside normal Community Center operating hours.

 Class C Use: Closed to the public. Class C use is reserved for events/meetings where the public is not invited. Admission fees may be collected and donations may be received. Examples are private children's birthday parties, seminars, workshops, etc.

 1999 & 2000 HOURLY ROOM AND GYMNASIUM RENTAL FEES

 Facility Rental Fees: Non-refundable $10.00 per facility quarterly booking fee, plus hourly rate of:

 Class Class Class C Small Rooms 1-400 Booking fee only $16.00 $19.00 square feet Medium Rooms 401-1,500 Booking fee only $19.00 $25.00 square feet Large Rooms 1,500+ Booking fee only $26.00 $35.00 Square feet

 Small Kitchen Booking fee only $9.00 $11.00 (minimum of two hours)*

 Large Kitchen Booking fee only $20.00 $23.00 (minimum of two hours)*

 *Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park site.

 Small Gym Athletic Use Booking fee only $15.00 $20.00 Non-Athletic Use Booking fee only $34.00 $46.00

 Large Gym Athletic Use Booking fee only $18.00 $25.00 Non-Athletic Booking fee only $59.00 $65.00

 For Class C use of rooms for weddings, receptions and other parties a special fee of $380 per use is charged and includes up to 7 hours use of multi-purpose room and kitchen, which allows time for renter to do event set up, kitchen prep, the event and clean up. Included in the rental fee are 10 banquet tables, and 50 chairs. For time over 7 hours the Class C hourly rate is added. Fee $380.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit $100.00

 Additional Fees for Private Parties with Alcohol Fee (plus other applicable room rental fees and staffing charges) $60.00 Refundable damage deposit (if not collected under special events) $100.00

 An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 FACILITIES WITH SPECIAL FEATURES Large Kitchen Bitter Lake, Delridge, Garfield, Jefferson, Langston Hughes, Meadowbrook, Miller, Rainier, Southwest Small Kitchen All other Community Center kitchens

 Small Gym Bitter Lake Annex, Garfield Teen Life Center, Meadowbrook Annex, Miller, Van Asselt, Yesler Large Gym Ballard, Bitter Lake, Delridge, Garfield, Green Lake, Hiawatha, High Point, Loyal Heights, Magnolia, Meadowbrook, Miller, Montlake , Queen Anne, Rainier, Rainier Beach, Ravenna-Eckstein, South Park

 Note: An event will be considered advertised if it has been announced in the local paper, through a mass mailing, radio announcements, posters throughout the community, posted in the Community Center or distributed through the Community Center.

 EVENING RECREATION SCHOOL GYM RENTALS

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 $25.00 $27.00 Hourly/gym floor (1-hour minimum) fee plus applicable maintenance and operation costs for heat/utilities and/or custodial costs as determined by the Department.

 * Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park site..

 LANGSTON HUGHES THEATER

 *Langston Hughes Cultural Arts Center Theatre

 Fees and charges for the non-theatre areas of the Langston Hughes Cultural Arts Center are governed by the previous section. The fees and charges listed below are for the 300 plus seat theatre. Use fees for the theatre vary by length and type of use.

 Performance 1999 Dec. 31, 1999 - Dec. 31, 2000 Non-refundable Booking fee $10.00 $10.00 Up to 2 hours/day NA NA 1st 5 hrs. or less/day $200.00 $200.00 2nd 5 hrs. or less/day $175.00 $175.00 Additional hours Over 10 on the .$55.00 $55.00 Same day Rental of Marquee For up to 7 days $100.00 $100.00

 Film/Videos 1999 Dec. 31, 1999 - Dec. 31, 2000 Non-refundable Booking fee $10.00 $10.00 Up to 2 hours/day NA NA 1st 5 hrs. or less/day $175.00 $175.00 2nd 5 hrs. or less/day $125.00 $125.00 Additional hours Over 10 on the .$25.00 $25.00 Same day Rental of Marquee For up to 7 days $100.00 $100.00

 Conference, Meeting or Seminar 1999 Dec. 31, 1999 - Dec. 31, 2000 Non-refundable Booking fee $10.00 $10.00 Up to 2 hours/day NA NA 1st 5 hrs. or less/day $125.00 $125.00 2nd 5 hrs. or less/day $100.00 $100.00 Additional hours Over 10 on the .$20.00 $20.00 Same day Rental of Marquee For up to 7 days $100.00 $100.00

 Rehersals 1999 Dec. 31, 1999 - Dec. 31, 2000 Non-refundable Booking fee $10.00 $10.00 Up to 2 hours/day $40.00 $40.00 1st 5 hrs. or less/day NA NA 2nd 5 hrs. or less/day NA NA Additional hours Over 10 on the .$15.00 $15.00 Same day Rental of Marquee For up to 7 days $100.00 $100.00

 The fees above include the theatre, the green room, 2 dressing rooms, foyer, and box office. Heating and ventilation, basic house lights, podium lights, public address system, pre-event set up (chairs, tables, screen, podium) and post- event clean up are included in the rental fees. Routine custodial services are covered; however, an extra hourly custodial charge may be required for excessive litter such as confetti. All theatre rentals require additional labor charges for the house manager/facility supervisor and a technical director. Labor charges are $14.00 to $22.00 per hour depending on type of labor. During normal operating hours, the charges associated with the facility, the LHCAC Coordinator may waive supervisor.

 City provides insurance but each use requires an application for a rider. The client pays the rider cost based upon estimated attendance and type of event. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility. Damage deposit of $250.00 required with cash, credit card, or cashiers check. See section on "Community Centers Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" for rental fees which apply to the Langston Hughes Cultural Arts Center's:

 Multi-purpose room (approximately 4400 sq. ft.) is a large meeting room. West Room (approximately 750-sq. ft.) is a medium room. Conference room is a small room. Kitchen is a large kitchen.

 Uses and fees are determined by classification A, B, or C as in the Community Center section of the fees and charges book.

 WEST SEATTLE STADIUM

 Staff supervision required. Staffing costs to be established by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation at the rate of $13.00 per hour per staff person. Where an admission or donation is charged (excluding entry fees), renters must pay 10% of gross receipts in addition to charges noted below:

 All schools may reserve the facility at one half the listed rate, in addition to any applicable staff fees.

 Community youth athletic leagues will be charged $20.00 per game/meet, in addition to any applicable staff fees and youth sports participation fees.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Facility Fee Football/Rugby $350.00 $350.00 per day game $400.00 $400.00 per night game

 Soccer or other athletic field event: $350.00 $350.00 per day game/event $400.00 $400.00 per night game/event

 Track Meet: $150.00 $150.00 per day $200.00 $200.00 per night

 Equipment Rental $30.00 $30.00 Pole Vault/day $30.00 $30.00 High Jump/day $30.00 $30.00 Hurdles/day

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Carnivals, festivals and other non-athletic events $100.00 $100.00 Minimum charge per day 10% 10% Percentage of gross receipts

 Use of field for practice: Department policy normally precludes use of this stadium for practice; however, if so utilized, the following fees will be charged:

 Football, soccer and other field events $50.00 $50.00 Day use - per hour

 Use of field for track practice $60.00 $60.00 Day use - per day $75.00 $75.00 Night use - per hour

 BOBBY MORRIS PLAYFIELD - SPORT GRASS FACILITY

 Softball $16.00 $16.00 Adult Practice/hour $30.00 $30.00 Adult Games/hour

 Soccer $20.00 $20.00 Adult Practice/Hour $45.00 $45.00 Adult Games/Hour

 INTERBAY SOCCER STADIUM

 Staff supervision required. Staffing costs to be established by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation at the rate of $13.00 per hour per staff person. Where admission or donation is charged (excluding entry fees), renters must pay 10% of gross receipts in addition to charges noted below. All schools may reserve the facility at one half the listed rate, in addition to any applicable staff fees. Community youth athletic leagues will be charged $27.00 per hour and community adult athletic leagues will be charged $62.00 per hour for use of the stadium plus $13.00 per hour for staff costs for a total of $40.00 per hour and $75.00 per hour respectively. In addition to these fees, if leagues require lights, they will be required to pay $50.00 per game.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Facility Fee Soccer $350.00 $350.00 per day game/event $400.00 $400.00 per night game/event $27.00 $27.00 Community youth athletic leagues per hour plus staffing costs $62.00 $62.00 Community adult athletic leagues per hour plus staffing costs

 Carnivals, festivals and other non-athletic events $100.00 $100.00 Minimum charge per day and 10% 10% Percentage of any gross receipts

 Use of field for practice: Department policy normally precludes use of this stadium for practice; however, if so utilized, the following fees will be charged:

 Soccer $50.00 $50.00 Day use - per hour

 WASHINGTON PARK ARBORETUM Graham Visitors Center 1 999 & 2000 Fees

 Rental Fee Schedule

 Half Day - 8:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. or 12:30 - 5:00 p.m. $150.00 * Meetings overlapping these times will be charges at the full day rate. * Evening Meetings charged this rate.

 Kitchen Use Fee for half day or evening meetings $25.00

 Full Day - 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. $250.00 * Included kitchen use * Additional hours are charged at the rate of $25.00/hr.

 Social Events

 Up to 75 guests Up to 6 hours Additional Hours Fundraisers/Memorials $350.00 $50.00 (Ltd. Food) Events with limited $450.00 $75.00 food service Events with full $550.00 $100.00 Food service

 75 - 125 Guests Fundraisers/Memorials $450.00 $75.00 (Ltd. Food) Events with limited $650.00 $100.00 food service Events with full $850.00 $125.00 Food service

 Social events are scheduled between 4:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Friday and until midnight on Friday and Saturday nights. Events requested during daytime hours are handled on an individual basis with hours and rates determined by the building manager.

 The Graham Visitor Center is a self-service facility. Deliveries, set-up and clean-up must occur during the scheduled event times.

 Events beginning after 4:00 p.m. weeknights and all weekend events will be charged $10.00/hr. for a security staff person to be on the premises.

 HORTICULTURAL GROUP RATES

 Meetings

 Up to 5 hours 5-8 hours Extra Hours $80.00 $150.00 $10.00/hr.

 Social Events $250.00 - Including Security 250.00 $35.00/hr.

 SAND POINT/MAGNUSON PARK

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Sand Point Facility Rental Daily Rentals:Events/Activities $300.00 $400.00 Hangar 30/Hangar 2-South $200.00 $300.00 Buildings 2N, 30 Workshop, 406 $200.00 $200.00 Outdoor Space $40.00 $40.00 Application Fee $0.00 $20.00 After Hours Staff Fee (Hourly)

 Hourly Rentals $50.00 $50.00 Gym/Theater $25.00 $25.00 Multi-use Room $10.00 $10.00 Booking Fee

 MOORAGE AND BOAT RAMP FEES

 Whenever the Department of Natural Resources lease is re-negotiated, the contract with the moorage concessionaires and the moorage fees may be re-established to cover the additional fees that must be paid by the City. New per foot moorage fees will be the same at Lakewood, Leschi, and Aqua Marina.

 LAKEWOOD MOORAGE

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 $5.75 $5.75 Wet Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month. Available slip sizes: 20', 24', 30', 40', 50', and 60'. Tenants pay for the size of the slip or the size of the boat, whichever is greater.

 Quarterly (Examples of quarterly rates for 20', 30', and 40' slips) $345.00 $345.00 Slip 20' minimum $517.50 $517.50 Slip 30' minimum $690.00 $690.00 Slip 40' minimum

 Boats longer than the slip pay an additional $5.75 per foot for excess extending beyond the slip.

 Electrical Fee Metered Docks - Billed directly to tenant Non-metered docks - $2.00 per month

 Limited Public Access to Ohler's Island (max. 20-30 persons): The Concessionaire will provide information signage which detail operation hours, access instructions, and scheduling procedures via the Department's Recreation Information Office.

 LESCHI MOORAGE

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 $5.75 $5.75 Wet Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month $3.00 $3.00 Dry Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month

 Quarterly $144.00 $144.00 North Leschi Dry 16' Float Space $483.00 $483.00 Wet Slip 28' maximum $552.00 $552.00 Wet Slip 32' maximum $655.50 $655.50 Wet Slip 38' maximum

 Annually $576.00 $576.00 Dry 16' Float Space $1932.00 $1932.00 Wet Slip 28' maximum $2208.00 $2208.00 Wet Slip 32' maximum $2622.00 $2622.00 Wet Slip 38' maximum

 Quarterly $144.00 $144.00 South Leschi Dry Float Space $414.00 $414.00 Wet Slip 24' maximum $448.5 $448.50 Wet Slip 26' maximum $517.50 $517.50 Wet Slip 30' maximum

 Annually $576.00 $576.00 Dry Float Space $1656.00 $1656.00 Wet Slip 24' maximum $1794.00 $1794.00 Wet Slip 26' maximum $2070.00 $2070.00 Wet Slip 30' maximum

 Fleet Floats (North and South) Quarterly/Float Size $864.00 $864.00 6 boat float $1,152.00 $1,152.00 8 boat float $1,296.00 $1,296.00 9 boat float $1,440.00 $1,440.00 10 boat float

 Fleets will not be required to fill vacancies from the approved waiting list on these floats.

 Catamarans: Catamaran-type boats requiring the use of one and one- half spaces, the above fee schedule will apply at one and one-half the rate.

 AQUA MARINA

 1999 wet slip fee of $5.50 per slip foot per month, 2000 wet slip fee of $5.50 per slip foot per month. Boats smaller than slip pay for slip size. Boats longer than slip pay an additional $5.00 per foot for excess extending beyond the slip.

 OTHER MOORAGE FEES

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 $20.00 $20.00 Key Fee (Leschi & Lakewood) - Deposit for each key issued or re-issued. Refundable upon return. All keys must be returned upon vacating a slip. Deposits shall be forfeited for unreturned keys.

 Transient Moorage - By reservation only. $0.50/ft. $.050/ft.

 Leschi Moorage - daily rate per boat foot, temporary moorage not to exceed 7 days for attendance at Leschi races. Subject to availability. $0.50/ft. $0.50/ft. Lakewood Moorage - daily rate per boat foot. minimum $10.00/day charge. Temporary moorage not to exceed 7 days. Subject to availability, by reservation only. $10.00 $10.00 Aqua Marina Moorage - Minimum daily rate, temporary moorage not to exceed 72 hours.

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 50% 50% Live Aboard Moorage Fee: Percentage of tenant's monthly moorage fee charged in addition to their monthly fee for Live Aboard privileges. For example, a tenant paying for a slip of 35 feet @ $5.75/slip foot pays a fee of $201.25/month. To live aboard, the tenant would pay an additional 50% of their monthly fee or $100.63 for a total of $301.88/month ($201.25 + $100.63)

 Fee to be imposed for mooring a private boat in a posted "NO TRANSIENT MOORING" area - $20.00 initial day; $10.00 each additional day.

 Impoundment of unauthorized vessel - $25.00 impoundment fee plus $5.00 a day for each day thereafter.

 Moorage Waiting List Reservation Fee - $15.00 for all tenant applicants to be applied to first month's rental if moorage space is accepted when offered.

 If application is canceled before being offered moorage space, fee shall not be refunded. No refund shall be made if space is refused when offered.

 Late Fees - Tenants will pay 1% per month simple interest with a $1.00 per month minimum for fees that are past due. An administrative late fee of $20.00 shall be charged for each past due fee. Tenants shall be charged a $20.00 fee for any returned check.

 Sublet Fee - Non-Refundable $15.00

 BOAT RAMPS

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 $3.00 $4.00 Daily Permit $50.00 $65.00 Annual Permit $5.00 $6.00 Overnight parking privileges * $90.00 $90.00 Annual Permit w/overnight parking privileges

 ** Overnight parking privileges not to exceed four consecutive days.

 PARTICIPATION FEES

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 RECREATION PARTICIPATION FEES

 Community Center and Outdoor Recreation Class Fee $1.00 $1.00 Adult Fee/student/class session

 Workshop Participation Fee $1.50 $1.50 Adult Fee/day/person.

 This fee will be charged to adult students in addition to fees paid to local advisory councils. Children, Senior adults, and handicapped students are exempt from the participation fee. Students will not be assessed this fee for out of school day camps nor for classes/workshops for which there would not be any other charges, i.e. free.

 Daily Small Craft Class Participation Fees: $1.15 $1.15 Adult Fee/student/hour of instruction $.50 $.50 Youth, Senior Adults and Disabled/student/class hour

 This fee will be charged to participants in boating programs and is in addition to fees paid to any of the small craft advisory councils.

 There is no City fee for community-based summer day camp youth or Seattle Public Schools participating in the water safety program.

 Special Group Class Participation Fee $1.15 $1.15 Fee/student/hour This fee will be charged to all participants who wish to have a boating program conducted for a specific group of people.

 $10.00 $10.00 Monthly Participation fee for Canoe/Kayak sprint racing team at Green Lake Small Craft Center

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Annual Small Craft Club Participation Fees for members of Seattle Canoe Club at the Green Lake Small Craft Center $30.00 $30.00 Fee for adults and seniors $20.00 $20.00 Fee for youth members $80.00 $80.00 Fee for families (2 adults plus children under 18)

 As a service to the public, the Department may contract with the local advisory council, boating council, or the Associated Recreation Council for payment by participants of the participation fee with the fees or charges for the class in a single check, money order or other payment and for the collecting council to apportion the amount received. The contract shall require the advisory council or Associated Recreation Council to remit the  participation fee to the City.

 Daily Special Event Fees $1.50 $1.50 Fee/day/participant for Regattas operated by the Department or its recognized Advisory Councils.

 SPORTS USE FEES

 Adult Fees

 Adult Sports Leagues, playoffs, and tournaments will be assessed the following fees. $20.00 $20.00 Indoor sports per hour $22.00 $22.00 Outdoor sports per hour

 This fee will be charged to participants in addition to fees assessed by the organization conducting the event. Each team will be responsible for 50% of the above fees. Fees for all league and playoff games will be at the above rates, but teams are required to pay for only the number of games that they are guaranteed to play in tournaments.

 $30.00 $30.00 Adult Sports Team Administration Fee/Team

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Youth Sports Fee A $2.00 per game fee and a $1.00 per hour practice fee will be assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees.

 Tournament Fee Formula Single Elimination - number of teams multiplied by one-half of the hourly rate. Round Robin - number of teams multiplied by one-half of the hourly rate plus $1.00 per game/match. Double Elimination - number of teams multiplied by the hourly rate fee.

 Teen Dance Participation Fee $3.00 $3.00 Per person admission to Department sponsored teen dances.

 Senior Adult Program

 These fees only apply to programs offered through the Department's Senior Adult Section. Senior adult fees for participation in other programs are listed elsewhere in this ordinance. Where there is no senior adult fee listed for the activity, the adult fee will apply.

 Field Trips 10% 10% Percentage payment of Senior Adult Advisory Council Trip Fee

 Class Fee 10% 10% Percentage payment of Senior Adult Advisory Council Class Fee

 Softball Team $15.00 $15.00 Annual fee for 1 session/week $30.00 $30.00 Annual fee for 2 session/week $45.00 $45.00 Annual fee for 3 session/week

 Volleyball Team $15.00 $15.00 Per team/season

 PERMITS

 CONCESSION PERMITS

 *Authority to Use Department of Parks and Recreation property for sale of goods not in conjunction with scheduled activity or event:

 $70.00 permit fee plus a minimum of 10% of the gross receipts received at the event(s) for the sale of merchandise, food, drink, or printed materials. Insurance and performance bond are also required.

 $50.00 permit fee for a weekend may be charged instead of $40.00 and 10%. Minimum fee for permits that are longer than a week--$500.00.

 USE PERMITS

 *Use Permits authorize non-department groups to Use Department of Parks and Recreation property for special events (i.e.: runs, boating, concerts, day camps, community festivals, rallies, commercials, etc.). If, in the course of the activity/event, charges are levied for admission, sales, or entry fees, the user will be subject to a minimum charge of 10% of the gross receipts. Insurance and/or a performance bond may be required except as limited by the First Amendment for political or religious activities. A $ 45.00 application fee will be collected upon formal written application. This fee is non-refundable except when the Department denies a request. A $30.00 fee is charged for any utility hook-up performed by Department personnel.

 YOUTH SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS USE PERMITS

 All Department review and approval requirements shall apply for all Youth Sports organizations' requests to sell food, beverage, or other items on park property. Qualifying community-based outdoor Youth Sports organizations are exempt from percentage payment requirements for Concession Permits only when selling approved food, drink, or other items during scheduled regular season league games and practices. The Use Permit Fee shall be $35.00. Youth Sports organizations' special events such as jamborees and tournaments shall be subject to regular Use Permit charges.

 FIRST AMENDMENT ACTIVITIES

 Activities protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Article I of the Washington Constitution are subject to reasonable regulations as to time, place and manner, and to the Department's permit system in reserving or making exclusive use of a site or facility. No fee, deposit, or liability insurance is required to the extent that the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Article I of the Washington Constitution directs gratuitous use of parks, park drives or boulevards as public fora, e.g., for making sermons or political speeches, distributing literature, or soliciting signatures for petitions. Vending by a non-profit, tax-exempt organization, of merchandise in which a political, religious, philosophical or ideological message is inextricably intertwined (First Amendment Vending) is governed by regulations for First Amendment Vending of Merchandise adopted by the Department of Parks and Recreation. When conducted on a park drive or boulevard, First Amendment Vending is subject to a base permit fee of Seventy Dollars ($70.00) for a monthly site permit. When conducted within a park, First Amendment Vending is subject to a base permit fee of seventy Dollars ($70.00) plus a fee of ten percent (10%) of gross receipts, but may exclude from its gross receipts used in calculating the amount of the fee (1) all bona fide donations for which the donor receives no or nominal consideration and (2) payments for items that communicate a political or religious message and have no commercial value apart from the message (e.g., literature, message-bearing buttons and bumper stickers and posters). Use permits issued for First Amendment Vending on department boulevards and park drives shall conform to the zoning and regular usage patterns of the immediately adjacent and surrounding areas.

 CHARITY RUNNING EVENTS USE PERMIT

 *$0.10 per runner - $25.00 minimum per race

 USE OF PARK FACILITIES FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES

 Minimum fees range from $10.00 to $50.00 per hour based upon the type of use and medium. Maximum charges subject to negotiations based upon park and public disruption. Posting commercial signage in a park in conjunction with a special event $100.00 per day minimum. Maximum fees are subject to negotiations. Regular permit fees apply to above charges including late permit fee.

 * Late fee for requests submitted less than six working days before event $60.00

 REVOCABLE USE PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE

 Revocable Permits to Use or Occupy Park Property, commonly called Revocable Use Permits, are issued by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, under authority of Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) 18.12.042, 18.12.045, and 18.12.275, for various short-term or on- going (i.e., Limited Term or Continuing Use, respectively) non-park uses of public land under the control of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Permits are revocable upon thirty (30) days notice or immediately upon failure of the Permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of the Permit. Unauthorized use of park property, including failure to apply for and obtain a Revocable Use Permit, is unlawful and subject to enforcement actions or other remedies as specified in SMC 18.30.

 In accordance with the Policy on Non-Park Uses of Park Lands, as endorsed by City Council Resolution 29475, it is the policy of the Department of Parks and Recreation to limit authorized non-park uses of park land to the fullest extent practicable. Fees and conditions set for Revocable Use Permits are intended to discourage private, non-park uses of park lands; encourage the elimination of encroachments; and promote private and public cooperation in maintenance of park lands in a manner consistent with a public park- like character.

 Consideration of any permit application requires payment of an Application Fee, unless City action to a public right-of-way resulted in inaccessibility from other than park property. The Application Fee is non-refundable. Issuance of a permit requires payment of a Permit Fee which is:

 a) fixed daily fee (i.e., Limited Term permit fee); and/or b) calculated in accordance with a formula (Continuing Use permit fee); or c) a minimum Permit Fee.

 Both Application Fee and Permit Fee are set periodically by Ordinance adopting a Schedule of Fees and Charges, as authorized by SMC 18.28.010.

 Under exceptional circumstances, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation may waive or reduce the Revocable Use Permit Fee, in accordance with criteria established by SMC 18.28.030, including instances when: a) another City department requests use of the facility for a public purpose; or use is granted under a reciprocal use of facilities agreement with another government agency; or b) in the opinion of the Superintendent, the waiver or reduction is in the overall public interest due to extraordinary facts or circumstances. However creek restoration projects proposed by other city departments are specifically exempted from permit fees of any kind as the city recognizes these projects as valuable enhancements to its parks and recreation assets.

 In determining whether the Permit Fee should be waived or reduced, the Superintendent shall be guided by:

 the benefit to the public and the direct benefit to the park system; the frequency and/or amount of usage requested: the effect on and fairness to other park users: consistency with policies underlying the fee schedule and SMC Chapter 18: and the consequences of denying the request.

 The Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, authorize the acceptance of permanent, physical improvements, such as constructed improvements or landscaping, as compensation in lieu of the Permit Fee in those circumstances where the proposed in lieu compensation can be shown to be equal to or greater in value than the calculated or set amount of the Permit Fee, and public access to the park land is well -marked and available.

 Waiver or reduction of the Permit Fee does not necessarily waive or reduce other fees, charges, requirements, or obligations in connection with issuance of a Revocable Use Permit including Application Fee, Inspection Fee, processing charges, insurance or indemnity requirements, or restoration requirements.

 Limited Term Permit Fee Limited Term permits may be issued for necessary uses of park property for brief periods of time, generally expected to be limited to ninety (90) days or less; however, Limited Term permits may be issued for uses expected to continue beyond ninety (90) days, at the discretion of the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation. Examples of activities for which Limited Term permits may be issued include but are not limited to construction staging, temporary access, utility installation.

 The Limited Term permit fee will be charged at a daily rate from the date the permit is issued or the date the use or occupancy of park property began, whichever is earlier, until the activity is completed and all conditions of the permit, including restoration of any damage to park land, have been satisfied. If seasonal factors, such as planting conditions or construction prohibitions, warrant a delay between the time the use or occupancy of park property is completed and the time the restoration is completed, no Permit Fee shall be charged for the interim period, unless the park land is unavailable for the use or enjoyment of the public.

 If a Revocable Use Permit is issued for a use of park land expected to continue for a limited period of time, such as a Limited Term permit, but for a period exceeding ninety (90) days, the fee shall be the daily rate set for Limited Term permits for the first ninety (90) days; the fee for the period exceeding ninety (90) days shall be calculated in accordance with the Continuing Use permit fee.

 Under no circumstances shall a Limited Term permit fee be converted to a lesser fee due to extension of the anticipated completion date of the permitted activity. If upon inspection it is determined that the permit conditions have not been satisfied, charges for additional daily fees at the same rate shall accrue until conditions have been satisfied.

 Continuing Use Permit Fee Continuing Use permit fees shall be charged for uses expected to continue for an extended period of time, generally beyond ninety (90) days (e.g., encroachments or other non- park uses that will not be corrected or eliminated within a ninety (90) day period). Continuing Use permit fees shall be calculated using a formula based on land Value, Area of use, a Barrier factor, and a Rate of return (V x A x B x R).

 The Value of the park land used shall be determined by calculating the average of the assessed value per square foot of the benefited property and the assessed values per square foot of comparable (i.e., similarly zoned, having similar amenities such as waterfront or view), nearby (within a distance not to exceed 1000 feet) non-park properties.

 The Area shall be the total of the square footage of park land actually used or occupied for non-park purposes and/or the square footage of park land that is subject to a barrier to public use or enjoyment.

 The Barrier Factor is a multiplier of 1 or less than 1, representing the extent of barrier to public use and enjoyment, as set by the following scale:

 Factor: 1 Full use and/or occupancy of area, preventing public use or occupancy of the area (e.g., a private structure); or Creation of a physical barrier denying public use or access to the area (e.g., a fence or hedge); .7 Creation of a perceptual barrier by improvements or actions that capture the public space for private use (e.g., paving, shrubbery, other plantings) .35 Private landscaping or other improvements on park land that violate, exceed, or are inconsistent with established design guidelines or reasonable standards intended to preserve the public park-like character of park lands (e.g., private access drive or walkway in excess of standard; private lighting or safety railings that exceed a security function).

 If two or more Barrier Factors may apply, the greater factor shall apply.

 The Rate of return (i.e., land capitalization rate) is set at 10%.

 Continuing Use permit fees will be prorated, as necessary, and annualized October 1 to September 30, billed and payable not later than September 30 of each calendar year for the twelve (12) month period to follow.

 If the permit period is shorter than anticipated, the permit fees paid in advance shall be prorated for the time used and over-payment shall be refunded, except in the case of revocation due to Permittee's failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, in which case no refund shall be given.

 Permits for utility installations, such as electrical, natural gas, or telephone service, shall be charged as Limited Term permits, based on the permit period necessary for installation.

 There is no Permit Fee charged for Limited Term permits of 90 days or less issued expressly to allow the removal or elimination of an encroachment onto park land.

 There is no Permit Fee charged for certain non-park uses of park land which may be allowable by property right, such as driveway access from the roadway portion of a park boulevard if access is not available from any other right-of-way, or pedestrian walkway access from a public sidewalk to the abutting private property, if such uses comply with established design guidelines or reasonable standards intended to preserve the public park-like character of park lands.

 Application Fee ..................................................$100

 Inspection Fee ..................................................$50/ inspection (Application fee includes one on-site inspection. Additional on-site inspection charges at $50 per inspection may be assessed, if necessary in the Department's judgment, due to Applicant's or Permittee's action(s) or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.)

 Limited Term Permit ..........................$50 /day or $100 minimum, whichever is greater

 Continuing Use Permit ...determined by formula (V x A x B x R) or $200 minimum, whichever is greater

 Processing Charges .......In the case a Permit Fee is waived or reduced, costs of staff time to review and process permit applications may be recovered on an hourly basis at $50 / hour for time in excess of eight (8) hours.

 VIEW TREE PRUNING PERMIT

 Private citizens may apply for a permit if they wish to hire a qualified, bonded tree service firm to perform view tree pruning which is not normally done as part of the Department tree maintenance program along its designated viewpoints and scenic drives. The request for this permit must be submitted in writing to the Manager of our City Wide Horticulture Unit. Three site inspections by a Department Landscape Supervisor will be performed. The first inspection to review the request and make a determination of allowed pruning, the second (if the request is approved) during the proposed work to ensure compliance with the permit, and a final inspection for satisfaction of all permit specifications. A non-refundable application fee of $30.00 must be submitted with the written request for a View Pruning Permit. A $100.00 permit fee is due upon issuance of the View Pruning Permit. The tree service firm must submit a $100.00 bond and proof of insurance in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 bodily injury liability and $5,000 property damage.

 RESERVATIONS

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 PARK AREA RESERVATION FEE

 $45.00 $45.00 Areas in many parks are available for various uses. $30.00 $30.00 Utility hook-up fee

 $250.00 $250.00 Parks for Garden Weddings (Additional staff fee will be charged when wedding is during non-operational hours) $200.00 $200.00 Parks for Weddings (Additional staff fee will be charged when wedding is during non- operational hours)

 DAY CAMPS BOOKING FEE

 $40.00 $40.00 Summer day camp program park area reservation - per group camp

 PRACTICE FIELD SCHEDULING

 $11.00 $11.00 Scheduled practices: One-hour minimum, hourly fee for private school use $9.00 $10.00 Scheduled practices: One-hour minimum, hourly fee

 PICNIC RESERVATION FEE

 $25.00 $30.00 Each Regular Shelter/Day $7.50 $7.50 Each Table/Day $40.00 $40.00 Each Large Shelter/Day $10.00 $10.00

 Reschedule Fee GREEN LAKE

 $600.00/day $600.00/day Exclusive use of all or a large portion of the lake for major spectator events such as races, water ski show, etc.

 ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED BY THE CITY AS A DIRECT RESULT OF EXCLUSIVE USE WILL BE TOTALLY REIMBURSABLE, SUBJECT TO NEGOTIATION.

 OUTDOOR TENNIS COURTS

 Tennis Reservations (4 or less players) Reservations are scheduled at Departmental discretion. $6.00 $6.00 Court rental

 Where a participant entry fee for tournaments or a fee for lessons is charged, 10% of gross receipts is to be paid to the Department in addition to the charges noted above. All persons who instruct tennis for a fee on Department courts must schedule according to court availability with the Scheduling Office, obtain the appropriate permit and pay the required fees. They must also successfully complete the Department's Tennis Instructor's Certification program and show proof of certification before a permit will be issued.

 RENTALS (other)

 1999 DEC. 31, 1999 - FEES INCLUDE TAX DEC 31, 2000

 Film Rental $15.00 $15.00 "Parks, Pleasant Occasions and Happiness" Fee per showing at one location, plus postage and insurance charges when applicable

 Showmobile $125.00 $125.00 Fee for first day or relocation Plus set up/take down ($215 non-overtime/$280 overtime required)

 $30.00 $30.00 Daily fee second to tenth day

 Large Band Shell Rental $4,000.00 $4,000.00 Weekend (2 day) use Plus $25,000 performance bond

 Small Band Shell Rental $75.00 $75.00 Fee for first Day Plus set up/take down; ($356 non-overtime/$452 overtime required)

 $25.00 $25.00 Daily fee second to tenth day

 EXAMPLES OF PROMOTIONAL AND MARKETING FEE WAIVERS AND REDUCTIONS

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to waive or reduce entry or use fees from those contained in an approved fee schedule in conjunction with the promotion and marketing of park programs.

 Authorized activities include, but are not limited to, the following arrangements:

 (1) Sponsored days: A sponsored day or activity under which a sponsor pays the department a fixed fee, a matching amount, or supplies advertising, service or other benefit and the department provides free public entry use of the facility or the department provides free or reduced entry for a segment of the public (e.g. children under 12, senior citizens, anyone donating clothing or a can of food for a drive for those in need) or for a special group of the public (e.g., military personnel, Boy or Girl Scouts, participants in a community parade) or to the first entrants up to a specified number.

 (2) Bonus and prizes: The department may distribute to users or entrants a item supplied by the sponsor, e.g., a button, a balloon, literature, or an item of apparel, or a donated prize for an achievement.

 (3) Combination Tickets: A combination ticket for use of the City's facility or participation in a City event in conjunction with entry to another facility or event in which the combined prices are less than the amount that would be paid for each entry or event singly; the combined ticket shall expire within a proximate time after its sale or first usage; and the City and the other participant shall apportion the revenue from the combined sale by a ratio or formula. A combination may also take the form of a reciprocal discount or credit. For example, presentation of ticket stub or coupon from a Zoo in another City may entitle the holder to a credit on admission to the Woodland Park Zoo or the Seattle Aquarium when a receipt for paid entry to Seattle's Zoo or Aquarium entitles the holder to like privileges in the facility of the other City.

 (4) Discount Coupons: A coupon allowing two people to enter for the price one person, or the coupon holder to enter at a reduced rate. Coupons may be offered through a sponsor who makes a payment to the City or who provides special advertising in return. For example, the coupon may accompany an advertisement in a widely distributed publication for tourists, which contains similar coupons for other attractions. The department may also use coupons as a way of reaching out to a group or segment of the citizenry that would not attend or use the facility at the established fee.

 (5) Prepaid Passes: During special hours or otherwise, admission may be sold to a tour company, the organizer of a convention, or an association at an aggregate fee for all members and the participants may be granted entry, either as a group or individually, at the hours or on the days authorized by presenting a ticket or other indication of pre-payment.

 (6) Departmental Free or Half-Price Days: "Senior citizen's days" may be offered during which people over a minimum age are admitted free; a free day may be provided for the public to see and enjoy an exhibit financed through a bond issue or by a public fund- raising drive; or, on a "Kid's Day"/Neighborhood Day," admission may be free for children and low income adults; a free golf lesson day for kids; or free swimming day at our pools.

 (7) Promotional Purposes: The Department may offer extended evening hours or special discounts during specific periods in the year to encourage high attendance to our park facilities. Some examples include but are not limited to, the following:

 a) Extended Aquarium hours and special discounts during the summer.

 b) Extended special discount for swimming fees during the summer.

```
