

********

**Council Bill Number: 112996**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119737**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the solid waste system of Seattle Public Utilities; revising definitions, rates and charges for services, credits to low-income customers, and tax rates on activities subject to solid waste tax; and amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 5.48, 21.36, 21.40 and 21.76 in connection therewith.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 15, 1999
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 15, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 15, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 1, 1999
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-RATES, WASTE-DISPOSAL, SOLID-WASTE, UTILITY-TAXES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 96003, 118396, 90379, 119266, 115475, 104472, 119273, 84414, 118315

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the solid waste system of Seattle Public Utilities; revising definitions, rates and charges for services, credits to low-income customers, and tax rates on activities subject to solid waste tax; and amending Seattle Municipal Code Chapters 5.48, 21.36, 21.40 and 21.76 in connection therewith.

 WHEREAS, the City has not modified solid waste rates and charges since 1994, except for changes to the recycling and disposal station rates; and

 WHEREAS, the City has conducted a solid waste rate review with participation from the Solid Waste Advisory Committee; and

 WHEREAS, recommendations to modify the solid waste rates and charges were developed from this rate review; and

 WHEREAS, the City desires to implement these recommendations to improve customer equity, simplify the rates and charges, and encourage waste reduction and recycling; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Seattle Municipal Code Section 21.36.014, Ordinance 96003, as last amended by Ordinance 118396, is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.36.014 Definitions F-P

 1. "Fraternity, sorority or group student house" means a building occupied by and maintained exclusively for students affiliated with an academic or professional college or university or other recognized institution of higher learning, which is regulated by such institution.

 2. "Garbage" means all discarded putrescible waste matter, including small dead animals weighing not over fifteen (15) pounds, but not including sewage or sewage sludge or human or animal excrement or yardwaste.

 3. "Garbage can" means a watertight container not exceeding thirty-two (32) gallons in capacity, weighing not over twenty-six (26) pounds when empty and without cover, fitted with two (2) sturdy handles one (1) on each side and a tight cover, except in the case of sunken cans. The term shall also apply to containers of similar size and weight when approved by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities.

 4. "Garbage container" means either:

 a. A garbage can; or

 b. A micro-can, mini-can, or thirty-two (32), sixty (60) to sixty-five (65) gallon cart, or ninety (90) to ninety-six (96)  gallon cart supplied by the City or collector and approved by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities for use under the solid waste collection contract.

 5. "Hazardous substances" means any liquid, solid, gas or sludge, including any material, substance, product, commodity or waste, regardless of quantity, that exhibits any of the physical, chemical or biological properties described in WAC 173-303-090, 173-303-101, 173- 303-102 or 173-303-103. 6. "Health Officer" means the Director of the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health or his/her designated representative.

 6. "Household hazardous wastes" means any discarded liquid, solid, contained gas, or sludge, including any material, substance, product, commodity or waste used or generated in the household, regardless of quantity, that exhibits any of the characteristics or criteria of dangerous waste set forth in Chapter 173.303 WAC.

 7. "Incineration" means a process of reducing the volume of solid waste operating under federal and state environmental laws and regulations by use of an enclosed device using controlled flame combustion.

 8. "Interim solid waste handling site" means any interim treatment, utilization or processing site engaged in solid waste handling which is not the final site of disposal. Transfer stations, drop boxes, baling and compaction sites, source separation centers, and treatment are considered interim solid waste handling sites.

 9. "Litter" means solid waste such as, but not limited to, disposable packages and containers dropped, discarded or otherwise disposed of upon any property.

 10. "Micro-can" means a twelve (12) gallon container that is supplied by the City, made of galvanized metal or plastic, and meets the approval of the Director of Seattle Public Utilities.  11.

~~10~~"Mini-can" means a fifteen (15) to twenty (20) gallon container that is supplied by the contractor, made of galvanized metal or plastic, and meets the approval of the Director of Seattle Public Utilities.

 12. ~~11~~"Mixed-use building" means a building with both residential and commercial solid waste with common garbage chute(s), and/or the residential and commercial solid waste generated in such building cannot be readily separated.

 13. ~~12~~"Passenger vehicle" means any motor vehicle with a passenger car license plate.

 14. ~~13~~"Person" means any governmental entity, or any public or private corporation, partnership or other form of association, as well as any individual.

 15. ~~14~~"Planting strip" means that part of a street right-of- way between the abutting property line and the curb or traveled portion of the street, exclusive of any sidewalk.

 16. ~~15~~"Public place" means and includes streets, avenues, ways, boulevards, drives, places, alleys, sidewalks and planting (parking) strips, squares, triangles, and rights-of-way, whether open to the use of the public or not, and the space above or beneath the surface of the same.

 Section 2. Effective December 31, 1999, Seattle Municipal Code Section 21.40.050, Ordinance 90379, as last amended by Ordinance 118396, is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.40.050 Collection rates.

 A. There is imposed upon all residences and other dwelling units within the City a charge for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service in accordance with the following schedule, and the amounts stated below shall be charged for optional ~~ancillary~~ services:

 1. All ~~single-family~~ residences with curbside/alley  garbage container pickup: a charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit for once-a-week service, billed directly to the owner or occupant thereof as follows:

 Service Units Rates per Service Unit

 Micro-can $10.05

 Mini-can 12.35 ~~1~~Garbage Can 16.10 ~~2 32.15~~~~3 48.25~~

~~Each additional~~~~service unit 16.10~~

60 to 65 Gallon Cart 32.20  90 to 96 Gallon Cart 48.30

 2. All ~~single-family~~ residences with backyard garbage container pickup: a charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit for once-a-week service, billed directly to the owner or occupant as follows:

 Service Units Rates per Service Unit

~~1~~Garbage Can $22.50

60 to 65 Gallon Cart 45.00

90 to 96 Gallon Cart 67.50

~~2 45.00 3 67.55~~

~~Each additional service unit 22.50~~

~~3. Multifamily variable can rate schedule for curbside/alley pickup: A charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit for once-a-week service, billed directly to the owner or agent for the entire building as follows:~~Service Units Rates

 Micro-can $ 9.75

 Mini-can 12.05 1 15.80 2 31.85

 3 47.90

 Each additional service unit 16.10

 4. Multifamily variable can rate schedule for backyard pickup: A charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit for once- a-week service, billed directly to the owner or agent for the entire building as follows:

 Service Units Rates

 1 $23.10 2 44.60 3 67.10

 Each additional service unit 22.50

3.~~5.~~ Minimum Charge, No Pickup Service. A charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit, including single- family dwellings not being used as residences, billed directly to the owner or occupant of Six Dollars and Twenty-five Cents ($6.25) to cover landfill closure costs, billing, collection, Low Income Rate Assistance, hazardous waste costs, and litter cleanup costs. To be eligible for the minimum charge (zero (0) container rate) a customer may not generate any garbage or rubbish for collection or disposal. With occupied premises, the customer must demonstrate a consistent and effective practice of selective purchasing to minimize refuse, of recycling materials whenever practical, and of composting any yardwastes generated on the premises and the customer must have qualified for the rate on or before December 31, 1988. A customer is not eligible for the zero (0) container rate by hauling his or her garbage and rubbish to a transfer station, disposal site, or by disposal in another customer's containers or by the use of prepaid stickers. Vacant multifamily units do not qualify for the minimum charge.

4.~~6.~~ Extra Bundles. A charge of ~~Five Dollars ($5.00)~~Five Dollars and Fifty Cents ($5.50) for a bundle. A customer may place an extra bundle with its container for regular pickup. The charge will be billed directly to the owner or occupant, unless a prepaid sticker is used. A prepaid sticker authorizes pickup of the bundle when placed with the customer's container. The sticker must be affixed to the bundle in order for the bundle to be picked up by the collector, and the customer not to be billed.

5.~~7.~~ Bulky and White Goods Pickup. A charge of ~~Twenty-six Dollars and Eight-five Cents ($26.85)~~Twenty Dollars ($20.00) for each item~~.~~plus an additional charge of Five Dollars ($5.00) per item for items containing hazardous waste such as chloroflourocarbons (CFCs).

6.~~8.~~ Curbside/Alley Yardwaste.

a. A charge per month or portion thereof for each dwelling unit, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of Four Dollars and Twenty-five Cents ($4.25) ~~except that such charge shall be Two Dollars and Fifteen Cents ($2.15) for customers qualifying for Low Income Rate Assistance~~. To receive this service, a customer must be signed up with the Seattle Public Utilities for a minimum of twelve (12) months' service and place his or her yardwaste at the curbside/alley for collection on the scheduled date. The maximum allowed to any customer is five (5) bundles of yardwaste per week per subscription.

b. Beginning April 1, 2000, a charge per month or portion thereof for each dwelling unit, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of Four Dollars and Twenty-five Cents ($4.25) for up to four (4) bundles- of-yardwaste per collection plus an additional charge of One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. To receive this service, a customer must be signed up with the Seattle Public Utilities for a minimum of twelve (12) months' service and place his or her yardwaste at the curbside/alley for collection on the scheduled date.

7.~~9.~~ Providing, Exchanging and Replacing Containers. There will be a ~~A~~ charge of Nineteen Dollars ($19.00) per container to customers on curbside/alley service for ~~(a)~~ providing a container or ~~, exchanging or replacing micro-cans, (b)~~ exchanging or ~~((replacing collector- supplied containers for larger containers; or (c)~~ replacing lost, stolen or damaged collector-supplied containers with the same size or larger containers.~~in accordance with written policy promulgated by the Director of the Seattle Public Utilities, as follows~~

~~Micro-can $ 6.00~~~~Mini-can container 10.00~~~~32-gallon container 12.25~~~~60-gallon container 30.00~~~~90-gallon container 40.00~~

~~In order to encourage proper subscription levels during the initiation of the extra bundle program, this charge will not apply to collector-supplied containers until April 1, 1996. The charge for micro-cans will be applied regardless of the reason for, or the timing of, delivery.~~

8.~~10.~~ New/Changed Account. A charge of ~~Ten Dollars and Seventy-five Cents ($10.75)~~Ten Dollars ($10.00)  for the establishment of a new account or for each change in an existing account. This charge shall apply when the owner or property manager of any single-family residence or multifamily structure (duplex, triplex, four-plex, or structure with five (5) or more units) establishes a new account or requests any change in his/her account requiring a change in account number or customer number. The new/changed account charge is not applicable to customers qualified for Low Income Rate Assistance.

9.~~11.~~ Physical Disability Exemption. An exemption will be provided to qualified residents to allow for backyard collection at curbside rates when the resident is physically unable to take his or her garbage and rubbish containers to the curb. Qualifying criteria shall include, but are not limited to, the resident's physical condition, qualification for backyard service in other City programs, a physician's recommendation, the presence of other physically capable persons in the household, special topography and other unique property conditions, taking into account the contractors' ability to provide different combinations of container sizes to make curbside pickup feasible.

 B. The City shall calculate the charge for each ~~multifamily~~ dwelling unit within apartment houses and apartment hotels and for each resident within boarding, rooming, fraternity, sorority and group student houses for two (2) times a week service, billed directly to the owner or agent for the entire building, by doubling the applicable ~~one (1) container and multifamily~~garbage container rates in subsection ~~A4~~A1 of this section and reducing this calculated amount by Three Dollars and Sixty-five Cents ($3.65) per unit to adjust for billing, collection, hazardous waste, and litter cleanup costs that occur only once a month.

 C. All Single-Family and Multifamily Customers Requesting and Receiving Special, Nonroutine Collection Service for Garbage, Yardwaste, or Recyclable Materials. The following charges shall apply to special collections of:

1. all non - detachable containers, bundles or bundles-of- yardwaste: ((~~A~~a per-pickup charge of ~~Twenty- three Dollars and Ninety Cents ($23.90)~~Twenty Four Dollars ($24.00) for first ~~container~~unit collected plus ~~One Dollar and Eighty Cents ($1.80)~~Two Dollars and Fifty Cents ($2.50) for each additional ~~container~~unit.

2.~~The following charges shall apply to detachable container customers requesting special collections~~detachable containers:

 Uncompacted Compacted

~~Service Unit~~Detachable Container Service Service Size

 3/4 cubic yards -First container ~~$ 42.90~~~~$ 58.25~~$34.90$44.80 -Each ~~A~~~~21.35~~~~36.70~~additional 9.9019.80

 1 cubic yard -First container ~~44.15~~~~64.60~~37.2050.40 -Each additional ~~22.65~~~~43.10~~12.2025.40

 1.5 cubic yards -First container ~~52.55~~~~83.15~~42.2562.05 -Each additional ~~31.05~~~~61.70~~17.2537.05

 2 cubic yards -First container ~~60.90~~~~101.80~~53.8480.25 -Each additional ~~39.40~~~~80.30~~28.8455.25

 3 cubic yards -First container ~~77.70~~~~139.00~~64.00103.60 -Each additional ~~56.20~~~~117.50~~39.0078.60

 4 cubic yards

 -First container ~~94.45~~~~176.20~~74.20127.00 -Each additional ~~73.00~~~~154.75~~49.20102.00

 6 cubic yards -First container ~~122.20~~~~244.80~~93.50172.70 -Each additional ~~100.65~~~~223.30~~68.50147.70

 8 cubic yards -First container ~~149.85~~~~313.40~~113.35218.95 -Each additional ~~128.35~~~~291.85~~88.35193.95

 10 cubic yards -First container ~~189.25~~~~393.65~~216.70348.70 -Each additional ~~167.75~~~~372.15~~191.70323.70  20 cubic yards

-First container308.35572.35-Each additional283.35547.35

 D. The charges imposed by subsections A1 through ~~A5~~A3  of this section inclusive shall not apply to dwelling units which elect to use detachable containers supplied either by the City's contractor or by the customer for the storage of garbage and rubbish. Application for detachable container service for a minimum period of six (6) months shall be made to the Director of Seattle Public Utilities on forms supplied by him/her, and collection of garbage and rubbish from such premises shall be made at such frequency as is necessary as determined by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, but in no event less than once each week. The monthly charges for detachable container service for the container and frequency selected shall be in accordance with the rates set forth in Section 21.40.060.

 E. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities may adjust the service level to a single-family residence to match the garbage and rubbish actually collected from the premises, or, for multifamily structures, to match the amount of garbage and rubbish reasonably anticipated from the dwelling units on the premises.

 Section 3. Effective December 31, 1999, Seattle Municipal Code Section 21.40.060, Ordinance 90379, as last amended by Ordinance 118396, is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.40.060 Detachable container rates.

 A. Uncompacted Rates. ~~Effective September 1, 1994~~~~t~~There is imposed upon residential premises that use detachable containers without mechanical compactors a monthly charge for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service in accordance with the following formula:

~~($6.65 + cn + f ($13.25 + $20.70n + $36.95ns) + $.60d)~~ ($7.80 + $15.50f + $24.20fn + $40.10fns + $0.60d), where:

~~c = capital cost per container/60 months;~~ n = number of containers served; f = number of pickups per week; s = size of container in cubic yards; and d = number of dwelling units

~~The capital cost per container/sixty (60) months for various container sizes is as follows:~~3/4 cubic yard $ 4.95 1 cubic yard 4.95 11/2 cubic yards 5.50 2 cubic yards 6.10 3 cubic yards 7.55 4 cubic yards 9.20 6 cubic yards 11.05 8 cubic yards 15.20 10 cubic yards 43.90

 B. Compacted Rates. ~~Effective September 1, 1994~~~~t~~There is imposed upon residential premises that use detachable containers with compactors a monthly charge for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service in accordance with the following formula:

~~($6.65 + cn + f ($13.25 + $20.70n + $90.10ns) + $.60d),~~ ($7.80 + $15.50f + $24.20fn + $97.85fns + $0.60d) where:

~~c = capital cost per container/60 months;~~ n = number of containers served; f = number of pickups per week; and s = size of container in cubic yards; and d = number of dwelling units.

~~The capital cost per container/sixty (60) months for various container sizes is as follows:~~3/4 cubic yard $ 4.95 1 cubic yard 4.95 11/2 cubic yards 5.50 2 cubic yards 6.10 3 cubic yards 7.55 4 cubic yards 9.20 6 cubic yards 11.05 8 cubic yards 15.20 10 cubic yards 43.90

~~C. Recycling Setup Fee. There is assessed on all accounts of residential structures of five (5) units or more, who opt for City- provided recycling collection services, except those customers selecting recycling collection services from Nuts and Bolts Recycling and West Seattle Recycling, a setup fee according to the following schedule:~~1. Uncompacted Dumpster Accounts.

 Weekly Collection Service Fee

 1 cubic yard $ 50.00 1.5 -- 2 cubic yards 100.00 3 -- 5 cubic yards 200.00 6 -- 8 cubic yards 350.00 9 -- 10 cubic yards 500.00

 2. Can Service Accounts will be assessed a Fifty Dollar ($50.00) setup fee.

 3. Compacted Dumpster Accounts will be assessed a Five Hundred Dollar ($500.00) setup fee.

 No setup fee will be assessed on three-quarter (3/4) cubic yard per week garbage accounts, and no setup fee will be assessed on those accounts which are at minimum garbage collection service levels.

C.~~D.~~ Mixed-Use Building. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities will determine the appropriate residential collection service level for a mixed-use building according to the estimated amount of residential garbage or refuse generated and to be collected by the City.

D.~~E.~~ Charges for Lockable Containers. Customers using detachable containers (compacted or noncompacted) may have a lock installed by the collection contractors. A fee of Fifty-three Dollars and Forty Cents ($53.40) will be assessed for installation of the lock. Additional keys are Three Dollars and Sixty Cents ($3.60) and an extra padlock is Eight Dollars and Thirty Cents ($8.30). Only customers who own their own containers may install their own locks.

~~F. Customers who own their own detachable containers shall have the factor for the capital cost of containers in the formulas in subsections A and B of this section omitted in calculating the collection charge.~~

 Section 4. Effective December 31, 1999, Seattle Municipal Code Section 21.40.080, Ordinance 90379, as last amended by Ordinance 119266, is amended as follows:

 21.40.080 Recycling and Disposal Station rates.

 A. Basic Rates. The following rates are established for the use of the City's Recycling and Disposal Stations.

 Types of Waste and Vehicle Rate

 1. Deposit of contaminant-free clean recyclables Any vehicle No charge

 2. Deposit of refuse Sedans, Station Wagons, ~~$13.00~~ Sport Utility Vehicles $13.35 (all without trailers) per entry

 Other Vehicles (e.g., trucks, vans ~~$93.65~~ (including mini vans), $96.25 vehicles with trailers, per ton; travel-alls, motor homes, and modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles) minimum charge of ~~$13.00~~$13.35 per vehicle

 3. Deposit of source separated yard waste at yard waste collection areas:

 Sedans, Station Wagons, ~~$10.75~~ Sport Utility Vehicles $11.05 (all without trailers) per entry

 Other Vehicles (e.g., trucks, ~~$68.70~~ vans (including mini vans), $70.60 vehicles with trailers, per ton travel-alls, motor homes, and modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles) minimum charge of ~~$10.75~~$11.05 per vehicle

 4. Deposit of source separated clean wood at clean wood collection areas:

 Sedans, Station Wagons, ~~$10.75~~ Sport Utility Vehicles $11.05 (all without trailers) per entry

 Other Vehicles (e.g., trucks, ~~$48.05~~ vans (including mini vans), $49.40 vehicles with trailers, per ton travel-alls, motor homes, and modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles) minimum charge of ~~$10.75~~$11.05 per vehicle

 5. Deposit of passenger vehicle tires ~~$ 7.75~~$8.00 per load; maximum of four (4) tires per load

 6. Deposit of household hazardous waste only

 Passenger and other noncommercial vehicles No charge

 7. Deposit of a combination of refuse and white goods, Seattle residents only

 All vehicles ~~$93.65~~$96.25 per ton plus ~~$5.40~~$5.55 per white good; a maximum of two (2) white goods per load

 8. Deposit of white goods only, Seattle residents only

 All vehicles ~~$15.25~~$15.70 per white good; a maximum of two (2) white goods per load

 B. Collection of Charges. It shall be the duty of the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent, to issue and sell tickets at City recycling and disposal stations for the privilege of such disposal; provided, that such disposal charges shall not apply to the disposal of earth or other material suitable for road construction when disposal of same has been approved by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his/her authorized agent.

 C. State Tax Collection and Refund. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent, has the authority to collect taxes due as required by state law and to make refunds to any person entitled thereto under state law.

 D. Charitable Organizations Reusing Goods.

1. A qualified charitable organization ~~qualified by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his/her authorized agent, in accordance with Seattle Municipal Code Section 21.40.080 D ("qualified charitable organizations"),~~ shall be charged at the rate of ~~Forty Six Dollars and Seventy Cents ($46.70)~~ Fifty five Dollars ($55.00) per ton for the disposal on an ongoing basis, rather than on an occasional or incidental basis, of refuse generated within Seattle only, that is deposited at City Recycling and Disposal Stations.

2.~~The City shall accept~~Qualified charitable organizations may dispose of white goods ~~from qualified charitable organizations~~at no charge under the following conditions:  a. White goods must be delivered directly to the City's selected vendor for white good processing ("vendor")

 b. By the 10th of each month, the qualified charitable organization must provide Seattle Public Utilities with dated receipts from the vendor for all of the white goods disposed of in the previous month

 c. The number of white goods disposed of in a calendar year may not exceed

~~in a number equal to~~ the average number of white goods delivered to City Recycling and Disposal Stations by the qualified charitable organization in ~~1991~~1997 and 1998.

~~, subject to the conditions set forth in subsection D of Section 21.36.087.~~

If the above conditions are not met or if limits set forth in Subsection D2c are exceeded, ~~Upon exceeding this number,~~ qualified charitable organizations ~~may~~shall be charged at a per-unit rate equal to that established by contract between the City and its selected vendor ~~for CFC (chlorofluorocarbon) recovery~~.

3.For purposes of this Subsection D,~~A~~a charitable organization shall be considered a qualified charitable organization ~~qualified for the rate established in subsection D of Seattle Municipal Code Section 21.40.080~~ if found by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent,after application by such organization to the Director, to:

 a. ~~1~~ Be a credit customer of the Seattle Public Utilities;

 b. ~~2~~ Be a nonprofit charitable organization recognized as such by the Internal Revenue Service; and

 c. ~~3~~ Be engaged, as a primary form of its doing business, in processing abandoned goods for resale or reuse.

 E. Interest on Delinquent City Recycling and Disposal Stations Payments. Interest shall accrue on delinquent payments of customers at City recycling and disposal stations at the rate of twelve (12) percent per annum from thirty (30) after the bill date and shall continue until the bill is paid.

 F. Requirements for Special Event, Free Disposal. Under certain conditions, Seattle Public Utilities shall offer free disposal at City recycling and disposal stations for special events. An organization shall be qualified for free disposal for a special event if the organization's written application to the Director of Seattle Public Utilities is found by the Director, or his/her authorized agent, to:

 1. Be the only such request from the organization for the calendar year;

 2. Support the City's goals for cleaner neighborhoods and environments;

 3. Not to supplant any current or existing agency responsibilities or activities; and

 4. Provide benefit to the community or City.

 G. Waiver of Residential Disposal Rates Under Certain Circumstances. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities has discretion to waive disposal rates for City residents for yard waste or refuse for up to sixty (60) days at a time when the Director determines that unique or emergency situations, such as transitions in collection service, incidents of arson, windstorms, etc., make it prudent to encourage self-haul of refuse or yard waste to City recycling and disposal stations by waiving the disposal fee for a limited period.

H. The Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged at the rate of Fifty five Dollars ($55.00) per ton for the disposal of up to Five Thousand Eight Hundred (5,800) tons per calendar year of refuse that is deposited at City Recycling and Disposal Stations. If the actual tons delivered in a calendar year exceed this maximum, Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged the per ton rate for refuse set forth in Subsection A for the additional tons.

 Section 5. Effective December 31, 1999, Subsection A of Seattle Municipal Code Section 21.40.085, Ordinance 115475, as last amended by Ordinance 118396, is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.40.085 Commercial railyard rate.

 A.1 Nonresidential solid waste generated within the City and directed by the City to the Argo Yard or its successor facility for transport and disposal shall be charged Sixty-two Dollars and Twenty Cents ($62.20) per ton with a minimum charge of One Thousand Five Hundred Fifty-five Dollars ($1,555).

A.2 Beginning January 17, 2000 (75 days after notification pursuant to RCW 70.95.212), nonresidential solid waste generated within the City and directed by the City to the Argo Yard or its successor facility for transport and disposal shall be charged Sixty three Dollars and Ninety five Cents ($63.95) per ton with a minimum charge of One Thousand Five Hundred Ninety eight Dollars and Seventy five Cents ($1,598.75).

 Section 6. Effective December 31, 1999, Subsections B and C of Seattle Municipal Code Section 21.76.040, Ordinance 104472, as last amended by Ordinance 119273, are amended as follows:

 SMC 21.76.040 Utility Low Income Rate Assistance

 B. Solid Waste. Persons qualified by the Director of the Human Services Department as eligible recipients of Low Income Rate Assistance (LIRA) shall be granted low income billing credits or rates as follows:~~shall be granted special rates in the following amounts (stated in monthly rates). The rates for qualified solid waste customers become effective September 1, 1994.~~ 1. Eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for garbage container, as defined in SMC 21.36.014, services shall receive a credit equal to 0.5 times the current billing.

 2. Eligible recipients with twice weekly garbage container, as defined in SMC 21.36.014, service shall be charged 0.5 times the rate calculated in Subsection of SMC 21.40.050.

 3. a. Eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for yardwaste service shall be charged per month or a portion thereof for each dwelling unit, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of Two Dollars and Fifteen Cents ($2.15) for up to five (5) bundles-of-yardwaste, as defined in SMC 21.36.010, per week per subscription.

 b. Beginning April 1, 2000, eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for yardwaste service shall be charged per month or a portion thereof for each dwelling unit, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of Two Dollars and Fifteen Cents ($2.15) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste, as defined in SMC 21.36.010, per collection plus an additional charge of Seventy Five Cents ($0.75) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four per collection.

 4. Eligible recipients not billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for solid waste services and receiving garbage container, as defined in SMC 21.36.014, yardwaste or detatchable container, as defined in SMC 21.36.012, service shall receive the following credits:

~~Single-Family LIRA -~~Variable Can Service (once a week service) Curbside/Alley Backyard Service Unit Service Service

 Minimum charge $ 2.50 N/A Micro-can 4.05 N/A Mini-can 4.95 N/A One (1) can 6.45 $ 9.00 Two (2) cans 19.30 27.00 Three (3) cans 35.35 49.50 Additional cans each 16.10 22.50

 Multi-Family LIRA - Variable Can Service (once a week service)

 Curbside/Alley Backyard Service Unit Service Service

 Minimum charge $ 2.40 N/A Micro-can 3.90 N/A Mini-can 4.85 N/A One (1) can 6.30 $ 8.85 Two (2) cans 19.20 26.85 Three (3) cans 35.25 49.35 Additional cans 16.10 22.50

a. Garbage container customers $8.05 per month b. Detachable container customers $5.55 per month c. Yardwaste customers $2.15 per month

 ((~~Qualified customers residing in dwellings subject to multifamily variable can rates based on the number of dwelling units, two (2) times-per-week service will pay rates equal to double the above rates less One Dollar and Forty-five Cents ($1.45) to adjust for billing, collection, hazardous waste, and litter cleanup costs that occur only once a month.~~

~~Qualified customers residing in dwellings subject to multifamily rates based on the number of detachable containers will receive a monthly credit of Four Dollars ($4).~~

 C. Qualified persons receiving drainage, wastewater, water, or solid waste ~~or street utility~~ credits through their City Light bills or through vouchers will receive credits for the full period covered by the City Light bill or voucher. The credit amount given will be based solely on the credit levels in effect at the time the City Light bill or voucher is issued.

 Section 7. Effective December 31, 1999, Seattle Municipal Code Section 5.48.055, Ordinance 84414, as last amended by Ordinance 118315, is amended as follows:

 5.48.055 Solid waste activities subject to tax-Amount.

 There ~~are~~is levied upon, and shall be collected from everyone including The City of Seattle, on account of the following business activities engaged in or carried on with respect to solid waste, an annual license fee or occupation tax in the amount to be determined by the application of the rates given below:

~~A. Upon everyone engaged in or carrying on the business of operating a garbage transfer station or upon the business of transferring solid waste generated in Seattle from one (1) mode of transportation to another a fee or tax equal to Eight Dollars and Eighty Cents ($8.80) per ton of the waste handled for transportation or transported for garbage disposal, landfill, or incineration purposes. To prevent pyramiding of the tax under this subsection when two (2) or more transfers occur in Seattle, the fee or tax is imposed only upon the last transferor and shall not apply to earlier transfers. Waste is transferred from one (1) mode of transportation to another whenever it is moved from a motor vehicle (including, for example, landgrading or earthmoving equipment), barge, train or other carrier to another motor vehicle (including landgrading or earthmoving equipment), barge, train or other carrier, irrespective of whether or not temporary storage occurs in the process. Solid waste transported for recycling or reuse as recovered material, yard waste destined for composting, items to be scrapped for salvage, and sand and gravel for construction of a public improvement shall not be included in the tonnage by which the fee or tax is measured.~~

A.~~B.~~ Upon everyone engaged in or carrying on the business of operating a garbage transfer station or upon the business of transferring solid waste generated in or outside of Seattle from one (1) mode of transportation to another a fee or tax equal to ~~((Four Dollars and Forty Cents ($4.40)~~Six Dollars and Twenty five Cents ($6.25) per ton of the waste handled for transportation or transported for garbage disposal, landfill, or incineration purposes. To prevent pyramiding of the tax under this subsection when two (2) or more transfers occur in Seattle, the fee or tax is imposed only upon the last transferor and shall not apply to earlier transfers. Waste is transferred from one (1) mode of transportation to another whenever it is moved from a motor vehicle (including, for example, landgrading or earthmoving equipment), barge, train or other carrier to another motor vehicle (including landgrading or earthmoving equipment), barge, train or other carrier, irrespective of whether or not temporary storage occurs in the process, provided that waste shall not be considered transferred if it has been placed in a sealed shipping container prior to being moved from one mode of transportation to another in the City. Solid waste transported for recycling or reuse as recovered material, yardwaste destined for composting, items to be scrapped for salvage, and sand and gravel for construction of a public improvement shall not be included in the tonnage by which the fee or tax is measured.

B.~~C.~~ Upon everyone, including The City of Seattle, engaged in or carrying on the business of the collection of garbage, rubbish, trash, CDL Waste, and other solid waste, a fee or tax measured by the total of these two components:

 1. Ten percent (10%) of the total gross income from the collection of solid waste in Seattle, less income derived from the activities identified in subsection ~~D~~C of this section; and

 2. ~~Eleven Dollars and Seventy Cents ($11.70)~~Twelve Dollars and Five Cents ($12.05) per ton of the materials collected in Seattle, excluding the tonnage identified in subsection ~~D.~~C.

 3. C.~~D.~~ The gross receipts factor identified in subsection ~~C1~~B1 above shall exclude income derived from:

 1. Collection and/or sale of recycled materials and/or recovered materials, including charges for the lease or rental of containers used in the collection of recycled/recovered materials;

 2. Collection and/or sale after processing of yardwaste products, including charges for the lease or rental of containers used in the collection of yardwaste products;

 3. Sale of containers used for collection of residential solid waste;

 4. Collection and disposal of bulky items and white goods;

 5. Grants and contracts from governmental agencies;

 6. The City of Seattle for collecting or disposing of residential garbage and other solid waste;

 7. The portion of the City's solid waste collection receipts expended for collection of recyclable materials and yardwaste; and

 8. Transportation or deposit of sand and gravel for construction or a public improvement.

D.~~E.~~ The tonnage factor identified in subsection ~~C2~~B2 of this section above shall exclude income derived from recycled materials and/or recovered materials; yardwaste destined for composting; items to be recycled, reused, or scrapped for salvage, and/or sand and gravel for construction of a public improvement.

E.~~F.~~ The tax imposed under subsection A of this section applies to transferring in the City of all solid waste generated in or outside the City, ~~; the tax imposed under subsection B of this section applies to transferring in the City of all solid waste generated outside of the City;~~ and the tax imposed under subsection ~~C~~B of this section applies only to collecting solid waste in the City. The taxes imposed under subsections A and ~~C~~B of this section are cumulative as to solid waste collected and transferred in the City, even though the same tonnage of solid waste may be involved at each successive stage in the disposal process, and the economic burden of the two (2) taxes may aggregate.

F.~~G.~~ Income derived from activities described in subsection ~~D~~C of this section above shall be taxed under SMC Chapter 5.44.

 Section 8. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If any one or more of the provisions of this ordinance shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, then such provision or provisions shall be null and void and severed from the rest of this ordinance, and all other provisions of this ordinance shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 9. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 11/15/99 V #7

```
