

********

**Council Bill Number: 112959**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119721**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing the execution of a water purveyor contract between Seattle and Covington Water District.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 25, 1999
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Absent: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 1, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 29, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 11, 1999
   
**Committee:** Utilities and Environmental Management
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, WATER-SUPPLY, CONTRACTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 WHEREAS, Seattle has pledged to King County that it will make water available to purveyors in King County in need of additional supply, so that growth may occur within the urban growth boundary established by the County's growth management policies; and

 WHEREAS, Covington Water District has been required to institute interim building moratoria within the urban growth boundary due to the lack of certainty of water availability; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle has previously supplied Covington Water District with a back-up supply arrangement to firm an interruptible water delivery from the City of Auburn; and

 WHEREAS, Covington Water District is in need of additional, supplemental water supply in order to firm the balance of the interruptible deliveries of water from the City of Auburn; and

 WHEREAS, Covington Water District is a participant, along with Seattle, in the potential development of the City of Tacoma's Second Supply Project; which if constructed will provide both Covington Water District and Seattle with additional water; and

 WHEREAS, Covington Water District has agreed that it shall use water supplied by Seattle only to serve customers within the urban growth boundary; and

 WHEREAS, Covington Water District has further agreed not to use any water supplied by Seattle to supply any new or expanded golf courses; Now, Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or her designee, is hereby authorized to enter into a Water Purveyor Contract with Covington Water District substantially in the form of the contract attached to this ordinance.

 The Water Purveyor Contract with Covington Water District is virtually the same contract as the long-term contract the City entered into with other water purveyors in 1983, and as amended in 1994. As with those contracts, the Water Purveyor Contract with Covington Water District runs until January 1, 2012. The key differences are: (1) the price of water to Covington Water District is a multiple of the new water rate charged to the other purveyors; (2) water supplied by Seattle may be used only to serve Covington Water District customers within the urban growth boundary; and (3) water supplied by Seattle may not be used by Covington Water District to serve any new or expanded golf course.

 Section 2. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 1999.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 1999.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 1999.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 whp:hh

 October 8, 1999

 (Ver. 1 )

 PAGE 1

 VERSION B

 WATER PURVEYOR CONTRACT

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 RECITALS 3

 SECTION 1. TERM OF CONTRACT AND GUARANTEES 4

 I.A. TERM OF CONTRACT 4

 I.B. AGREEMENT TO SUPPLY AND PURCHASE WATER 4

 I.C. ASSIGNABILITY 5

 I.D. CONTINUITY OF SERVICE 5

 I.E. WATER QUALITY 5

 SECTION II. CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 7

 II.A. MINIMUM HYDRAULIC GRADIENT 7

 II.B. RESALE TO OTHER PARTIES 7

 II.C. FLUSHING ALLOWANCE 7

 II.D. INTERCONNECTION WITH OTHER SYSTEMS 7

 II.E. METERING EQUIPMENT 8

 II.F. Initiation of Water Deliveries

 II.G. Limitations on Use

 SECTION III.COST OF WATER 10

 III.A. RATE-MAKING PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES 10

 III.B. NET REVENUE REQUIREMENTS 10

 III.C. PURVEYOR RATE STRUCTURE 12

 III.D. PROVISION FOR EMERGENCY SURCHARGE 12

 III.E. RATE ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURE 12

 III.F. Purveyor Facility Account 12

 III.G. DIRECT SERVICE RATESETTING 13

 III.H. DEMAND CHARGE 13

 III.I. PURVEYOR BALANCE ACCOUNT AND ANNUAL REPORT 13

 III.J. COST OF NEW OR CHANGED SERVICE CONNECTION 14

 SECTION IV. REPRESENTATION PURVEYOR COMMITTEE 14

 IV.A. SEATTLE WATER PURVEYOR COMMITTEE 14

 SECTION V. PLANNING 15

 V.A. REPORTING OF PLANNING DATA 15

 V.B. SUBMITTAL OF PURVEYOR COMPREHENSIVE PLANS 16

 V.C. CONSERVATION PROGRAM 15

 V.D. CITY AS WATER PLANNING AGENCY 15

 V.E. COMPREHENSIVE REGIONAL WATER PLAN 16

 V.F. EMERGENCY PLANNING 16

 SECTION VI. PAYMENT 17

 VI.A. COLLECTION OF MONEY DUE CITY 17

 VI.B. PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT 17

 VI.C. DISPUTES 17

 SECTION VII.AMENDMENTS TO PURVEYOR CONTRACT 18

 VII.A. PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING THE CONTRACT 18

 VII.B. SUBSEQUENT CONTRACTS 18

 SECTION VIII. OTHER PROVISIONS 19

 VIII.A. NOTIFICATION 19

 VIII.B. SEVERABILITY 19

 VIII.C. CONSENT 19

 VIII.D. INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION 21

 VIII.E. EMERGENCY SITUATIONS 21

 VIII.F. PURVEYORS NOT JOINT VENTURERS INDIVIDUAL LIABILITY 21

 SECTION IX. DEFINITIONS 22

 IX.A. DEFINITION OF CONTRACT TERMS 22

 SIGNATURE PAGE 22

 LIST OF EXHIBITS 23

 I-B AMOUNT OF WATER TO BE SUPPLIED/PURCHASED 24

 11-A MINIMUM HYDRAULIC GRADIENT OF WATER SUPPLIED 25

 III-H DEMAND CHARGE METHODOLOGY 27

 WATER PURVEYOR CONTRACTBETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND COVINGTON WATER DISTRICT FOR THE SUPPLY OF WATER

 THIS CONTRACT between the CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, hereinafter called the "City", and Covington Water District herein individually referred to as the 'Purveyor", witnesseth the following RECITALS:

 1. The City owns and operates a system for the supply, transmission and distribution of water and is authorized to sell and distribute water to its own inhabitants and also to other persons and customers outside the corporate limits of the City.

 2. The City has met the water needs of its purveyors outside its corporate limits in the past without written Long-term Contracts, and will make provision in its long-range plans for the continuing requirements of such service in 'the future for those purveyors signing Long-term Contracts, who have foregone and will forego long- range capital expenditures for supply and wholesale distribution in reliance thereon in accordance with this Contract and except as otherwise provided for herein. .

 3. In the past, the City has supplied water to purveyors for resale pursuant to a general wholesale rate schedule established by the City, and it is now the purpose of both parties to establish by agreement certain rights and duties incident to future water service and supply.

 4. It is contemplated that the City will enter into contracts similar to those designated Versions A or B dated November 1981 with other purveyors who agree to enter into Long-term Contracts.

 5. The City is willing to continue to serve as a regional water supplier if this role does not place financial burdens on the Direct Service ratepayers of the City from which they would not receive a corresponding benefit.

 6. It is the intent of both parties that this Contract will not preclude one or more purveyors from financing and/or constructing certain new *water supply facilities for use or partial use by purveyors, with the understanding that the City would have to approve, by separate agreement, the financing and/or construction by such purveyor or purveyors of any such facility that the City would otherwise be required to provide in order to comply with the provisions of this Contract. .

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants herein, it is agreed as follows:

 SECTION I. TERM OF CONTRACT AND GUARANTEES

 I.A. TERM OF CONTRACT

 1. Subject to the other provisions contained herein, the original term of this Contract shall commence and this Contract shall become effective on the date of the City's execution hereof. This term shall continue and this Contract shall remain effective until January 1, 2012. The Purveyor may, at its discretion, cancel this agreement (with 60 days written notice) at any point in time up to the time it starts taking delivery of water from the City so long as the Purveyor reimburses the City for any engineering and construction costs already incurred to serve the Purveyor.

 I.B. AGREEMENT TO SUPPLY AND PURCHASE WATER

 1. The City agrees to supply the water requirements of the Purveyor subject to conditions of this Contract. The Purveyor shall purchase water from the City as specified in Exhibit 1B except for the quantity of water presently obtained by the Purveyor from other sources or committed to be obtained from other sources, provided that documentation of such quantities and copies of such commitments have been transmitted to the City (along with this Contract) prior to the City's execution of this Contract.

 2. In the event the Purveyor should annex to or transfer all or a portion of its service area receiving City water, adjustments shall be made in the Purveyor's water requirements and costs to reflect that associated with these areas.

 3. Should the entire water service area of the Purveyor be annexed to the City, then this Contract shall become null and void at the time of the annexation, and the City shall become responsible for that portion of the Purveyor's costs as set forth in Paragraph I.B.4.b. of this Section.

 4. Also, the Purveyor may reduce the amount of water it has contracted for in Exhibit IB under the following conditions, except that said conditions do not apply in the case of partial annexation by the City:

 a. At least five (5) years' written notice of the reduction is provided to the City and the Purveyor Committee.

 b. The Purveyor holds the City and other purveyors signing Long-term Contracts on the Regional Water Supply System harmless by compensating them for any increased capital costs allocated to them as a result of any such reduction in water contracted for.

 C. Such reduction schedule and compensation, subsequent to review by the Purveyor Committee, is subject to approval by the City. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 5. The Purveyor may also obtain new or additional water from other State approved sources upon the prior written consent of the City, in those instances where:

 a. The City determines that the City's major supply facilities are not adequate to supply the Purveyor the amount of water specified in Exhibit IB.

 b. The Purveyor interconnects with other purveyors' systems or the Purveyor develops other sources for summer water supply peaking purposes when said interconnection or development is for the purpose of avoiding a demand charge.

 6. The Purveyor shall not enter into any new agreements for water supply with any other entity to either purchase or wholesale water without first having obtained the written consent of the City, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.

 I.C. ASSIGNABILITY

 1. This Contract shall be binding upon all successors and assigns of the parties. Neither party may assign or transfer its interest in this Contract without the written consent of the other party, which shall not be unreasonably denied, except that such consent shall not be required when the assignment or transfer is mandated by State law. Subject to such limitation, the City and/or the Purveyor may assign its interest to a legally constituted regional water authority.

 2. It is further agreed that the City shall not demand or receive any additional consideration for such an assignment as a result of the City and the purveyor having signed this Contract.

 I.D. CONTINUITY OF SERVICE

 1. Continuity of service to the Purveyor shall be maintained by the City, to the extent feasible, in the same manner as service to the City's own inhabitants and other Direct Service consumers. In the event of a general emergency or water shortage affecting the entire Regional Water Supply System requiring restrictions on the delivery of water, general restrictions placed upon deliveries to the Purveyor shall be determined by a similar method to that used for restricting deliveries to the City's Direct Service consumers. In the event of localized emergency problems, temporary service interruptions may result.

 2. It is recognized by both parties that emergency conservation measures may have to be implemented by the City on a regional basis in order to meet an emergency condition. The Purveyor shall assist and support such emergency conservation measures.

 3. The City shall provide oral notice to purveyors, and may temporarily interrupt or reduce deliveries of water to any purveyor, if the City determines that such interruption or reduction is necessary or reasonable in case of system emergencies or in order to install equipment, make repairs, replacements, investigations and inspections or perform other maintenance work on the City's water system or those parts of the system supplying the Purveyor. Except in cases of emergency, and in order that the Purveyor's operations will not be unreasonably interfered with, the City shall give the Purveyor reasonable written notice of any such interruption or reduction, the reason therefor, and the probable duration thereof.

 4. If such interruption or reduction in service should occur, thus necessitating the Purveyor to draw supplies during peak demand times that might thus subject the Purveyor to demand charges, such charges shall not be applied to the Purveyor.

 I.E. WATER QUALITY

 1. The quality of water delivered under this Contract shall comply with all applicable provisions of the State and Federal law and rules and regulations of the appropriate State and Federal agencies governing water quality; and shall be subject also to applicable provisions of City ordinances relating thereto and not inconsistent herewith.

 2. Both parties agree that this provision will not be binding on the City in instances in which an emergency exists and best efforts and reasonable prudence have been exercised.

 SECTION II. CONDITIONS OF SERVICE

 II.A. MINIMUM HYDRAULIC GRADIENT

 1. A minimum hydraulic gradient or head for each Service Connection shall be used as a criterion for the City's and Purveyor's comprehensive water planning efforts. If the City finds that it would benefit the Regional Water Supply System and purveyors as a class, the minimum hydraulic gradient or head in Exhibit IIA may be modified by the City only once during any fifteen (15) year period after review by the Purveyor Committee, provided that four (4) years advance notice is given to the Purveyor.

 2. The City will use its best efforts to supply water from its system to that of the Purveyor at the points of connection and at not less than the minimum hydraulic gradient or head at the inlet side of the Service Connection meter as shown on Exhibit IIA, except as noted in this Contract. It is understood that circumstances may prevent the City from providing, at all times, this minimum hydraulic gradient. In such cases, the City shall supply a volume of water equivalent to and delivered at the maximum 24hour average flow rate, required by the Purveyor in accordance with Sections I.B. and V.A., for 24 hours.

 3. Additional Service Connections between the Purveyor's and the City's water systems or adjusted minimum gradients may be established from time to time, by mutual agreement between the City and the Purveyor, in which instance Exhibit IIA shall be appropriately amended to reflect such additional points of connection or adjusted minimum gradients.

 II.B. RESALE TO OTHER PARTIES

 The Purveyor may sell water supplied to it by the City to other parties outside its existing or future boundaries for resale to ultimate consumers, only upon written consent of the City (or oral, in case of emergency) except under existing written agreements which have been transmitted to the City (along with this Contract) prior to the City's execution of this Contract and which are identified in Exhibit IB.

 II.C. FLUSHING ALLOWANCE

 An allowance for actual water used for watermain and tank flushing during the period November 1 through March 31 of each year during this Contract duration will be credited to the account of the Purveyor by the City in an amount not to exceed two percent of the Purveyor's water consumption during the previous month of October; provided, however, that the Purveyor shall furnish the City a certified statement of actual flushing water used by measurement, or calculated by formula acceptable to the City and the Purveyor Committee.

 II.D. INTERCONNECTION WITH OTHER SYSTEMS

 The Purveyor agrees during the term hereof not to interconnect any part of its system that is supplied with water from the City with water from other systems (apart from current connections which are listed in Exhibit I - B) without the written (or oral, in case of emergency) approval of the City, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Said other systems must be in compliance with all applicable County, State and Federal laws and regulations, and must have been approved by the State.

 II.E. METERING EQUIPMENT

 The City shall own and maintain appropriate metering devices to measure the water flowing from the City's Regional Water Supply System to the water system of the Purveyor at each Service Connection. The City agrees that at the Purveyor's request it will install and maintain equipment selected by the Purveyor and approved by the City to transmit signals to the Purveyor's recording equipment (located elsewhere) of the amount of water delivered as measured by the City's meters, all at the Purveyor's expense.

 II.F. INITIATION OF WATER DELIVERIES

 Water will be available for delivery to the Purveyor from the Seattle system within 6 months of notification by the Purveyor that they are ready to start accepting water from the tap locations specified in Exhibit IIA.

 II.G LIMITATIONS ON USE

 (1)All water sold by the City shall be used by the Purveyor within the Urban Growth Boundary as specified by King County.

 (2) Purveyor agrees that as of the date of entering into this agreement and for the duration of this contract, the Purveyor shall not use any water supplied by the City to serve any new golf courses or expansion of existing golf courses. The Purveyor further agrees that water from its other existing sources may only be used if the following criteria have been met:

 A. The Purveyor conducts a feasibility study assessing the potential for the use of:

 1) direct non-potable reclaimed water (in coordination and cooperation with King County); 2) local storm water detention systems; and 3) use of Purveyors existing non-City potable sources which would be diverted during winter months into a storage system that is sized large enough to handle the golf course during the irrigation season (April through October).

 B. Based on the results of this study, the Purveyor shall decide on a recommended course of action regarding its preferred approach to providing irrigation water to the golf course in question.

 C. If existing non-City potable sources are used, including the Purveyors own sources, then the potable water must be stored during winter months (November through March) for use by the golf course during the irrigation season (April through October).

 D. For those golf courses which are constructed after that point in time where the Purveyor starts taking water from the City, the golf course developer will be responsible for financing conservation programs within the Covington WD Service Area or the larger Seattle Service Area. The choice of where the conservation programs will be developed is the Purveyor's choice. The conservation programs financed by the golf course developer must generate daily water savings during irrigation season (April through October) in amount equal to the golf course developers average daily water use during the irrigation season (April through October)

 E. Regardless of the irrigation alternative selected, the golf course developer is also responsible for developing and implementing a golf course irrigation system that meets or exceeds the following threshold efficiency elements:

 1. Use of separate meters for irrigation system

 2. Use of computerized water allocation system controlled by a "central weather stations" on site to determine when the plants have a need for water. (Submit plans and specifications for computerized control system to be attached as an exhibit to this Water Management Program)

 3. Use of an automatic pump shut down and a rapid repair strategy shall be in place so as to minimize any water losses occasioned by facility breakdown. (Submit written plan to be attached as an exhibit to this Water Mgmt. Program)

 4. Maintain careful records and meticulous performance.

 5. Use centralized master system computer control of irrigation use associated with non-irrigation use within the project.

 6. Limit turf areas of the project in comparison with other similar types of projects that have developed the most efficient water-use methods.

 7. Planting and landscaping of the project will be with only selected drought tolerant plants.

 8. Place appropriate signage on-site in plain view at owners cost, installation, maintenance and updating, that describes the ways in which the project is water-wise.

 F. THE GOLF COURSE THAT HAS BEEN DEVELOPED BY OB SPORTS IS EXEMPT FROM THE REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED IN SECTIONS II.G.(2)A AND II.G.(2)B AS THE PURVEYOR HAD ALREADY NEGOTIATED AN AGREEMENT AT THE TIME THIS CONTRACT WENT INTO EFFECT. THE O B SPORTS GOLF COURSE IS BOUNDED ON THE SOUTH BY SE LAKE HOLM ROAD, ON THE NORTH BY SE AUBURN BLACK DIAMOND ROAD, ON THE WEST BY 132ND AVE SE, AND ON THE EAST BY 148TH AVE SE.

 SECTION III. COST OF WATER

 III.A. RATE-MAKING PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES

 1. Existing rates shall apply until adjusted in accordance with Section III.E.

 2. Future rates will be based on the following fundamental principles:

 a. The City, in setting water rates, will treat the purveyors as a separate customer class from the customers to whom it provides Direct Service through its own distribution system.

 b. All costs of serving the purveyors as a class will be recovered by water rates charged to the purveyors.

 C. The cost of serving purveyors as a class will be determined by a rate study which allocates shares of costs to purveyors in accordance with accepted practices for cost allocation.

 3. The following general policies are also intended to give guidance to rate-making studies and associated documentation performed during this Contract. These policies may unavoidably conflict in their applicability; however, these policies shall be considered in their entirety in an attempt to strike an overall balance among them and shall be followed to the extent feasible in setting rates.

 a. No expenses that would normally be allocated to power development shall be allocated to the purveyor class unless the purveyor class is allocated a commensurate share of revenue derived from such a development.

 b. Abrupt changes in financial policies should be minimized. .

 c. The rate structure should:

 1) Discourage wasteful use or premature development of utility resources.

 2) Be innovative whenever it is cost effective and when it is beneficial in furthering the rate-making policies.

 3) Be simple and understandable.

 4) Be fair and equitable.

 d. If, as a result of supplying water to any new purveyor customer, the City incurs capital costs which benefit only the new purveyor customer and which do not benefit the purveyors as a class then or in the future, such costs shall not be allocated to other purveyors who sign a Long-term Contract.

 III.B. NET REVENUE REQUIREMENTS

 1. The purveyors' portion of the City water utility's total revenue requirement will consist of allocated shares of maintenance and operation expenses, personnel taxes and other allowable taxes, and capital costs. In establishing rates, the City water utility's most current accounting information together with other fiscal information will be utilized as a foundation to project costs.

 2. For rate-making purposes, the individual maintenance and operation expenses will be aggregated in a manner similar to that used by the City in establishing water rates since 1968 as reflected in the 1970, 1974, and 1980 rate study reports of the City along with all supporting data and methodology. For determining capital costs, the City will maintain in its accounting records an aggregation of the original cost of each facility serving the purveyors, their value of all contributions, net additions and deletions and other pertinent data.

 3. The total expenses from the sources identified above shall be allocated to purveyors in a manner generally consistent with the methodologies utilized in previous rate studies. Watershed management and timber management expenses will be clearly delineated and their equitable distribution to purveyors will be demonstrated in each rate study. For all allocation calculations involving significant sums of money, numbers will be carried out to three decimal places.

 4. All capital costs except those associated with New Expansion Facilities will be determined using the utility basis of rate-making where:

 a. Contributed capital and depreciation on contributed capital are excluded from capital cost calculations, leaving net original cost.

 b. The rate base is defined as the allocated net original cost of all capital assets and projected additions during the rate period, less retirements during the rate period, less accumulated depreciation, plus a working capital allowance.

 c. The rate of return to be applied to the rate base is derived from a weighted sum of the average cost of debt to the City's water utility during the rate period and the cost of equity capital. The cost of equity capital is the return on alternative investment opportunities available to the City's customers. The weights used above will be the ratios of debt-financed and revenue-financed capitalization to the City water utility's non-contributed plant. Other relevant indicators, such as comparative earnings of other utilities and the current cost of borrowed funds, may also be examined to support or modify the rate of return suggested by the weighted cost of capital.

 d. The annual depreciation expense will be calculated by multiplying a depreciation rate reflecting the City's standard useful life for each allocated asset times the net original cost of the asset.

 5. The capital cost to be recovered from the purveyors for New Expansion Facilities serving them will be determined on the cash basis, consisting of debt service and capital expenditures financed with revenues.

 6. New Expansion Facilities costs will be allocated between purveyors and Direct Service customers on the basis of their ultimate shares of the design capacities of these facilities. The allocation of the costs of such facilities will be based on the projections made or reviewed by an independent consultant at the time of each rate study.

 7. The purveyors' portion of the total revenue requirement, less projected net receipts from purveyor meter charges, demand charges, other charges and any emergency surcharges, and adjusted for the balance in the Purveyor Balance Account, will be termed Net Revenue Requirements.

 III.C. PURVEYOR RATE STRUCTURE

 Water provided by the City to the Purveyor under this agreement shall be charged for at the rate of:

 1.00 times the New Water Rate charged to other Purveyors with which the City has entered into a water purveyor contract expiring 1/1/2012 during the winter period;

 1.52 times the New Water Rate charged to other Purveyors with which the City has entered into a water purveyor contract expiring 1/1/2012 during the summer period.

 III.D. PROVISION FOR EMERGENCY SURCHARGE

 1. In the event of a severe drought, major catastrophe, or other extraordinary conditions that require emergency expenditures to maintain a sufficient water supply, it may be necessary for the City to impose, by Ordinance, an emergency surcharge on purveyors in order to pay for such expenditures. An equitable portion of these costs will be allocated to purveyors in accordance with the principles set forth in Section III.A. and may be recovered through an emergency surcharge.

 2. AN EMERGENCY SURCHARGE BASED ON WATER USAGE MAY BE IMPLEMENTED IMMEDIATELY UPON PASSAGE OF THE AUTHORIZING ORDINANCE AND APPLY TO ALL REGULAR BILLINGS THEREAFTER TRANSMITTED AND MAY CONTINUE AS LONG AS NECESSARY TO PAY FOR EMERGENCY EXPENDITURES, WHICH SHALL BE ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE CITY TO THE PURVEYOR.

 III.E. RATE ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURE

 1. The City may adjust rates to purveyors upon one hundred eighty (180) days notice of intent to do so. Rate adjustments will be effected only after completion of a cost of service study including an allocation of operation, maintenance and capital costs between purveyors and Direct Service customers of the City. Such a study will be performed or thoroughly reviewed by an independent rate consultant. Nothing herein shall preclude phased imple- mentation of a rate adjustment resulting from a single rate study, provided that the period between completion of the rate study and the effective date of any rate adjustment based upon that study shall not exceed five (5) years.

 2. The independent rate consultant will be selected by the City. Recommendations from the Purveyor Committee will be considered in making this selection. Detailed information and progress reports will be made by the City to the Purveyor and Purveyor Committee during the course of the study upon drafting of each major study section directly affecting the purveyors. Additionally, the City shall provide substantially completed purveyor related sections of the study and, if requested, copies of the underlying computations to the Purveyor and the Purveyor Committee not less than thirty (30) days before formally transmitting any resulting rate adjustment proposal to the City Council. Any comments, analyses, reports, or recommendations by the Purveyor Committee concerning the rate study will be formally transmitted by the City staff to the City Council together with the rate study and proposed legislation, provided that such comments, analyses, reports or recommendations are formally approved by the Purveyor Committee prior to the date of such transmittal.

 III.F. Purveyor Facilities Account

 1. The cost and description of any New Expansion Facilities, as defined in Section IX.A., that have part or all of their costs allocated to Contract signing Purveyors, will be recorded in a Purveyor Facilities Account (PFA) by the City. The purpose of the PFA is to protect the contract signing purveyors from the potential of paying twice for facilities.

 2. If the City conveys all or part of its Regional Water Supply System to another water supply authority (hereafter called the purchaser) with the legal authority to take over and operate a part or all of the City's Regional Water Supply System, then the City shall also convey PFA facilities that are an integral part of the water system conveyed. Compensation to the City by the purchaser for these facilities shall be the conveyance value of such facilities determined at the time of transfer less the contract signing purveyors' share of this conveyance value. The contract signing purveyors' share shall be the percentage of the facilities' costs that have been allocated to and paid by the contract signing purveyors since signing the contract.

 3. If PFA facilities are conveyed to an agency that does not serve all of the purveyors that have signed Long-term Contracts and subsequently contributed to the payment of such facilities, then these purveyors shall be compensated by the purchaser according to their prorated share of the contract signing purveyors' share of the conveyance value of such facilities. The compensation to these purveyors shall be made in a manner similar to that used to compensate the City.

 4. It is understood that. nothing herein shall obligate the City to compensate the purveyors directly for the conveyance of PFA facilities.

 5. It is understood that the City retains full ownership of these PFA facilities until such time as they a conveyed.

 III.G. DIRECT SERVICE RATE-SETTING

 Each party to this Contract shall have sole authority for establishing Direct Service rates within their respective jurisdictions.

 III.H. DEMAND CHARGE

 1. A demand charge will be made in accordance with the methodology described in Exhibit IIIH. The demand charge rate (i.e., dollars per 1000 gallons of deficient storage) shall be based on the equivalent cost of providing the deficient storage. This rate will be determined as part of each rate study.

 2. The proceeds of the demand charge will be treated in rate setting as a credit to the Purveyor revenue requirements for new consumption.

 III.I. PURVEYOR BALANCE ACCOUNT AND ANNUAL REPORT

 1. The City will maintain accounting records in accordance with the State Auditor's prevailing requirements. Annually, by August 31st, the City will provide to the Purveyor an accounting statement of the actual costs incurred to serve purveyors and the revenue derived from them, and a report of the status of the Purveyor Facilities Account. In determining the amount of revenue to be recovered from purveyors by subsequent rates, any balance of past purveyors' revenues over costs will be credited against gross revenue requirements or any shortage due to failure to recover past costs from purveyors will be added to gross revenue requirements of purveyors.

 2. Interest will be earned by purveyors on any accumulated balance or charged to purveyors on any shortage. Such interest will be simple interest, computed annually at the rate of return on equity established at the time of relevant rate formulation. The interest due or owed by the purveyors will be credited against or added to the gross revenue requirements determined in the sub sequent rate study.

 III.J. COST OF NEW OR CHANGED SERVICE CONNECTION

 The entire cost of each additional Service Connection, including the cost of meters, shall be paid by the Purveyor. If the City removes and replaces a Purveyor meter because it is under or over capacity (based on AWWA standards or factory rating criteria), or where the Purveyor desires to change, interrupt or discontinue a service connection, then the net cost of these changes shall be paid to the City by the Purveyor.

 SECTION IV. REPRESENTATION PURVEYOR COMMITTEE

 IV.A. SEATTLE WATER PURVEYOR COMMITTEE

 1. In order that purveyors may, in an orderly way, be involved in the operation, expansion and financing of the City's Regional Water Supply System, there shall be established the Seattle Water Purveyor Committee, herein called the "Purveyor Committee". Each purveyor signing a Longterm Contract shall select a representative (with an alternate) on the Purveyor Committee.

 2. The Purveyor Committee shall organize itself and become operational no later than July 1, 1982 and adopt such rules as are necessary for its operation. The number of votes for each purveyor shall equal its percent of total annual amount of water supplied to purveyors by the City during the preceding year (rounded to the nearest whole percent) provided that each purveyor shall have at least one (1) vote.

 3. The Purveyor Committee shall have no authority to financially encumber contracting purveyors as a result of this Contract.

 4. No activity by the Purveyor or the purveyors in conjunction with the Purveyor Committee shall affect the City's obligation to supply water to the Purveyor under this Contract.

 SECTION V. PLANNING

 V.A. REPORTING OF PLANNING DATA

 1. The Purveyor agrees to report to the City:

 a. Its annual and peak day total system demand for each year during the term here of as December 31st of that year.

 b. Its forecast of water requirements to be supplied by the City including estimates of annual and maximum 24hour requirements for the ensuing calendar year, for the fifth, tenth, and fifteenth year in the future. Such forecasts shall reflect the best judgment of the Purveyor.

 Such information shall be furnished to the City no later than the following April 1st of each year.

 2. The Purveyor also agrees to report certain other data. Relating to water supply as may be requested by the City for water planning purposes, provided that supplying such data shall be reasonably within the means of the Purveyor.

 3. Records relevant to water supply and consumption within the possession of the City or the Purveyor will be provided to the other upon reasonable request.

 V.B. SUBMITTAL OF PURVEYOR COMPREHENSIVE PLANS

 The Purveyor shall provide its water comprehensive plan and significant amendments thereto to the City for inclusion by the City in the City's

 Comprehensive Regional Water Plan.

 V.C. CONSERVATION PROGRAM

 1. The City's regional water conservation program, as contained in its Comprehensive Regional Water Plan, is to be updated by the City and, subsequent to review by the Purveyor Committee, adopted by the City. This program shall be implemented by the City with the assistance and support of the Purveyor, except that the Purveyor shall not be required to adopt special rates with respect to this program. The basis for allocating costs of this conservation program shall be reviewed and evaluated by the independent rate consultant as part of each rate study.

 2. The Purveyor shall develop and, subsequent to review by the City and Purveyor Committee adopt its own conservation program that is supportive of the City's regional water conservation program. It is understood that the Purveyor retains final authority over the expenditure of funds needed to implement its program for its own service area.

 V.D. CITY AS WATER PLANNING AGENCY

 The City, as the lead agency, is herein considered the planning authority for the water supply requirements of this Contract. The City shall examine and investigate water supplies suitable and adequate for present and reasonable future needs thereof. The City shall prepare and adopt a plan or acquiring such water supplies in a timely fashion. This plan shall include provision for the lands, waters and water rights and easements necessary therefor, and facilities for retaining and storing and delivering any such waters, including dams, reservoirs, aqueducts and pipelines to convey same throughout the system. In preparing or adopting its plan, the City shall consider as possible alternative or additional water supply sources the acquisition of water from sources controlled and/or developed by individual purveyors, legally constituted groups of purveyors, and other utilities which are not presently supplied by the Regional Water Supply System.

 V.E. COMPREHENSIVE REGIONAL WATER PLAN

 THE CITY BEFORE ORDERING ANY MAJOR IMPROVEMENTS TO FULFILL THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CONTRACT SHALL ADOPT AND MAINTAIN A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR ITS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM; WHEN SAID PLAN IS UPDATED OR AMENDED, IT SHALL BE REVIEWED BY THE PURVEYOR COMMITTEE PRIOR TO SUBMISSION TO THE CITY COUNCIL. THIS PLAN SHALL INCLUDE FACILITIES, FOR CONTRACT SIGNING PURVEYORS, THAT ARE BASED ON REASONABLE CRITERIA, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, COST EFFECTIVENESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT. THE COMMITTEE SHALL RESPOND WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS OF RECEIPT OF SAME OR ITS APPROVAL IS ASSUMED TO BE GIVEN. THE RESPONSE SUBMITTED BY THE COMMITTEE REGARDING FACILITIES SUBSTANTIALLY AFFECTING PURVEYORS WILL BE SERIOUSLY CONSIDERED BY THE CITY. A SERIOUS ENDEAVOR BY THE PARTIES WILL BE MADE TO ARRIVE AT A MUTUALLY ACCEPTABLE PLAN. RESPONSE BY THE CITY WILL BE PROVIDED TO THE COMMITTEE WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS. THE COMMITTEE WILL BE INVOLVED IN DEVELOPING THE CITY'S COMPREHENSIVE REGIONAL WATER PLAN. HOWEVER, THE CITY HAS FINAL DETERMINATION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE PLAN AND ITS ABILITY TO FULFILL THE CONDITIONS OF THIS CONTRACT AND OTHER CITY CONTRACTS AND COMMITMENTS.

 V.F. EMERGENCY PLANNING

 An emergency plan shall be prepared and maintained by the City as part of its Comprehensive Regional Water Plan to provide for water supply in the event of drought or disaster. Such plans shall be prepared pursuant to the procedure outlined in Section V.E.

 SECTION VI. PAYMENT

 VI.A. COLLECTION OF MONEY DUE CITY

 Each purveyor shall be billed by the City on a monthly basis for the supply of water delivered by the City. The Purveyor shall pay these water bills within sixty (60) days of the billing dates.

 VI.B. PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT

 The City may assess a late charge on any purveyor for failure to make full and timely payment as provided in Section VI.A. This late charge shall be established by the City as a percentage of the late portion of the water charges owed, provided that the percentage rate shall not exceed the maximum amount permissible by law.

 VI.C. DISPUTES

 The Purveyor may dispute the accuracy of any portion of the water charges by taking the following two actions within the sixty (60) day payment period established in Section VI.A: (1) notifying the City in writing of the specific nature of the dispute, and (2) paying the undisputed portion of the water charges. The City shall consider and decide any billing dispute in a reasonable and timely manner. Late charges will start to accrue on any unpaid disputed water charges only after the City has rendered a final decision and after expiration of any additional "grace period" which may be established by the City as part of the final decision on the dispute.

 SECTION VII. AMENDMENTS TO PURVEYOR CONTRACT

 VII.A. PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING THE CONTRACT

 1. Either party may request in writing the other to consider an amendment of this Contract. If the amendment is mutually acceptable to the City and the Purveyor, an amendment of this Contract shall be prepared in writing and become effective upon execution by both parties, provided that at least ninety (90) days prior notice has been given to the Purveyor Committee.

 2. All the purveyors who have signed Long-term Contracts will be notified by the City of contract amendments thereof and will have the option of including same in their contract if they elect to do so within two (2) years of the date that notification is sent. This provision does not apply to amendments of Exhibits IB and IIA which will be unique to each purveyor.

 VII.B. SUBSEQUENT CONTRACTS

 The City, without having given ninety (90) days prior notice of its intent to so execute to the Purveyor and the Purveyor Committee, shall not execute Long-term Contracts for water supply with any purveyor after July 1, 1982 if that contract contains provisions inconsistent with or in addition to those contained in Contracts designated Version A and B dated November 1981. In the event that the City does execute any such contract, such provisions will be incorporated in this Contract if the Purveyor elects to do so within two (2) years of the date notification was sent. 7bis provision does not apply to Exhibits IB and IIA which will be unique to each purveyor.

 SECTION VIII. OTHER PROVISIONS

 VIII.A. NOTIFICATION

 1. Whenever in this Contract, notice is required to be given, the same shall be given by the following representatives by United States mail (registered or certified with return receipt requested,) addressed to the respective parties at the following addresses:

 CITY: PURVEYOR:

 Superintendent of Water Covington Water District SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES 18631 S.E. 300TH PLACE Dexter Horton Building, l0th Floor Kent, WA. 98042 710 Second Avenue Seattle, WA 98104

 unless a different representative or address shall be hereafter designated in writing by either of the parties given by the procedure set forth above.

 2. The date of giving such notice shall be deemed to be the date of mailing thereof.

 3. Billings for and payments of water bills may be made by regular mail.

 4. The City shall notify the Purveyor and Purveyor Committee in writing, not less than one hundred eighty (180) days in advance of the effective date thereof, of proposed amendments to the City's Comprehensive Regional Water Plan that would have a financial impact on the purveyors.

 5. In addition, the City shall send to the Purveyor and Purveyor Committee a copy of its proposed annual Water Capital Improvement Program (CIP) not less than 60 days prior to submittal to the Seattle City Council.

 VIII.B. SEVERABILITY

 The purpose of this Contract is to provide by long-term planning, certainty for both the City and the Purveyor through adoption of orderly plans calling for the expenditure of vast sums of money for regional water supply facilities. It is the intent of the parties that if any provision of this Contract or its application is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, invalid, or void, the validity of the remaining provisions of this Contract or its application to other entities, purveyors or circumstances shall not be affected. The remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall be construed and enforced as if the Contract did not contain the particular invalid provision, provided, however, if the invalid provision or its application is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be substantive and to render performance of the remaining provisions unworkable and infeasible and is found to seriously affect the consideration and is inseparably connected to the remainder of the contract, the entire Contract shall be invalid.

 VIII.C. CONSENT

 Whenever it is provided in this Contract that the prior written consent or approval of any party or the Purveyor Committee is required as a condition precedent to any actions, in each such instance said consent or approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and in each such instance where prior consent is sought, failure of the party to respond in writing within sixty (60) days of the request shall be deemed as that party's consent or approval unless otherwise provided for herein. This provision does not apply to amendments of this Contract.

 VIII.D. INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION

 The intent of both parties is to work together to take such actions as are necessary to implement full compliance with this Contract in as expeditious a manner as possible, provided that such full compliance shall occur within three (3) years after the effective date of this Contract or as specified in Section II F of this Contract, whichever is longer.

 VIII.E. EMERGENCY SITUATIONS

 Nothing in this Contract shall be deemed to preclude either party from taking necessary action to maintain or restore water supply in emergency situations, in accordance with Section I.D., and such action shall not be deemed a violation of this Contract.

 VIII.F. PURVEYORS NOT JOINT VENTURERS INDIVIDUAL LIABILITY

 This is not an agreement of joint venture or partnership, and no provision of this Contract shall be construed so as to make the purveyors individually or collectively partners or joint venturers with each other or with the City. Neither party is an agent of the other, nor is any purveyor the agent for the City or for another purveyor. Neither the City nor any purveyor shall be liable for the acts of the other in any representative capacity whatsoever.

 SECTION IX. DEFINITIONS

 IX.A. DEFINITION OF CONTRACT TERMS

 As used in this Contract:

 1. "Long-term Contract" means a water purveyor contract with the City for the supply of water for a length of time of fifteen (15) years or greater.

 2.a."purveyor" means a water district, other municipality or utility (with the exception of the Sallal Water Association) authorized to and engaging in the distribution of water under the laws of the State, which distributes, on a retail basis, water directly supplied to it by the City.

 2.b."Purveyor" means the purveyor which has executed this Contract.

 3. "Direct Service" means delivering water to user/consumer premises at retail water rates. (The City provides direct service both inside and outside the City.)

 4. "Regional Water Supply System" means the City's water supply system consisting of dams, impounded water, supply and transmission mains, pumps, treatment facilities, and all facilities utilized in conveying water from its source to the City's water storage facilities and to the purveyors.

 5. "Service Connection" means a short section of pipe, with a water meter and appurtenances, through which water is delivered from the Regional Water Supply System to a purveyor's system.

 6. "Comprehensive Regional Water Plan" means the latest plan, and amendments thereto, prepared by the City to comply with the requirements for "water system plan" of WAC 24854580 and amendments thereto.

 7. "New Expansion Facilities, for purposes of this Contract, means those new facilities that are constructed after March 1, 1982 and: 1) expand the capacity of the City Regional Water Supply System, and 2) do not in any way replace or rehabilitate existing facilities. New Expansion Facilities do not include new treatment facilities to treat existing supply sources.

 SIGNATURE PAGE

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereby execute this contract.

 PURVEYOR: _________________ A _____________________________ Corporation BY: ___________________________ BY: ___________________________ (SEAL) BY: ___________________________ BY: ___________________________ ATTEST: _______________________ DATE __________________

 AUTHORIZING LEGISLATION: ORDINANCE/RESOLUTION ________________ CITY: THE CITY OF SEATTLE A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION BY: ___________________________ (SEAL) Director of SPU AUTHORIZING LEGISLATION: ORDINANCE _________________

 LIST OF EXHIBITS

 IB AMOUNT OF WATER TO BE SUPPLIED/PURCHASED IIA MINIMUM HYDRAULIC GRADIENT OF WATER SUPPLIED IIIH Demand Charge Methodology NOTE: All exhibits attached hereto and referenced in this Contract are a part of this Contract. EXHIBIT I-B

 AMOUNT OF WATER TO BE SUPPLIED/PURCHASED

 The City shall plan for and construct facilities to Supply the water requirements of the Purveyor as specified below and as forecast by the Purveyor according to Section V.A. The specified amount of water to be supplied by the City and purchased by the Purveyor will be:

 All water requirements of the Purveyor conditioned by Sections I.B. and II.B. of this Contract.

 Covington WD will provide 170,800,000 cubic feet of water per year from its own sources. In addition, Covington WD will provide an additional 73,200,000 cubic feet of water under the terms of its agreement with the City of Auburn. Seattle Public Utilities will provide all water in excess of the sum of the amounts referenced above. Should the City of Auburn decide to exercise its right to interrupt service to Covington WD, then SPU will also provide water to Covington WD equal to the amount no longer available from the City of Auburn.

 List of documents, commitments, adjustments, reductions, agreements, and/or written City approvals regarding the supply, purchase and/or resale of water according to Sections I.B., II.B. and II.D. of this Contract: Full Documentation Attached

 ITEM DATE

 1.CRWS - Witte Road SE @ SE 248th ST. January 11, 1984

 2.CRWS - SR 169 @ SE 258th ST. December 4, 1990

 3.CRWS - 196th Ave SE @ SE 236th St June 3, 1997

 4.Auburn-IA#2-132nd Ave SE @ SE 288th St October 2, 1996

 5.Kent - Wax Rd SE @ SE 272nd St July 5, 1960

 6.Tacoma - Second Supply Conceptual February 25, 1998

 7.WD 94 - SE 258th St @ 217th Ave SE August 4, 1999

 8.WD 111 - SE 272nd St @ 156th Ave SE July 17, 1996

 EXHIBIT II-A

 SEATTLE WATER DEPARTMENT MINIMUM INDRAULIC GRADIENT OF WATER SUPPLIED (1)

 METER SERVICE

 LOCATION STATION SIZE OF PIPE MINIMUM NUMBER METER SEGMENT HEAD FOR (2) (IN.) NUMBER PLANNING (2) PURPOSES AT STATIONS (FT.) (3) South To be as- 12" or 10 585 Boundary signed 16" - of Lake during to be Youngs construc- deter- Reserva- tion mined tion at during 164th Ave. design S.E.

 Notes:

 (1) The Minimum Hydraulic Gradient is based on historic use patterns for the connection, demand projections to 1995, and a maximum demand factor of 1.3.

 (2) Station and Pipeline Segment Numbers pertain to demand metering program.

 (3) All Minimum Head elevations are based on City of Seattle datum and are rounded to the nearest 5 feet.

 EXHIBIT III-H

 DEMAND CHARGE METHODOLOGY

 The demand charge and method of application thereof shall be as follows:

 1. The policy of the City is to supply water to wholesale water purveyor customers (municipal water districts, other municipalities, and nonprofit water associations) at the twenty-four hour average flow rate. Water purveyors are expected to provide or pay for storage for peaking rates above such average flow rate.

 2. A demand charge will be applicable to water purveyors who are found to have deficient storage as determined in the following paragraphs.

 3. The water services (master meters) to purveyors will be monitored by the City to determine applicability of the demand charge. Demand metering equipment will be installed on master meters to purveyors at City expense.

 4. Water services to a purveyor on a uniform segment of supply line may be considered as one water service in calculating storage deficiency.

 5. A "day" for purposes of this schedule commences at nine a.m. and ends at nine a.m. the following calendar day.

 6. The demand factor for each water service is determined by dividing the fifteen-minute peak flow rate by the twenty-four-hour average flow rate of the same day.

 7. The ten maximum flow days for each water service will be used to determine the average demand factor from which storage deficiency will be calculated. The average demand factor is the average of the demand factors of the ten maximum flow days for each water service.

 8. A demand charge for each water service shall be applied only when the average demand factor exceeds 1.3.

 9. The deficient storage volume of each water service for demand charge calculation rate shall be S = 0.22(F1)Q; where S = storage deficiency in gallons, F = average demand factor and Q = average daily quantity of water in gallons used in the ten maximum flow days for each water service.

 10. The demand charge shall be calculated by applying a storage deficiency rate per month per thousand gallons of deficient storage. The total purveyor demand charge shall be the sum of the demand charges for each water service.

 11. The demand charge will be calculated in the fall of each year based upon evaluation of the summer months (June, July and August) water delivery flow rates and upon the storage deficiency rate in effect at the time that those flows occurred. The monthly storage deficiency demand charge billing shall commence in January and continue for one calendar year until the following January at which time a new charge, if any, shall be applied.

 12. Peak flow rates through master meters will be monitored during the summer months; however, if peak flow rates create adverse hydraulic conditions, demand metering may be applied year-round, after reasonable notice to purveyor customers.

 13. Purveyors may use other sources of supply approved by the Superintendent of Water such as interconnection with other purveyors' systems or development of wells for summer water supply peaking purposes subject to the provisions of this Contract.

 14. If purveyors formulate approved cooperative operating agreements, their services on uniform segments of supply line may be considered as one service in determining demand charge.

 15. Peak flows caused by major accidents in a purveyor's water system will be excluded in determining the demand charge. Peak flows caused by other unusual situations may also be excluded at the discretion of the City. Documentation of such incidents shall be provided by purveyors to the City within thirty (30) days after an incident.

 16. Artificially created daily flow rates which differ substantially from customers' daily consumption may be disallowed in calculating the demand charge.

 17. Approved electrical sensing circuits (e.g. for telemetering) from City master meters may be made available to purveyors on a reimbursable cost basis. Such circuits shall be installed and maintained by the City; there will be no need for purveyors' representatives to enter City chambers.

 18. The demand charge for a certain master meter(s) may be excused if lower pressure water (or gravity flow water) replaces City pumped water (or higher flow water), provided that the peak flow rate through this service does not exceed the demand rate threshold which would occur without the replacement of water service flow.

 19. In case of malfunction of metering equipment, the City shall estimate the charge, if any, from best available data.

 June 6, 1994 FIRST AMENDMENT to the WATER PURVEYOR CONTRACT Between THE CITY OF SEATTLE and for the SUPPLY OF WATER

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 SECTION 1. USE OF THIS AMENDMENT. 1

 SECTION 2. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSES. 2

 SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS. 4

 SECTION 4. RATE OF RETURN. 5

 4.A. METHOD OF COMPUTING AVERAGE COST OF DEBT. 6

 4.B. METHOD OF COMPUTING COST OF EQUITY CAPITAL. 6

 4.C. RECOMPUTATION OF PURVEYOR COSTS RECOVERED IN 1987-1988. 7

 4.D. MUTUAL RELEASE OF LIABILITY FOR COST OF EQUITY CAPITAL. 8

 SECTION 5. ALLOCATION OF COSTS OF REHABILITATED TOLT PIPELINE. 8

 5.A. METHOD OF COST ALLOCATION AND COMPENSATION IN EVENT OF CONVEYANCE 10

 5.B. ALLOCATION OF LOSS RECORDED FOR THE TOLT PIPELINE. 10

 5.C. ANNUAL CREDIT OF AMORTIZED PORTION OF ANY LOSS. 11

 5.D. RELEASE OF LIABILITY FOR REHABILITATION COSTS. 11

 SECTION 6. TOLT PIPELINE EQUITY INTEREST. 12

 6.A. COMPUTATION OF EQUITY INTEREST IF VOLUNTARY CONVEYANCE. 13

 6.A.1. FORMULA 1. 13

 6.A.2. FORMULA 2. 14

 6.A.3 FORMULA 3. 15

 6.B. COMPUTATION OF EQUITY INTEREST IF INVOLUNTARY CONYEYANCE. 16

 6.B.1. FORMULA 4. 16

 6.C. EQUITY INTEREST IF PARTIAL CONVEYANCE. 17

 6.D. PERCENTAGE SHARE OF PARTICIPATING PURVEYOR. 17

 6.E. METHOD OF COMPENSATING PARTICIPATING PURVEYORS. 17

 6.F. CONVEYANCE VALUE OF REHABILITATED PORTION OF THE TOLT PIPELINE. 18

 6.G. TERM OF EQUITY INTEREST. 18

 6.H. TOLT PIPELINE ACCOUNT. 19

 6.I. ANNUAL ACCOUNTING TO PARTICIPATING PURVEYORS. 19

 SECTION 7. JOINT FACILITY AGREEMENTS 20

 7.A. PURPOSE OF JOINT FACILITY AGREEMENTS. 20

 7.B. GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR ENTERING JOINT FACILITY AGREEMENTS. 20

 7.C. ANNUAL ACCOUNTING TO SUBSCRIBING PURVEYORS. 21

 SECTION 8. PURVEYOR FACILITIES ACCOUNT ("PFA"). 22

 8.A. CUMULATIVE SHARE OF ALL PURVEYORS. 22

 8.B. INDIVIDUAL SHARE OF EACH PURVEYOR. 22

 8.C. RECORD KEEPING FOR NEW EXPANSION FACILITIES. 23

 SECTION 9. CONSERVATION PROGRAM COST ALLOCATION. 23

 9.A. CLASSIFICATION OF CONSERVATION PROGRAMS. 24

 9.A.1. LOCAL CONSERVATION. 24

 9.A.2. BASE CONSERVATION. 24

 9.A.3. SUPPLY CONSERVATION. 24

 9.B. IMPLEMENTATION OF CLASSIFICATION. 25

 9.C. ALLOCATION OF CONSERVATION PROGRAM COSTS. 25

 9.C.1. LOCAL CONSERVATION PROGRAMS. 25

 9.C.2. BASE CONSERVATION PROGRAMS. 26

 9.C.3. SUPPLY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS. 26

 9.C.4. RECLAIMED WATER AND RELATED PROGRAMS. 26

 9.D. LIMITATIONS ON ALLOCATION OF SUPPLY CONSERVATION 27

 9.D.1. MARGINAL COST LIMITATION. 27

 9.D.2. COST SHARING LIMITATION. 27

 9.E. AMORTIZATION AND FINANCING OF PROGRAM COSTS. 29

 9.F. NEW EXPANSION FACILITY DESIGNATION FOR SUPPLY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS. 29

 9.F.1. EQUITY VALUE UPON CONVEYANCE. 30

 9.F.2. CONSTRUCTIVE CONVEYANCE OF SUPPLY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS. 30

 9.F.3. CONVEYANCE VALUE OF SUPPLY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS. 30

 9.F.4. DISCLAIMER OF BASIS FOR DETERMINING VALUE. 31

 SECTION 10. WORKING CAPITAL AND INTEREST THEREON. 31

 10.A. TARGET FOR PURVEYOR WORKING CAPITAL. 31

 10.B. OLD WATER WORKING CAPITAL. 32

 10.C. NEW WATER WORKING CAPITAL. 32

 10.D. INTEREST EXPENSES FOR CASH MANAGEMENT. 33

 SECTION 11. ALLOCATION OF COSTS FOR REGIONAL FACILITIES INSIDE CITY DIRECT SERVICE AREA. 33

 SECTION 12. ALLOCATION OF WATERSHED COSTS. 33

 SECTION 13. FUNDING PURVEYOR COSTS. 34

 SECTION 14. SECONDARY BENEFITS TO SPECIFIC PURVEYORS 35

 SECTION 15. INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED TO PURVEYORS WITH RATE 36

 SECTION 16. TERM OF THIS AMENDMENT 36

 SECTION 17. EFFECT OF THIS AMENDMENT. 36

 SECTION 18. DISCLAIMER. 37

 SECTION 19. CONVERSION OF VERSION A OF THE WATER PURVEYOR CONTRACT TO VERSION B 37

 SIGNATURE PAGE ... 38

 APPENDIX A 39

 FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE

 WATER PURVEYOR CONTRACT

 THIS AMENDMENT to the Water Purveyor Contract is entered between the CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, hereinafter the "City", and _________________________________________________ hereinafter the "Participating

 Purveyor."

 SECTION 1. USE OF THIS AMENDMENT.

 Because this Amendment deals with a number of complex concepts which may be understood only in relation to relevant background information, several devices have been used to assist the reader in understanding. Section 2 of the Amendment, "Background and Purposes," is intended to provide the reader basic information about the original Water Purveyor Contract and the reasons for this Amendment. Similarly, at the beginning of the most complex sections, an Introduction is provided to explain background issues and how the Amendment addresses those issues. The Amendment uses italics to identify specialized terms or phrases that are defined either in Section 2 (Definitions) or elsewhere in the Amendment. Further, descriptions of most financial computations have been stated as algebraic formulas to add rigor and clarity. Lastly, examples are provided throughout the Amendment to illustrate formulas and complex provisions. Section 2, Background and Purposes, and the Introductions and Examples contained in this Amendment may be considered in the event of a dispute over the interpretation of a formula or a provision of the Amendment; however, if a direct conflict arises between these materials and the express terms of a formula or a provision, the express terms shall govern.

 SECTION 2. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSES.

 The City of Seattle provides wholesale water service to a number of municipalities, water districts, and other entities referred to as "purveyors" in this Amendment. With a few exceptions, all of the purveyors and the City have separately entered into either Version A or B of the Water Purveyor Contract which provides for wholesale water service on a long-term basis. In this Amendment, Version B of the Water Purveyor Contract shall be referred to as the "Contract," and the purveyors that have signed Version B shall be referred to collectively as the "Purveyors" or individually as the "Purveyor."

 The rates the City charges all purveyors for wholesale water service are determined using methods specified under the Contract. Rates are based on the projected costs of the Regional Water Supply System in a given time period and the projected amount of purveyor water consumption in the same time period. The Contract provides for two purveyor water rates, the old water rate and the growth charge. The growth charge added to the old water rate is commonly referred to as the new water rate.

 The old water rate is determined by adding up the projected purveyor costs associated with old water facilities, and dividing those costs by the projected amount of purveyor consumption. "Old water facilities" are Regional Water Supply System facilities which are not New Expansion Facilities, a term defined in the Contract as new facilities constructed after March 1, 1982, which expand the Regional Water Supply System and which do not replace or rehabilitate existing facilities. Likewise, the growth charge is determined by adding up the projected purveyor costs associated with New Expansion Facilities and dividing those costs by the projected amount of purveyor "new consumption" (a term also defined in the Contract). Projections are later reconciled with actual experience through the Purveyor Balance Account.

 The Contract provides that the purveyor costs associated with old water facilities are to be determined using the utility basis, which establishes costs by totaling operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and the product of rate of return and the rate base. By contrast, the Contract provides that the purveyor costs associated with New Expansion Facilities are to be determined using the cash basis, which establishes costs by totaling operation and maintenance expenses, revenue financed capital, and debt service.

 Under the Contract, costs are allocated between the purveyors and the City's direct service customers on a facility-by-facility basis. In most cases, the allocation factors for old water facility costs are based upon the percentage of water associated with a given facility that the purveyors use during specified times in the current year. Conversely, the allocation factors for New Expansion Facility costs are based on a one-time projection of the percentage of water associated with the facility that the purveyors will ultimately use when the facility is operated at full capacity. Unlike allocation factors for old water facilities, allocation factors for New Expansion Facilities are fixed for the life of the facility.

 Several disputes have arisen with respect to purveyor water rates. In particular, disputes have arisen over the manner and method of determining the rate of return which is used to determine the purveyor costs associated with old water facilities. In addition, a dispute has arisen over whether the City should be permitted to allocate a portion of the costs of rehabilitating the Tolt Pipeline to the purveyors using the same allocation method applied to other old water facilities. The Amendment is intended to reach a settlement of these issues between the City and the Participating Purveyor which will avoid potentially costly and lengthy litigation.

 The Amendment, in addition, is intended to provide greater specification of a number of general provisions of the Contract, including, among others, provisions of the Contract dealing with conservation program costs, watershed costs, working capital, and the Purveyors' share of the conveyance value of New Expansion Facilities in the event of conveyance. The parties believe that such further specification is a reasonable interpretation of and fully consistent with the Contract.

 Finally, the Amendment is intended to provide several new provisions to assist the City and the Participating Purveyor in carrying out the objectives of the Contract. Two notable additions are the provisions involving joint City and Purveyor funding of new projects through Joint Facility Agreements and the provisions allowing for payment of specified administrative expenses of the Purveyor Committee.

 SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS.

 Unless another meaning is expressly provided in this Amendment, all terms used in the Amendment shall have the same meaning as that given to such terms in the Contract. For purposes of this Amendment:

 1. Book value means the original cost of an asset, plus additions and betterments, less accumulated depreciation and retirements.

 2. Conveyance value of a facility shall be the monetary value of all consideration given for such facility under a conveyance agreement or a court order. If any part of the consideration is to be paid in installments, the value of such consideration, including any interest paid, shall be its present value at the time of conveyance.

 3. Equity interest is the total compensation that all Participating Purveyors will receive under the terms and conditions of Section 6 below if the City conveys the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline (or a portion thereof) to another entity.

 4. Involuntary conveyance means any conveyance which occurs through condemnation or by mandate of law which the City is not legally authorized to override.

 5. Original Tolt Pipeline means the water transmission pipeline constructed prior to 1987 that begins at the Tolt Regulating Basin and terminates at the Lake Forest Reservoir.

 6. Rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline means any portion of the original Tolt Pipeline that is replaced or rehabilitated and substantially completed and put into service before January 1, 2002.

 7. Tolt Pipeline means Tolt Pipeline #1, which is the water supply transmission pipeline that begins at the Tolt Regulating Basin and terminates at the Lake Forest Reservoir.

 8. Voluntary conveyance means any conveyance which is not an involuntary conveyance.

 SECTION 4. RATE OF RETURN.

 Introduction:

 Under the Contract the City is entitled to charge purveyors a return on the rate base which is allocated to purveyors, The rate of return is calculated from the weighted sum of two component rates, the average cost of debt and the cost of equity capital. The average cost of debt is the weighted average of interest rates paid by the City on outstanding Water Department debt. The cost of equity capital is defined by Subsection III.B. Of the Contract as "the return on alternative investment opportunities available to the City's customers." With respect to determining the rate of return, the Contract further states: other relevant indicators, such as comparative earnings of other utilities and the current cost of borrowed funds, may also be examined to support or modify the rate of return suggested by the weighted cost of capital."

 The purveyors and the City have disagreed about the appropriate method to use to determine the cost of equity capital. From 1980-1988, the City used the comparative earnings method, which bases the cost of equity capital on the average tax-adjusted return to private water utility stockholders. In 1984, the Purveyor Balance Account (PBA) as provided for in the Contract was implemented. The PBA reports actual costs and adjusts for any accumulated surplus or deficit, so that to the extent feasible the Purveyors will pay no more or less than their actual costs of service. The Purveyor Committee has contended that since the PBA was implemented the City has charged an excessive rate of return because the PBA eliminates some of the risks faced by a private utility. In 1988, in an attempt to address purveyor concerns about the rate of return, the City adjusted the Tolt River supply costs downward. Since 1989, the City has used an alternative method to calculate the cost of equity capital that falls between the comparative earnings method and the Purveyor Committee's 1988 recommendation of projected current cost of debt.

 Subsections 4.A and 4.B amend the Contract to provide for use of that alternative method by adding greater specification to the definitions of the average cost of debt and the cost of equity capital. Subsection 4.C also provides for a credit to the Participating Purveyor based upon a recomputation of costs recovered in 1987 and 1988 using the alternative method to determine the rate of return. The recomputation includes a credit to the City to reverse the 1988 downward adjustment to Tolt River supply costs. The net credit to all Participating Purveyors will be recorded in the Tolt Pipeline Account and utilized to calculate the Participating Purveyor equity interest as provided for in Sections 5 and 6 below. Finally, Section 4.D provides for a mutual release of liability with respect to the methods previously used to determine the rate of return.

 4.A. METHOD OF COMPUTING AVERAGE COST OF DEBT.

 The average cost of debt component of the rate of return, as referenced in Subsection III.B. of the Contract, shall be the weighted average of the coupon rates on all outstanding bond indebtedness of the Seattle Water Department, excluding defeased or advance refunded bonds, with the weights being the amount of debt outstanding at each rate divided by total bond debt outstanding.

 4.B. METHOD OF COMPUTING COST OF EQUITY CAPITAL.

 The cost of equity capital component of the rate of return, as referenced in Subsection III.B. of the Contract, shall be the greater of (a) the average cost of debt plus 30 basis points or (b) the current cost of long-term debt.

 The current cost of long-term debt shall be, the effective yield for a 20-year maturity from the Seattle Water Department's most recent debt issuance (including refinancing) if issued during the calendar year being accounted for. Otherwise, the current cost of long-term debt shall be estimated by adjusting the average yield of the weekly Bond Buyer 20-Bond Index (or a mutually agreed replacement) during the month of June by the difference between the Department's effective yield for a 20-year maturity and that Index (or replacement) as of the date of the Department's last debt issuance.

 Example of computing cost of equity capital:

 In 1991, the Seattle Water Department had outstanding 11 bond issues (excluding defeased and advanced refunded bonds), each with serial maturities carrying different coupon rates. The average cost of debt is the weighted average of the various coupon rates. For 1991, the weighted average was 6.46%, and plus 30 basis points was 6.76%.

 In 1991, there was no Seattle Water Department bond issuance with a 20-year maturity. The most recent debt issuance with a 20-year maturity was on April 10, 1990; the effective yield for such maturity was 7.22%. The weekly Bond Buyer 20-Bond Index was 7.31% on April 11, 1990, for a difference of -0.09 percentage points. The average yield of the weekly Bond Buyer Indexes during the month of June 1991 was 7.13%. Adjusting this average by the difference of 0.09 produces a current cost of long-term debt for the Department in 1991 of 7.04%.

 Accordingly, since the current cost of long-term debt was greater than the average cost Of debt plus 30 basis points, the cost of equity capital for 1991 was 7.04%.

 4.C. RECOMPUTATION OF PURVEYOR COSTS RECOVERED IN 1987-1988.

 The costs the City recovered from the purveyors in the years 1987 and 1988 were not computed using the method for computing the cost of equity capital set forth in Subsection 4.B. The amount of purveyor costs for the years 1987 and 1988 shall be recomputed using such method.

 Further, in 1988, the City reduced the rate base for Tolt supply costs, with corresponding adjustments in depreciation and operation and maintenance expenses, to recognize purveyor concerns about the cost Of equity capital. The recomputation of purveyor costs for 1988 shall include a credit to the City in an amount equal to the savings to the Participating Purveyors from such reduction and corresponding adjustments.

 The difference between the amount of Participating Purveyor costs actually charged for 1987 and 1988 and the amount of Participating Purveyor costs as recomputed shall be recorded in the Tolt Pipeline Account established in Section 6 of this Amendment and utilized under Formula 1 (Subsection 6.A.1 infra) to calculate the Participating Purveyor equity interest. The amount so recorded shall include simple interest from January 1, 1988, through December 31, 1990, computed annually on the prior year's cumulative balance (including interest) at the cost of equity capital as applied in the Purveyor Balance Account. The parties hereby confirm that the cost of equity capital for the years 1989 through the effective date of this Amendment was computed using the method set forth in Subsection 4.B.

 4.D. MUTUAL RELEASE OF LIABILITY FOR COST OF EQUITY CAPITAL.

 The Participating Purveyor and the City release each other from all liability or claims that they have or could have asserted against each other with respect to the methods the City has used to calculate the average cost of debt and the cost of equity capital under the Contract. This release does not cover any disputes which may arise over whether the methods set forth in

 Subsections 4.A and 4.B have been properly applied as distinguished from whether the methods are proper.

 SECTION 5. ALLOCATION OF COSTS OF REHABILITATED TOLT PIPELINE.

 Introduction:

 Between 1958 and 1962, the City constructed the Tolt Pipeline, the 24 mile transmission line originating at the Tolt Regulating Basin. For depreciation purposes, its life was set at 50 years. Two breaks occurred in the pipeline respectively in 1987 and 1988. Following a study of the pipeline affected, it was determined that approximately 13 miles of the pipeline were subject to breaks from a hydrogen embrittlement condition of the spiral rods that support the pipeline. Beginning in 1990, the City rehabilitated through a combination of replacement, relining, and other means, all but a one-mile segment of the portion of the Tolt Pipeline affected by the hydrogen embrittlement, at an approximate cost of $33 million. The remaining mile affected is scheduled for rehabilitation in the late 1990's, at an approximate cost of $4-5 million.

 Since 1990 the City has allocated the costs of the rehabilitation of the Tolt Pipeline using the same method used for other old water facilities. However, several Purveyors have contended that negligence of the City was a contributing cause of the premature failure of tile Tolt Pipeline and that the City as owner of the regional water system should accept more responsibility for the rehabilitation costs.

 The City denies all of these allegations; however, as a compromise resolution of this issue, Section 5.A provides that the costs of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline shall continue to be treated for ratemaking purposes as a standard old water facility, but if the City conveys the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline (or a portion thereof) during its useful life, the Participating Purveyors shall be paid an equity interest. That interest is determined by the specific formulas and the terms and conditions set forth in Section 6.

 Section 5.B also sets forth the method by which the City will treat losses associated with the premature retirement of the original Tolt Pipeline. Such losses will not be included in the rate base (and thereby charged a rate of return) but will be amortized and allocated to purveyors over a specified number of years. However, Section 5.C provides that all Participating Purveyors will receive a credit for such losses they pay through water rates from 1993 forward, and that Participating Purveyors who sign the Amendment before a specified date will receive a credit for such losses they have paid through past water rates from 1990 to 1992.

 Section 5.D provides for a release of liability to the City associated with the allocation of costs of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline to the Participating Purveyor through old water rates and an acknowledgement that any portion of the original Tolt Pipeline that is rehabilitated after January 1, 2002, has served its useful life.

 Finally, although there is provision for events should the City convey all or part of its water system, there is no intent by the City to do so and none should be inferred from the language in this Amendment.

 5.A. METHOD OF COST ALLOCATION AND COMPENSATION IN EVENT OF CONVEYANCE

 The costs of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline shall continue to be included in the old water rate base and allocated to purveyors in a manner generally consistent with the methodologies utilized in previous rate studies. However, in the event that the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline (or a portion thereof) is conveyed to another entity or entities, the Participating Purveyor shall receive compensation equal to its percentage share of the equity interest of all Participating Purveyors in the pipeline as determined under the terms and conditions set forth in Section 6 below.

 5.B. ALLOCATION OF LOSS RECORDED FOR THE TOLT PIPELINE.

 If a loss upon retirement is recorded for any portion of the original Tolt Pipeline which is replaced or rehabilitated before January 1, 2002, such loss shall not be included in the rate base but shall be amortized over the remaining life of such portion; however, if such a loss is recorded for any portion of the original Tolt Pipeline which is replaced or rehabilitated after January 1, 2002, such loss shall be included in the rate base and shall be amortized over the remaining life of such portion. The amortized expense shall be allocated to the purveyors using the same allocation factors as are used for the segment of the Tolt Pipeline on which the loss was incurred.

 For purposes of this provision, the remaining life of any portion of the Tolt Pipeline which is replaced or rehabilitated shall be as follows:

 i. Twenty years from the date of recording if a loss for that portion was recorded before the effective date of this Amendment; or

 ii. Determined by subtracting the number of years the portion was in service from an original life of fifty years if a loss for that portion is recorded on or after the effective date of this Amendment.

 5.C. ANNUAL CREDIT OF AMORTIZED PORTION OF ANY LOSS.

 Beginning with the year 1994, the City shall within one hundred and eighty days after the conclusion of each fiscal year credit the water bill of each Participating Purveyor for the amortized portion of any loss the Purveyor has paid in such year. Further, if the Participating Purveyor signs this Amendment no later than ninety days after the effective date of an ordinance authorizing the City to enter into this Amendment, the Participating Purveyor shall receive a credit on its water bill within one hundred and eighty days of the effective date of this Amendment from the City for the amortized portion of any loss the Participating Purveyor has paid through rates for the years 1990-1993.

 5.D. RELEASE OF LIABILITY FOR REHABILITATION COSTS.

 The Participating Purveyor hereby releases the City from all liability or claims that it has asserted or could have asserted against the City arising out of the allocation to the purveyors through old water rates of the costs of (1) the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline, (2) the emergency repairs of such pipeline in connection with pipeline breaks in 1987 and 1988 respectively, including any claims or liability arising from such breaks, and (3) the losses associated with retirement of the original Tolt Pipeline before its expected life of 50 years.

 Further, any portion of the original Tolt Pipeline for which notice to proceed to rehabilitate (including replace) such portion is issued after January 1, 2002, shall be considered to have served its useful life, and the Participating Purveyor agrees to release the City from all liability or claims arising from or in any way connected to an express or implied allegation that such portion of the original Tolt Pipeline did not serve its useful life.

 SECTION 6. TOLT PIPELINE EQUITY INTEREST.

 Introduction:

 Section 6 sets out the terms and conditions under which the Participating Purveyors shall receive payment of the equity interest provided for in Section 5 in the event that tile rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline (or a portion thereof) is conveyed.

 Subsection 6.A sets forth the alternative formulas which would be used to determine the amount of the equity interest if a voluntary conveyance occurs. The equity interest is to be the lesser amount determined by Formula 1 or Formula 2, but in no case less than Formula 3. Formula 1 credits the Participating Purveyors for depreciation they paid including interest and for the recomputation of purveyor costs for 1987-1988 provided for in Subsection 5.C. Formula 2 credits the Participating Purveyors for a percentage of the conveyance value of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline, the percentage being equal to the share of depreciation the Participating Purveyors have paid for the pipeline. Formula 3 also credits the Participating Purveyors for a percentage of the conveyance value of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline, the percentage being equal to the total depreciation paid by the Participating Purveyors divided by the original cost of tile rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline.

 Subsection 6.B sets forth the calculations which would be used to determine the amount of the equity interest if an involuntary conveyance occurs. In such case, the amount of the equity interest would be one-half of the amount provided under Subsection 6.A or a lesser amount if the amount determined by Formula 4 is less. Formula 4 subtracts from the equity interest computed under Subsection 6.A the Participating Purveyors' share of the outstanding debt of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline.

 Subsection 6.C provides that if only a portion of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline is conveyed the amount of the equity interest as determined under Subsections 6.A and 6.B shall be based on values corresponding to the portion conveyed.

 Subsection 6.D defines the individual share of the Participating Purveyor of the equity interest, and Subsection 6.E provides that any contract to convey the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline shall provide for the purchaser to pay such individual share.

 Subsection 6.F sets forth some general conditions for assigning a conveyance value to the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline for the purposes of calculating the equity interest. It provides that the assigned value shall be reasonable in view of the estimated market value of the facility.

 Subsection 6.G defines the term during which Participating Purveyors are entitled to obtain payment of the equity interest if the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline is conveyed. That term ends at the end of the useful life of the facility, which in no case shall be longer than 60 years.

 Subsection 6.H creates a special account (the Tolt Pipeline Account) to record the financial data necessary to compute the equity interest under Formula 1. Similarly, Subsection 6.H provides for an annual accounting to Participating Purveyors of consumption data which will allow calculation of each Participating Purveyor's individual share of the equity interest.

 Finally, although there is provision for events should the City convey all or part of its water system, there is no intent by the City to do so and none should be inferred from the language in this Amendment.

 6.A. COMPUTATION OF EQUITY INTEREST IF VOLUNTARY CONVEYANCE.

 Although it is not anticipated that a voluntary conveyance will occur, in the event of a voluntary conveyance of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline (or a portion thereof), the equity interest of all Participating Purveyors shall be the lesser of the amount determined by Formula 1 or Formula 2 below, except that in no case shall the equity interest be less than the amount determined by Formula 3. If Formula 1 is used to calculate the equity interest, then the City shall be entitled to recover a return and depreciation on the portion conveyed for the year of conveyance.

 6.A.1. FORMULA 1.

 E1 = R(1+i1991) x (1+i1992) x...x (1 + iyear)

 +[D1990 x (1+i1991) x (1+i1992) x...x (1+iyear)

 +[D1991 x (1+i1992) x (1+i1993) x...x (1+iyear) +...+ Dyear] x (1- .02n)

 Where

 E1 = equity interest per Formula 1 at date of conveyance

 R = Net difference in Participating Purveyor costs, including interest, as provided in Subsection 4.C.

 I = Cost of equity capital for each year; in the year of conveyance, will be calculated to the date of conveyance, and rounded to three decimal places

 D = Depreciation expenses recovered from Participating Purveyors in a given year for the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline; in the year of conveyance, depreciation expenses will calculated to the date of conveyance

 Year = Year in which conveyance occurs

 N = Number of years between January 1, 1991, and the date of conveyance, calculated to two decimal places

 Example of Formula 1:

 If the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline were sold on January 1, 1994, and

 the net difference in purveyor costs (R) is $200,000, and

 depreciation expenses recovered from Participating Purveyors in a given year (D) are $600,000 for each year, and

 the rate of return on the City's equity capital (i) is 7% for each year (D1990...),

 then E1 = $200,000 x 1.070' + ($600,000 x 1.070' + $600,000 x 1.070' +

 $600,000 x 1.070 + $600,000) x (l- (.02 x 3.00))

 and E1 would equal $2,749,136.

 6.A.2. FORMULA 2.

 E2 = (P/T) x C

 Where

 E2= equity interest per Formula 2 at date of conveyance

 P = Cumulative de depreciation expenses recovered from Participating Purveyors beginning in 1990 to date of conveyance for the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline

 T = Cumulative depreciation expenses of all purveyors and the City beginning in 1990 to date of conveyance for the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline

 C = Value assigned to the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline conveyed per Subsection 6.F.

 Example of Formula 2

 If the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline were sold on January 1, 1994, and

 the cumulative depreciation expenses recovered from Participating Purveyors beginning in 1990 to date of conveyance for the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline (P) were $2,400,000, and

 the cumulative depreciation expenses of all purveyors and the City beginning in 1990 to date of conveyance for the rehabilitated Toll Pipeline (T) were $3,200,000, and

 the conveyance value were $36,800,000 (C),

 then E2 would equal $27,600,000.

 6.A.3 FORMULA 3.

 E3 = (P/0) x C

 Where

 E3 = equity interest per Formula 3 at date of conveyance

 P = Cumulative depreciation expenses recovered from Participating Purveyors beginning in 1990 to date of conveyance for the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline

 0 = Original Cost of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline

 C = Value assigned to the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline per Subsection 6.F.

 Example of Formula 3:

 If the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline were sold on January 1, 1994, and

 the cumulative depreciation expenses recovered from Participating Purveyors beginning in 1990 to date of conveyance for the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline (P) were $2,400,000, and

 the original cost of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline were $40,000,000 (0), and

 the conveyance value were $36,800,000 (C),

 then E3 would equal $2,208,000.

 Accordingly, in the example provided for Formulas 1-3 above, the value of the equity interest would be $2,749,136 because the equity interest under Formula 1 ($2,749,136) is less than the equity interest under Formula 2 ($27,600,000), but greater than the equity interest under Formula 3 ($2,208,000).

 6.B. COMPUTATION OF EQUITY INTEREST IF INVOLUNTARY CONYEYANCE.

 Although it is not anticipated that an involuntary conveyance will occur, if an involuntary conveyance of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline (or a portion thereof) occurs, the equity interest shall be the lesser of: (a) fifty percent of the amount computed under Subsection 6.A, or (b) the amount determined by Formula 4 below.

 6.B.1. FORMULA 4.

 E4 = E - [(P/T ) x B]

 Where

 E4 = equity interest per Formula 4 at date of conveyance

 E = Participating Purveyors' equity interest as computed under

 Subsection 6.A., i.e., the lesser of El or E2, but in no case less than E3

 P = Cumulative depreciation expenses recovered from Participating Purveyors beginning in 1990 to date of conveyance for the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline conveyed

 T = Cumulative depreciation expenses of all purveyors and the City beginning in 1990 to date of conveyance for the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline

 B = Total outstanding debt at date of conveyance for the portion of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline in question at the time of involuntary conveyance

 If the equity interest computed under this Subsection is a negative number, the equity interest shall be considered to be zero.

 6.C. EQUITY INTEREST IF PARTIAL CONVEYANCE.

 Although it is not anticipated that a conveyance will occur, in the event that a portion of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline is conveyed, the numbers used in the formulas shall include only such amounts as correspond to the portion conveyed. If only a portion is conveyed and the amount of depreciation recovered from Participating Purveyors for such portion cannot be reasonably determined, such amount shall be determined by using the ratio of the estimated original cost of the portion conveyed to the original cost of the entire rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline.

 6.D. PERCENTAGE SHARE OF PARTICIPATING PURVEYOR.

 The percentage share of each Participating Purveyor of the equity interest shall be equal to the ratio of the wholesale consumption by volume for the Participating Purveyor for the year 1990 through the year preceding the conveyance to the total wholesale consumption by volume for all Participating Purveyors during that same period of time.

 6.E. METHOD OF COMPENSATING PARTICIPATING PURVEYORS.

 Although it is not anticipated that a conveyance will occur, if the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline or any portion thereof is conveyed, the City shall provide in any contract for conveyance that the acquiring entity or entities shall distribute to each Participating Purveyor its percentage share of the equity interest. Such contract of conveyance shall provide for direct payment by the acquiring entity (or entities) to the Participating Purveyor within 120 days of the conveyance or through any other arrangement agreed to by the Participating Purveyor and the acquiring entity. However, in no case shall the City be required to pay such compensation directly to the Participating Purveyor.

 6.F. CONVEYANCE VALUE OF REHABILITATED PORTION OF THE TOLT PIPELINE.

 Although it is not anticipated that a conveyance will occur, any contract for conveyance of the rehabilitated tolt pipeline (or a portion thereof) shall assign a separate conveyance value to the facility for the purpose of determining the amount of compensation due the participating purveyors. The assigned conveyance value shall be reasonable in view of the estimated market value of the facility and shall be presumed to be not less than the book value of the portion conveyed unless the city shows by an appraisal that a lesser value is appropriate. The city's appraisal shall be done by an independent appraiser and use methods that are generally accepted for appraisal of like facilities. It is understood that the assigned conveyance value shall not include the value of any interests in real property associated with the rehabilitated tolt pipeline or any value added as a result of the expansion of the capacity of the original tolt pipeline. It is agreed that no rehabilitation or replacement done prior to the effective date of this amendment has expanded the capacity of the original tolt pipeline.

 6.G. TERM OF EQUITY INTEREST.

 The right of the Participating Purveyor to obtain its percentage share of the equity interest in the event of a conveyance shall continue until the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline has reached the end of its useful life. If a portion of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline reaches the end of its useful life, that portion shall no longer be considered a portion of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline for purposes of computing the equity interest. For purposes of this Section, "useful life" means the period of time that the portion of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline in question is in service for its intended purpose; however, the useful life of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline shall in no case exceed sixty years from the date the portion of such pipeline in question is first put into service. The equity interest in the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline provided under this Section shall not be affected by the termination of the Contract; however, the provisions of this Section shall not furnish evidence of the original intent of the parties with respect to duration of the term of the Purveyor Facilities Account interest under the Contract.

 6.H. TOLT PIPELINE ACCOUNT.

 The City shall establish a new accounting statement entitled the Tolt Pipeline Account. The purpose of this accounting statement is to record amounts which shall be used to determine the equity interest if Formula 1 is used. This accounting statement is similar in concept to the Purveyor Facilities Account ("PFA") under the Contract. The following amounts shall be recorded in the Tolt Pipeline Account: (a) the difference associated with the recomputation of purveyor costs for the years 1987 and 1988, including interest, provided for in Subsection 4.C., together with the amount of return earned annually by applying the cost of equity capital to this difference; and (b) the annual depreciation expenses on the Tolt Pipeline rehabilitation project recovered from the Participating Purveyors as provided for in Subsection 5.A., together with the amount of return earned annually by applying the cost of equity capital to these depreciation expenses.

 6.I. ANNUAL ACCOUNTING TO PARTICIPATING PURVEYORS.

 The City shall provide an annual accounting to each Participating Purveyor of the status of, the Tolt Pipeline Account. This accounting will include consumption data for determining each Participating Purveyor's share of compensation in the event of a conveyance of a portion of the rehabilitated Tolt Pipeline. This accounting may be included with the statements for the Purveyor Balance Account or the Purveyor Facilities Account.

 SECTION 7. JOINT FACILITY AGREEMENTS

 Introduction:

 Section 7 sets forth a procedure by which the City and Participating Purveyors may enter into Joint Facility Agreements for joint funding of future projects which are approved for such funding by the Seattle City Council. The terms of Joint Facility Agreements will be determined on a project-by-project basis. It is anticipated that such agreements would provide for a rate of return or other compensation to investing Participating Purveyors and additionally provide an equity interest, which would be realized in the event the project is conveyed.

 7.A. PURPOSE OF JOINT FACILITY AGREEMENTS.

 Joint Facility Agreements are for the purpose of allowing interested Participating Purveyors to invest in specific Capital Improvement Program ("CIP") facilities and thereby to obtain certain financial benefits. The Joint Facility Agreement shall specify the payments that the City shall make to Participating Purveyors that invest in a facility and the compensation due to such Participating Purveyors in the event that the facility is conveyed at a future date. Nothing in this Section shall preclude the City from entering into agreements with other investors for purposes of financing a CIP.

 7.B. GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR ENTERING JOINT FACILITY AGREEMENTS.

 i. If the City has identified any CIP projects that the City proposes to offer for joint investment, the City shall provide the Participating Purveyor with a copy of a proposed Joint Facilities Plan at the time of mailing the proposed CIP pursuant to Section VIII.A.5 of the Contract. The Joint Facilities Plan shall identify the facilities proposed for joint investment and state the proposed amount of investment. The City shall provide any Participating Purveyor an opportunity to comment on and propose changes to the proposed Joint Facilities Plan.

 ii. After making any changes to the Joint Facilities Plan which the City deems appropriate, the City shall submit the proposed Joint Facilities Plan, including copies of any proposed changes which have not been incorporated into the plan, to its City Council for approval as submitted or as maybe modified. Such submission shall be made at the time the CIP is submitted for approval.

 iii. If a Joint Facility Plan is authorized and if the City ultimately decides to pursue joint funding of a facility so authorized, it shall submit a proposed Joint Facility Agreement for such facility to all Participating Purveyors.

 iv. The allocation of the amount of equity subscription offered to Participating Purveyors in a Joint Facility Agreement shall be determined as follows:

 a. Initially, the amount of equity subscription available to each Participating Purveyor shall be limited to the percentage share of the Purveyor of the total water purchases by volume of all Participating Purveyors in the most recent calendar year.

 Example:

 If the City invites $10 million in equity subscription in a given project, and if a given Purveyor's share of total water purchases by volume of Participating Purveyors in the most recent calendar year is 15 percent, then this Purveyor's equity participation would be limited to $1.5 million.

 b. If any of the offered equity in a joint facility is not subscribed, the City may at its discretion offer any portion of such unsubscribed equity to purveyors who have already subscribed to an equity portion of the facility.

 7.C. ANNUAL ACCOUNTING TO SUBSCRIBING PURVEYORS.

 The City shall provide an annual accounting to all subscribing purveyors which shall identify all contributions to a joint facility and the percentage share of each subscribing purveyor and the City in such facility.

 SECTION 8. PURVEYOR FACILITIES ACCOUNT ("PFA").

 Introduction:

 The Contract provides that financial data for New Expansion Facilities be recorded in a Purveyor Facilities Account (PFA). Further, although the City is not contemplating conveyances, the Contract provides that in the event of the sale of a New Expansion Facility either the City will provide a credit to the purchaser or the purchaser will make a payment to the Purveyors to compensate for Purveyor contributions to such facility. Section 8 is intended to clarify two terms used in the Contract with regard to the payment of compensation to Purveyors if a New Expansion Facility is conveyed and to provide the Purveyors with financial data to determine their individual share of such compensation.

 The first term clarified is the "contract-signing purveyors' share of ... conveyance value," as referred to Subsections III.F.2 and III.F.3 of the Contract. Subsection III.F.2 defines that term as follows: "the contract-signing purveyors' share shall be the percentage of the facilities' costs that have been allocated to and paid by the contract-signing purveyors since signing the contract." This definition, however, does not state the basis for determining the "facilities' costs." Subsection 8.A. provides that the "facilities' costs" are to be based upon the original cost of those facilities, unadjusted for inflation and depreciation.

 The second term clarified is the "pro-rated share of the contract- signing purveyors' share of the conveyance value" as referred to in Subsection III.F.3 of the Contract. Subsection 8.B. of the Amendment defines the prorated share of each Purveyor in terms of the ratio of the total new water revenue ("growth charges") paid by the Purveyor beginning in 1984 through the year preceding the facility conveyance to the total new water revenue paid by all Purveyors during that same period of time.

 8.A. CUMULATIVE SHARE OF ALL PURVEYORS.

 The purpose of this Subsection is to clarify the method of determining the cumulative share of all Purveyors of the conveyance value of New Expansion Facilities, otherwise referred to as PFA facilities. The cumulative share of all Purveyors is referred to as the "contract signing purveyors' share of ... conveyance value" in Subsections III.F.2 and III.F.3 of the Contract. Such cumulative share shall be determined by multiplying the total conveyance value of the facilities upon sale times the ratio of Purveyor payments on principal recorded in the PFA for those facilities to the original cost of those facilities.

 Example of 8.A:

 Assume that the Highline Well Field was conveyed on January 1, 1992, for the amount of $5,000,000. Using data for the Highline Well Field from the 1991 PFA, the amount paid for the facility by all Purveyors since the Contract signing ($690,841) divided by total capital expenditures for the facility (5,744,137) is 12%. Accordingly, the cumulative share of all Purveyors would be $5,000,000 x 12% or $600,000.

 8.B. INDIVIDUAL SHARE OF EACH PURVEYOR.

 The purpose of this Subsection is to clarify the method for determining the individual share of each Purveyor of the cumulative share of all Purveyors defined in Subsection 8.A. The individual share of each Purveyor is referred to as the "pro-rated share of the contract signing purveyors' share of the conveyance value" in Subsection III.F.3. of the Contract. Although the City is not contemplating conveyances, such individual share shall be determined by multiplying the "contract signing purveyors' share of . . .conveyance value," as defined in Subsection 8.A. of this Amendment, times the ratio of the total new water revenue ("growth charges") paid by the Purveyor beginning in 1984 through the year preceding the conveyance to the total new water revenue paid by all Purveyors during that same period of time.

 Example of 8.B:

 Assume the Highline Well Field were conveyed on January 1, 1992, and it is necessary to determine the individual share of the City of Bellevue of the cumulative share of $600,000 of all Purveyors for the Highline Well Field as calculated in the example for Subsection 8.A. The 1991 Purveyor Statements indicate that the City of Bellevue paid $2,623,520 in growth charges from 1984 through 1991 and that all Purveyors paid $10,013,291 in growth charges for the same period. Thus, the individual share of the City of Bellevue for the Highline Well Field would be $2,623,520/$10,013,291 or 26.2%, times $600,000, which is $157,200.

 8.C. RECORD KEEPING FOR NEW EXPANSION FACILITIES.

 Although the City is not contemplating conveyances, the City shall maintain detailed records of the contributions of each Purveyor with respect to each New Expansion Facility included in the PFA so that if such facilities are conveyed, information is available to determine the percentage share of each Purveyor.

 SECTION 9. CONSERVATION PROGRAM COST ALLOCATION.

 Introduction:

 Under the Contract, the City's regional water conservation program is to be implemented with the assistance and support of the Purveyors. The Contract also provides that the City's basis for allocating costs of its regional conservation program is to be reviewed and evaluated by an independent rate consultant as a part of each rate study. However, the Contract does not supply any specific principles by which conservation cost allocation shall occur. The purpose of this Section is to provide such principles.

 Section 9 classifies conservation programs for purposes of cost allocation as local conservation, base conservation, and supply conservation. Local conservation costs are allocated only to the local entity involved. Base conservation costs are allocated using the allocation factor used to allocate the operation and maintenance expenses of existing old water supply facilities. Supply conservation costs, with certain limitations, are allocated using a similar allocation method to that used for New Expansion Facilities. Since Supply Conservation programs are generally to be treated as New Expansion Facilities, Section 9 accordingly provides for a equity payment to Purveyors in the event that such programs or other non- conservation New Expansion Facilities are conveyed.

 9.A. CLASSIFICATION OF CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

 Programs, which are substantially related to the conservation of water, shall be classified for cost allocation purposes in one of the following categories:

 9.A.1. LOCAL CONSERVATION.

 Local conservation programs are those initiated, administered, and financed by the City or a purveyor that are not offered or applied, or intended to be offered or applied, to all similarly situated customers in the region. A pilot program for a base conservation or a supply conservation program shall be classified in the same manner as the potential regional program would be classified regardless whether the pilot program is offered or applied to the region. For purposes of Section 9, the term region shall refer to the direct service area of the City and of the purveyors to the extent supplied by the City.

 9.A.2. BASE CONSERVATION.

 Base conservation programs are those offered or applied, or intended to be offered or applied, to all similarly situated customers in the region that provide education, information, technical policy analysis, and/or support services associated with water conservation. Further, non-local conservation programs which do not qualify as supply conservation will be considered base conservation. Generally, the costs of these programs will not be funded as capital improvement projects. Programs conducted under this category may provide demand reduction, but the savings are difficult or impossible to quantify.

 9.A.3. SUPPLY CONSERVATION.

 Supply conservation programs are those offered or applied, or intended to be offered or applied, to all similarly situated customers in the region that provide for conservation measures which produce a reasonably quantifiable amount of water savings on a cost effective basis as cost effectiveness is defined in the Comprehensive Regional Water Plan. Except for unusual cases, programs under this category will be identified and funded through the City's Capital Improvement Program.

 9.B. IMPLEMENTATION OF CLASSIFICATION.

 No later than the preparation and audit of the annual Purveyor Statements for a year in which related costs are being recorded, the City's classification of conservation programs will be submitted for approval to the Purveyor Committee.

 If the City and the Purveyor Committee cannot reach agreement on the classification of an ongoing program that is listed on Appendix A within 60 days of the date of submission to the Committee, the classifications on Appendix A shall remain in effect for such program.

 If the City and Purveyor Committee cannot, reach agreement on the classification of a program that is not listed on Appendix A to this Amendment within 60 days of the date of submission to the Committee or within such other time as the Committee and the City may agree upon, an impasse will be deemed to have occurred and the City shall submit the question of classification to the independent rate consultant, who shall make a determination within 30 days of such submission. If no independent rate consultant is currently under contract, the City shall select a qualified independent rate consultant within 60 days after an impasse is reached. In making a determination on classification, the independent rate consultant shall give serious consideration to classifications given to similar programs as set forth in Appendix A and shall base such determination on the definitions and principles contained in this Section.

 9.C. ALLOCATION OF CONSERVATION PROGRAM COSTS.

 9.C.1. LOCAL CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

 The City shall not allocate the costs of local programs to the purveyors pursuant to the Contract.

 9.C.2. BASE CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

 The City shall treat the costs of base conservation programs as old water costs and allocate such costs to the purveyors based on the weighted average of purveyor shares of total system peak season flows and average annual flows, with the weights reflecting the portions of existing old water supply facilities that are related to peak season versus annual flows. The balance of base conservation program costs shall be allocated to the City's direct service customers.

 9.C.3. SUPPLY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

 Subject to the limitations provided in Subsection 9.1) below, the City shall treat the costs of supply conservation programs as new water costs and allocate such costs to the purveyors based on the purveyors' share of growth in the City's wholesale and retail sales since 1980 measured by water volume. It is agreed that relative shares of growth in sales from 1980 to 1990 result in allocation factors of 77.6% to purveyors and 22.4% to the City's direct service customers. The above percentages will be used for all supply conservation programs initiated during the 1992-94 period. The allocation factors assigned a program shall remain unchanged for the accounting life of the program. Allocation factors for a new program will be set for the life of the program in the Purveyor Balance Account statement for the first year in which expenditures occur for the program.

 9.C.4. RECLAIMED WATER AND RELATED PROGRAMS.

 Section 9 and the cost allocation provisions therein shall not apply to programs which involve the use of reclaimed water (as defined under RCW title 90), well water that does not meet state or federal drinking water standards, storm water, or any non-potable water; however, programs which involve the reuse and treatment of non-potable water on the same site where the prior use occurred shall be covered by this Section. The City and the Purveyors may enter a separate agreement with respect to any program excluded from the coverage of this Amendment under this Subsection.

 9.D. LIMITATIONS ON ALLOCATION OF SUPPLY CONSERVATION

 PROGRAM COSTS.

 9.D.1. MARGINAL COST LIMITATION.

 If the summer new water rate charged to the purveyors exceeds wholesale peak season marginal cost as a result of the allocation of the costs of supply conservation costs pursuant to Subsection 9.C.3, the costs of new supply conservation programs (or portions PP thereof) will be allocated as base conservation programs until such point that the new water rate is equal to wholesale peak season marginal cost, as defined by the most recent rate study.

 9.D.2. COST SHARING LIMITATION.

 Introduction:

 Most Supply Conservation programs will produce a direct financial benefit to program participants through reduced water consumption and related energy, sewer, or other savings. In designing such programs, a decision must be made whether, and to what extent, to recover some of the costs of such programs from participating water users or to offer incentives to such participants. The Water System is said to "share the costs" of the program util tile participants to the extent that the participants pay some of the costs associated with tile conservation device or measure from which they receive a direct benefit. This Subsection sets forth a procedure for purveyor input on program cost sharing and establishes principles of allocation in the event the City and the Purveyor Committee are unable to agree on the appropriate level of cost sharing.

 Prior to implementation of a supply conservation program, the City shall consult with the Purveyor Committee about the level of Regional Water Supply System and participant cost sharing that is appropriate for the program. Following such consultation, the City shall provide a written proposal to the Purveyor Committee that sets forth, a proposed level of cost sharing for the program in question. If the Purveyor Committee objects to the City's proposal, the Committee shall within 60 days from receipt of the City's proposal submit a good faith alternative proposal. If such alternative proposal is not timely submitted, all relevant program costs shall be allocated as new water costs pursuant to subsection 9.C.3. The Purveyor Committee shall in writing approve or disapprove any subsequent City counter-proposal within 45 days of receipt, and the failure to act within this period shall be construed to be an approval. If the City elects to proceed with tile program at a level of cost sharing other than one approved by the Purveyor Committee, the costs of the supply conservation program in question shall be allocated according to the following principles:

 (1) To the extent that a supply conservation program meets either one or both of the following two conditions, net programs costs for such portion of the program shall be allocated as supply conservation under Subsection 9.C.3:

 (a) The program is offered or applied, or intended to be offered or applied, to residential customers. For purposes of this provision, residential customers shall mean (1) customers paying for us using service at single family dwellings or multifamily dwellings of four or fewer units; and (2) customers paying for or using service at multi- family dwellings of more than four units that are individually metered.

 (b) The program is offered or applied, or intended to be offered or applied, to non-residential customers that are federal, state, or local governmental entities or schools or an organization exempt from federal taxation under section 501(c)(3) of title 26 of the United States Code; however, programs directed toward purveyor utility management, such as billing system enhancements, shall not be covered by this condition.

 (2) To the extent that a supply conservation program does not meet condition a or b as set forth above, programs costs for such portion of the program shall be allocated one half as supply conservation under Subsection 9.C.3 and one half as base conservation under Subsection 9.C.2.

 (3) If the Purveyor Committee and the City disagree over whether, or the extent to which, a program meets the above conditions, the dispute shall be submitted to the independent rate consultant, selected pursuant to Subsection 9.13 above, for a determination within 30 days of such submission.

 (4) It is agreed that notwithstanding the provisions of this Subsection, that all costs of the City's existing Home Water Savers program shall for the accounting life of the program be allocated as supply conservation under Subsection 9.C.3.

 9.E. AMORTIZATION AND FINANCING OF PROGRAM COSTS.

 If a supply conservation program is expected to produce conservation savings for longer than one year, and if appropriate under generally accepted accounting practices, the City shall capitalize and amortize the capital costs of such program over the period during which the benefits are expected to be realized or the accounting period used for amortization. Such programs may be partially or entirely debt financed with debt maturities consistent with the period of benefit.

 9.F. NEW EXPANSION FACILITY DESIGNATION FOR SUPPLY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

 To the extent the costs of supply conservation programs are allocated as new water costs pursuant to subsection 9.C.3, such programs shall be considered as New Expansion Facilities under the Contract and the costs of such programs shall be recorded in the PFA. Such facilities shall be subject to the following special provisions:

 9.F.1. EQUITY VALUE UPON CONVEYANCE.

 Although it is not anticipated that a conveyance will occur, if a supply conservation program is conveyed to another entity, the equity value of such program shall be distributed to the Purveyors in the same manner as provided for other PFA facilities under the Contract. The equity value of the program shall be determined by multiplying the program's total conveyance value, as defined in Subsection 9.F.3 below, times the ratio of Purveyor payments recorded in the PFA to the total original cost of the conservation facility.

 9.F.2. CONSTRUCTIVE CONVEYANCE OF SUPPLY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

 Although it is not anticipated that a conveyance will occur, supply conservation programs that do not involve assets that are owned by the city shall be deemed to be constructively conveyed in whole or part if the regional water supply system is conveyed or if water facilities that are directly involved with the supply of water to the purveyors are conveyed. if the entire regional water supply system is not conveyed, such programs shall be deemed to be conveyed in proportion to the ratio of the book value of the portion of the regional water supply system conveyed to the book value of the entire regional water supply system. the city shall maintain detailed records so that if such conveyance occurs information will be available to purveyors to determine the individual share of each purveyor of the equity value.

 9.F.3. CONVEYANCE VALUE OF SUPPLY CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.

 Supply conservation programs (or portions thereof) shall be deemed to have a conveyance value equal to their depreciated original cost. If a program has been fully depreciated, the conveyance value shall be zero.

 9.F.4. DISCLAIMER OF BASIS FOR DETERMINING VALUE.

 Nothing in Section 9 shall be interpreted or relied on to establish a basis for determining the conveyance value of water facilities that are not part of a supply conservation program.

 SECTION 10. WORKING CAPITAL AND INTEREST THEREON.

 Introduction:

 As part of determining revenue requirements in the setting of rates, the City has included amounts for funding a cash balance to cover the time lag between payment of expenses and collection of revenue. This cash balance is commonly referred to as "working capital." The purpose of Section 10 is to clarify the methods used to determine the purveyors' share of the revenue requirement for working capital on new water and old water expenses and to credit the purveyors for interest that would be earned on working capital if invested.

 Section 10.A provides for the City to set a reasonable target for purveyor working capital for each rate period. The purveyor target for the current rate period is one-eighth of the purveyors' share of operation and maintenance expenses, but the City may change that target in future rate periods as long as the target does not become negative.

 Section 10.B sets forth the method for determining purveyor working capital revenue requirements for old water expenses. Under the established practice, the City contributes the funds needed to met the working capital target on old water expenses and the purveyors compensate the City for contributing such funds by paying a rate of return on the funds. The City has in the past charged the purveyors using the rate of return provided in the Contract; several purveyors have contended that rate is too high since its does not take into account the interest the City could earn on the working capital funds it contributes. Section 10.B provides that the City's average rate of interest earnings from working capital is to be subtracted from the rate of return.

 Section 10.C sets forth the method for determining purveyor working capital revenue requirements for new water expenses. Unlike the practice for old water, the purveyors contribute the funds needed to met the working capital target for new water expenses. As Section 10.C provides, the amount of new water working capital purveyors contribute for each rate period is carried over to the next, so in the current rate period the purveyors contribute only any difference between the prior target and the current target. If the current target is lower than the prior target, the purveyors receive a credit to revenue requirements. Section 10.C also provides that purveyors are to be given a credit for interest the City would earn on new water working capital that the purveyors contribute if such funds were invested.

 10.A. TARGET FOR PURVEYOR WORKING CAPITAL.

 For each rate period, the City shall set a reasonable target for purveyor working capital. The current purveyor target is one-eighth (45 days worth) of annual operation and maintenance expenses allocated to the purveyors; however, the City may change the target in future rate periods, provided that the purveyor working capital target is not negative.

 Target working capital rather than projected or actual cash balances will be used for both rate making and Purveyor Balance Account calculations. Accordingly, target working capital based on purveyor operation and maintenance expenses, rather than the purveyor share of the average cash balance of the Water Department, shall be used to determine the actual revenue requirements for purveyor working capital.

 10.B. OLD WATER WORKING CAPITAL.

 The purveyor revenue requirement for old water working capital shall be determined by multiplying the working capital target for purveyor old water expenses times the rate of return on working capital as set forth below. In order to credit the purveyors for interest that the City could earn on purveyor old water working capital, the rate of return on such working capital shall be based on the net difference of the rate of return provided under the Contract and the average yield the City realized on working capital.

 The average yield the City realized on working capital shall I be the interest earned on cash and investments divided by total cash and investments.

 If the City finds that developing or maintaining the above data proves overly burdensome, the City may alternatively use a rate of return on working capital based on the difference between the rate of return and the 90-day Treasury bill rate.

 Example of 10.B:

 Assume that old water expenses allocated to purveyors for a given year are $6,000,000, and that the current target for working capital is one-eighth of such expenses. Assume further the rate of return is 7% and the average yield the City realized on working capital is 4%. For that year, the purveyor revenue requirement for old water working capital would be $750,000 ($6,000,000/8) times 3% (7%-4%) for a total of $22,500.

 10.C. NEW WATER WORKING CAPITAL.

 The purveyor revenue requirement for new water working capital shall be the increase or decrease in cash necessary to bring working capital for purveyor new water expenses from its prior target to its current target.

 In order to credit the purveyors for interest that the City could earn on purveyor new water working capital, the purveyors shall receive a credit against purveyor revenue requirements for new water based on their cumulative contributions to working capital attributable to new water activities and facilities. The credit shall be equal to the average yield realized by the City on working capital (or alternatively, the 90-day Treasury bill rate) as provided in Subsection 10.B times the cumulative purveyor working capital contributions for new water.

 Example of 10.C:

 Assume that new water expenses allocated to purveyors for a given year are $160,000, and that the current target for working capital is one- eighth of such expenses. Assume further that the target for new water working capital for the prior year is $15,000. and that the average yield the City realized on working capital for the current year is 4%. For the current year, the purveyor target for new water working capital would be $20,000 ($160,000/8). Accordingly, the purveyor revenue requirement for new water for such year would be $5,000 ($20,000 - $15,000). The purveyor interest credit would be $800 ($20,000 x 4%).

 10.D. INTEREST EXPENSES FOR CASH MANAGEMENT.

 If the City charges the purveyors for working capital, the City shall not in addition allocate to the purveyors any interest expenses associated with short-term borrowing for working capital; provided that interest expenses on balances in the Purveyor Balance Account shall not be affected by this provision.

 SECTION 11. ALLOCATION OF COSTS FOR REGIONAL FACILITIES INSIDE CITY DIRECT SERVICE AREA.

 The costs associated with any facilities, whether located inside or outside the limits of the City direct service area, which are used in supplying water to purveyors may be proportionately allocated to the purveyors. Such allocation shall not be precluded because such costs have not been so allocated in past rate studies.

 SECTION 12. ALLOCATION OF WATERSHED COSTS.

 The primary purpose of the City's mountain watersheds is to secure and safeguard the supply of high quality water entering the system. Recognizing that these large watershed areas and their multiple resources have been subject to environmental losses associated with water supply facilities and are unavailable for general public access, the City's watershed management policies provide for certain secondary uses which do not interfere with the City's ability to carry out its primary purposes and which provide mitigation for such losses and lack of access. These secondary use policies allow such activities as cultural resource protection, research and public education programs, habitat preservation, and controlled timber harvest. The capital and operation and maintenance costs associated with the adopted primary and secondary uses represent costs of water supply and shall therefore be allocated to purveyors in a manner consistent with other water supply costs, except that direct and indirect costs which would not be incurred absent revenue generating activities (commercial timber harvest, hydropower generation) shall not be allocated to purveyors, unless a corresponding share of the resulting revenues is credited to purveyors. Before changing any policies regarding secondary uses for the Cedar River Watershed or establishing such policies for the Tolt River Watershed, the City will describe to the Purveyors the scope of the proposed change, any cost or revenue implications, and the basis for concluding that the proposed change will not interfere with the City's ability to protect water quality. The City will seriously consider the Purveyors' comments and concerns.

 SECTION 13. FUNDING PURVEYOR COSTS.

 The City shall budget and reimburse administrative support expenses of the Purveyor Committee through an agreement with the Purveyor whose representative serves as Chair, providing such an agreement can be reached. Such agreement shall specify the administrative support services planned and eligible for reimbursement, the maximum amount of reimbursement, and the form of documentation required. Compensation paid to the Chair of the Purveyor Committee or other representatives to the Committee is not eligible for reimbursement. All reimbursed administrative support costs shall be allocated to the purveyors and recovered through the wholesale rates.

 The agreement between the City and the Purveyor Committee Chair's individual jurisdiction assumes that the reimbursable administrative support services will be provided by and through the individual jurisdiction. Unless specifically authorized by the Chair and a reimbursable type of expense, expenditures of other Purveyors will not be eligible under this agreement.

 Professional, technical, legal or other expert services are not covered by this agreement and are not eligible for the reimbursement arrangements described here. However, nothing herein precludes individual Purveyors, groups of Purveyors, or the Purveyor Committee from raising funds independently of the City and engaging such services.

 SECTION 14. SECONDARY BENEFITS TO SPECIFIC PURVEYORS

 Before entering into a bilateral agreement with an individual Purveyor, or a multilateral agreement with a number of Purveyors, to undertake a joint action or project involving more than $15,000 in direct costs, the City will notify the Purveyor Committee and fully describe the proposed terms of such agreement, including any proposed allocation of costs based on anticipated benefit. The City will seriously consider any comments or concerns expressed by the Purveyor Committee before entering into the agreement and will inform the Purveyors of the reasons for its decision.

 Some projects or actions, either joint or unilateral, may not require a specific site within the service area in order to meet their intended systemwide purposes. If such projects or actions are also likely to provide significant secondary benefits to a specific Purveyor, the City will consider "siting" the project or action through a process that "auctions" the opportunity among interested Purveyors.

 SECTION 15. INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED TO PURVEYORS WITH RATE

 STUDIES.

 As part of each rate study, the City will provide the Participating Purveyors with the following information in additional to other information which may be required:

 i. Information on the amount of and basis for allocating costs to purveyors for projects which are not specifically plant-in-service but which produce benefits lasting more than one year and which are capitalized and amortized over the life of the assets involved.

 ii. Information on the basis for general fund service charges, on the dollar amounts involved, and on the basis for allocating portions of these costs to the purveyors.

 iii. Information on any changes in the employer contribution to the City Retirement Fund and an estimate of the impact of such changes on the amount of revenue required from purveyors.

 SECTION 16. TERM OF THIS AMENDMENT

 This Amendment shall take effect upon the later date that this Amendment is signed by the Participating Purveyor or by the Mayor of the City, as appears on the Signature Page of this Amendment, and shall continue in effect until the termination of the Contract, except as specifically provided in Subsection 6.F. of this Amendment.

 SECTION 17. EFFECT OF THIS AMENDMENT.

 Except as may be expressly provided herein, the rights and the duties provided for in the Contract shall remain unchanged by this Amendment. Further, except as may be expressly provided herein, the language and the provisions herein shall not be used as proof or evidence of the intent of the parties under the Contract. Further, except as may be expressly provided herein, the definitions and the provisions of this Amendment are applicable only to the provisions of this Amendment and do not affect or alter the Contract. If any provision of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, invalid, or void, the remaining provisions shall be given full force and effect, unless the invalid portion is found by such court to render performance of the Amendment unworkable or to seriously affect consideration, in which case, the entire Amendment shall be invalid and void.

 SECTION 18. DISCLAIMER.

 Nothing in this Amendment shall obligate the City, or be construed to indicate an intent on part of the City, to sell, convey, or transfer, voluntarily or involuntarily, the Regional Water Supply System, the Tolt Pipeline or any part thereof. Further, nothing in this Amendment shall diminish or limit the City's exclusive right to operate and maintain the Regional Water Supply System or any part thereof. This Disclaimer is applicable to each and every section of this Amendment and shall be controlling in any forum or court of law.

 SECTION 19. CONVERSION OF VERSION A OF THE WATER PURVEYOR CONTRACT TO VERSION B

 The City and any Participating Purveyor that has entered Version A, and any amendments thereto, hereby agree to convert Version A to Version B, as amended on February 3, 1982, and February 26, 1982. This conversion shall be deemed to relate back to the date that Version A became mutually binding, and this Amendment shall apply to the Participating Purveyor as if such purveyor had initially entered Version B; except that pursuant to this Amendment and conversion no equity interest in the Purveyor Facilities Account under Section IILF of Version B shall be conferred for New Expansion Facility costs allocated prior to January 1 of the year in which this Amendment takes effect.

 SIGNATURE PAGE

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereby execute this First Amendment to the Water Purveyor Contract.

 Participating Purveyor:________________________ A________________corporation

 BY:______________________________ ITS:_____________________________ (SEAL) DATE:__________________

 AUTHORIZING LEGISLATION:_________

 CITY: THE CITY OF SEATTLE A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION BY:______________________________ (SEAL) MAYOR DATE:____________________________ AUTHORIZING LEGISLATION: ORDINANCE_____________

 APPENDIX A

 CONSERVATION PROGRAM CLASSIFICATION (LC) LOCAL CONSERVATION (BC) BASE CONSERVATION (SC) SUPPLY CONSERVATION

 Regulatory Programs Rate Incentives (BC) Landscaping and Water Use Codes (LC) Code Enforcement (LC) Water Watchers (LC)

 Seasonal Programs Water Calendars (BC) Media Campaign (BC/LC) Water Shortage Response (note 1) (BC/LC) Local Customer Interface (LC)

 Education-Training School Curriculum (note 2) (BC/LC) School Programs (LC) Home Show Demonstrations (BC) Demonstration Gardens (LC) Training Programs (BC/LC)

 Technical Assistance Residential Audits (LC) Commercial/Industrial Audits (note 3) (SC/BC) Irrigation Audits/ET Systems (note 3) (SC/BC) Technical Studies (note 4) (SC/BC)

 Programmatic Commercial Toilet Retrofit (SC) Residential Toilet Retrofit (SC) Home Water Savers Program (SC) Non-Revenue Water Reduction (note 5) (SC/LC) Leak Detection and repair (note 5) (SC/LC) Reuse (note 6) (SC)

 Administration Data Base and Program Monitoring (note 4) (SC/BC/LC) Retail Customer Inquiries (LC) Media Coordination (note 4) (SC/BC/LC) Market Surveys (BC/LC) Coalition Membership (LC)

 Drought/Emergency Response (BC)

 Notes:

 1. The coordination of the development of local plans through providing consistent formats, and plan review and approval would be BC. The actual development of local plans would be LC.

 2. Coordination on state programs or the development of model programs would be BC. Coordination with individual school districts would be LC.

 3. The costs of audits that lead directly to SC program implementation will be treated as a SC program cost. The costs of audits that are preformed for educational or informational purposes, or that expect that participants will fund program implementation, will be treated as a BC program cost.

 4. Costs are to classified the same way as the program being studied, monitored, or promoted.

 5. Water saving efforts on the regional system shall be SC. Distribution system costs shall be LC.

 6. The Amendment covers only a narrowly defined category of reuse. See Section 9.C.4.

```
