

********

**Council Bill Number: 112965**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119791**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Sections 23.22.020, 23.22.054, 23.24.020, 23.24.040, 23.41.014, 23.44.014, 23.45.014, and 23.45.056 of the Seattle Municipal Code to provide for the added protection of trees during the development process.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 6, 1999
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 14, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 13, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 18, 1999
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, LAND-USE-PERMITS, TREES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 118012, 110570, 119239, 119399, 119242, 118414

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Sections 23.22.020, 23.22.054, 23.24.020, 23.24.040, 23.41.014, 23.44.014, 23.45.014, and 23.45.056 of the Seattle Municipal Code to provide for the added protection of trees during the development process. NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection A of Section 23.22.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 118012, is further amended as follows:

 23.22.020 Content of preliminary plat application.

 A. Every preliminary plat application shall consist of one (1) or more maps together with written data including the following:

 1. The name of the proposed subdivision;

 2. North point and scale; the location of existing property lines; streets, building, if any; watercourses and all general features;

 3. The legal description of the land contained within the subdivision;

 4. The names and addresses of all persons, firms and corporations holding interest in the lands, including easement rights and interest;

 5. The proposed names, locations, widths and other dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, easements, parks, lots, building lines, if any, and all other information necessary to interpret the plat, including the location of existing utility and access easements which are to remain;

 6. The location of streets in adjoining plats and the approximate location of adjoining utilities and proposed extensions into the plat;

 7. The names of adjoining plats;

 8. The name, address and telephone number and seal of the registered land surveyor who made the survey or under whose supervision it was made;

 9. The date of the survey;

 10. All existing monuments and markers located by the survey;

 11. The zoning classification applicable to the land within the subdivision;

 12. The conditions of or the limitations on dedications, if any, including slope rights;

 13. Contour intervals as required, based upon City datum;

 14. Property information including, but not limited to, address, legal description, and Assessor's Parcel number;

 15. Evidence of ownership or authorization from the property owner to make the application;

 16. A signed statement of financial responsibility by the applicant and owner acknowledging financial responsibility for all applicable permit fees;

 17. Drainage plan;

 18. Landscape plan; ~~and~~

 19. Identification of any adjacent property within three hundred (300) feet of the proposed subdivision that is owned or controlled by the applicant; and

 20. Specific location and description of all trees at least six (6) inches in diameter measured four and one-half (41/2) feet above the ground, with species indicated

 Section 2. Section 23.22.054 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 118012, is further amended as follows:

 23.22.054 Public use and interest.

 The Hearing Examiner shall inquire into the public use and interest proposed to be served by the establishment of the subdivision and dedication. The Hearing Examiner shall consider all relevant facts to determine whether the public interest will be served by the subdivision and dedication, and if it finds that the proposed plat makes appropriate provision for the public health, safety and general welfare and for open spaces, drainage ways, streets, alleys, other public ways, transit stops, potable water supplies, sanitary wastes, fire protection facilities, parks, playgrounds, sites for school and school grounds, sidewalks and other planning features that assure safe walking conditions for students who walk to and from school, is designed to maximize the retention of existing trees, and that the public use and interest will be served by the platting of subdivision, then it shall be approved. If the Hearing Examiner finds that the proposed plat does not provide the appropriate elements or that the public use and interest will not be served, then the Hearing Examiner may disapprove the proposed plat. Dedication of land to any public body may be required as a condition of subdivision approval and shall be clearly shown on the final plat. The Hearing Examiner shall not as a condition to the approval of any plat require a release from damages to be procured from other property owners.

 Section 3. Section 23.24.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 110570, is amended as follows:

 23.24.020 Content of application.

 Applications for approval of a short subdivision shall include the following:

 A. A plat of the proposed short subdivision containing standard survey data;

 B. A vicinity map on which shall be indicated the property to be subdivided;

 C. A plot plan, as appropriate, showing the location and dimensions of existing buildings in relation to the proposed short subdivision;

 D. Legal descriptions of the property to be subdivided and of all proposed lots or divisions;

 E. Name and address of owner(s) of the tract;

 F. Location of existing roadways, sanitary sewer, storm drain and water mains, if any, together with proposed street improvements; and  G. Specific location and description of all trees and shrubs at least six (6) inches in diameter measured four and one-half (41/2) feet above the ground, with species indicated

.

 Section 4. Subsection A of Section 23.24.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 119239, is further amended as follows:

 23.24.040 Criteria for approval.

 A. The Director shall, after conferring with appropriate officials, use the following criteria to determine whether to grant, condition or deny a short plat:

 1. Conformance to the applicable Land Use Policies and Land Use Code provisions;

 2. Adequacy of access for vehicles, utilities and fire protection as provided in Section 23.53.005;

 3. Adequacy of drainage, water supply and sanitary sewage disposal;

 4. Whether the public use and interests are served by permitting the proposed division of land;

 5. Conformance to the applicable provisions of SMC Section 25.09.240, Short subdivisions and subdivisions, in environmentally critical areas;

 6. Is designed to maximize the retention of existing trees;

7. Conformance to the provisions of Section 23.24.045, Unit lot subdivisions, when the short subdivision is for the purpose of creating separate lots of record for the construction and/or transfer of title of townhouses, cottage housing, clustered housing, or single- family housing.

 Section 5. Subsection B of Section 23.41.014 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 119399, is further amended as follows:

 23.41.014 Design review process.

 B. Early Design Guidance Public Meeting.

 1. Following a preapplication conference, and site visits by Design Review Board members assigned to review a proposed project, an early design guidance public meeting with the Design Review Board shall be held.

 2. The purpose of the early design guidance public meeting shall be to identify concerns about the site and the proposed project, review the design guidelines applicable to the site, determine neighborhood priorities among the design guidelines, and explore design concepts and/or options.

 3. At the early design guidance public meeting, the project proponents shall present the following information:

 a. An initial site analysis addressing site opportunities and constraints, the use of all adjacent buildings, and the zoning of the site and adjacent properties; and

 b. A drawing of existing site conditions, indicating topography of the site and the location of structures and prominent landscape elements on or abutting the site (including but not limited to all trees six inches (6") or greater in diameter measured four and a half feet (41/2') above the ground, with species indicated); and

 c. Photos showing the facades of adjacent development, trees on the site, general streetscape character and territorial or other views from the site, if any; and

 d. A zoning envelope study which includes a perspective drawing; and

 e. A description of the proponent's objectives with regard to site development.

 4. The proponent is encouraged, but not required, to bring one (1) or more development concepts or alternatives to indicate possible design options for the site.

 Section 6. Subsection D of Section 23.44.014 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 119239, is further amended as follows:

 23.44.014 Yards.

 D. Exceptions from Standard Yard Requirements. No structure shall be placed in a required yard except pursuant to the following subsections:

 1. Certain Accessory Structures. Any accessory structure may be constructed in a side yard which abuts the rear or side yard of another lot, or in that portion of the rear yard of a reversed corner lot within five (5) feet of the key lot and not abutting the front yard of the key lot, upon recording with the King County Department of Records and Elections an agreement to this effect between the owners of record of the abutting properties. Any accessory structure which is a private garage may be located in that portion of a side yard which is either within thirty- five (35) feet of the centerline of an alley or within twenty-five (25) feet of any rear lot line which is not an alley lot line, without providing an agreement as provided in Section 23.44.016.

 2. A single-family structure may extend into one (1) side yard if an easement is provided along the side or rear lot line of the abutting lot, sufficient to leave a ten (10) foot separation between that structure and any principal or accessory structures on the abutting lot. Features and projections such as porches, eaves, and chimneys shall be permitted in the ten (10) foot separation area as if the property line were five (5) feet from the wall of the house on the dominant lot, provided that no portion of either principal structure including eaves shall cross the actual property line. The easement shall be recorded with the King County Department of Records and Elections. The easement shall provide access for normal maintenance activities to the principal structure on the lot with less than the required side yard.

 3. Certain Additions. Certain additions may extend into a required yard when the existing single-family structure is already nonconforming with respect to that yard. The presently nonconforming portion must be at least sixty (60) percent of the total width of the respective facade of the structure prior to the addition. The line formed by the nonconforming wall of the structure shall be the limit to which any additions may be built, except as described below. They may extend up to the height limit and may include basement additions. New additions to the nonconforming wall or walls shall comply with the following requirements (Exhibit 23.44.014A):

 a. Side Yard. When the addition is a side wall, the existing wall line may be continued by the addition except that in no case shall the addition be closer than three (3) feet to the side lot line;

 b. Rear Yard. When the addition is a rear wall, the existing wall line may be continued by the addition except that in no case shall the addition be closer than twenty (20) feet to the rear lot line or centerline of an alley abutting the rear lot line;

 c. Front Yard. When the addition is a front wall, the existing wall line may be continued by the addition except that in no case shall the addition be closer than fifteen (15) feet to the front lot line;

 d. When the nonconforming wall of the single-family structure is not parallel or is otherwise irregular, relative to the lot line, then the Director shall determine the limit of the wall extension, except that the wall extension shall not be located closer than specified in subsections D3a-c above.

 4. Uncovered Porches. Uncovered, unenclosed porches or steps may project into any required yard, provided that they are no higher than four (4) feet on average above existing grade, no closer than three (3) feet to any side lot line, no wider than six (6) feet and project no more than six (6) feet into required front or rear yards.

 5. Special Features of a Structure. Special features of a structure may extend into required yards subject to the following standards only, unless permitted elsewhere in this chapter:

 a. External architectural details with no living area, such as chimneys, eaves, cornices and columns, may project no more than eighteen (18) inches into any required yard;

 b. Bay windows shall be limited to eight (8) feet in width and may project no more than two (2) feet into a required front, rear, and street side yard;

 c. Other projections which include interior space, such as garden windows, may extend no more than eighteen (18) inches into any required yard, starting a minimum of thirty (30) inches above finished floor, and with maximum dimensions of six (6) feet tall and eight (8) feet wide;

 d. The combined area of features permitted in subsections D5b and c above may comprise no more than thirty (30) percent of the area of the facade.

 6. Private Garages, Covered Unenclosed Decks or Roofs Over Patios in Rear Yards.

 a. Any attached private garages or covered, unenclosed decks or roofs over patios are portions of principal structures. They may extend into the required rear yard, but shall not be within twelve (12) feet of the centerline of any alley, nor within twelve (12) feet of any rear lot line which is not an alley lot line, nor closer than five (5) feet to any accessory structure. The height of private garages shall meet the provisions of Section 23.44.016D2 and the height of the roof over unenclosed decks and patios may not exceed twelve (12) feet. The roof over these decks, patios and garages shall not be used as a deck. Any detached private garage meeting the requirements of Section 23.44.016, Parking location and access, or detached permitted accessory structure meeting the requirements of Section 23.44.040,General provisions, may be located in a rear yard. If a private garage has its vehicular access facing the alley, the private garage shall not be within twelve (12) feet of the centerline of the alley.

 b. Garages meeting the standards of Section 23.44.016 and other accessory structures meeting the standards of Section 23.44.040, shall be permitted in required rear yards, subject to a maximum combined coverage of forty (40) percent of the required rear yard. In the case of a rear yard abutting an alley, rear yard coverage shall be calculated from the centerline of the alley.

 7. Private Garages in Front Yards of Through Lots. On through lots less than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet in depth, either an accessory garage structure or a portion of the principal structure containing a garage shall be permitted to locate in one (1) of the front yards. Private garages, either as accessory structures or as a portion of the principal structure, shall be limited as set forth in Section 23.44.016. The front yard in which the garage may be located shall be determined by the Director based on the location of other accessory garages on the block. If no pattern of garage location can be determined, the Director shall determine in which yard the accessory garage shall be located based on the prevailing character and setback patterns of the block.

 8. Access Bridges. Uncovered, unenclosed pedestrian bridges of any height, necessary for access and five (5) feet or less in width, are permitted in required yards except that in side yards an access bridge must be at least three (3) feet from any side lot line.

 9. Barrier-free Access. Access facilities for the disabled and elderly meeting Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11 are permitted in any required yards.

 10. Freestanding Structures and Bulkheads.

 a. Fences, freestanding walls, signs and similar structures six (6) feet or less in height above existing or finished grade, whichever is lower, may be erected in any required yard. The six (6) foot height may be averaged along sloping grade for each six (6) foot long segment of the fence, but in no case may any portion of the fence exceed eight (8) feet. Architectural features may be added to the top of the fence or freestanding wall above the six (6) foot height when the following provisions are met: horizontal architectural feature(s), no more than ten (10) inches high, and separated by a minimum of six (6) inches of open area, measured vertically from the top of the fence, may be permitted when the overall height of all parts of the structure, including post caps, are no more than eight (8) feet high; averaging the eight (8) foot height is not permitted. Structural supports for the horizontal architectural feature(s) may be spaced no closer than three (3) feet on center.

 b. The Director may allow variation from the development standards listed in subsection D10a above, according to the following:

~~i.~~(1) No part of the structure may exceed eight (8) feet; and

~~ii.~~(2) Any portion of the structure above six (6) feet shall be predominately open, such that there is free circulation of light and air.

 c. Bulkheads and retaining walls used to raise grade may be placed in any required yard when limited to six (6) feet in height, measured above existing grade. A guardrail no higher than forty-two (42) inches may be placed on top of a bulkhead or retaining wall existing as of the date of the ordinance codified in this section. If a fence is placed on top of a new bulkhead or retaining wall, the maximum combined height is limited to nine and one-half (9-1/2) feet.

 d. Bulkheads and retaining walls used to protect a cut into existing grade may not exceed the minimum height necessary to support the cut or six (6) feet, whichever is greater. When the bulkhead is measured from the low side and it exceeds six (6) feet, an open guardrail of no more than forty- two (42) inches meeting Building Code requirements may be placed on top of the bulkhead or retaining wall. A fence must be set back a minimum of three (3) feet from such a bulkhead or retaining wall.

 e. When located in the shoreline setbacks or in view corridors in the Shoreline District as regulated in Chapter 23.60, these structures shall not obscure views protected by Chapter 23.60 and the Director shall determine the permitted height.

 11. Decks in Yards. Decks no greater than eighteen (18) inches above existing or finished grade, whichever is lower, may extend into required yards.

 12. Heat Pumps. Heat pumps and similar mechanical equipment, not including incinerators, may be permitted in required yards if the requirements of the Noise Control Ordinance, Chapter 25.08, are not violated. Any heat pump or similar equipment shall not be located within three (3) feet of any lot line.

 13. Solar Collectors. Solar collectors may be located in required yards, subject to the provisions of Section 23.44.046.

 14. Front Yard Projections for Structures on Lots Thirty (30) Feet or Less in Width. For a structure on a lot which is thirty (30) feet or less in width, portions of the front facade which begin eight (8) feet or more above finished grade may project up to four (4) feet into the required front yard, provided that no portion of the facade, including eaves and gutters, shall be closer than five (5) feet to the front line (Exhibit 23.44.014 B).

 15. Front and rear yards may be reduced by twenty-five (25) percent, but no more than five (5) feet, if the site contains a required environmentally critical area buffer or other area of the property which can not be disturbed pursuant to subsection A of Section 25.09.280 of SMC Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas.

 16. Arbors. Arbors may be permitted in required yards under the following conditions:

 a. In any required yard, an arbor may be erected with no more than a forty (40) square foot footprint, measured on a horizontal roof plane inclusive of eaves, to a maximum height of eight (8) feet. Both the sides and the roof of the arbor must be at least fifty (50) percent open, or, if latticework is used, there must be a minimum opening of two (2) inches between crosspieces.

 b. In each required yard abutting a street, an arbor over a private pedestrian walkway with no more than a thirty (30) square foot footprint, measured on the horizontal roof plane and inclusive of eaves, may be erected to a maximum height of eight (8) feet. The sides of the arbor shall be at least fifty (50) percent open, or if latticework is used, there must be a minimum opening of two (2) inches between crosspieces.

17. Protection of Trees. Front yards may be reduced to protect existing trees in rear yards and rear yards may be reduced to protect existing trees in front yards. To qualify for this exception, the tree(s) shall be at least six (6) inches in diameter, measured four and one-half (41/2) feet above the ground. The tree must also be in a condition and location such that it will not present a hazard to life or property following site development, and can be expected to remain healthy for at least twenty years as determined by a qualified tree care professional.  a. Upon the request of the applicant, the Director shall permit the applicant to move the proposed development activity and other land disturbance activity and obtain up to a five (5) foot reduction in front or rear yard requirements when this would be sufficient to protect an existing tree as determined by a qualified tree care professional.

 b. Any yard reduction greater than five (5) feet to protect a tree shall require approval through a tree protection special exception. Notice of application and review process and procedures for this special exception and of the Director's decision on the application shall be provided in the manner prescribed for Type II land use decisions as set forth in SMC Chapter 23.76. A tree protection special exception shall be authorized only when all the following facts and conditions are found to exist:

 (1) The applicable yard requirements would make it impossible to protect existing tree(s) without causing undue hardship; and

 (2) The requested yard reduction does not go beyond the minimum necessary to protect the tree(s) as determined by a qualified tree care professional; and

 The yard reduction will not result in a development that is materially detrimental to the character, design and streetscape of the surrounding neighborhood, considering such factors as height, bulk, scale, yards, pedestrian environment, and amount of vegetation remaining.

 Section 7. New subsection I of Section 23.45.014 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 119242, is added as follows:

 23.45.014 Setback requirements - Lowrise zones.

I. Protection of Trees. Front setbacks may be reduced to protect existing trees in rear setbacks and rear setbacks may be reduced to protect existing trees in front setbacks. To qualify for this exception, the tree(s) shall be at least six (6) inches in diameter, measured four and one-half (41/2) feet above the ground. The tree must also be in a condition and location such that it will not present a hazard to life or property following site development, and can be expected to remain healthy for at least twenty years as determined by a qualified tree care professional.  1. Upon the request of the applicant, the Director shall permit the applicant to move the proposed development activity and other land disturbance activity and obtain up to a five (5) foot reduction in front or rear setback requirements when this would be sufficient to protect an existing tree as determined by a qualified tree care professional.

 2. Any setback reduction greater than five (5) feet to protect a tree shall require approval through a tree protection special exception. Notice of application and review process and procedures for this special exception and of the Director's decision on the application shall be provided in the manner prescribed for Type II land use decisions as set forth in SMC Chapter 23.76. A tree protection special exception shall be authorized only when all the following facts and conditions are found to exist:

 a. The applicable setback requirements would make it impossible to protect existing tree(s) without causing undue hardship; and

 b. The requested setback reduction does not go beyond the minimum necessary to protect the tree(s) as determined by a qualified tree care professional; and

 c. The setback reduction will not result in a development that is materially detrimental to the character, design and streetscape of the surrounding neighborhood, considering such factors as height, bulk, scale, setbacks, pedestrian environment, and amount of vegetation remaining.

 Section 8. Subsection D of Section 23.45.056 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 118414, is further amended as follows:

 23.45.056 Midrise - Setback requirements.

 D. General Setback Exceptions.

 1. Required Setbacks for Cluster Developments.

 a. Where two (2) or more principal structures are located on a lot, the required setback between those portions of interior facades which face each other shall be as follows:

 Length of Facing Average Setback Minimum Setback Portions of (in feet) (in feet) Facades (in feet)

 40 or less 15 15 41-60 20 15 61-80 25 15 81-100 30 15 101-150 40 15 151 or more 50 15

 b. Structures in cluster developments may be connected by underground garages or elevated walkways; provided, that:

 (1) One (1) elevated walkway shall be permitted to connect any two (2) structures in the development;

 (2) Additional elevated walkways, in excess of one (1), between any two (2) structures may be permitted by the Director when it is determined that by their location or design a visual separation between structures is maintained;

 (3) All elevated walkways shall meet the following standards:

 i. The roof planes of elevated walkways shall be at different levels than the roofs or parapets of connected structures.

 ii. Walkways shall be set back from street lot lines and the front facades of the structures they connect, and whenever possible shall be located or landscaped so that they are not visible from a street.

 iii. The design of the walkways and the materials used shall seek to achieve a sense of openness and transparency.

 iv. Elevated walkways shall add to the effect of modulation rather than detract from it.

 2. Structures in Required Setbacks.

 a. Detached garages, carports or other accessory structures are permitted in the required rear or side setbacks, provided that any accessory structure located between a principal structure and the side lot line shall provide the setback required for the principal structure (Exhibit 23.45.056 D). All such accessory structures shall be no greater than twelve (12) feet in height, with open rails permitted above twelve (12) feet.

 b. Ramps or other devices necessary for access for the disabled and elderly, which meet Washington State Building Code, Chapter 11- Accessibility, are permitted in required front, side or rear setbacks.

 c. Uncovered, unenclosed pedestrian bridges, necessary for access and less than five (5) feet in width, are permitted in required front, side and rear setbacks.

 d. Permitted fences, freestanding walls, bulkheads, signs and other similar structures, no greater than six (6) feet in height, are permitted in required front, side or rear setbacks.

 e. Decks which average no more than eighteen (18) inches above

 h. Fences, Freestanding Walls, Bulkheads, Signs and Other Similar Structures.

 (1) Fences, freestanding walls, signs and similar structures six (6) feet or less in height above existing or finished grade whichever is lower, may be erected in each required setback. The six (6) foot height may be averaged along sloping grade for each six (6) foot long segment of the fence, but in no case may any portion of the fence exceed eight (8) feet.

 Architectural features may be added to the top of the fence or freestanding wall above the six (6) foot height when the following provisions are met: horizontal architectural feature(s), no more than ten (10) inches high, and separated by a minimum of six (6) inches of open area, measured vertically from the top of the fence, may be permitted when the overall height of all parts of the structure, including post caps, are not more than eight (8) feet high; averaging the eight (8) foot height is not permitted. Structural supports for the horizontal architectural feature(s) may be spaced no closer than three (3) feet on center.

 (2) The Director may allow variation from the development standards listed in subsection D2h(1) above, according to the following:

 i. No part of the structure may exceed eight (8) feet; and

 ii. Any portion of the structure above six (6) feet shall be predominately open, such that there is free circulation of light and air.

 (3) Bulkheads and retaining walls used to raise grade may be placed in each required setback when limited to six (6) feet in height, measured above existing grade. A guardrail no higher than forty-two (42) inches may be placed on top of a bulkhead or retaining wall existing as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section. If a fence is placed on top of a new bulkhead or retaining wall, the maximum combined height is limited to nine and one-half (9 1/2) feet.

 (4) Bulkheads and retaining walls used to protect a cut into existing grade may not exceed the minimum height necessary to support the cut or six (6) feet whichever is greater. When the bulkhead is measured from the low side and it exceeds six (6) feet, an open guardrail of no more than forty-two (42) inches meeting Building Code requirements may be placed on top of the bulkhead or retaining wall. A fence must be set back a minimum of three (3) feet from such a bulkhead or retaining wall.

 i. Arbors. Arbors may be permitted in required setbacks under the following conditions:

 (1) In each required setback, an arbor may be erected with no more than a forty (40) square foot footprint, measured on a horizontal roof plane inclusive of eaves, to a maximum height of eight (8) feet. Both the sides and the roof of the arbor must be at least fifty (50) percent open, or, if latticework is used, there must be a minimum opening of two (2) inches between crosspieces.

 (2) In each required setback abutting a street, an arbor over a private pedestrian walkway with no more than a thirty (30) square foot footprint, measured on the horizontal roof plane and inclusive of eaves, may be erected to a maximum height of eight (8) feet. The sides of the arbor shall be at least fifty (50) percent open, or, if latticework is used, there must be a minimum opening of two (2) inches between crosspieces.

 3. Front and rear setbacks may be reduced by twenty-five (25) percent, but no more than five (5) feet, if the site contains a required environmentally critical area buffer or other area of the property which can not be disturbed pursuant to the provisions of subsection A of Section 25.09.280 of SMC Chapter 25.09, Regulations for Environmentally Critical Areas.

4. Protection of Trees. Front setbacks may be reduced to protect existing trees in rear setbacks and rear setbacks may be reduced to protect existing trees in front setbacks. To qualify for this exception, the tree(s) shall be at least six (6) inches in diameter, measured four and one-half (41/2) feet above the ground. The tree must also be in a condition and location such that it will not present a hazard to life or property following site development, and can be expected to remain healthy for at least twenty years as determined by a qualified tree care professional.  a. Upon the request of the applicant, the Director shall permit the applicant to move the proposed development activity and other land disturbance activity and obtain up to a five (5) foot reduction in front or rear setback requirements when this would be sufficient to protect an existing tree as determined by a qualified tree care professional.

 b. Any setback reduction greater than five (5) feet to protect a tree shall require approval through a tree protection special exception. Notice of application and review process and procedures for this special exception and of the Director's decision on the application shall be provided in the manner prescribed for Type II land use decisions as set forth in SMC Chapter 23.76. A tree protection special exception shall be authorized only when all the following facts and conditions are found to exist:

 (1) The applicable setback requirements would make it impossible to protect existing tree(s) without causing undue hardship; and

 (2) The requested setback reduction does not go beyond the minimum necessary to protect the tree(s) as determined by a qualified tree care professional; and

 (3) The setback reduction will not result in a development that is materially detrimental to the character, design and streetscape of the surrounding neighborhood, considering such factors as height, bulk, scale, yards, pedestrian environment, and amount of vegetation remaining.

 Section 9. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 10. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ___ day of ___________, 1999, and

 Signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ___ day of _____________, 1999. ________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ___ day of ______________, 1999. ________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this ___ day of ________________, 1999. _________________________________ City Clerk 12/1/99 tree-ord v2

 exception shall be authorized only when all the following facts and conditions are found to exist:

 (1) The applicable setback requirements would make it impossible to protect existing tree(s) without causing undue hardship; and

 (2) The requested setback reduction does not go beyond the minimum necessary to protect the tree(s) as determined by a qualified tree care professional; and

```
