

********

**Council Bill Number: 112954**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119745**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center; authorizing execution of a ground lease with The Inn at the Center, LLC, to use and occupy Seattle Center Parking Lot Number 4 for the construction, maintenance and operation of a hotel and parking facility.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 15, 1999
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 19, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 18, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 11, 1999
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, HOTELS, SEATTLE-CENTER

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center; authorizing execution of a ground lease with The Inn at the Center, LLC, to use and occupy Seattle Center Parking Lot Number 4 for the construction, maintenance and operation of a hotel and parking facility.

 WHEREAS, in July 1990 the City Council adopted the Seattle Center Master Plan, which encouraged the private development of a small hotel in close proximity to the Seattle Center campus; and

 WHEREAS, in 1997, Northwest Hotel Management Group, LLC, later renamed The Inn at the Center, LLC ("The Inn") approached Seattle Center about the possibility of leasing City-owned land to build a hotel; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Center and The Inn agreed that the City-owned surface parking lot known as "Lot #4", located directly across the street to the west of the Pacific Science Center at Second Avenue North and John Street, could serve as a possible hotel development site; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Center and The Inn outlined specific conditions regarding a hotel development in a non-binding Letter of Intent signed by both parties in February 1998, which included the replacement of Lot #4 parking stalls and associated revenue, as well as community review of the hotel design; and

 WHEREAS, on August 16, 1999 the City Council adopted Resolution 30004 which authorizes the Executive to negotiate an agreement with The Inn to use and occupy Seattle Center Parking Lot Number 4 for the construction of a hotel; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to negotiate and execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a ground lease with The Inn at the Center, LLC substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto as Exhibit "1" and identified as "GROUND LEASE BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND THE INN AT THE CENTER, LLC" or with such additions, modifications or deletions as the Mayor or said Director deems to be in the best interest of the City. The Director is further authorized to execute and record, if necessary, for and on behalf of the City, any ancillary documents, contemplated in said Ground Lease.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Adopted by the City Council the _____ day of _____________,1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its adoption this _____ day of ________________, 1999.

 ________________________________________

 President __________ of the City Council

 Filed by me this ______ day of _________________, 1999.

 ________________________________________

 City Clerk

 THE MAYOR CONCURRING:

 ______________________________

 Mayor

 (Seal)

 Attachments listed on following page.

 Attachments

 Exhibit "1" Ground Lease between The City of Seattle and The Inn at the Center , LLC, including the following Exhibits:

 Exhibit A - Depiction of Premises

 Exhibit B - Legal Description of the Premises

 Exhibit C - Construction Standards for City Parking Facility with Attachment 1, Configuration of City Parking Facility

 Exhibit D - City Parking Facility Lease Agreement with Attachment1, Depiction of the Premises and Attachment 2, Legal Description of the Premises

 Exhibit E - Seattle Center Guidelines for the Construction of The Inn at the Center, LLC Hotel

 Exhibit F - Seattle Center Festival Dates

 Exhibit G - Insurance Requirements

 Exhibit H Memorandum of Ground Lease with Attachment 1, Legal Description

 sc:HH

 September 29, 1999 HOTORD_1.DOC (Ver. 3) GROUND LEASE Between The City of Seattle and The Inn at the Center, LLC

 This Ground Lease is made as of this ___ day of _______, 1999, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington (the "City"), acting through its Seattle Center Director ("Director"), and THE INN AT THE CENTER, LLC (the "Inn"), a Washington limited liability company.

 1. PREMISES.

 Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the City leases to the Inn the property depicted on the attached Exhibit A and legally described on Exhibit B, which are hereby incorporated by reference. The property described above is referred to herein as the "Premises."

 2. USE.

 During the term of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall construct or install on the Premises and maintain, operate and hold title to a building together with related facilities and improvements for the primary purpose of operating a limited service first class hotel of not more than 159 rooms, together with all necessary or incidental activities reasonably related thereto (the "Hotel"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Inn shall be permitted to construct and/or operate only a limited service restaurant on the Premises. The restaurant shall not be a destination restaurant, shall have no exterior signage, and shall not be permitted to operate with a Class H liquor license unless the Inn obtains the consent of the Experience Music Project therefor. The number of seats for the restaurant shall not exceed seventy-five (75).

 Throughout the term of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall operate the Hotel pursuant to a current franchise agreement with an established franchiser of limited service first class hotels and shall make a copy of its current franchise agreement available to the Director upon request.

 The improvements to be constructed pursuant to this Ground Lease are referred to herein as the "Hotel Improvements". The Hotel Improvements shall include any and all fixtures, furnishings, equipment and other items of personal property that are used or necessary to generally operate the above-referenced Hotel and any discrete systems and elements of the foregoing (e.g., HVAC, electrical, water, sewer, humidity controls, elevators, security, telephones, fire alarms, sprinklers and fire suppression devices, security, public address systems, and signage). The Hotel Improvements shall also include the City Parking Facility, as further described in Subsection 9.1, below. The cost of construction of the Hotel Improvements shall not be less than $10,000,000.

 During the term of this Ground Lease and any extension or renewal thereof, the Inn shall not use or permit the Premises, any part thereof or any part of the Hotel Improvements to be used for any purpose other than those set forth above except with the consent of the Director, or in any manner that will disturb or injure the owner, occupants or tenants of any adjoining property.

 3. TERM.

 The initial term of this Ground Lease shall be forty (40) years, commencing on __________, and ending at midnight, ________, 20_ ("Initial Term"), unless sooner terminated as provided in this Ground Lease. Upon the agreement of the parties, and provided the Inn is not in default of any of its obligations hereunder at the expiration of the Initial Term, this Ground Lease may be extended for two additional fifteen (15)-year periods ("Extended Terms") upon the terms and conditions contained herein. The Inn shall notify the City, in writing, of its desire to extend the term of this Ground Lease not later than one (1) year prior to expiration of the Initial Term and the first Extended Term, if applicable.

 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this Ground Lease shall be null and void and of no further force and effect unless the Inn has commenced construction of the Hotel Improvements, as defined in Subsection 10.11, below, no later than sixty (60) days after the Inn's receipt of all necessary permits and approvals for construction or December 31, 2000, whichever occurs first. In such event, the Inn shall restore the Premises to their original condition in accordance with Subsection 10.15 if the same have been altered in any way.

 4. CONSTRUCTION FINANCING.

 Prior to commencement of any construction on the Premises, the Inn shall demonstrate to the Director's satisfaction that the Inn has secured one or more binding commitments for the financing of one hundred percent (100%) of the anticipated construction cost of the Hotel Improvements by delivering to the Director for review, a copy of every agreement and document creating any loan or line or letter of credit therefor. The Inn's failure to provide documentation of construction financing as required by this Section 4 shall render this Ground Lease null and void and of no further force and effect, and the Inn shall restore the Premises to their original condition in accordance with Subsection 10.15 of this Ground Lease if the same have been altered in any way.

 5. POSSESSION AND OCCUPANCY.

 Upon the commencement of the Initial Term of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall have possession and use of and may construct the Hotel Improvements on the Premises, subject to the rights reserved by the City herein. The Inn shall not, however, occupy any of the Hotel Improvements until it has obtained a certificate of occupancy therefor.

 6. RENT.

 6.1. Initial Term. Subject to the provisions of Subsection 6.6, below, the initial Annual Rent for the Inn's occupation and use of the Premises, which the Inn agrees to pay the City without deduction or offset, shall be the Fair Market Rate of Return for the Premises multiplied by the appraised Fair Market Value of the Premises. The parties agree that the initial Fair Market Rate of Return shall be eight and 1/2 percent (8.5%)of the appraised Fair Market Value of the Premises and that for the first year of this Ground Lease, the Annual Rent, based upon an independent appraisal, would be $204,000 were the Hotel constructed to the height and according to the elevations presented to the City's Culture, Arts and Parks Committee on October 13, 1999 and containing a maximum of 195 units. The parties agree thatupon execution of this Ground Lease the Premises shall be promptly reappraised and the Fair Market Value of the Premises shall be adjusted to reflect restrictions imposed by the City upon the design and development of the Hotel since October 13, 1999, to the extent relevant to a determination of Fair Market Value. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of such reappraisal, the City shall reimburse the Inn for any overpayment of the Good Faith Deposit described in Section 8 or any overpayment of prepaid Annual Rent. The cost of any such reappraisal shall be shared equally by the parties.

 6.1.1. The Annual Rent shall be adjusted upward each year on the anniversary of the commencement date of this Ground Lease (each, a "Rent Adjustment Date") to reflect increases in the total noncompounded percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Metropolitan Area ("CPI"), as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics for the preceding twelve months. The City shall notify the Inn in writing at least two (2) months prior to each Rent Adjustment Date of the new Annual Rent amount that will be due starting on such Rent Adjustment Date. By way of example only, if the CPI on the commencement date of this Ground Lease is 100 and the CPI two months prior to the Rent Adjustment Date is 110 and the annual rent due under this Ground Lease immediately prior to the Rent Adjustment Date is $100,000, then the total CPI adjustment would be 10% and annual rent under this Ground Lease would increase to $110,000 effective as of the Rent Adjustment Date. If the CPI two months prior to the second annual Rent Adjustment Date is 107 and the annual rent due under this Ground Lease immediately prior to the second Rent Adjustment Date is $110,000, then the total CPI adjustment would be 7% and annual rent under this Ground Lease would increase to $117,700 effective as of the Rent Adjustment Date. In the event the CPI is discontinued, the parties shall agree upon another similar index to be used to calculate the contemplated adjustments, and in the event of an inability to agree, the parties shall request the American Arbitration Association or its successor to appoint a qualified arbitrator to establish an appropriate adjustment standard.

 6.1.2. There shall be an option exercisable one time for each two and one-half (2 1/2) year period commencing ____________, 20__, and every two and one-half (2 1/2) years thereafter during the Initial and any Extended Term to have the fair market value of the Premises reappraised (the "Reappraisal Option"). Either the City or the Inn may exercise the Reappraisal Option for any of the two and one-half (2 1/2) year periods specified above, subject to the following limitations: (a) the applicable Reappraisal Option for a two and one- half (2 1/2) year period may only be exercised during such two and one-half (2 1/2) year period and the one (1) year immediately prior to such two and one-half (2 1/2) year period, (b) once one party has exercised the applicable Reappraisal Option for a two and one-half (2 1/2) year period, neither party shall have any further rights to exercise a Reappraisal Option during such two and one-half (2 1/2) year period. Subject to the foregoing limitations, a party can exercise a Reappraisal Option by simply delivering written notice of its exercise of the Reappraisal Option to the other party. Upon delivery of the exercise notice, the parties shall proceed to obtain the Fair Market Value of the Premises (each, a "Reappraisal Date") in the manner described in Subsection 6.5, below. Said reappraisal shall be the Fair Market Value for the purpose of computing the Annual Rent until the next Reappraisal Date or until the Initial Term or any Extended Term expires.

 6.1.3. In addition to the reappraisal of Fair Market Value described in Subsection 6.1.2, the City shall have an option exercisable one time for each fifteen (15)-year period commencing ____________, 20__, and every fifteen (15) years thereafter while this Ground Lease is in effect, to have the Current Fair Market Rate of Return for the Premises reappraised. Reappraisals to determined the Current Fair Market Rate of Return shall be at the City's sole expense provided the parties mutually agree upon a single appraiser. If the City and the Inn cannot agree upon one appraiser, then the procedures for selection of appraisers described in Subsection 6.5, including the allocation of costs therefor, shall apply.

 6.2. Extended Terms.

 The Annual Rent for the Inn's occupation and use of the Premises throughout the Extended Terms shall be then-Current Fair Market Rate of Return multiplied by the then-current Fair Market Value of the land subject to this Ground Lease as of the commencement date of each Extended Term. The City and the Inn shall obtain an appraisal according to the terms of this Ground Lease in order to determine the Current Fair Market Rate of Return and the current Fair Market Value of the Premises prior to the commencement of an Extended Term.

 6.3. Fair Market Value. The term "Fair Market Value" of the land shall mean the price that a commercially-reasonable purchaser, who is willing but not obligated to purchase the land, would be willing to pay for the land in an unimproved state to an owner willing but not obligated to sell it, taking into consideration all uses for which the land was suited and might be applied, any restrictions imposed by the City, and assuming the land was owned by a private seller and contained 28,838 square feet.

 6.4. Fair Market Rate of Return. The term "Fair Market Rate of Return" shall mean the rental income that a property would most probably command in the open market, indicated by current rents paid and asked for comparable land as of the date of the appraisal.

 6.5. Selection of Qualified Appraiser and Allocation of Appraisal Costs. When an appraisal of the Premises is required by the terms of this Ground Lease, the City and the Inn shall attempt to agree, by the date one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the Reappraisal Date or commencement of the Extended Term, on one qualified appraiser who will determine the Fair Market Value of the land and the Fair Market Rate of Return, if applicable. If the City and the Inn cannot mutually agree upon an appraiser, then one qualified appraiser shall be appointed by the Inn and one qualified appraiser shall be appointed by the City within fifteen (15) days of notice by one party to the other of such disagreement. In such a case, the Inn shall be solely responsible for the fees of the Inn's appointed appraiser, and the City shall be solely responsible for the fees the City's appointed appraiser. The two qualified appraisers shall determine the Fair Market Value of the land and, if applicable, the Fair Market Rate of Return; provided, however, if either party fails to appoint a qualified appraiser within such fifteen (15) day period, then the conclusion of the qualified appraiser first appointed shall be final, conclusive and binding upon both parties. The qualified appraiser(s) appointed shall proceed to determine Fair Market Value and Fair Market Rate of Return, if applicable, within thirty (30) days following such appointment. The conclusion shall be final, conclusive and binding upon both the City and the Inn. If said appraisers should fail to agree, but the difference in their conclusions as to either the Fair Market Value or Fair Market Rate of Return is ten percent (10%) or less of the lower of the two corresponding appraisals, the Fair Market Value or Fair Market Rate of Return, as appropriate, shall be deemed the average of the two.

 If the two appraisers should fail to agree on the Fair Market Value or the Fair Market Rate of Return, and the difference between the two corresponding appraisals exceeds ten percent (10%), then the two appraisers thus appointed shall appoint a third qualified appraiser, and in case of their failure to agree on a third appraiser within fifteen (15) days after their individual determination of the Fair Market Value or Fair Market Rate of Return, either party may apply to the Presiding Judge of the King County Superior Court, requesting said Judge to appoint the third qualified appraiser. The third appraiser so appointed shall determine the Fair Market Value of the land or the Fair Market Rate of Return, as applicable, and the average of the appraisals of the two closest appraisers shall be final, conclusive and binding upon both parties. The fees and expenses of said third appraiser or the one appraiser the City and the Inn agree upon, shall be borne equally by the City and the Inn. The City and the Inn shall pay the fees and expenses of their respective appraisers if the parties fail to agree on a single appraiser. All appraisers appointed or selected pursuant to this Section shall have at least ten (10) years experience appraising properties in the Seattle, Washington, metropolitan area and shall be members of the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers or its equivalent.

 Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, in no event shall the Annual Rent as recalculated as the result of any reappraisal be less than the amount of Annual Rent paid by the Inn for the year immediately prior to said reappraisal.

 6.6. Reduced Rent During Hotel Construction. From the date the Premises are closed for public parking as indicated in the notice referred to in Subsection 9.3, through completion of construction as defined in Subsection 10.11, below, the Inn shall pay an Interim Rent equal to fifty percent (50%) of the Annual Rent as adjusted each year in accordance with Paragraph 6.1.1.

 7. TIME AND MANNER OF PAYMENT.

 Interim Rent shall be payable as follows: From the inception of the obligation, the Inn shall pay the City, in advance, the sum of $2,350 per month. The City shall deduct the balance of Interim Rent due, in advance at the City's discretion, from the Good Faith Deposit described in Section 8. In the event construction continues beyond seventeen (17) months, the City shall continue to deduct Interim Rent from the Good Faith Deposit at intervals determined by the City until the deposit is exhausted. Thereafter, the Inn shall directly pay the City the entire amount of Interim Rent due on a monthly basis. The Interim Rent shall be prorated to reflect the date the certificate of occupancy for the Hotel is issued.

 The Inn shall begin paying Annual Rent on the date the certificate of occupancy for the Hotel is issued. Annual Rent shall be paid monthly, in advance.

 All payments due under this Ground Lease shall be by check payable to the City of Seattle and shall be sent to the City in care of Seattle Center Accounts Receivable, 305 Harrison Avenue, Seattle, WA 98109, or such other place as the Director may designate from time to time in writing.

 The Inn shall pay interest on all sums in arrears under this Ground Lease at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date when said sum becomes due until the date it is paid in full.

 8. GOOD FAITH DEPOSIT.

 Within ten (10) days of execution of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall deposit with the City one year's Annual Rent. The deposit shall be for the purpose of satisfying the Inn's Interim Rent obligation as described in Subsection 6.6, above, and to ensure completion of the Hotel. The balance of the deposit remaining after satisfaction of the Inn's Interim Rent obligation, if any, shall be returned to the Inn upon its written request and without interest only upon (a) the issuance to the Inn of a certificate of occupancy for the Hotel Improvements; (b) the inability of the Inn, for reasons beyond its control, to obtain all necessary permits and approvals for the Hotel Improvements; or (c) termination pursuant to Subsection 31.9. If the Inn fails to provide such deposit to the City , upon written notice from the City to the Inn, this Ground Lease shall be null and void and the Inn shall restore the Premises to their original condition in accordance with Subsection 10.15 of this Ground Lease if the same have been altered in any way.

 9. PRESERVATION OF SEATTLE CENTER PARKING.

 9.1. Construction of Underground City Parking Facility. The Inn shall construct, or cause to be constructed as part of the Hotel Improvements, an underground-parking garage consisting of two levels. The lower garage level shall contain not less than 78 parking stalls, shall have means of ingress and egress separate from the upper garage level, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications therefor approved by the Director as provided in Subsection 10.4, below, and with the standards contained in Exhibit C. The lower garage level is referred to herein as the "City Parking Facility". Upon completion of construction of the City Parking Facility, the Inn shall promptly secure a certificate of occupancy therefor, and shall lease the same shall to the City in full operating condition and upon the terms and conditions of the City Parking Facility Lease Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit D, and incorporated herein by reference.

 9.2. Noncompetition with Seattle Center Parking. For the duration of this Ground Lease, the Inn agrees that it its public parking rates shall be the same as those charged by the City to the general public for use of the City Parking Facility.

 9.3. Compensation for Lost Parking Revenues. The Inn shall compensate the City monthly for any and all parking revenues lost by the City as a consequence of construction of the Hotel Improvements, beginning in the month this Ground Lease commences. The Inn shall provide the Seattle Center project manager with a minimum of ten (10) days' notice of the anticipated closure of the existing public parking facility located on the Premises and known as Parking Lot 4. Until the closure of Parking Lot 4, the City shall have the right to enter the Premises and to collect all parking revenues therefrom. Following the closure of Parking Lot 4, compensation for lost parking revenues shall be payable by the Inn within ten (10) days from the date of each Seattle Center invoice therefor until such time as the City Parking Facility is completed and turned over to the City in full operating condition according to the terms of the City Parking Facility Lease Agreement. In addition, for the duration of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall compensate the City for any and all parking revenues lost by the City as a consequence of any work stoppages or labor strikes resulting in closure of the City Parking Facility through no fault of the City. Compensation due under this Subsection shall be payable within ten (10) days from the date of each Seattle Center invoice therefor until such time as the City Parking Facility is returned to operation. The amount of said compensation shall be prorated for partial months as necessary, and shall equal the average amount of receipts actually collected in the same month during the preceding three (3) years, adjusted upward to reflect parking rate increases and the annual noncompounded percentage increase in the CPI, as described in Paragraph 6.1.1, above.

 9.4. Access to Adjacent Parking Lot During Construction. During construction of the Hotel Improvements, the Inn shall maintain public access to and use of the 26-stall parking lot located adjacent to the Premises. The Inn shall relocate the payment box for the adjacent lot and shall install such signage as the Director determines is necessary for lot operation, all at the sole cost of the Inn. In the event that access to any of these 26 stalls is blocked or any stalls are, in the opinion of the Director, rendered unusable by the construction of the Hotel Improvements, the Inn shall compensate the City for any and all lost parking revenues from said stalls while the stalls are unusable. The amount of compensation and manner of payment shall be as described in Subsection 9.3, above.

 9.5. Additional Public Parking. In addition to any other parking requirement imposed by this Ground Lease, the Inn shall provide on the Premises a minimum of ten (10) secured parking spaces which shall be available to the general public for monthly parking at a reasonable market rate approved by the Director. Preference for the use of these spaces shall be given to neighborhood residents living within five hundred (500) feet of the Premises. In the event that any of these parking spaces are not used by the general public for monthly parking for a continuous period of two years, the Inn's obligation hereunder with respect to each such parking space shall cease.

 10. CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS ON THE PREMISES.

 10.1. Duty to Construct. The Inn shall construct, or cause the Hotel Improvements to be constructed on the Premises subject to receipt of all necessary permits. Said construction shall be at the Inn's sole cost and expense. All of the construction shall be performed and completed in the manner and according to the terms and conditions set forth in this Ground Lease. The Hotel Improvements shall be consistent with the conceptual design approved by the Director, and shall strictly comply with plans and specifications approved by the City of Seattle Department of Construction and Land Use ("DCLU") and reviewed and approved by the Director. No material addition to or structural alteration of the Hotel Improvements shall be commenced until and unless the Director approves plans and specifications therefor, in writing, as provided in Subsection 10.4, below. If the Inn is unable for reasons beyond its control to obtain any permit necessary for the construction of the Hotel Improvements, then this Ground Lease shall terminate ninety (90) days following the Inn's notice to the City of its intention to terminate the Ground Lease. In such case the City may require the Inn to restore the Premises to their original condition, in accordance with Subsection 10.15, if the same have been altered in any way.

 10.2. Environmental Review. The City shall be the lead agency for the Hotel proposal under the State Environmental Policy Act, RCW 43.21C. The Inn shall pay all costs of preparing all environmental documents for the Hotel, including any related Seattle Center project management costs and expenses in an amount not to exceed $20,000.

 10.3. Project Schedule. The Inn shall prepare a comprehensive schedule of project activities including but not limited to, design, plan review, environmental review, permitting, notice to proceed, construction, substantial completion, commissioning, and Hotel opening. Said schedule shall be submitted to the Director for approval prior to completion of the schematic design for the Hotel. Upon commencement of construction, the Inn shall submit an updated schedule monthly to the Director or the Director's designee.

 10.4. Preparation and Submission of Plans and Specifications. The Inn shall engage, at the Inn's sole cost and expense, an architect or engineer licensed in the State of Washington, to serve as architect of record for the plans and specifications for the Hotel Improvements.

 10.4.1. Within 60 calendar days after execution of this Ground Lease, or such longer period as may be approved by the Director, the Inn shall submit to the Director for written approval two copies of any preliminary plans or specifications showing, in detail, the proposed design of the exterior, landscaping and garage levels of the Hotel Improvements.

 10.4.2. Within 14 calendar days after receipt by the Director of the documents submitted for approval pursuant to Paragraph 10.4.1, the Director shall either approve such documents by endorsing her approval on each such document and returning one set of the documents to the Inn, or the Director shall give written notice to the Inn of any objections she may have to such documents. The Director's failure to give written notice to the Inn within such 14 calendar day period of any objections she may have to the documents shall conclusively constitute approval of the documents by the Director. Within 14 calendar days after service on the Inn of the written notice of the Director's objections, the Inn may deliver corrective amendments to the documents to the Director and the Director shall, within seven calendar days after receipt of the corrective amendments, serve written notice on the Inn of the Director's approval or rejection of the documents as so amended. Failure of the Director to serve written notice on the Inn within such 14 calendar day period after receipt of the corrective amendments shall conclusively constitute approval by the Director of the documents as so amended. Any decision of the Director concerning the design of the exterior, landscaping and garage levels of the Hotel Improvements shall be conclusive.

 10.5. Approval of Plans and Specifications. Plans and specifications approved by the Director pursuant to paragraph 10.4.2, above, shall be included without alteration in the construction documents submitted to DCLU for approval of the master use Permit ("MUP") for the Hotel Improvements. The Inn shall deliver to the Director one complete set of the plans and specifications as approved by DCLU in issuing the MUP. Upon issuance of the MUP, no material design changes, modifications or additions affecting the exterior features of the Hotel Improvements, associated landscaping or the garage shall be made thereto by the Inn without first obtaining the written consent of the Director.

 10.6. Seattle Design Commission. The Inn shall submit all required plans and specifications to the Seattle Design Commission for review and recommendation, in accordance with SMC Chapter 3.58.

 10.7. Art. The Inn agrees that it shall expend a minimum of $150,000 to provide decorative or artistic elements on the exterior of the Premises. The plan and anticipated budget for such artistic elements shall be included as part of the preliminary plans or specifications submitted to the Director for approval as described in Paragraph 10.4.1. Costing for elements, which provide a functional as well as artistic component shall be based on the incremental cost necessary to upgrade the element from the purely functional quality. On a monthly basis throughout construction, the Inn shall provide a report of funds spent on these elements, indicating the items or services purchased and their placement on the Premises. Copies of paid invoices shall be provided at Seattle Center's request.

 10.8. Notice to the City. No work involving any utility installation or construction in or upon any street shall be commenced until at least ten (10) calendar days after written notice has been given by the Inn to the Director of the commencement of such work. No work of any kind shall be commenced on the Premises and no building or other materials shall be delivered to the Premises until at least five (5) calendar days after written notice has been given by the Inn to the Director of the commencement of such work or the delivery of such materials. The work prohibited by this Subsection until five (5) calendar days written notice thereof has been given to the Director includes as well as actual construction work, any site preparation work and any grading or filling of the Premises. The Inn shall notify owners of adjacent property and utilities when prosecution of work associated with the Inn's activities may affect them. Any work to be performed off the Premises shall be scheduled at the mutual convenience of the City and the Inn and/or its construction contractor.

 10.9. All Work Performed Under Written Contract. All work required for the construction of the Hotel Improvements, including any site preparation work, landscaping work, utility installation work as well as actual construction work on the Hotel Improvements, shall be performed only by contractors duly licensed and bonded as such under the laws of the State of Washington and shall be performed pursuant to written contracts with such contractors. Each such contract shall provide for a retention fund of at least five percent (5%). The retention shall not be released to the contractor until or after the settlement and discharge of all liens of records, provided, however, the Inn may release those portions of the retention that are allocable to subcontracted work upon such subcontractors completing their subcontracted work and delivering lien releases for such work to the Inn. At no cost to the City, the Inn shall incorporate and require its contractor to comply with the Seattle Center Guidelines for Construction, attached hereto as Exhibit E, and with the insurance requirements contained in Exhibit G.

 10.10. Compliance with Law and Quality of Work. The Inn, at the Inn's sole cost and expense, shall cause all construction to be performed by or on behalf of the Inn under this Ground Lease to be approved by all appropriate governmental agencies and all applicable permits and authorizations shall be obtained by the Inn as and when required. The Hotel Improvements shall be constructed and all work performed shall be in accordance with all valid laws, ordinances, regulations, and orders of all federal, state, county, or local governmental agencies or entities having jurisdiction over the Premises; provided, however, that the Hotel Improvements shall be deemed to have been constructed in full compliance with all such valid laws, ordinances, regulations, and orders when a valid final certificate of occupancy entitling the Inn to occupy and use the Hotel Improvements has been duly issued by proper governmental agencies or entities. All work performed or authorized by this Ground Lease, shall be done in a good workmanlike manner and only with new or recycled materials of good quality.

 10.11. Completion of Construction. The Inn shall apply for a master use permit within sixty (60) days following execution of this Ground Lease; shall cause construction of the Hotel Improvements to be commenced within sixty (60) days of receipt of said permit; shall cause construction of the Hotel Improvements to thereafter be diligently pursued without unnecessary interruption; and shall cause the Hotel to be completed and ready for occupancy not later than seventeen (17) months from commencement of construction. The Inn's failure to commence or complete construction of the Hotel Improvements within the times specified in this Section shall constitute a default by the Inn under this Ground Lease; provided, however, the Inn shall not be deemed in default by reason of any delay in commencement or completion of construction caused by any Force Majeure Event or other causes beyond the Inn's reasonable control. The Inn shall, however, use reasonable diligence to avoid any such delay and to resume and complete construction as promptly as possible after any delay. For the purposes of this Section, the term "commencement of construction" shall mean the date upon which the Inn commences preparatory site work, including grading, after necessary permits and approvals for such work have been obtained by the Inn from appropriate governmental agencies and the term "completion of construction" shall mean the date upon which a certificate of occupancy for the Hotel Improvements has been issued by the appropriate governmental authority and a copy of such certificate has been delivered to the City.

 10.12. Certificate and Survey. If requested by the Director, the Inn shall, within six months following completion of construction, procure and deliver to the Director the following:

 A. A certificate executed by the architect for the Hotel in favor of the City certifying that not only substantial completion, but also final completion of construction of the Hotel Improvements has occurred.

 B. A survey in a format acceptable to the City evidencing that the Hotel Improvements have been constructed within the property lines or confines of the Premises.

 10.13. Liens; Indemnification of the City. The Inn shall keep the Premises and the Hotel Improvements free and clear from any liens arising out of any work performed, materials furnished or obligations incurred by the Inn. If the Inn, in the Inn's discretion and in good faith, determines that any such lien should be contested, the Inn shall, at the Inn's sole cost and expense, procure and record a lien release bond, in an amount equal to one and one-half (1.5) times the amount of the claim of lien, issued by an insurance company acceptable to the City that is authorized to do business in the State of Washington. The bond shall provide for the payment of any sum that the claimant may recover on the claim (together with costs of suit, if any recovered in the action). The Inn's failure to procure and record such lien release bond within thirty (30) calendar days after demand by the City shall be deemed a default by the Inn under the terms of this Ground Lease. The Inn agrees to hold the City, the Premises and the Hotel Improvements free and harmless of all liability from any and all such liens, claims or demands, together with costs and expenses, including but not limited to reasonable attorney's fees, and other costs incurred by the City in connection therewith or arising out of the Inn's failure to comply with the requirements of this Section. The Inn shall pay to the City within five (5) calendar days after written demand, all such costs and expenses incurred by the City. In addition, the Inn shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all claims for unpaid wages due to any laborer who has worked on the Hotel Improvements, whether such claim is made directly by any such laborer or any governmental entity on such laborer's behalf, together with any claims for interest and penalties associated with such unpaid wages. The indemnification provided herein shall survive the termination of this Ground Lease.

 10.14. Ownership of Plans and Specifications. All plans and specifications for the Hotel Improvements shall be the sole property of the Inn, subject to any rights of the architect.

 10.15. Ownership and Removal. For the duration of this Ground Lease, title to the Hotel Improvements as well as any and all additions to or alterations of the Hotel Improvements, shall remain in the Inn. Upon the expiration or sooner termination of this Ground Lease, the Hotel Improvements shall become at once a part of the realty and shall become the property of the City; provided, however, the City shall have the right by giving written notice to the Inn not later than two years before the expiration of this Ground Lease, or any renewal or extension thereof, or within ten calendar days after any termination of this Ground Lease (other than termination arising out of (i) natural expiration of the term of this Ground Lease, (ii) condemnation, or (iii) a default by the City hereunder), to require the Inn to demolish the Hotel Improvements. If the City so elects, the Inn shall remove said additions and alterations and use all reasonable efforts to restore the Premises to the condition existing immediately prior to the commencement of this Ground Lease before the last day of the term or, if later, within thirty (30) calendar days after the notice of such election is given to the Inn by the City. In the event the City elects to have the Hotel Improvements demolished only upon the expiration of the term of this Ground Lease, including any Extended Term(s), then the estimated cost of demolition shall be credited against the rental amounts due the City from the Inn for the last two years in which this Ground Lease is in effect, but in no event shall the credit exceed the actual demolition cost. Upon notification by the City of its election to have the Hotel Improvements demolished, the Annual Rent subject to the credit shall be deposited, when ordinarily due, in a separate account established by a national bank or other financial institution approved by the City and naming the City and the Inn as joint signatories. Funds in the account shall be invested in interest-bearing instruments approved by the Director in the exercise of such official's discretion. The interest earned on such deposited funds shall become the property of the City and both interest and principal shall be withdrawn or distributed only at the request of the Director. Upon determination of the actual cost of demolition if the actual cost of demolition varies from the estimated cost of demolition, the Inn shall be reimbursed for the difference by the City.

 10.16. Zoning. The Director agrees, from time to time upon request of the Inn, to execute such documents, petitions, applications and authorizations as may be required by governmental authorities in order to permit construction of the Hotel Improvements; provided, however, that such documents, petitions, applications and authorizations must be either consistent with the plans and specifications previously approved by the Director or otherwise acceptable to the City in its reasonable discretion.

 10.17. Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions. At the request of the Inn, the Director shall, from time to time, under terms and conditions acceptable to the City in its reasonable discretion, execute and deliver or join in the execution and delivery of such documents as are appropriate, necessary or required to permit the orderly development of the Premises.

 10.18. Cost and Expense. In each of the instances described in Subsections 10.16 and 10.17, above, the City shall be without expense therefor, the cost and expense thereof to be borne solely by the Inn.

 10.19. Bus Parking. The Inn shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary permits to allow temporary bus parking at the Premises.

 11. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION.

 11.1. Designation of Project Manager. Within five business days after the date this Ground Lease has been fully executed, the Inn shall notify the Director, in writing, of the name and business and home telephone numbers of the individual who shall serve as the Inn project manager for the purpose of liaison between the City and the Inn regarding any and all matters related to the construction of the Hotel Improvements, and the City shall so notify the Inn of the identity of the Seattle Center project manager. In the event either such person is replaced, then not later than the effective date of such replacement the party making such change in personnel shall notify the other of the change, indicating the effective date of the replacement, and the name and business and home telephone numbers of the replacement.

 11.2. Coordination Meetings. The Inn's project manager shall schedule and hold, not less than bi-weekly, project construction meetings with the Seattle Center project manager, and shall keep the Seattle Center project manager informed of the time and place of each regularly scheduled meeting between the Inn project manager and the Inn's contractor to enable the Seattle Center project manager to attend, become informed about the status of the construction, participate in discussions and present the Seattle Center's position with respect to matters being discussed. The Inn project manager shall also participate in such separate meetings with the Seattle Center project manager and, at the Director's option, with the Director's designee, as are scheduled by the Seattle Center project manager with at least three (3) day's prior notice.

 11.3. Status Reports. Within seven days after the receipt by the Inn of the Hotel construction progress meeting minutes, change orders, and the Hotel contractor's monthly schedules, a copy of each of the same shall be sent to the Seattle Center project manager.

 11.4. Removal, Damage or Destruction of Trees. No trees located off the Premises shall be moved or destroyed without the written approval of the Seattle Center project manager. At the Seattle Center's discretion, the Inn shall replace or compensate the City for any tree destroyed in an amount to be determined by a certified arborist designated by the Director, but in no event shall the payment be less than $500.00 per tree. Existing street trees on the eastern edge of the Premises shall be retained and protected during construction wherever possible. In the event construction necessitates the removal of any of these trees, they shall be replaced with the same or with new trees of the same species and size, and approved by the Director or her designee.

 11.5. Seattle Center Project Manager's Review of Design Plans and Specifications, Changes Thereto, and Construction. The Inn project manager shall ensure that the Seattle Center project manager is provided the opportunity to become actively involved and to serve as an equal participant in on-going decision-making with respect to the exterior finishes, landscaping and design of the garage levels of the Premises, whether such decision-making occurs during the design phase or the construction phase of the project. The Inn project manager shall ensure that in the periodic construction meetings and otherwise, as necessary, from the date this Ground Lease is fully executed until final completion of the Hotel Improvements, the Seattle Center project manager is provided a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on such features of the Hotel Improvements, and on the status of construction progress. Any question regarding whether or not an exterior finish, landscape, or garage-related matter requires review and participation by the Seattle Center project manager shall be resolved in favor of its being significant and warranting the involvement of the Seattle Center project manager in decision-making with respect thereto. The Inn project manager shall also ensure that a copy of each request for information, change request and construction change directive relating to said exterior finishes, landscaping and garage is made available to the Seattle Center project manager for inspection and copying, at no charge to the City.

 11.5.1. The Seattle Center project manager shall review and provide comment, as contemplated in Subsection 11.5, in an expeditious and reasonable manner so as to not unreasonably delay the work; provided, that in the event the Seattle Center project manager's review of, and comment on, any particular design, plan, or specification element or any proposed change thereto is required on or by a particular date and time, the Inn project manager shall provide reasonable advance notice to the Seattle Center project manager of such need and identify the specific date by when such review and comment must be completed and provided. If, in the exercise of his or her reasonable discretion under the circumstances, the Inn project manager determines that the Seattle Center project manager's response is required so quickly that there is insufficient time to allow for written notice of the need for such official's review and comment by the critical date, such notice may be given orally, but shall then be immediately confirmed in writing by the Inn project manager.

 11.5.2. In the event that the Seattle Center project manager does not respond to a request for comment from the Inn project manager on or by the specified date therefor, and provided reasonable advance notice has been provided to the Seattle Center project manager as contemplated herein, then the Seattle Center project manager shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity to review and comment on the particular matter(s) made available for review and comment, and the Inn may proceed as if the Seattle Center project manager had reviewed and commented consistent with the Inn project manager's decision with respect to the reviewable matter(s).

 12. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.

 12.1. Delivery of Evidence of Required Permits. The Inn shall deliver to the Director copies of all permits obtained for each phase of the construction of the Hotel Improvements within five (5) days after issuance.

 12.2. Minimization of Adverse Impacts; Facilitation of Seattle Center Festival Activity.

 12.2.1. General Requirements. The Inn shall use all reasonable efforts to protect from damage or destruction private and public property on or in the vicinity of the Premises that is not scheduled for repair, replacement or removal. All project-related demolition, construction, alterations, additions, improvements and other activity or work performed by or for the Inn on the Premises shall be carried out in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on City property and the use thereof by the City or third parties, as well as on any private property in the vicinity. For purposes of this requirement, the term "property" includes but is not limited to land, improvements lawfully occupying rights-of-way, trees, shrubbery and landscaping, survey markers and monuments, buildings and structures, conduits and pipes, fences, pavements, curbs, driveways, sidewalks, traffic buttons, paint striping and other channelization features. Without limiting the foregoing, the Inn shall not block or otherwise unreasonably impede access to or use of any road or walkway at Seattle Center except to the extent provided for and in accordance with the traffic control plan developed pursuant to Paragraph 12.2.3, or with the prior written authorization of the Seattle Center project manager. The Inn shall work closely with the Seattle Center project manager to schedule construction activity to minimize construction impacts such as noise, dust and fumes in accordance with industry standards and all applicable permits.

 12.2.2. Traffic Control. Prior to commencing any construction on the Premises, the Inn shall develop and submit to the Seattle Center project manager for approval a traffic control plan addressing the following issues, among others: pedestrian safety, traffic routing, pedestrian routing, and mobilization of truck traffic to and from the Premises. The traffic control plan shall be implemented and remain in effect throughout the period of construction, at the Inn's sole cost and expense, and shall not be altered without the Seattle Center project manager's approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned. To the extent the traffic control plan conflicts with the Guidelines for Construction set forth in Exhibit E hereto, the traffic control plan shall govern

 12.2.3. Facilitation of Seattle Center Festival Activity. At no cost or expense to the City, the Inn shall ensure that its contractors facilitate the undertaking of the Seattle Center festivals identified in Exhibit F. No later than the Thursday prior to the beginning date of each of the specified festivals, the Inn's contractors shall sweep and repair all soft or damaged portions of paved areas outside of the Premises that have been previously used by such contractors. The Inn shall ensure that none of its contractors engages in any construction- related activity at any time during any of the specified festival periods, except as may be expressly permitted by the Seattle Center project manager.

 12.3. Waste Disposal. The Inn shall secure and provide on-site containers for the collection of waste materials, debris and rubbish associated with the construction of the Hotel Improvements. The Inn shall keep the work site and all adjacent property free from the accumulation of waste materials, rubbish and windblown debris associated with the construction of the Hotel Improvements and, on a daily basis, shall dispose of all flammable, hazardous and toxic materials generated by or otherwise associated with the work. Storage and disposal shall be in accordance with Title 40 CFR, WAC Ch. 173-303 and Title 49 CFR and state and local fire codes and regulations. All waste materials, debris and rubbish generated by or otherwise associated with the construction of the Hotel Improvements shall be disposed of legally at disposal areas away from the Premises. Upon the completion of the Hotel Improvements, the Inn shall ensure that the Premises and the roadways and walkways immediately surrounding the Premises are cleaned to the reasonable satisfaction of the Director, and that all tools, equipment and surplus materials, and waste materials, debris and rubbish have been removed from the Premises. The obligations of the Inn set forth in this Section are expressly made subject to the allocation of responsibility and liability for environmental conditions set forth in Section 31 below.

 12.4. Operations, Material Handling and Storage Areas.

 12.4.1. The Inn shall ensure that all operations related to the construction of the Hotel Improvements, including storage of materials, are confined to the Premises, except as otherwise provided in the approved traffic control or site plans, or as otherwise approved by the Seattle Center project manager.

 12.4.2. Ownership and control of all materials and portions of Seattle Center facilities to be removed as a part of the construction of the Hotel Improvements shall immediately vest in the Inn upon severance of the material or component from the Premises. The Inn shall be responsible for compliance with all laws governing the storage and ultimate disposal of all such materials or facility components. The Inn shall provide the Seattle Center project manager with a copy of all manifests and receipts evidencing proper disposal when required by the Seattle Center project manager or applicable law. The obligations of the Inn set forth in this Section are expressly made subject to the allocation of responsibility and liability for environmental conditions set forth in Section 31 below.

 12.5. Observations. After prior notice to the Inn project manager (which notice may be by telephone notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), the Seattle Center project manager and such official's advisors (including but not limited to any architect) may observe any and all work then being performed at the Premises and any and all activity related to the construction of the Hotel Improvements.

 12.6. Director's Right to Suspend Project for Cause. If the Inn fails or refuses to perform any of its obligations in accordance with this Ground Lease and such failure or refusal constitutes a material breach and default, the Director may issue a notice ordering the Inn to stop construction work on the Premises, or any portion thereof, until satisfactory corrective action has been taken; provided, however, that except in cases of emergency, the Director will provide the Inn with at least ten (10) days' advance written notice that it intends to issue such a suspension notice unless the breach and default involves a perceived threat to life or safety, in which case only three (3) days' advance written notice shall be required. The Inn shall not be entitled to damages from the City as a consequence of any increased cost or time of performance attributable to the Inn's failure or refusal to perform or from any reasonable remedial action taken by the City based upon such failure or refusal to perform. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Inn may seek damages from the City if it is determined in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section 36 that the Director issued such notice without a reasonable basis.

 12.7. Record Drawings and Operations and Maintenance Manuals. The Inn shall cause a complete set of approved final plans and specifications to be kept at a construction office on the Premises throughout the duration of the construction of the Hotel Improvements. Within 180 days after the completion of the Hotel Improvements, the Inn shall provide the Seattle Center project manager with a complete set of "as- built" drawings in electronic or reproducible form acceptable to the Director reflecting the final "as-built" condition of the Hotel Improvements. Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall provide the Director with either the original or a copy of each maintenance or operation manual received by the Inn that is necessary for the repair or maintenance of any architectural, mechanical, or electrical building system or piece of equipment installed in or on the Premises or the Hotel Improvements. In addition, the Inn shall provide the Seattle Center with "as built" drawings of all changes made to the Hotel Improvements throughout the duration of this Ground Lease.

 12.8. The Inn's Responsibility for the Project. The construction of the Hotel Improvements, including change order work, shall be at the sole risk of the Inn. Any property damaged as a consequence of any activity related to the construction of the Hotel Improvements shall be promptly repaired, corrected, replaced or restored by the Inn to the condition the damaged or destroyed item was in immediately prior to its being damaged or destroyed, or to a better condition, at no cost or expense to City.

 12.9. Warranty of Construction. The Inn shall ensure that its construction contractor warrants, in writing, for one year and for the benefit of the City and the Inn, that all construction work conforms to the requirements of the contract documents and is free of any defect in equipment, material, or design furnished, or workmanship performed by the contractor.

 With respect to all warranties, express or implied, for work performed or materials furnished according to the contract documents, the Inn shall:

 A. Obtain all warranties that would be given in normal commercial practice;

 B. Require all warranties that pertain to the City Parking Facility to be executed, in writing, for the benefit of the City;

 C. Enforce all warranties for the benefit of the City, if directed by the City; and

 D. Be responsible for enforcing any subcontractor's, manufacturer's, or supplier's warranty.

 13. TAXES, UTILITIES AND SERVICES.

 13.1. Taxes. The Inn shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities on or occupancy of the Premises including, but not limited to, taxes arising levied on the Inn's property, equipment, and improvements; and taxes levied on the Inn's interest in this Ground Lease and any leasehold interest recognized by Ch. 82.29A RCW.

 13.2. Utility Charges. The Inn, at its sole expense, shall install separate meters for electricity and water for the City Parking Facility and the costs for those utility services shall be paid by the City. The Inn shall install meters for water, sewer, electricity, gas (if available), steam and/or condensate and other utilities necessary for its use and operation of the Hotel Improvements. The Inn shall pay before delinquency all costs for utilities and other services provided on or to the Premises or the Hotel Improvements and required for the Inn's operation of the Hotel, including but not limited to, elevator service, electricity, gas, water, steam, telephone, sewer and sanitation, garbage, heat, janitorial, security, and refuse collection and removal, except that the City shall provide janitorial and refuse collection services for the City Parking Facility. The Inn shall not be entitled to an offset, reduction, or return of rental as a result of any interruption or failure of said services.

 13.3. The Inn's Right to Contest. The Inn shall have the right to contest or review by legal proceedings or in such other manner as may be legal, any tax, assessment, utility charge or other governmental imposition and to pay such items under protest; provided, that nothing in this Section shall be construed to restrain the exercise of any remedy by any City utility for nonpayment, and provided further that notwithstanding any protest or challenge the Inn shall timely pay such amounts as are necessary to avoid interruption in service, including any interruption that would occur from application of the normal policy or procedure of any City utility.

 14. INSURANCE.

 14.1. Compliance with Insurance Requirements. No use shall be made by the Inn or permitted by the Inn to be made on, to or of the Premises, nor acts done, which will cause the cancellation of any insurance policy covering the Premises or the Hotel Improvements, nor shall the Inn sell or permit to be kept, used or sold in and about the Premises or the Hotel Improvements any article which may be prohibited by the standard form of fire insurance policy. The Inn shall, at the Inn's sole cost and expense, comply with any and all requirements pertaining to the Premises and the Hotel Improvements, of any insurance organization or company, necessary for the maintenance of reasonable fire and public liability insurance covering the Premises and the Hotel Improvements.

 14.2. Insurance to be Procured by the Inn. Throughout the term of this Ground Lease and any renewal or extension thereof, the Inn, its sublessees and contractors, shall procure and maintain at all times in full force and effect, at no cost to the City, the insurance specified in Exhibit G hereto, (or its then-available equivalent); provided, however, that the Inn shall have the right at any time it believes the insurance required by Exhibit G is no longer consistent with industry standards for comparable tenants, to request that the City consent to an alteration in the insurance coverages or amounts required hereunder, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 14.3. Disposition of Insurance Proceeds. If the Hotel Improvements are partially or totally destroyed from a risk covered by insurance required by this Section, the Inn shall make the loss adjustment with the insurance company insuring the loss. The insurance proceeds allocable to the Hotel Improvements (but specifically excluding the insurance proceeds allocable to the personal property, moveable furniture and trade fixtures in and to which the City shall have no rights or interest), shall be paid directly to an institutional lender or title company, hereinafter referred to as the "Insurance Trustee," mutually selected by the City and the Inn. If the Hotel Improvements shall be partially or totally destroyed from a risk not covered by insurance required by this Section, the Inn shall immediately deposit with the Insurance Trustee the cost of repair and restoration. All sums deposited with the Insurance Trustee in accordance with the foregoing shall be held, administered and disbursed in accordance with Section 19 below. In connection with the foregoing, the Insurance Trustee shall have the following powers and duties:

 A. The sums shall be paid in installments by the Insurance Trustee to the contractor retained by the Inn as construction progresses, for the payment of the cost of repair or demolition and restoration, as applicable. A five percent (5%) retention fund shall be established that will be paid to the contractor on the completion of construction, payment of all costs, expiration of all applicable lien periods, and proof that the Premises and the Hotel Improvements are free of all mechanics' liens and lienable claims.

 B. Payments shall be made on presentation of certificates or vouchers from the architect or engineer retained by the Inn showing the amount due. If the Insurance Trustee, in its reasonable discretion, determines that the certificates or vouchers are being improperly approved by the architect or engineer retained by the Inn, the Insurance Trustee shall have the right to appoint an architect or an engineer to supervise construction and to make payments on certificates or vouchers approved by the architect or engineer retained by the Insurance Trustee. The Insurance Trustee shall pay the reasonable expenses and charges of the architect or engineer retained by the Insurance Trustee out of the Trust Fund.

 C. Any sums not disbursed by the Insurance Trustee after construction has been completed and final payment has been made to the Inn's contractor shall be paid to the Inn.

 The Inn and the City shall share all actual costs and charges of the Insurance Trustee equally. If the Insurance Trustee resigns or for any reason is unwilling to act or continue to act, the City and the Inn shall agree upon a substitute institutional lender or title company as a new Insurance Trustee. The City and the Inn shall each execute all documents and perform all acts reasonably required by the Insurance Trustee to perform its obligations under this Section.

 15. LEGAL LIABILITY.

 15.1. Limits on Liability. This Ground Lease is made upon the express condition that except as specifically set forth herein, the City is to be free from and the Inn assumes the risk of all liability and claims for damage, loss, cost or expense by reason of any injury, loss or theft of any property in or from the Premises or the Hotel Improvements or by reason of any injury to any person or persons, including the Inn, or any property of any kind whatsoever and to whomsoever belonging, including the Inn, from any cause or causes whatsoever, in, upon or in any manner connected with the Premises or the Hotel Improvements or with the sidewalks, approaches, and entrances adjacent to the Premises, during the term of this Ground Lease or any extension or renewal thereof or any occupancy hereunder. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the City and its agents and employees shall not be liable for any loss or damage to persons or property resulting from fire, steam, electricity, gas, water or rain, or from the breakage, leakage, obstruction or other defects of pipes, sprinklers, wires, appliances, plumbing, air conditioning or lighting fixtures, or from any cause, whether the said damage or injury results from conditions arising upon the Premises, the adjacent property or from other sources or places regardless of whether the causes of such damage or injury or the means of repairing the same is inaccessible to the Inn. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall be liable for all damage to person or property resulting solely from the acts or omissions of the City.

 15.2. Indemnification by the Inn. The Inn shall indemnify, defend, and hold the City, its officers, employees and agents, harmless against and from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, costs and expenses arising from the Inn's use of the Premises or from the conduct of its business or from any activity, work or other things done, permitted or suffered by the Inn in or about the Premises, and shall further indemnify and hold the City harmless against and from any and all claims arising from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation on the Inn's part to be performed under the terms of this Ground Lease, or relating to any breach of any representation or warranty made by the Inn hereunder, or arising from any act, omission or negligence of the Inn, or any officer, agent, employee, guest or invitee of the Inn. In case any action or proceeding be brought against the City by reason of such aforedescribed claim action or proceeding, the Inn, upon notice from the City, shall defend the same at the Inn's expense by legal counsel satisfactory to the City. The Inn, as a material part of the consideration to the City, hereby assumes all risk of damage to property or injury to persons in, upon or about the Premises, from any cause, and hereby waives all claims in respect thereof against the City, excluding any and all damage resulting by reason of any act or omission of the City or its authorized representatives.

 15.3. Indemnification Regarding Alterations and Improvements. Where any bodily injury or damage to property results from or arises out of any construction, alteration, repair, addition to, subtraction from, or improvement on or to the Premises including moving and demolition in connection therewith, the indemnification provided for in Section 15.2 hereof, shall be limited to the extent of the indemnitor's negligence.

 15.4. Waiver of Immunity. Solely with respect to claims for indemnification under this Ground Lease, the City and the Inn waive, as to the other only and expressly not for the benefit of their employees or third parties, their immunity under Title 51 RCW, the Industrial Insurance Act, and acknowledge that this waiver has been mutually negotiated by the parties hereto.

 15.5. Survival of Indemnification Obligations. Any liability of the parties hereto for acts or omissions occurring during the term of this Ground Lease, or arising under any indemnity provision of this Ground Lease, shall survive termination and surrender (whether or not any claim giving rise to such liability shall have accrued).

 16. REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.

 16.1. Maintenance and Repair. Subject to the provisions of Section 19, the Inn shall, at the Inn's sole cost and expense, keep and maintain the Premises as well as the Hotel Improvements and any and all other facilities now or hereafter appurtenant to the Premises, including but not limited to all exterior walls, roofs, interiors, windows, doors, glass, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, ventilation, electrical and lighting facilities, equipment, pavement and landscape elements, in good order and repair and in a safe and clean condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted. The City, at its sole cost and expense, shall perform all routine maintenance and cleaning of the interior portions of the City Parking Facility.

 16.2. City's Right to Initiate Repairs and Maintenance. In the event the Inn fails to perform maintenance or to make repairs required to be made pursuant to Paragraph 16.1 of this Ground Lease, the City may give notice to the Inn specifying the necessity of such maintenance or repairs. If the Inn fails to commence such maintenance or repairs within a reasonable time not to exceed thirty (30) days after the giving of such written notice, or shall fail to finish said maintenance or repairs within a reasonable time from and after said maintenance or repairs are commenced, which shall in no event exceed 180 calendar days from said date without the written consent of the City, the City, in addition to any other remedies provided for herein, may make or cause such maintenance to be performed or repairs to be made at the expense of the Inn. Except as specifically provided above, the City shall not be obligated or have any responsibility to maintain the Premises, or to maintain, repair or replace the Hotel Improvements, except for damage due to the acts or omissions the City or the City's authorized representatives.

 17. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.

 17.1. General Requirement. This Ground Lease shall be construed under and governed by, and the Inn, at its sole cost and expense, shall comply with, all applicable laws of the United States of America and the State of Washington, and with the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle, as well as all codes, rules and regulations of any governmental entity, as now or hereafter enacted or promulgated. Whenever the Inn is informed of any violation of any such law, ordinance, rule, regulation license, permit or authorization committed by it or any of its officers, employees, contractors, agents or invitees, or any of its contractor's subcontractors, the Inn shall desist as soon as reasonably possible from and/or prevent or correct such violation.

 17.2. Licenses and Similar Authorizations. The Inn, at no cost to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Ground Lease, all necessary licenses, permits, regulatory approvals and similar legal authorizations required for the operation, use and development of the Premises and shall comply with all requirements thereof. Nothing herein shall be construed as assurance that any such legal authorization required from the City will be granted or that the City, as the City, will grant consents, approvals or modifications hereunder for the purpose of compliance with the conditions of any permit, approval or license sought or obtained by the Inn.

 17.3. Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action. The Inn shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), notably SMC Chapter 20.44; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 17.4. Americans With Disabilities Act Compliance. The Inn, at no cost to the City, shall comply with all requirements of the Americans With Disabilities Act, as now or hereafter amended, and all rules and regulations implementing the same.

 17.5. Seattle Jobs Initiative. The Inn, together with representatives of any Hotel labor unions, shall work with the Seattle Jobs Initiative in a good faith effort to develop a program to employ and retain low income individuals at the Hotel. This effort shall include the identification of jobs and job titles appropriate for inclusion in the program, the identification of skill requirements for the positions, and the development of an employment and training program for eligible applicants.

 17.6. Safety. The Inn shall contractually require its contractors, subtenants and licensees to comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and orders of any public body having jurisdiction over the safety of persons or property, or over protection of same from damage, injury or loss, and to erect and maintain all necessary safeguards for such safety and protection. Nothing contained in this Ground Lease shall be construed as imposing any duty upon the City with regard to, or as constituting any express or implied assumption by the City of control or responsibility over, safety at or on the Premises or the Hotel Improvements.

 18. ACCEPTANCE OF PREMISES.

 Except as otherwise provided herein, by entry hereunder, the Inn accepts the Premises in the condition existing as of the effective date of this Ground Lease and acknowledges the Inn has examined the Premises, has had a reasonable opportunity to obtain inspections and reports of professionals regarding the same, and has determined, after such examination, the Premises are suitable for the construction and completion of the Hotel Improvements contemplated herein and for its subsequent use and occupancy by the Inn. The Inn accepts the Premises as is, and assumes all risk that one or more defects exist therein. The Inn acknowledges the City has made no warranties or representations of any kind, express or implied, with respect to the condition of the Premises or the use and occupancy authorized herein other than those specified in this Ground Lease. The Inn agrees that any express or implied representations, statements or warranties which may have been made by or on behalf of the City relating to the Premises prior to the effective date of this Ground Lease, unless expressly set forth herein, have been effectively revoked and withdrawn and have no force or effect whatsoever.

 19. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION DURING TERM OF GROUND LEASE.

 19.1. Repairs, Alterations and Further Improvements. In the event of damage to or destruction of any or all of the Hotel Improvements (excluding therefrom ordinary wear and tear requiring maintenance and routine repairs) during the term of this Ground Lease, this Section 19 shall apply.

 19.2. Minor Damage or Destruction. If the cost of repairing or reconstructing the Hotel Improvements to the condition and form prior to such damage or destruction does not exceed $250,000 ("Minor Damage"), the Inn shall promptly commence and thereafter diligently complete such repair and reconstruction of the portion of the Hotel Improvements so damaged or destroyed to substantially its condition prior to the occurrence of such Minor Damage with such alterations as the Inn shall reasonably determine prudent or valuable under the circumstances, including any changes required to comply with applicable law and with the then prevailing construction practices and together with such other changes that the Inn may request, provided such other changes are approved by the City acting reasonably. The City and the Inn agree that the proceeds derived from insurance maintained pursuant to Section 14 shall be made available to effect such repair. If the insurance proceeds are not adequate to cover the cost of repair, the Inn shall deposit with the Insurance Trustee prior to the commencement of any repair work a sufficient sum (or provide other assurances satisfactory to the Insurance Trustee) that a sufficient sum will be made available to the Insurance Trustee to cover such shortfall.

 19.3. Major Damage or Destruction. If the cost of repairing or reconstructing the Hotel Improvements to the condition and form prior to such damage or destruction exceeds $250,000 ("Major Damage"), then within ninety (90) days after the casualty event giving rise to such Major Damage, the Inn shall notify the City of the Inn's election either to repair such Major Damage and reconstruct the Hotel Improvements in accordance with Subsection 19.4 below or to terminate this Ground Lease and restore the Premises to their original condition in accordance with Subsection 19.5 below.

 19.4. Repair and Reconstruction of Major Damage. If the Inn elects to repair Major Damage and reconstruct the Hotel Improvements pursuant to Subsection 19.3 above, the Inn shall promptly after such election and diligently thereafter effect such repair and reconstruction of the portion of the Hotel Improvements so damaged or destroyed to substantially its condition prior to the occurrence of such Major Damage with such alterations as the Inn shall reasonably determine prudent or valuable under the circumstances, including any changes required to comply with applicable law and with the then prevailing construction practices and together with such other changes that the Inn may request, provided such other changes are approved by the City acting reasonably. The City and the Inn agree that the proceeds derived from insurance maintained pursuant to Section 14 shall be made available to effect such repair. If the insurance proceeds are not adequate to cover the estimated cost of repair, the Inn shall deposit with the Insurance Trustee prior to the commencement of any repair work a sufficient sum (or provide other assurances satisfactory to the Insurance Trustee) that a sufficient sum will be made available to the Insurance Trustee to cover such shortfall. To the extent the insurance proceeds are not adequate to cover the actual cost of repair, within a reasonable time after such shortfall is determined, the Inn shall deposit with the Insurance Trustee a sufficient sum (or provide other assurances satisfactory to the Insurance Trustee) that a sufficient sum will be made available to the Insurance Trustee to cover such shortfall. All repair and reconstruction work under this Subsection 19.4 shall be conducted substantially in the same manner and in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in Sections 10, 11 and 12 of this Ground Lease.

 19.5. Termination of Ground Lease Following Major Damage. If the Inn elects not to repair Major Damage, and, instead, elects to terminate this Ground Lease, unless the parties otherwise agree, such termination of this Ground Lease shall take effect ninety (90) days following the Inn's notice to the City of its election to terminate the Ground Lease. In such case the City may require the Inn to restore the Premises to their original condition in accordance with Subsection 10.15 and the City and the Inn agree that the funds derived from insurance maintained pursuant to Section 14 shall be made available to effect such restoration of the Premises and upon completion and payment of such restoration work, the remaining balance, if any, of insurance proceeds shall be disbursed to the Inn. If the insurance proceeds are not adequate to cover the estimated cost of restoring the Premises to their original condition, the Inn shall be responsible for paying any shortfalls.

 19.6. Compensation for Lost Parking Revenue. In the event that damage or destruction of the Hotel Improvements renders the City Parking Facility unusable in whole or in part, the Inn shall compensate the City for all parking revenue lost by it as a result of such damage or destruction from the date when the damage or destruction occurs through the date when (a) the City Parking Facility is again open and available for public parking; or (b) the Premises are restored as provided in Subsection 19.5. Compensation for lost parking revenue shall be calculated and paid in accordance with Subsection 9.3, above.

 20. CONDEMNATION.

 20.1. Definitions.

 A. "Eminent domain" is the right of the people or government to take private property for public use. As used in this Section 20 the words "condemned" and "condemnation" are coextensive with such right, and a voluntary conveyance by the City to the condemnor under threat of a taking under the power of eminent domain in lieu or after commencement of formal proceedings shall be deemed a taking within the meaning of this Section 20.

 B. "Total condemnation" and "total taking" mean the taking of the entire Premises under the power of eminent domain or a taking of so much of the Premises under such power as to prevent or substantially impair the conduct of the Inn's business thereon.

 C. "Partial condemnation" and "partial taking" mean any condemnation of the Premises other than a total taking as defined above.

 20.2. Effect of Total Condemnation. In the event that there shall be a total taking of the Premises during the term of this Ground Lease, or any renewal or extension thereof, under the power of eminent domain as defined in this Section, the leasehold estate hereby created in the Premises shall cease and terminate as of the date title to the Premises is taken by the condemnor. On termination of this Ground Lease by a total taking of the Premises under the power of eminent domain, all rentals and other charges payable by either party to or on behalf of the other under the provisions of this Ground Lease shall be paid (or refunded to the extent rent has been prepaid) up to the date on which actual physical possession of the Premises shall be taken by the condemnor, and the parties hereto shall thereafter be released from all further liability in relation thereto.

 20.3. Effect of Partial Condemnation. In the event that there shall be a partial taking of the Premises during the term of this Ground Lease, or any renewal or extension thereof, under the power of eminent domain as defined in this Section, this Ground Lease shall terminate as to the portion of the Premises so taken on the date title is taken by the condemnor or at the time the condemnor is authorized to take possession of said real property as stated in the order for possession, whichever is earlier. This Ground Lease shall also terminate on such date as to the balance of the Premises once more than ten percent (10%) of the ground area (including the common area) or five percent (5%) of the floor area of the Hotel Improvements have been taken and the Inn gives written notice of termination to the City within thirty (30) calendar days after the City shall have given the Inn written notice of said taking, or in the absence of said notice, within ten (10) calendar days after the condemnor is authorized to take possession as stated in the order for possession. If less than such percentage of ground area or floor area is taken or the Inn fails to timely elect to terminate, this Ground Lease shall continue in full force and effect as to the remainder of the Premises not so taken.

 20.4. Award. Any compensation or damages awarded or payable because of the taking of all or any portion of the Premises by eminent domain shall be allocated between the City and the Inn as follows:

 A. All compensation or damages awarded or payable for the taking by eminent domain of any land that is part of the Premises shall be paid to and be the sole property of the City free and clear of any claim of the Inn or any person claiming rights to the Premises through or under the Inn.

 B. All compensation or damages awarded or payable because of the Hotel Improvements, where only a portion of the Premises is taken by eminent domain and the Inn is not entitled to or does not terminate this Ground Lease shall be applied toward the replacement of the Hotel Improvements with their equivalent on the remaining portions of the Premises.

 C. All compensation or damages awarded or payable because of the Hotel Improvements, where this Ground Lease is terminated because of the taking by eminent domain, whether all or only a portion of the Premises is taken by eminent domain, shall be allocated between the City and the Inn as follows:

 (1) That percentage of the compensation or damages awarded or payable because of the Hotel Improvements, excluding the City Parking Facility, that equals the percentage of the initial term of this Ground Lease that has at the time of the taking, not expired shall belong to and be the sole property of the Inn.

 (2) That percentage of the compensation or damages awarded or payable because of the Hotel Improvements, excluding the City Parking Facility, that equals the percentage of the full term of this Ground Lease has, at the time of the taking, expired shall belong to an be the sole property of the City.

 (3) That percentage of the compensation or damages awarded or payable because of the City Parking Facility shall belong to and be the sole property of the City.

 (4) The term "time of taking" as used in this subsection shall mean 12:01 a.m. of whichever shall occur first, the date title or the date physical possession of the Premises or any portion thereof is taken by the agency or entity exercising the eminent domain power.

 D. Any severance damages awarded or payable because only a portion of the Premises is taken by eminent domain shall be the sole and separate property of the City.

 21. BANKRUPTCY OR INSOLVENCY.

 In the event the Inn voluntarily or involuntarily files for an order for relief under the bankruptcy code, or similar provisions of succeeding law or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if a receiver is appointed over all or any portion of the Inn's assets located upon the Premises, and such receivership continues for a period of 120 calendar days, or if an attachment or execution or process of court issuing upon or against all or any portion of the Inn's property located upon the Premises remains unreleased for a period of 120 calendar days, such event shall constitute, at the option of the City, an event of Default (as defined in Section 22 below) and the City shall thereafter have all of the remedies for such Default set forth in Section 22 below (including the right to terminate this Ground Lease).

 22. INN DEFAULT AND CITY REMEDIES.

 22.1. Definition. If the Inn materially violates or breaches or fails to keep or perform any covenant, term or condition of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall be deemed in default hereunder (a "Default"). If a Default continues for or is not remedied within ten (10) days or such longer period as may be reasonably required to cure the default, provided the Inn commences the cure within said ten (10) days after the City's written notice of default and covenants to diligently complete the cure within such reasonable period, then the City shall have the following rights and remedies, at its option which are not exclusive: (i) to declare the term hereof ended and to reenter the Premises and take possession thereof, including the Hotel Improvements, and remove all persons therefrom, and the Inn shall have no further claim thereon or hereunder; (ii) to cure such default on the Inn's behalf and at the Inn's sole expense and charge the Inn for all costs and expenses incurred by the City in effecting such cure as Additional Rent; (iii) without declaring this Lease terminated, to reenter the Premises, including the Hotel Improvements and occupy the whole or any part thereof for and on account of the Inn and to collect any unpaid Annual Rent which has become payable, or which may thereafter become payable; or (iv) even though it may have reentered the Premises, at any time thereafter elect to terminate this Lease and all of the rights of the Inn in or to the Premises and the Hotel Improvements.

 22.2. Reentry. If the City reenters the Premises under option (iii) of Subsection 22.1, the City shall not be deemed to have terminated this Lease or the liability of the Inn to pay any Annual Rent thereafter accruing as it becomes due, or to have terminated the Inn's liability for damages under any of the provisions hereof, by any such reentry or by any action, in unlawful detainer or otherwise, to obtain possession of the Premises, unless the City shall have notified the Inn in writing that it has so elected to terminate this Lease, and the Inn shall be liable for and reimburse the City upon demand for all costs and expenses of every kind and nature incurred in retaking possession of the Premises and all other losses suffered by the City as a consequence of the Inn's default. In the event of any entry or taking possession of the Premises, the City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to remove therefrom all or any part of the personal property located therein and may place the same in storage at a public warehouse at the expense and risk of the Inn.

 22.3. Termination. If the City elects to terminate this Lease pursuant to the provisions of options (i) or (iv) of Subsection 22.1, the City may recover from the Inn as damages, the following: (i) the worth at the time of award of any unpaid Annual Rent which had been earned at the time of such termination; plus (ii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid Annual Rent which would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the amount of the Annual Rent loss the Inn proves could have been reasonably avoided; plus (iii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid Annual Rent for the balance of the term after the time of award exceeds the amount of the Annual Rent loss that the Inn proves could be reasonably avoided; plus (iv) any other amount necessary to compensate the City for all the detriment proximately caused by the Inn's failure to perform its obligations under this Ground Lease or which in the ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom, including but not limited to, any costs or expenses incurred by the City in retaking possession of the Premises, including reasonable attorneys fees therefor; maintaining or preserving the Premises after such default; preparing the Premises for reletting to a new tenant, including repairs or alterations to the Premises for such reletting; leasing commissions; and any other costs necessary or appropriate to relet the Premises; and (v) such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Washington. As used in items (i) and (ii) of this Subsection 22.3, the "worth at the time of award" shall be computed by allowing interest at the interest rate specified in Section 7 of this Ground Lease. As used in item (iii) above, the "worth at the time of award" shall be computed by using the then applicable discount rate quoted by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco or its successor. For purposes of this Section 22 only, the term "Annual Rent" shall be deemed to be the Annual Rent and all Additional Rent and other sums required to be paid by the Inn pursuant to the terms of this Ground Lease.

 22.4. Vacation or Abandonment. If the Inn vacates or abandons the Premises and fails to reoccupy them within ten (10) days after the City (1) delivers a notice to the Premises (which will be unoccupied) demanding such reoccupancy and (2) mails by certified or registered mail a copy of the notice to any forwarding address given by the Inn to the City in writing, the Inn shall be in default under this Ground Lease and, in addition to all of the City's rights and remedies provided for above, in the event of such a default by the Inn, the City shall have the right to increase the Annual Rent during the entire time that the Premises are abandoned or have been vacated to one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the Annual Rent otherwise in effect during such period under Section 6. Moreover, the Inn agrees that such right on the part of the City to increase the Annual Rent shall not be deemed to be a penalty; rather, the 125% figure has been agreed to by the City and the Inn as a fair approximation of the damages the City will suffer as a result of a vacation or abandonment by the Inn, which damages would otherwise be extremely difficult to ascertain.

 22.5. The City's Remedies Cumulative; Waiver. The City's rights and remedies hereunder are not exclusive, but cumulative, and the City's exercise of any right or remedy due to a default or breach by the Inn shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy which the City may have under this Ground Lease or by law or in equity. Neither the acceptance of rent nor any other acts or omissions of the City at any time or times after the happening of any event authorizing the cancellation or forfeiture of this Ground Lease shall operate as a waiver of any past or future violation, breach or failure to keep or perform any covenant, agreement, term or condition hereof or to deprive the City of its right to cancel or forfeit this Lease, upon the written notice provided for herein, at any time that cause for cancellation or forfeiture may exist, or be construed so as at any future time to estop the City from promptly exercising any other option, right or remedy that it may have under any term or provision of this Lease.

 23. SUBLEASES AND ASSIGNMENTS.

 The Inn shall not voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law, assign, license, mortgage, hypothecate, sublet or in any manner transfer this Ground Lease, any interest herein, any option that may be contained herein to all or any portion of the Premises or any title or interest in all or a portion of the Inn's interest in the Hotel Improvements, nor shall the Inn authorize, allow or permit any person (the employees of the Inn excepted), to occupy or use the Premises or any portion thereof or the Hotel Improvements, without first obtaining the written consent and approval of the Director which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Any transfer of this Ground Lease by merger, consolidation or liquidation, or any direct or indirect change, in the membership of the Inn, shall constitute an assignment for the purposes of this Ground Lease. Any assignment, license, mortgage, sublease, hypothecation, transfer, occupancy or use of the Premises or the Hotel Improvements in violation of this paragraph shall be null and void and of no force and effect and shall further constitute a breach of this Ground Lease by the Inn. The giving by the Director of such consent and approval shall not be deemed to be a consent or approval to any subsequent assignment, license, mortgage, sublease, hypothecation, transfer, occupancy or use by any other person nor shall it release the Inn of any of the Inn's obligations to pay the Annual Rent and perform all other continuing obligations to be performed by the Inn hereunder. Any dissolution, merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the Inn shall constitute and be deemed an assignment for purposes of this Section.

 24. SURRENDER.

 Unless requested to demolish the Hotel Improvements and restore the Premises in accordance with Subsection 10.15, above, the Inn agrees that on the last day of the term or the sooner termination of this Ground Lease, the Inn will surrender the Premises and the Hotel Improvements to the City in good condition, reasonable use and wear and tear of the Hotel Improvements excepted. Upon termination of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall have no further interest in the Hotel Improvements or the Premises. If so requested by the City, the Inn shall convey to the City by special warranty deed and/or by bill of sale, all Hotel Improvements, subject only to such encumbrances and leases as shall have been specifically approved in writing by the Director. On or before such termination date the Inn shall deliver to the Director (a) all keys to any structures, fixtures or personal property on the Premises; and (b) all plans, blueprints, surveys, diagrams, leases, contracts and documents relating to the Premises or the Hotel Improvements. Upon the termination or expiration of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall have the right and shall be given a reasonable opportunity not to exceed 90 days, provided the Inn is not then in default, to remove from the Premises any furnishings, equipment and other personal property not constituting Hotel Improvements as defined in Section 2. The Inn shall, at the Inn's sole cost and expense, immediately repair all damage done or occasioned by reason of the removal of any such furnishings, equipment and personal property. All property not removed by the Inn within 90 days of termination shall be deemed to have been abandoned by the Inn and may be appropriated, sold, stored, destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the City without notice to the Inn and without obligation to account therefor. If the Ground Lease shall be terminated as to a portion of the Premises then this Section shall apply to such portion and all improvements thereon, together with all related personal property.

 25. HOLDING OVER.

 If the Inn shall, with the acknowledgment and consent of the City, continue to remain in possession of the Premises after the expiration of the term of this Ground Lease or any extension or renewal hereof, such holding over shall be on a month-to-month basis and shall not constitute a re-letting or releasing of the Premises. Said tenancy from month-to-month shall be upon the same terms and conditions herein specified and shall continue to be such until 30 calendar days after the Inn shall have given to the City or the City shall have given to the Inn a written notice of termination of such monthly tenancy. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a consent by the City to the occupancy or possession of the Premises by the Inn after the expiration of the term hereof.

 26. WASTE .

 The Inn shall not commit or suffer to be committed any waste upon the Premises.

 27. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES.

 27.1. City's Representations and Warranties. The City represents, warrants and covenants that:

 A. The title to the Premises is vested in the City.

 B. The City shall not, after the date hereof, agree to or create any liens or encumbrances on the Premises which are (i) not specifically stated in writing to be junior and subordinate to this Ground Lease as well as any modifications or replacements of such leasehold mortgage, or (ii) inconsistent with the obligations of the City hereunder. Subject to the preceding requirements, the City shall have the right to hypothecate or otherwise pledge the income stream from this Ground Lease as security for obligations of the City.

 C. The City has the authority to enter into this Ground Lease and its execution and delivery by the City has been duly authorized.

 D. The City covenants and agrees that the Inn shall peacefully and quietly hold and enjoy the Premises and the Hotel Improvements, other than the City Parking Facility, during the term hereof or any extension or renewal hereof, without interference or hindrance from the City or any person or persons holding or claiming under the City in any manner whatsoever.

 27.2. The Inn's Representations and Warranties. The Inn represents, warrants and covenants that:

 A. The Inn is authorized to enter into this Ground Lease agreement and the lease created hereunder, and the person executing this agreement on behalf of the Inn is authorized to do so.

 B. As of the date of this Ground Lease, the Inn has secured all financing necessary to complete the construction and furnishing of the Hotel Improvements, and to commence operation of the Hotel.

 28. ABANDONMENT OF PREMISES.

 The Inn shall not abandon the Premises at any time during the term of this Ground Lease, or any extension or renewal thereof. If the Inn shall abandon the Premises in violation of this Section 28 or be dispossessed by process of law, any personal property belonging to the Inn and left on the Premises shall be deemed abandoned at the option of the City and shall be disposed of in the manner provided in Section 24. The absence of the Inn from the Premises for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days shall be considered an abandonment thereof, unless such absence is due to damage or destruction governed by Section 19, above, or due to a Force Majeure Event governed by Section 47, below.

 29. SIGNS.

 The Inn shall submit all designs for proposed permanent and temporary exterior signage for the Hotel Improvements to the Director, for approval, prior to installation. The City shall have the sole and unrestricted right to design and install permanent and temporary signage for the City Parking Facility.

 30. DELIVERIES.

 All deliveries of equipment and supplies to the Premises shall be limited to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, and 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekends.

 31. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.

 31.1. Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following terms shall be defined as provided below unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:

 A. "Environmental or Safety Law" means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Washington Water Pollution Control Act, the Clean Air Washington Act , the Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act ("HWMA"), the Washington Model Toxics Control Act ("MTCA"), the Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act, the Washington Worker and Community Right to Know Act, and the Washington Oil and Hazardous Substance Spill Prevention and Response Act, together with all regulations promulgated under any such authority, and any and all other federal, state, regional, local or international statutes, regulations, rules, ordinances, orders, court or regulatory agency directives, permits, licenses, governmental authorizations and common law causes of action that apply to (1) any hazardous substance or material regulated or restricted under CERCLA, RCRA, TSCA, MTCA, or the HWMA; (2) any other pollutant, contaminant, or waste; (3) the health or safety of persons; or (4) the protection of the environment or land use. "Environmental or Safety Law" includes past and future amendments and supplements.

 B. "Hazardous Substances" shall mean any hazardous, toxic, or dangerous substance, waste, or material that is regulated under any Environmental or Safety Law.

 C. "Existing Hazardous Substances" means any Hazardous Substances existing on, in or under the Premises on the date of this Ground Lease.

 31.2. Restrictions on the Inn Activities. Except as necessary for ordinary construction activities or operation of the Premises as a Hotel, the Inn and its employees, agents and contractors shall not cause to occur upon the Premises or the Hotel Improvements or permit the same to be used to generate, produce, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, or process Hazardous Substances without the City's express written authorization. The Inn shall provide the Director with the Inn's or its contractor's USEPA Waste Generator Number (if any) and shall make available for inspection at the Inn's place of business upon reasonable request, all Material Safety Data Sheets, Generator Annual Dangerous Waste Reports, environmentally related regulatory permits or approvals (including revisions or renewals) and any correspondence that the Inn or the Inn's contractor receives from, or provides to, any governmental unit or agency in connection with the handling of Hazardous Substances or the presence, or possible presence, of any Hazardous Substance on the Premises or in the Hotel Improvements.

 31.3. Hazardous Substances Discovered During Construction. Throughout the term of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall initially bear all costs and expenses of remedying any and all environmental contamination by a Hazardous Substance in, on or under the Premises, the presence of which contamination is discovered in preparation for or during any construction or renovation undertaken by or for the Inn.

 31.3.1. In the event of such a discovery, the Inn shall immediately notify the Director. Designated representatives of the Inn and the City shall immediately meet and confer concerning the appropriate cleanup approach. The Inn designated representative for this purpose shall be Coy Wood. The City's designated representative for this purpose shall be [name here], or, in the alternative, [name here].

 31.3.2. The designated representatives shall confer and agree on an appropriate remedial approach and any cost sharing associated with said Remedial Work. the Inn may proceed with Remedial Work only when an oral agreement has been reached. The agreement shall then be memorialized within three days as a Remedial Work Agreement, which shall be signed by the City and the Inn. The Inn shall proceed with Remedial Work and construction only in compliance with the Remedial Work Agreement. The Remedial Work Agreement shall specify the use of the services of an environmental consultant acceptable to the City.

 31.3.3. In the event that the Inn and the City disagree about the substance or form of the written Remedial Work Agreement, the designated representatives shall immediately meet and shall reach agreement before Remedial Work or construction that may affect Remedial Work may continue.

 31.3.4. The Remedial Work Agreement may be amended by the written agreement of the Inn and the City, and each reference to the Remedial Work Agreement includes any such amendments. The Director may, at the City's sole option, notify the Inn that a lesser degree of remediation fulfills the Inn's remediation obligations stated in this Section 31.

 31.3.5. The parties shall work together in good faith to resolve matters regarding contamination with a minimum of delay to the Inn's construction.

 31.3.6. The City reserves the right to undertake investigation or remediation of contamination existing off the Premises, and the Inn agrees to allow the City all necessary access for such purpose and not to interfere with, hinder, or delay such activity. The City shall at all times during the Remedial Work be given prompt access to the environmental professional(s) chosen by the Inn and performing the Remedial Work, and to the data, records, and reports generated by the environmental professional(s) for the Remedial Work. The Inn shall make available for inspection at the Inn's place of business, upon reasonable request by the City, all records pertaining to remediation and disposal, and shall not destroy any such records without prior City approval.

 31.3.7. The Inn shall, as required by and in compliance with all Environmental or Safety Laws, notify all appropriate governmental authorities of the nature and extent of the hazard presented. The Inn shall use its best efforts to minimize the costs of Remedial Work, and shall keep the City apprised of the progress of the Remedial Work and its costs. The Inn shall ensure that all Hazardous Substances are removed from the site to a cleanup standard consistent with applicable Environmental or Safety Laws and are properly disposed of off site. The Inn shall demonstrate removal and remediation to the Director's reasonable satisfaction, which shall include, but is not limited to, attaining MTCA cleanup levels and applying for and obtaining from the Washington Department of Ecology ("DOE") a final No Further Action ("NFA") letter pursuant to the Independent Remedial Action Program. The NFA letter shall not be considered "final" for the purposes of the Ground Lease if the letter describes institutional controls or other conditions, unless the City has agreed to such institutional controls or conditions in lieu of further Remedial Work.

 31.4. Remedial Work. As used in this Section, the term "Remedial Work" means all activities which are performed by or on behalf of the Inn or the City in connection with the identification, investigation, assessment, cleanup, removal, mitigation, monitoring or containment of Existing Hazardous Substances to meet the requirements of any law, regulation or ordinance or which are ordered by any court or any other governmental agency. "Remedial Work" includes all activities reasonably necessary to prepare and review any Remedial Work Agreement and/or to comply with any Remedial Work Agreement and/or with cleanup standards under the Washington Model Toxics Control Act, RCW 70.105D, in connection with the presence, suspected presence, release or suspected release of an Existing Hazardous Substance in or into the air, soil, ground water, surface water or soil vapor at, on, or within the Premises, including, but not limited to, the removal of any underground storage tank. The term "Remedial Work" includes the City's observing or monitoring of Remedial Work in compliance with the Remedial Work Agreement and includes negotiations with DOE or its employees or consultants relating to the activities described in this Section or the Independent Remedial Action Program, but does not include work performed by attorneys or employed staff of the Inn or the City, other than City project managers or City temporary employees not regularly assigned to the Inn project.

 31.5. Further Notification Procedures. In addition to the notification required by Section 31.3 whenever Remedial Work is being performed, the Inn shall promptly provide the City in writing with the identity of the contractor who has done or will do the Remedial Work, the scope of the Remedial Work, a copy of any contract or agreement for services, and the estimated costs of Remedial Work. ("Remedial Work Notice") Any Remedial Work Notice shall be consistent with the Remedial Work Agreement. The Inn shall permit the City and its agents, consultants and contractors prompt and reasonable access to the Premises to confirm that the Remedial Work is being or has been appropriately conducted or is required. Every Remedial Work Agreement shall specify use of the services of an environmental consultant acceptable to the City. The Inn is solely responsible for compliance with all applicable Environmental or Safety Laws. Nothing in this Ground Lease, including the City's receipt, review or approval of any request for authorization, data, record, report, or plan shall relieve the Inn of any legal obligation, including but not limited to the obligation to provide a safe and healthful working environment or to comply with all Environmental and Safety Laws.

 31.6. Completion of Remedial Work; Accounting. Once the Inn or the City has completed any Remedial Work, the Inn or the City shall provide to the other party invoices and accounting of costs for the completed Remedial Work, including the Remedial Work Agreement and any subsequent Remedial Work Notice and documentation establishing the nature, extent and cost of the work (the "Remedial Work Accounting"). Each party shall endeavor to submit only one Remedial Work Accounting. The Inn's recoverable costs for Remedial Work are limited to incremental costs incurred after the date of execution of the Ground Lease and over and above the ordinary and usual costs to the Inn for construction of the Hotel Improvements, to the extent such incremental costs are caused by the presence or suspected presence of Existing Hazardous Substances. Recoverable costs do not include costs, losses, or claims of any kind associated with delay or incidental or consequential damages to any entity. The party receiving the Remedial Work Accounting shall have thirty (30) days to review the Remedial Work Accounting. If such party disagrees with the accounting, such party shall provide written notice of its disagreement within thirty (30) days. If the party receiving notice of the accounting does not provide written notice of disagreement within thirty (30) days of actual receipt of a Remedial Work Accounting, the costs of the Remedial Work Accounting shall be deemed approved.

 31.7. Dispute Resolution. At the request of the City or the Inn, the parties shall meet to discuss any disagreements and shall in good faith attempt to reach resolution without delay. If construction or renovation activity has been delayed because of the presence of Existing Hazardous Substances, and the Inn and the City are unable to reach agreement between subordinate staff within five (5) days regarding an appropriate Remedial Work Agreement, the appropriateness or conduct of remediation work, or termination pursuant to Subsection 31.9, then the matter shall immediately be referred to the Director and the Inn Managing Director, the remaining dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 36 of this Ground Lease shall be used, and both parties shall use best efforts to expedite resolution. If the Inn and the City are not able to reach agreement on cost of Remedial Work or Remedial Work Accounting, then the City and the Inn shall use the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 36 of this Ground Lease. The parties shall attempt to resolve all Remedial Work Accounting disagreements through one dispute resolution process.

 31.8. Remedial Work Costs; Rent Credit. The "Approved Costs Total" is the total of costs of any approved Remedial Work Accountings and of any Remedial Work amounts agreed by the City and the Inn to be recoverable costs or upon which final judgment is entered. The Inn shall be solely responsible for payment of the first $100,000 of the Approved costs Total. That portion of the Approved Costs Total exceeding $100,000 that the parties have agreed shall be the responsibility of the City (the "Approved City Costs Sum") shall be treated as rental payment credits as follows unless some other payment plan is agreed upon by the parties:

 Twenty percent (20%) of the Approved the Inn Costs Sum shall be credited against each of the first five (5) payments of annual rent due under this Ground Lease after the total for the recoverable cost of such Remedial Work is finally determined.

 31.9. Right of Termination. If in the opinion of the Inn, the recoverable costs of Remedial Work are reasonably anticipated to exceed $100,000, as substantiated and documented by the written opinion of a qualified environmental professional and detailed cost estimates approved by such professional ("Documentation") and the parties are unable to agree on a cost-sharing formula, then either party may notify the other in writing of its intention to terminate this Ground Lease at the end of thirty (30) days, providing the Documentation to the City with the notice. The party giving notice shall arrange a meeting of the parties within ten (10) days after providing actual notice, and the parties shall meet and in good faith discuss options for resolution that would allow the construction of Hotel Improvements to proceed. If prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the Director gives written notice to the Inn that the City agrees to accept a lesser degree of remediation in fulfillment of the Inn's remediation obligations stated in this Section 31 or if the Inn and the City reach another agreement to continue the Ground Lease, then the Ground Lease shall not terminate pursuant to this Section. In the event of termination, the Inn shall thereafter have no further obligation to construct the Hotel Improvements, and the Inn shall bear the costs it has expended through the date of termination relating to the Ground Lease and the development of the Hotel to the date of termination. Upon termination, at the City's request and at its option, and provided the Inn is permitted to do so by the agencies with jurisdiction over the discovered Hazardous Substances, the Inn shall restore the Premises to its condition immediately prior to the date of this Ground Lease or such other condition as may be agreed upon by the parties, or pay the City directly the estimated cost of such restoration, exclusive of any remediation costs, which shall be the responsibility of the City.

 31.10. Compliance and Correction of Violations. With respect to the Premises and the Hotel Improvements, the Inn shall comply, and shall guarantee compliance by all of its employees, agents and contractors, with all Environmental or Safety Laws at all times during the term of this Ground Lease. If the Inn or any of the Inn's employees, agents or contractors violates any applicable Environmental or Safety Law or any of the terms of this Ground Lease concerning the presence or use of Hazardous Substances or the handling or storing of Hazardous Substances, upon receipt of notice of such violation or the expiration of all challenges and appeals of such notice, whichever occurs later, the Inn shall promptly take such action as is necessary to mitigate and correct the violation. If the Inn does not act in a prudent and prompt manner, the City reserves the right, but not the obligation, upon reasonable prior notice to the Inn, to act in place of the Inn (for which purpose, only, the Inn hereby appoints City as its agent), to come onto the Premises or the Hotel Improvements and to take such action as is necessary to ensure compliance or to mitigate the violation, all at the Inn's sole cost and expense. If the Director has reason to believe that the Inn or the Inn's agent or contractor is in violation of any Environmental or Safety Law, or that the Inn's actions or omissions present a threat of violation or a threat of damage to the Premises or the Hotel Improvements, the City reserves the right, upon reasonable prior notice to the Inn, to enter onto the Premises or the Hotel Improvements and take such corrective or mitigating action as the Director deems necessary. All reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the City directly attributable to any such action shall become immediately due and payable by the Inn upon presentation of an invoice therefor.

 31.11. Testing. The Inn shall provide City with access to the Premises and the Hotel Improvements to conduct an environmental inspection at such reasonable time(s) as may be requested by City. In addition, the Inn shall permit City access to the Premises and the Hotel Improvements at any time, upon reasonable notice, for the purpose of conducting environmental testing at the City's expense. The Inn shall promptly inform the Director of the existence of any environmental study, evaluation, investigation or results of any environmental testing conducted on the Premises or the Hotel Improvements whenever the same becomes known to the Inn, and the Inn shall provide a written copy of the same to the Director as soon as reasonably possible and not later than thirty (30) days after the preparation of any such material.

 31.12. Removal of Hazardous Substances. In addition to all other requirements under this Ground Lease, the Inn or the Inn's contractor shall promptly remove any and all Hazardous Substances released on the Premises or in the Hotel Improvements by the Inn or any of its employees, agents or contractors during the term of this Ground Lease. Upon the expiration or termination of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall remove from the Premises and Hotel Improvements all Hazardous Substances stored on site as a result of any activities by or for the Inn or any activities associated with the operation of the Hotel. The Inn shall demonstrate such removal and any necessary remediation to the Director's reasonable satisfaction, which may include, but is not limited to, attaining MTCA cleanup levels and applying for and obtaining from the Washington Department of Ecology ("DOE") a final No Further Action ("NFA") letter pursuant to the Independent Remedial Action Program. The NFA letter shall not be considered "final" for the purposes of the Ground Lease if the letter describes institutional controls or other conditions, unless the City has agreed to such institutional controls or conditions in lieu of further Remedial Work. The Inn shall make available for inspection at the Inn's place of business, upon reasonable request by the City, all records pertaining to remediation and disposal, and shall not destroy any such records without prior City approval.

 31.13. Reimbursement of City Costs. In addition to any remedy provided above, the City shall be entitled to full reimbursement from the Inn whenever the City incurs any cost directly resulting from a violation by the Inn or the Inn's employees, agents or contractors of any Environmental or Safety Law or of the terms of this Section, including, but not limited to, the costs of any investigation, clean- up and other remedial activity; the fees of consultants, contractors, and attorneys; fines and penalties assessed directly against the City; injuries to third persons or other property; and losses of revenue resulting from an inability to lease or re-license or market the Premises or the Hotel Improvements due to its environmental condition as the result of the Inn's violation of the terms of this Ground Lease (even if such loss of revenue occurs after the expiration or earlier termination of this Ground Lease).

 31.14. Release and Indemnification. In addition to all other indemnification provided in this Ground Lease, and notwithstanding the expiration or earlier termination of this Ground Lease, the Inn shall release, defend, indemnify and hold the City free and harmless from any and all claims, causes of action, regulatory demands, liabilities, fines, penalties, losses, damages, consequential damages and expenses, including without limitation environmental cleanup or other remedial costs (and including the fees of consultants, contractors and attorneys, costs and all other reasonable litigation expenses when incurred and whether incurred in defense of actual litigation or in reasonable anticipation of litigation), whether made, commenced or incurred during the term of this Ground Lease or after the expiration or termination of this Ground Lease if arising out of any of the following: (i) the presence on, in or under the Premises or Hotel Improvements during the term of the Ground Lease (unless as the result of in-migration of a Hazardous Substance for which the Inn is not responsible), or the migration from the Premises or Hotel Improvements to other property or into the surrounding environment, of any Hazardous Substance other than an Existing Hazardous Substance or a Hazardous Substance brought onto the Premises or the Hotel Improvements by the City or by any of its employees, agents or contractors, (ii) the Inn's breach of any provision of the Environmental Protection portion of this Ground Lease (Section 31), (iii) the acts or omissions of the Inn or any of the Inn's employees, agents or contractors in remedying any environmental contamination discovered in preparation for or during any construction or renovation undertaken by or for the Inn, or (iv) any claims against the City by the Inn or any of its employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors based upon delay in construction or other activity resulting from Remedial Work or other environmental remediation activities conducted during the term of the Ground Lease. The Inn further agrees to release the City from any and all claims, causes of action, liabilities and damages arising from the City's exercise of its right (or from the City's choice not to exercise its right) to undertake investigation or remediation of contamination existing off the Premises, except to the extent caused by the City's negligence.

 32. SECURITY.

 The Inn, at its sole expense, shall provide or cause to be provided all security services on the Premises and for the Hotel as are customary and appropriate for a facility of this type. The City shall provide exterior security to the same extent as provided to other Seattle Center tenants.

 33. RIGHTS RESERVED BY CITY.

 The City reserves for itself, its officers, employees, agents and contractors, free access to those areas of the Premises, including the Hotel Improvements, containing any control or other equipment necessary to the operation of any systems affecting the operation of the City Parking Facility. The City shall also be permitted access to the Hotel Improvements, at all reasonable times and without any rebate of rent to the Inn for any loss of occupation or quiet enjoyment of the Premises occasioned thereby, for the purpose of inspecting, cleaning, or making repairs, additions or alterations to the Premises or any other property owned by or under the control of the City, but this right shall not be construed as an agreement on the part of the City to make inspections, clean or make repairs, additions or alterations. In addition, the City expressly reserves the right, without liability of any kind, to do the following:

 A. increase, reduce, or change in any manner whatsoever the number, appearance, dimensions, and locations of City streets, walks, buildings, and parking and service areas except the Premises; and may make improvements, alterations or additions to buildings and add buildings adjoining the Premises or elsewhere in the Seattle Center;

 B. regulate all traffic within the Seattle Center;

 C. impose a reasonable charge for admission to the Seattle Center and the facilities thereon;

 D. erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and material and permit special events on the Seattle Center grounds, buildings, and facilities, including the City Parking Facility;

 E. promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of all areas of the Seattle Center, including the City Parking Facility;

 F. determine the days and hours the Seattle Center and various business operations, including the City Parking Facility will be open to the public, with the exception of the Hotel;

 G. determine the size, number, type and identity of other concessions, stores, businesses and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center, and to operate and to authorize others to engage in any and all forms and locations of business activity at the Seattle Center;

 all without affecting the obligations of the parties hereunder. The City shall not be liable to the Inn for any interference with light, air, view, or for interference caused by operations by or for the City in the maintenance or construction of any public work provided that the City utilizes all reasonable efforts to minimize any interference occasioned thereby.

 The rights reserved hereunder may be transferred by the City wholly or in part to any private or public parties, whether or not in connection with the transfer of a fee interest in the Premises or any part thereof, and shall be exercised in such manner as does not unreasonably interfere with the Inn's access to and use of the Hotel on the Premises or conflict with the other provisions of this Ground Lease.

 34. RECOGNITION OF HOTEL LOCATION AT SEATTLE CENTER.

 At Seattle Center's request, the Inn shall include in any promotional material imprinted, published or otherwise produced by or on behalf of the Inn that makes reference to the Hotel, notice that the Hotel is located at the Seattle Center; provided, however, that the words "Seattle Center" shall not be used in the Hotel name without the prior written consent of the Director.

 35. CITY'S CONSENT OR APPROVAL.

 Whenever the consent of the City or the Director to any act to be performed by the Inn is required under this Ground Lease (a) the Inn must obtain the consent or approval in writing expressly for purposes of this Ground Lease, regardless of whether a consent or approval shall have been granted by the City in its regulatory, public utility, or other capacity; and (b) unless otherwise expressly stated herein, such consent or approval may be withheld in the exercise of the City's reasonable discretion.

 No permission, consent, or approval of the City or the Director contained herein or given pursuant to this Ground Lease is, or shall be construed as, a representation or assurance that the matter consented to or approved complies with applicable laws, regulations, ordinances or Codes, nor shall any such consent or approval be construed to authorize any failure to comply with any of the foregoing.

 36. MEDIATION OF DISPUTES.

 The parties shall make their best efforts to resolve disputes as expeditiously as possible through negotiations at the lowest possible decision-making level, and in the event such negotiations are unsuccessful, to participate in good faith in the mediation process described below.

 36.1. Involvement of Mediator & Mediator's Consultants. In the event an issue cannot be resolved by negotiations between subordinate staff of the Inn and Seattle Center, the matter shall be referred to the Director and the Inn Managing Director. If those officials are unable to resolve the dispute within a period of 15 days after the matter has been formally referred to them for resolution, they shall meet during the immediately succeeding seven days to select a mediator to assist in the resolution of such dispute. If the Director and the Inn Managing Director cannot agree upon a mediator within such seven day period, either party may apply to the American Arbitration Association or the Judicial Arbitration & Mediation Service for the appointment of a mediator according to the process that is established by such entity for such action. The Inn and the City shall share equally the cost charged for the mediation of any dispute. The mediator shall have the authority to engage one or more expert consultants with knowledge in the field(s) or area(s) involved in the matter(s) that are in dispute to assist the mediator and the parties to evaluate their respective claims and resolve their dispute.

 36.2. Continuation of Efforts in Event of Dispute; No Litigation without Mediation. Notwithstanding the existence of any dispute between them, the parties shall continue to carry out, without unreasonable delay, all of their respective responsibilities under this Ground Lease which are not affected by the dispute. Neither party to this Ground Lease shall commence any litigation against the other with respect to any claim or dispute arising hereunder without first participating, in good faith, in mediation as contemplated in this Section.

 37. RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES.

 Nothing contained herein shall be construed as to make the parties hereto partners, associates, joint venturers, or participants in any legal relationship other than that of lessor and lessee. Neither party hereto shall have the power to contract or incur any obligation or liability in the name of the other party.

 38. AMENDMENTS.

 The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to renegotiate and change the provisions of this Ground Lease from time to time as may be necessary. No alteration or modification of the terms or conditions of this Ground Lease shall be valid and binding unless made in writing and signed by the authorized representatives of the parties hereto.

 39. NO WAIVER OF DEFAULT.

 The City does not waive full compliance with the terms and conditions of this Ground Lease by acceptance of rent hereunder. No waiver of default by either party of any of the terms, covenants, and conditions hereof to be performed, kept and observed by the other party shall be construed as, or operate as, a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Ground Lease to be performed, kept and observed by the other party.

 40. BINDING EFFECT.

 This Ground Lease shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties hereto.

 41. NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT.

 The parties hereto acknowledge that both parties participated equally in the drafting of this Ground Lease and that in the event of a dispute neither party shall be ascribed as the author of this Ground Lease nor have any ambiguity resolved against such party on account thereof.

 42. NOTICES.

 All notices required to be given hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be personally delivered or deemed delivered if dispatched by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the parties as set forth opposite their respective names below:

 If to the City: Seattle Center Director 305 Harrison Street Seattle, WA 98109

 If to the Inn: The Inn at the Center, LLC Attn: Coy Wood 24615 144th Avenue S.E. Kent, WA 98024

 The parties, by notice given, may designate any further or different addresses to which subsequent notices or other communications shall be sent.

 43. TIME.

 Time is of the essence of this Ground Lease.

 44. RECORDATION.

 The parties agree that a memorandum of this Ground Lease substantially in the form of Exhibit H, attached, shall be recorded in the office of the King County Recorder.

 45. CAPTIONS.

 The table of contents and the headings to the paragraphs of this Ground Lease are not a part hereof and shall have no effect on the construction or interpretation of any of the terms and provisions contained herein.

 46. INVALIDITY OF PROVISIONS.

 Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this Ground Lease be held to be inoperative, invalid, or void, the same shall not affect any other term, provision, condition or other portion of this Ground Lease, and the remainder of this Ground Lease shall be effective as if such term, provision, condition, or portion were not a part hereof.

 47. FORCE MAJEURE.

 47.1. Definition of Force Majeure Event. "Force Majeure Event" shall mean any circumstance or act beyond the control of a party, that such party could not have reasonably anticipated or prevented and that has, or may reasonably be expected to have, a material adverse effect on the rights or obligations of such party under this Ground Lease. Examples of Force Majeure Events shall include without limitation, an intervening act of God or public enemy, fire, storm, flood, tidal wave, earthquake, epidemic, explosion, volcanic eruption, lightning, nuclear radiation, earth slides, quarantine restriction, freight embargo, riot or public discord, civil disturbance, work stoppages and labor strikes, or changes in law. For purposes of this Ground Lease, Force Majeure Event shall include any lawsuit, which enjoins the issuance of one or more permits, licenses or other governmental approvals related to the development or operation of the Hotel, until such time as any such lawsuit is finally and ultimately resolved.

 47.2. Effect of Force Majeure Event. If either party is rendered wholly or partly unable to perform its material obligations (excluding, however, any monetary obligations) under this Ground Lease within three (3) years from the first occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, then the party whose performance is not so effected may elect to terminate this Ground Lease and such termination shall take effect ninety (90) days following notice thereof. In the event it is the Inn, which is unable to perform its obligations due to a Force Majeure Event, the City may require the Inn to restore the Premises to their original condition in accordance with Subsection 10.15 at the Inn's sole cost and expense. If either party is rendered wholly or partly unable to perform its material obligations hereunder or to meet any deadline or milestone dates set forth in this Ground Lease because of a Force Majeure Event for a period of less than three (3) years from the first occurrence of a Force Majeure Event, such party's time to perform any obligation hereunder (excluding, however, any monetary obligations) affected by such Force Majeure Event, shall be equitably adjusted and the applicable deadline or milestone dates shall be revised accordingly.

 48. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE INN

 The Inn represents and warrants to the City that:

 A. The Inn is a limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington and has the authority to do business in this state, with the full legal right, power and authority to enter into and perform its obligations under this Ground Lease.

 B. This Ground Lease has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by all necessary corporate actions of the Inn and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Inn, enforceable against the Inn in accordance with its terms.

 C. Neither the execution nor delivery by the Inn of this Ground Lease nor the performance by the Inn of its obligations in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or the fulfillment by the Inn of the terms or conditions hereof (1) conflicts with, violates or results in a breach of any constitution, law or governmental regulation applicable to the Inn or (2) conflicts with, violates or results in a breach of any order, judgment or decree, or any contract, agreement or instrument to which the Inn is a party or by which the Inn or any of its properties or assets are bound, or constitutes a default under any of the foregoing.

 D. No approval, authorization, order or consent, or declaration, registration or filing with any governmental authority is required for the valid execution and delivery of this Ground Lease by the Inn or the performance of its payment or other obligations hereunder.

 E. There is no actual or potential action, lawsuit or proceeding, at law or in equity, before or by any court or governmental body pending or, to the best of the Inn's knowledge, threatened against the Inn, which is likely to result in an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding which would materially and adversely affect the execution and delivery of this Ground Lease or the validity, legality or enforceability of this Ground Lease, or any other agreement or instrument entered into by the Inn in connection with the transaction contemplated hereby, or which would materially and adversely affect the ability of the City to perform its obligations hereunder.

 The foregoing representations, warranties and covenants are intended to and shall survive termination of this Ground Lease.

 49. APPLICABLE LAW AND VENUE.

 This Ground Lease shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Washington. Venue for any legal action under the Ground Lease shall be King County Superior Court.

 50. AGREEMENT CONTENTS.

 This Ground Lease, including all exhibits and attachments hereto, embody the entire agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the lease of the Premises and supersede all other understandings or agreements, written or oral, between the parties relating to the subject matter of this Ground Lease. No representations, promises, conditions or warranties with reference to the execution of this Ground Lease have been made or entered into between the parties hereto other than as expressly provided in the aforementioned documents.

 List of Exhibits:

 A. Depiction of Premises

 B. Legal description of the Premises

 C. Construction Standards for City Parking Facility

 D. City Parking Facility Lease Agreement

 E. Seattle Center Guidelines for the Construction of The Inn at the Center hotel

 F. Seattle Center Festival Dates

 G. Insurance requirements

 H. Memorandum of Ground Lease

 Signed:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE THE INN AT THE CENTER, LLC By:_______________ By:______________ Signature Signature Virginia Anderson_________ (Title) Director, Seattle Center Date:_______________ Date:

 CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of _________________, 19___, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared VIRGINIA ANDERSON, to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center for the City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year first above written.

 Signature _______________________________________ Printed Name ___________________________________ Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _________________________

 THE INN ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ___ day of ___________________, 19__, before me personally appeared _________________________, to me known to be the ________________________ of THE INN AT THE CENTER, LLC, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said THE INN AT THE CENTER, LLC., for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated he was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year first above written. Signature _______________________________________ Printed Name ___________________________________ Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _________________________ My commission expires: ________________________ chales3.doc 99/11/15 Ground Lease.doc November 8, 1999 99/11/15

 EXHIBIT B Legal Description of the Premises

 Seattle Center Parking Lot #4

 Lots 1 thru 4, Block, 38, D.T. Denny's 3rd Addition to the North Seattle, according to the plot thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 145, excluding the dedicated alley, situated in the City of Seattle, King County, State of Washington. Also known as a portion of parcel 198520-0070, records of the King County Assessor.

 Land Area: 28,800 square feet, of .298 acres

 Zoning: NC3/65, Neighborhood Commercial by the City of Seattle with a height limit of 65 feet.

```
