

********

**Council Bill Number: 112913**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.41.006, 23.50.012, 23.50.014, 23.50.027, and 23.54.015, repealing Chapter 23.68, adding a new Chapter 23.74 to the Seattle Municipal Code to establish a Stadium Area Transition Overlay District and amend the Downtown Design Guidelines to implement the Greater Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center Plan.

**Status:** Failed 06/12/00
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 20, 1999
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Growth Planning and Civic Engagement
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, ZONING, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT, ARENAS-AND-STADIUMS, DESIGN-REVIEW, PARKING, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ___________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.41.006, 23.50.012, 23.50.014, 23.50.027, and 23.54.015, repealing Chapter 23.68, adding a new Chapter 23.74 to the Seattle Municpal Code to establish a Stadium Area Transition Overlay District and amend the Downtown Design Guidelines to implement the Greater Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center Plan.

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 23.41.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118980, is amended as follows:

 23.41.004 Applicability.

 A. Design Review Required.

 1. Design review is required for any new multifamily or commercial structure that exceeds SEPA thresholds if the structure:

 a. Is located in one (1) of the following zones:

 i. Lowrise (L3, L4),

 ii. Midrise (MR),

 iii. Highrise (HR),

 iv. Neighborhood Commercial (NC1, 2, 3), or

 v. Seattle Cascade Mixed (SCM); or

 b. Is located in a Commercial (C1, or C2) zone, and

 i. The proposed structure is located within an urban village area identified in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan,

 ii. The site of the proposed structure abuts or is directly across from a street or alley from any lot zoned single family, or

 iii. The proposed structure is located in the area bounded by NE 95th Street on the south, NE 120th Street on the north, 15th Ave NE on the west, and 30th Ave NE on the east, but only until June 30, 1999.

 2. Design review is required for all new Major Institution structures which exceed SEPA thresholds in the zones listed in subsection A1 of this section, unless the structure is located within a Major Institution Overlay (MIO) District.

 3. Downtown, design review is required for all new multifamily and commercial structures greater than or equal to the following thresholds:

 DOC 1 and DOC 2 Zones

 Use Threshold

 Nonresidential 50,000 square feet of

 gross floor area

 Residential 20 dwelling units

 DRC, DMC, DMR, DH1, DH2

 Use Threshold

 Nonresidential 20,000 square feet of

 gross floor area

 Residential 20 dwelling units

 4. Design review is required for all new multifamily or commercial structures exceeding one hundred and twenty (120) feet in width on any single street frontage in the Stadium Area Transition Overlay District.

 5. New multifamily or commercial structures in the zones listed in subsection A1 of this section, that are subject to SEPA solely as a result of the provisions of SMC Section 25.05.908B, environmentally sensitive areas, shall not be subject to design review.

 * * *

 Section 2. Exhibit 23.41.006A of Section 23.41.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118980, is amended as follows:

 23.41.006 Design Review Map

 For the purposes of design review, the city shall be divided into seven (7) districts, as depicted on the Design Review Map, Exhibit 23.41.006A.

[Design Review Map, Exhibit 23.41.006A.](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~ordpics/112913a.gif)

 Section 3. Section 23.50.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is amended as follows:

 23.50.012 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 A. All uses shall be either permitted outright, prohibited or permitted as a conditional use according to Chart A. (See Chart A for Section 23.50.012.)

 Industrial Uses

 Chart A

 For Section 23.50.012

 Uses

 Zones

 I. Manufacturing.

 IB

 IC

 IG1 and IG2

 IG1 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 IG2 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 A. Light manufacturing

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 B. General manufacturing

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 C. Heavy manufacturing

 CU

 X or CU1

 P or CU2

 P

 P

 II.High-impact Uses.

 X

 X or CU3

 X or CU4

 X or CU4

 X or CU4

 III.Commercial.

 A. Retail sales and service

 1 Personal and household sales and services

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 2 Medical services

 P/CU5

 P/CU5

 P/CU5

 P/CU5

 P/CU5

 3 Animal services

 a. Animal health services

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 b. Kennel

 X

 P

 P

 P

 P

 c. Animal control shelter

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 4 Automotive retail sales and service

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 5 Marine retail sales and service

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 6 Eating and drinking establishment

 a. Fast-food restaurants over 750 square feet

 CU

 CU

 CU

 P

 P

 b. Fast-food restaurants under 750 square feet

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 c. Restaurants with or without cocktail lounges

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 d. Tavern

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 e. Brewpub

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 7 Lodging

 CU

 CU

 CU

 X

 X

 8 Mortuary service

 P

 P

 P

 X

 X

 Uses

 Zones

 III.Commercial (continued).

 IB

 IC

 IG1 and IG2

 IG1 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 IG2 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 9 Existing cemeteries

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 10 New cemeteries

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 B. Principal use parking, surface area or garage

 P

 P

 P

 X

 X

 C. Nonhousehold sales and services

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 D. Office

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 E. Entertainment

 1 Places of public assembly

 a. Performing arts theater

 P

 P

 P

 X

 X

 b. Spectator sports facility

 P

 P

 P

 X6

 X6

 c. Lecture and meeting halls

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 d. Motion picture theater

 P

 P

 P

 X

 X

 e. Motion picture theater, adult

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 f. Adult panorams

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 2 Participant sports and recreation

 a. Indoor

 P

 P

 P

 X

 P

 b. Outdoor

 P

 P

 P

 X

 P

 F. Wholesale Showroom

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 G. Mini-warehouse

 P

 P

 P

 X

 P

 H. Warehouse

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 I. Outdoor Storage

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 Uses

 Zones

 III. Commercial (continued).

 IB

 IC

 IG1 and IG2

 IG1 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 IG2 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 J. Transportation Facilities

 1 Personal transportation services

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 2 Passenger terminal

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 3 Cargo terminal

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 4 Transit vehicle base

 CU

 CU

 CU

 CU

 CU

 5 Helistop

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 6 Heliport

 X

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 7 Airport, land-based

 X

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 8 Airport, water-based

 X

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 9 Railroad switchyard

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 10 Railroad switch yard with mechanized hump mechanized hump

 X

 X

 CU

 CU

 CU

 K. Food processing and craft work

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 L. Research and development laboratory

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 IV.Salvage and Recycling.

 A. Recycling collection station

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 B. Recycling center

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 C. Salvage yard

 X

 X

 P

 P

 P

 V. Utilities.

 A. Utility services use

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 B. Major communication utility~~6)~~7

 CU

 CU

 CU

 CU

 CU

 C. Minor communication utility~~6~~7

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 D. Solid waste transfer station

 X

 CU

 CU

 P

 P

 Uses

 Zones

 V. Utilities (continued)

 IB

 IC

 IG1 and IG2

 IG1 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 IG2 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 E. Power plant

 X

 CCU

 P

 P

 P

 F. Sewage treatment plant

 X

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 G. Solid waste incineration facility

 X

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 H. Solid waste landfills

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 VI. Institutions.

 A. Institute for advanced study

 P

 P

 P

 X

 X

 B. Private clubs

 EB

 EB

 EB

 X

 X

 C. Child care center

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 D. Museum

 EB

 EB

 EB

 X8

 X8

 E. School, elementary or secondary

 EB

 EB

 EB

 X

 X

 F. College

 EB

 EB

 EB

 X9

 X9

 G. Community center

 EB

 EB

 EB

 P

 P

 H. Community club

 EB

 EB

 EB

 X

 P

 I. Vocational or fine arts school

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 J. Hospital

 EB

 EB

 CU~~8~~10

 P

 P

 K. Religious facility

 EB

 EB

 EB

 X

 X

 L. University

 EB

 EB

 EB

 X9

 X9

 Uses

 Zones

 VI. Institutions (continued)

 IB

 IC

 IG1 and IG2

 IG1 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 IG2 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 M. Major institutions, subject to the provisions of Chapter 23.69

 EB

 EB

 EB

 EB

 EB

 VII. Public Facilities.

 A Jails

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 B. Work-release centers

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 C. Other public facilities

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 CCU

 VIII. Park and Pool/Ride Lots.

 A. Park and pool lots

 P~~7~~11

 P~~7~~11

 P~~7~~11

 CU

 CU

 B. Park and ride lots

 CU

 CU

 CU

 CU

 CU

 IX. Residential.

 A. Single-family dwelling units

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 B. Multi-family structures

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 C. Congregate residences

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 D. Adult family homes

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 E. Floating homes

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 F. Mobile home park

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 G. Nursing homes

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 H. Artist's studio/dwelling

 EB/CU

 EB/CU

 EB/CU

 EB/CU

 EB/CU

 I. Caretaker's quarters

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 Uses

 Zones

 IX. Residential (continued).

 IB

 IC

 IG1 and IG2

 IG1 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 IG2 in the DuwamishManufac-turing and Industrial Center

 J. Residential use except artist's studio/dwelling and caretaker's quarters in a landmark structure or landmark district

 CU

 CU

 CU

 CU

 CU

 X. Open Space.

 A. Parks

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 B. Playgrounds

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 XI Agricultural Uses

 A. Animal husbandry

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 B. Horticultural use

 X

 X

 X

 X

 X

 C. Aquaculture

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 P

 X

 CU

 CCU

 EB

 =

 =

 =

 =

 =

 Permitted

 Prohibited

 Administrative conditional use

 Council conditional use

 Permitted only in a building existing on October 5, 1987.

 1

 The Heavy Manufacturing uses listed in subsection B10 of Section 23.50.014 may be permitted as a conditional use. All other Heavy Manufacturing uses are prohibited.

 2

 Heavy Manufacturing uses may be permitted as a conditional use within the Queen Anne Interbay area as provided at subsection C of Section 23.50.014.

 3

 The High-Impact uses listed at subsection B10 of Section 23.50.014 may be permitted as conditional uses.

 4

 High-Impact 1 uses may be permitted as a conditional use as provided at subsection B5 of Section 23.50.014.

 5

 Medical service uses over ten thousand (10,000) square feet, within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of a medical Major Institution overlay district boundary, shall require administrative conditional use approval, unless included in an adopted major institution master

 Plan or located in a Downtown zone. See Section 23.50.014.

 6

 Parking required for a spectator sports facility or exhibition hall may be used for general parking purposes or shared with another such facility to meet its required parking.

~~6~~ 7

 See Chapter 23.57 for regulation of major and minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices.

 8

 Museums are prohibited except in buildings or structures that are designated City of Seattle landmarks.

 9

 A college or university offering a vocational curriculum within the zone is permitted.

~~7~~ 10

 Hospitals may be permitted as a conditional use where accessory to a research and development laboratory or an institute for advanced study ~~as provided by subsection B15 of~~ pursuant to Section 23.50.014B15, conditional uses.

~~8~~ 11

 Park and pool lots are not permitted within three thousand feet (3,000') of the ~~d~~Downtown Urban Center.

 * * *

 Section 4. Subsection B of Section 23.50.014 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118794, is amended as follows:

 23.50.014 Conditional uses.

 * * *

 B. Administrative Conditional Uses. The following uses, identified as administrative conditional uses in Chart A, may be permitted by the Director when the provisions of this subsection and subsection A of this section are met.

 1. General Industrial 1 (IG1),General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones, except as provided in the Shoreline District, Chapter 23.60, upon showing that the occupant is a bonafide working artist, and subject to the following criteria:

 a. Artist's studio/dwellings shall generally be discouraged along arterials such as freeways, state routes and freight lines;

 b. Artist's studio/dwellings shall not be allowed in areas where existing industrial uses may cause environmental or safety problems;

 c. Artist's studio/dwellings shall not be located where they may restrict or disrupt industrial activity;

 d. The nature of the artist's work shall be such that there is a genuine need for the space; and e. The owner(s) of a building seeking a conditional use for artist's studio/dwellings must sign and record a covenant and equitable servitude, on a form acceptable to the Director, that acknowledges that the owner(s) and occupants of the building accept the industrial character of the neighborhood and agree that existing or permitted industrial uses do not constitute a nuisance or other inappropriate or unlawful use of land. Such covenant and equitable servitude must state that it is binding on the owner(s)' successors, heirs, and assigns, including any lessees of the artist's studio/dwellings.

 2. Park-and-pool lots in IG1 and IG2 in the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center, and ~~P~~park-and-ride lots ~~may be permitted as a conditional use~~ in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones may be permitted as a conditional use according to the following criteria:

 a. The ~~park-and-ride~~ lot shall not create conflict with industrial activity by causing significant additional traffic to circulate through the area;

 b. The ~~park-and-ride~~ lot has direct vehicular access to a designated arterial improved to City standards;

 c. The ~~park-and-ride~~ lot shall be located on an existing parking area unless no reasonable alternative exists;

 d. If the proposed ~~park-and-ride~~ lot is located on a lot containing accessory parking for other uses, there shall be no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the park- and-ride lot and the other uses; and

 e. The ~~park-and-ride~~ lot is not located within three thousand (3,000) feet of downtown.

 3. Lodging may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer(IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:

 a. The use is designed primarily to serve users in the industrial area; and

 b. The use is designed and located to minimize conflicts with industrial uses in the area.

 4. A residential use not otherwise permitted in the zone maybe permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones within a structure designated as a Landmark, pursuant to the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 25.12, Landmarks Preservation, or within a structure in a Landmark District, pursuant to the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapters 25.16, Ballard Avenue Landmark District, or Chapter25.28, Pioneer Square Historical District, subject to the following criteria:

 a. The use shall be compatible with the historic or landmark character of the structure. The Director shall request a determination regarding compatibility by the respective Board having jurisdiction over the structure or lot;

 b. The residential use shall not restrict or disrupt industrial activity in the zone; and

 c. The surrounding uses would not be detrimental to occupants of the Landmark structure.

 5. High Impact uses may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), and General Industrial 2 (IG2) zones, according to the following criteria:

 a. The lot is located so that large concentrations of people, particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to unreasonable adverse impacts;

 b. A management plan may be required. The Director may determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable impacts and/or the scale of the effects. Discussion of materials handling and storage, odor control, transportation and other factors may be required.

 6. New railroad switchyard with a mechanized hump, or the expansion of such a use beyond the lot occupied at the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this section may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1) and General Industrial 2 (IG2) zones, according to the following criteria:

 a. The lot is located so that large concentrations of people, particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to unreasonable adverse impacts;

 b. Measures to minimize the impacts of noise, light and glare, and other measures to insure the compatibility of the use with the surrounding area and to mitigate adverse impacts shall be incorporated into the design and operation of the facility.

 7. Solid waste transfer stations may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:

 a. Measures to minimize potential odor emissions and airborne pollutants shall be determined in consultation with the Puget Sound Air Pollution Control Agency (PSAPCA). These measures shall be incorporated into the design and operation of the facility;

 b. Measures to maximize control of rodents, birds and other vectors shall be determined in consultation with the Seattle/King County Department of Public Health. These measures shall be incorporated into the design and operation of the facility;

 c. A transportation plan may be required. The Director shall determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan such as estimated trip generation, access routes and surrounding area traffic counts, based on the probable impacts and/or scale of the proposed facility; and

 d. Measures to minimize other impacts are incorporated into the design and operation of the facility.

 8. Heavy Manufacturing uses may be permitted in the Industrial Buffer (IB) zone as a conditional use according to the following criteria:

 a. The use shall be located within an enclosed building except for shipbuilding;

 b. The hours of operation for all processes creating any adverse impacts on residentially or commercially zoned land maybe limited;

 c. Truck and service traffic associated with the heavy manufacturing use shall be directed away from streets serving lots in nonindustrial zones;

 d. The infrastructure of the area shall be capable of accommodating the traffic generated by the proposed use; and

 e. The use shall not produce sustained or recurrent vibrations exceeding 0.002 g acceleration as measured on lots in nonindustrial zones.

 9. The Heavy Manufacturing uses listed in subsection 9a below may be permitted in the Industrial Commercial (IC) zone as a conditional use according to criteria contained in subsection 9b.

 a. Uses.

 (1) Mass production of commercial or recreational vessels of any size and the production of vessels up to one hundred and twenty (120) feet in length, constructed to individual specifications; and

 (2) Manufacturing of electrical components, such as semiconductors and circuit boards, using chemical processes such as etching or metal coating; and

 (3) Production of industrial organic and inorganic chemicals, and soaps and detergents.

 b. Criteria.

 (1) Except for shipbuilding, the use shall be located within an enclosed building;

 (2) The hours of operation for all processes creating any impacts on residentially or commercially zoned land may be limited;

 (3) Truck and service traffic associated with the heavy manufacturing use shall be directed away from streets serving lots in nonindustrial zones;

 (4) The infrastructure of the area shall be capable of accommodating the traffic generated by the proposed use;

 (5) The use shall not produce sustained or recurrent vibrations exceeding 0.002g acceleration as measured on lots in nonindustrial zones;

 (6) The finished product as packaged for sale or distribution shall be in such a form that product handling and shipment does not constitute a significant public health risk; and

 (7) The nature of the materials produced and/or the scale of manufacturing operations may be limited in order to minimize the degree and severity of risks to public health and safety.

 10. The High Impact uses listed in subsection 10a below may be permitted as conditional uses in the Industrial Commercial (IC) zone according to the criteria contained in subsection 10b below.

 a. Uses.

 (1) The manufacture of Group A hazardous materials, except Class A or B explosives; and

 (2) The manufacture of Group B hazardous materials, when the hazardous materials are present in quantities greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds of solids, two hundred seventy-five (275) gallons of liquids, or one thousand (1,000) cubic feet of gas at any time.

 b. Criteria.

 (1) The lot is located so that large concentrations of people, particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to unreasonable adverse impacts;

 (2) A management plan may be required. The Director may determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable impacts and/or the scale of the effects. Discussion of materials handling and storage, odor control, transportation and other factors may be required;

 (3) The finished product as packaged for sale or distribution shall be in such a form that product handling and shipment does not constitute a significant public health risk; and

 (4) The nature of the materials produced and/or the scale of manufacturing operations may be limited in order to minimize the degree and severity of risks to public health and safety.

 11. Fast-food restaurants which have a gross floor area greater than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet are identified as heavy traffic generators and may be permitted as a conditional use in the General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2(IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:

 a. The Director may require that the applicant prepare an analysis of traffic, circulation, and parking impacts and demonstrate that the use will not:

 (1) Cause significant additional traffic to circulate through nearby residential neighborhoods,

 (2) Disrupt the pedestrian flow of an area by significantly increasing the potential for pedestrian-vehicle conflicts,

 (3) Create traffic or access problems which may require the expenditure of City funds to mitigate,

 (4) Interfere with peak-hour transit operations by causing auto traffic to cross a designated high-occupancy vehicle lane adjacent to the lot, or

 (5) Cause cars waiting to use the facility to queue across the sidewalk or onto the street;

 b. Appropriate litter-control measures are provided.

 12. Transit vehicle bases may be permitted as a conditional use in the General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:

 a. The amount of industrial land occupied by the facility shall be minimized. To avoid disruption of the industrial function of the area, the presence of the facility shall not obstruct the operation or likely expansion of existing industrial uses;

 b. The location of the facility shall not result insignificant displacement of viable industrial uses or support activities;

 c. The amount of land occupied by the facility that has access to industrial shorelines or major rail facilities shall be minimized; and

 d. A transportation plan may be required to prevent conflicts with nearby industrial uses. The Director shall determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable impacts and/or scale of the proposed facility.

 13. Development of a medical service use over ten thousand (10,000) square feet, outside but within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of a medical Major Institution overlay District boundary, shall be subject to administrative conditional use approval, unless included in an adopted master plan. In making determination whether to approve or deny medical service use, the Director shall determine whether an adequate supply of industrially zoned land will continue to exist. The following factors shall be used in making this determination:

 a. Whether the amount of medical service use development existing and proposed in the vicinity would reduce the current viability or significantly impact the longer-term potential of the manufacturing or heavy commercial character of the industrial area; and

 b. Whether medical service use development would displace existing manufacturing or heavy commercial uses or usurp vacant land, in areas with parcels particularly suited for manufacturing or heavy commercial uses.

 14. A nonconforming use may be converted by an administrative conditional use authorization to a use not otherwise permitted in the zone based on the following factors:

 a. New uses shall be limited to those first permitted in the next more intensive zone;

 b. The Director shall evaluate the relative impacts of size, parking, traffic, light, glare, noise, odor and similar impacts of the two (2) uses, and how these impacts could be mitigated;

 c. The Director must find that the new nonconforming use is no more detrimental to property in the zone and vicinity than the existing nonconforming use.

 15. An accessory hospital facility may be permitted as a conditional use according to the following criteria:

 a. The hospital facility is an integral element of a research and development laboratory or an institute for advanced study to which it is accessory; and

 b. The hospital use shall not be allowed in areas where industrial activity may adversely affect hospital activity.

 Section 5. Section 23.50.027 of the Seattle Municpal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is amended as follows:

 23.50.027 Maximum size of nonindustrial use.

 A. Applicability.

 1. Except as provided in subsections B, C and ~~D~~ E of this section below, the maximum size of use limits specified in Chart A or Chart B of this section ~~shall~~ apply to uses on a lot~~,~~. ~~and t~~The total gross floor area occupied by uses limited under Chart A or Chart B of this section must comply with the following requirements:

 a. In an IG 1 zone, the total gross floor area ~~shall~~ will not exceed an area equal to the area of the lot ~~in an IG1 zone~~,));

 b. In an IG2, IB or IC zone, the total gross floor area will not exceed ~~or~~ two and one-half (2.5) times the area of the lot ~~in an IG2, IB or IC zone,~~; or

 c. In IC zones in the South Lake Union Planning Area, as identified in Exhibit 23.50.028 with sixty-five (65) foot or eighty-five (85) foot height limits, the total gross floor area will not exceed three (3) times the lot area ~~in IC zones in the South Lake Union Planning Area, as identified in Exhibit 23.50.028 with sixty-five (65) foot or eighty-five (85) foot height limits~~.

 The size of use limits apply to principal and accessory uses on a lot. The limits shall be applied separately to ~~the two (2)~~ each categor~~ies~~y of use listed in Chart A or Chart B of this section.

 2. The maximum size of use limits shall not apply to the area identified in Exhibit 23.50.027 A, provided that no single retail establishment shall exceed fifty thousand (50,000) square feet in size.

 CHART A

 INDUSTRIAL ZONES

 Categories of Uses

 Subject to Size of IG2

 Use Limits IG1 and IB IC

 Retail sales and service 30,000 75,000 75,000

 or entertainment except sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft.

 spectator sports facilities

 Office 50,000 100,000 N.M.S.L.

 sq. ft. sq. ft.

 _________

 N.M.S.L. = No Maximum Size Limits

 CHART B

 INDUSTRIAL ZONES

 Categories of Uses WITHIN DUWAMISH M/I CENTER

 Subject to Size of

 Use Limits IG1 IG2

 Office uses and retail sales

 and service (except for

 restaurants, fast-food

 restaurants over 750 sq. ft.,

 taverns, and brew pubs) 25,000 50,000

 sq. ft. sq. ft.

 Restaurants and fast-food

 restaurants over 750 sq. ft. 5,000 5,000

 sq. ft. sq. ft.

 Taverns and brew pubs* 3,000 3,000

 sq. ft. sq. ft.

 __________

 * The maximum size limit for brew pubs applies to that portion of the pub that is devoted exclusively to serving food and drink and not used for brewing purposes.

 B. The following exceptions to the maximum size of use limits are allowed for a structure existing as of April 3, 1995:

 1. A use legally established as of April 3, 1995 which already exceeds the maximum size of use limits listed in Chart A or Chart B may continue.

 2. The gross floor area of a use listed in Chart A or Chart B and legally established as of April 3, 1995 may be converted to another category of use listed in Chart A or Chart B provided that the combined gross floor area devoted to uses listed in Chart A or Chart B does not exceed the total gross floor area of such uses legally established as of April 3, 1995.

 3. If fifty (50) percent or more of the gross floor area of the structure has been legally established as of April 3, 1995 with a use or uses listed in Chart A or Chart B, those categories of uses may exceed the size of use limits as follows:

 a. Uses listed in Chart A or Chart B may expand within and occupy the entire structure.

 b. The structure may be expanded by up to the following amounts and the use or uses may be permitted to expand within and occupy the entire structure:

 (1) IG1 Zone: Twenty (20) percent of the existing structure gross floor area or ten thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is less.

 (2) IG2, IB and IC Zones: Twenty (20) percent of the existing structure gross floor area or twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, whichever is less.

 C. Special Exception for Office Use in the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center.

 1. The maximum size of use limits do not apply to office uses directly related to and supportive of any one of the following uses:

 a. Manufacturing;

 b. High Impact Uses;

 c. Marine Retail Sales and Service, except Recreational Marinas, Sale of Boat Parts or Accessories, and Sale or Rental of Large Boats;

 d. Non-Household Sales and Services;

 e. Transportation Facilities;

 f. Food Processing and Craft Work; or

 g. Salvage and Recycling;

 2. The following characteristics are used by the Director to determine whether an office use is directly related to and supportive of one of the uses listed in subsection 23.50.027C1 above:

 a. The office serves only one business establishment;

 b. The office use is one (1) mile or less from the permitted uses listed in 23.50.027 (3).

 3. Maximum size of use limits do not apply to office uses proposed for location in a structure existing as of the effective date of the ordinance adopting subsection 23.50.027C when the structure has been vacant for twenty-four (24) consecutive months or more and the office was established as a use in the structure.

 D. Special Exception for Office Use in All Industrial Zones.

 1. The Director may permit an office use to exceed the size of use limits as a special exception pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions provided that the total gross floor area devoted to the uses limited in Chart A or Chart B shall not exceed an area equal to the area of the lot in an IG1 zone or two and one-half (2.5) times the area of the lot in an IG2 or IB zone. Such an exception may be considered only if:

 a. The office is on the same lot as, and accessory to, a permitted use not listed in Chart A or Chart B; or

 b. The office is a principal use on the same or another lot within one (1) mile distance of a permitted use not listed in Chart A or Chart B and is directly related to and supportive of that use.

 2. The Director shall use the following characteristics to determine whether to approve, approve with conditions or deny a special exception:

 a. Characteristics that make a lot more appropriate for office uses are:

 (1) The presence of well-defined boundaries, buffers, edge conditions or circulation patterns which separate office uses from industrial activity;

 (2) The likelihood that the proposed use will provide or encourage improvements that will directly support industrial activity in the area;

 (3) The likelihood that the proposed use, because of its type, size and location, will operate without substantial conflicts with the industrial function of the area;

 (4) A sufficiently large industrial area such that the proposed use would not undermine the area's industrial character.

 b. Characteristics that make a lot less appropriate for office uses are:

 (1) The presence of heavy industrial uses which would conflict with office use;

 (2) The presence of any special features, such as access to the water, rail and the regional highway systems, which make the land especially well-suited to industrial use.

~~D~~E. Covered rooftop recreational space of a building existing as of December 31, 1998, when complying with the provisions of Section 23.50.012D, shall not be subject to the limits on maximum size of nonindustrial uses contained in subsection A of this section above.

 Section 6. Section 23.54.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance119239, is amended as follows:

 23.54.015 Required parking.

 A. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for specific uses shall be based upon gross floor area, unless otherwise specified, as set forth in Chart A, except for uses located in downtown zones, which are regulated by Section 23.49.016, and Major Institution uses, which are regulated by Section 23.54.016. (See Chart A for Section 23.54.015.)

 PARKING

 Chart A

 for Section 23.54.015

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Adult care center1

 1 space for each 10 adults (clients) or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 adults (clients).

 Adult family home

 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Adult motion picture theater

 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Adult panoram

 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Airport, land-based (waiting area)

 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Airport, water-based (waiting area)

 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Animal services

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Animal husbandry (retail area only)

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Aquaculture (retail area only)

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Artist's studio/dwelling

 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Assisted living facility2

 1 for each 4 assisted living units plus 1 for each 2 staff members on-site at peak staffing time; plus 1 barrier-free passenger loading and unloading space; plus loading berth requirements per Section 23.54.035.

 Automotive parts or accessory sales

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Ball courts

 1 per court.

 Bed and breakfast

 1 for each dwelling, plus 1 for each 2 guest rooms or suites.

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Bowling alley

 5 for each lane.

 Brewpub

 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Business support services

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Business incubators

 1 for each 1,000 square feet..

 Carwash

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Caretaker's quarters

 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Cargo terminal

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Cemetery

 None.

 Child care center1,9

 1 space for each 10 children or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 children.

 Colleges1

 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Commercial laundries

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Commercial moorage

 1 for each 140 lineal feet of moorage.

 Communication utilities

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Community centers1, 2 and

 community clubs1, 2

 1 for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or 1 for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Community centers owned and operated by the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR)1, 2, 3

 1 for each 555 square feet

 Congregate residences

 1 for each 4 residents.

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Construction services

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Custom and craft work

 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Dance halls (dance floor and table area)

 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Dry storage of boats

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Family support centers located in community centers owned and operated by the Seattle DOPAR3

 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Floating homes

 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Food processing for human consumption

 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Gas station

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 General retail sales and services

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Ground-floor businesses in multi-family zones

 None, maximum of 10.

 Heavy commercial services

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Heliports (waiting area)

 1 for each 100 square feet.

 High-impact uses.

 1 for each 1,500 square feet or as determined by the Director

 Horticultural uses (retail area only)

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Hospitals1

 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 5 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Hotels

 1 for each 4 sleeping rooms or suites.

 Institute for advanced study1

 1 for each 1,000 square feet of administrative offices and similar spaces; plus 1 for each 10 fixed seats in all auditoria and public assembly rooms; or 1 for each 100 square feet of public assembly area not containing fixed seats

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Institutes for advanced study in single-family zones (existing)

 3.5 for each 1,000 square feet of office space; plus 10 for each 1,000 square feet of additional building footprint to house and support conference center activities, or 37 for each 1,000 square feet of actual conference rooms to be constructed, whichever is greater

 Kennel

 1 for each 2,000 square feet

 Lecture and meeting hall

 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Major durables, sales, service, and rental

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Manufacturing, general

 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, heavy

 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, light

 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Marine service station

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Medical services

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Miniature golf

 1 for each 2 holes.

 Mini-warehouse

 1 for each 30 storage units.

 Mobile home park

 1 for each mobile home.

 Mortuary services

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Motels

 1 for each sleeping room or suite.

 Motion picture Studio

 1 for each 1,500 square feet

 Motion picture theater

 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Multi-family structures4 except those listed below

 Lots containing 2--10 dwelling units:

 1.1 for each dwelling unit.

 Lots containing 11--30 dwelling units:

 1.15 for each dwelling unit.

 Lots containing 31--60 dwelling units:

 1.2 for each dwelling unit.

 Lots containing more than 60 dwelling units:

 1.25 for each dwelling unit.

 In addition, for all multi-family structures whose average gross floor area per dwelling unit, excluding decks and all portions of a structure shared by multiple dwelling units, exceeds 500 square feet, an additional .0002 spaces per square foot in excess of 500 shall be required up to a maximum additional .15 spaces per dwelling unit; and

 When at least 50 percent of the dwelling units in a multi-family structure have 3 bedrooms, an

 additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 3 bedrooms shall be required; and

 Any multi-family structure which contains a dwelling unit with 4 or more bedrooms shall be required to provide an additional .25 spaces per

 bedroom for each unit with 4 or more bedrooms.5

 Multi-family structures containing dwelling units with 2 or more bedrooms, when within the area

 impacted by the University of Washington as shown on Map A following this section.

 1.5 spaces per unit with 2 or more bedrooms. The requirement for units with 3 or more bedrooms contained above shall also apply. All other

 requirements for units with fewer than 2 bedrooms shall be as contained above.5

 Multi-family structures, when within the Alki area as shown on Map B following this section.

 1.5 spaces per unit.

 Multi-family structures development, for those ground-related structures within the development with 10 units or fewer

 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Multi-family structures for low-income elderly

 1 for each 6 dwelling units

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Multi-family structures for low-income disabled

 1 for each 4 dwelling units.

 Multi-family structures: low-income elderly/low-income disabled

 1 for each 5 dwelling units.

 Multi-purpose convenience store

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Museum1

 1 for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, not containing fixed seats; or 1 for every 10 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; plus 1 space for each 250 square feet of other gross floor area open to the public.

 Non-household sales and services, except sales, service and rental of office equipment

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Nursing homes6

 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 3 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Office, administrative

 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Office, customer service

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Outdoor storage

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Parks

 None.

 Participant sports and recreation, indoor, unless otherwise specified

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Participant sports and recreation, outdoor, unless otherwise specified

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Passenger terminals (waiting area)

 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Performing arts theater

 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Personal transportation services

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Playgrounds

 None.

 Power plants

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Private club1

 1 for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or

 1 for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or

 if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Railroad rights-of-way

 None.

 Railroad switchyard

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Railroad switchyard with mechanized hump

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Recreational marinas

 1 for each 75 lineal feet of moorage.

 Recycling center

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Recycling collection station

 None.

 Religious facility1

 1 for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms.

 Research and development laboratory

 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Restaurant

 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Restaurant, fast-food

 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Sale and rental of large boats

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sale and rental of motorized vehicles

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sale of boat parts or accessories

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Sale of heating fuel

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sales, service and rental of commercial equipment

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Sales, service and rental of office equipment

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Salvage yard

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 School, private elementary and secondary1,2

 1 for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each staff member.

 School, public elementary and secondary 1,2,7

 1 for each 80 square feet of all auditorium or public assembly rooms, or 1 for every 8 fixed seats in auditoria or public assembly rooms, containing fixed seats, for new public schools on a new or existing public school site.

 Sewage treatment plant

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Single-family dwelling units

 1 for each dwelling unit

 Skating rink (rink area)

 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Solid waste transfer station

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Specialty food stores

 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Spectator sports facility10

 1 for each 10 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing

 fixed seats

 Sport range

 1 for each 2 stations.

 Swimming pool (water area)

 1 for each 150 square feet.

 Taverns

 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Transit vehicle base

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Universities 8

 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Utility service uses

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Use

 Parking Requirements

 Vehicle repair, major

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle repair, minor

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vessel repair, major

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vessel repair, minor

 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vocational or fine arts school

 1 for each 2 faculty and full-time employees; plus 1 for each 5 students (based on the maximum number of students in attendance at any one time).

 Warehouse

 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Wholesale showroom

 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Work-release centers

 1 for each 2 full-time staff members; plus 1 for each 5 residents; plus 1 for each vehicle operated in connection with the work- release center.

 1When permitted in single-family zones as conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of Seattle Transportation, may allow adult care and childcare centers locating in existing structures to provide loading and unloading spaces on-street when no other alternative exists.

 2Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall they be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they contain bleachers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers, the parking requirement for the entire gymnasium shall be one (1) parking space for every eight (8) fixed seats. Each twenty inches (20") of width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed seat for the purposes of determining parking requirements. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no parking requirement for the gymnasium. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center, the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each 350 square feet. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center owned and operated by the Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR), the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each five hundred fifty-five (555) square feet.

 3When family support centers are located within community centers owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined parking requirement by up to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%), pursuant to Section 23.54.020 I.

 4Parking spaces required for multi-family structures may be provided as tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.

 5Bedroom--Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code which, in the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a bedroom.

 6When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the Director may waive some or all of the parking requirements.

 7For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements shall be determined based on the new construction. When an existing public school on an existing public school site is remodeled, additional parking is required if any auditorium or other place of assembly is expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additional parking is required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor area or increase in number of seats only. If the parking requirement for the increased area or seating is ten percent (10%) or less than that for the existing auditorium or other place of assembly, then no additional parking shall be required.

 8 Development standards departure may be granted or required pursuant to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce the required or permitted number of parking spaces.

 9 Child care facilities, when co-located with assisted living facilities, may count the passenger load/unload space required for the assisted living facility toward its required passenger load/unload parking spaces.

 10 Parking for spectator sports facilities or exhibition halls must only be available when the facility or exhibition hall is in use. A facility shall be considered to be "in use" three (3) hours before and one (1) hour after a scheduled event. For sports events of variable or uncertain duration, the expected event length shall be the average length of the events for which the most recent data is available, provided it is within the past five (5) years. During an inaugural season, or for non-recurring events, the best available good faith estimate of event duration will be used. A facility will not be deemed to be "in use" by virtue of the fact that administrative or maintenance personnel are present.

 Section 7. Chapter 23.68 of the Seattle Municipal Code is repealed.

 Section 8. A new Chapter 23.74 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 Chapter 23.74

 Stadium Area Transition Overlay District

 Subchapter I. Establishment of Overlay District.

 23.74.002. Purpose and intent.

 The purpose of this Chapter is to implement recommendations from the Greater Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Plan to establish a Stadium Area Transition Overlay District for the area shown on Exhibit 23.74.004 A. Within this overlay district, use provisions and development standards are designed to encourage an industrial area that is compatible with the high number of pedestrians expected as a result of the area's proximity to downtown and major sport and exhibition facilities.

 23.74.004. Stadium Area Transition Overlay District established.

 There is established pursuant to Chapter 23.59 of the Seattle Municipal Code, the Stadium Area Transition Overlay District as shown on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32, and Exhibit 23.74.004 A.

[Exhibit 23.74.004 A.](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~ordpics/112913b.gif)

 23.74.006. Application of Regulations.

 Land located within the Stadium Area Transition Overlay District, as shown on Exhibit 23.74.004 A, is subject to the regulations of the underlying zone unless specifically modified by the provisions of this Chapter. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Chapter and the underlying zone, the provisions of this Chapter apply.

 Subchapter II. Uses and Development Standards.

 23.74.008. Uses.

 In addition to the use provisions of the underlying IC zone, the following use provisions apply:

 A. The following uses are permitted outright:

 1. Medical services;

 2. Lodging;

 3. Transit vehicle bases;

 4. Museums;

 5. Community centers;

 6. Private clubs; and

 7. Community clubs.

 B. The following uses are permitted in buildings existing on September 1, 1999:

 1. Artist/Studio dwellings;

 2. Religious facilities;

 3. Colleges;

 4. Universities; and

 5. Major institutions.

 C. The following uses are prohibited:

 1. Heavy manufacturing uses;

 2. High impact uses;

 3. Salvage and recycling facilities;

 4. Solid waste transfer stations;

 5. Animal services;

 6. Airports, land and water based;

 7. Sewage treatment plants;

 8. Solid waste incineration facilities;

 9. Hospitals;

 10. Elementary and secondary schools;

 11. Drive-in businesses, except gas stations; and

 12. Principal use parking.

 23.74.010. Development standards.

 In addition to the development standards of the underlying zone, the following provisions apply:

 A. Floor Area Ratio (FAR):

 1. The maximum FAR for all uses is 3.0, except as provided in B below;

 2. The first 75,000 square feet of retail sales and service, office and required parking at street-level are exempt from the FAR.

 B. Facades and streetscapes:

 1. Famayade Setback Limit. All building facades must be built to the street property line for the entire famayade length on any single street frontage, except where dedication or setbacks are required for sidewalk widening.

 2. Curb cuts are limited to three (3) per block front, except that additional curb cuts may be permitted when a block front has multiple ownerships;

 3. Gas station pumps must be located behind or to the side of a gas station, and no pumps are allowed between any structure and First Avenue South;

 4. For commercial uses, the maximum parking ratio is one (1) space for every 650 square feet of commercial use space;

 5. Screening and Landscaping. The screening and landscaping provisions of subsection 23.50.030 apply, except that blank famayade provisions do not apply to spectator sports facilities; and

 6. Structure Height. Height provisions of the underlying zone apply, except that height provisions do not apply to spectator sports facilities.

 Section 9. The Downtown Design Guidelines as adopted by Ordinance ??? are amended by adding the following Section after Page 48:

Design Guidelines applicable to the Stadium Area Transition Overlay District

The purpose of these guidelines is to ensure an appropriate transition between the industrial-scale development to the south of the Overlay District, which tends to feature large buildings, blank facades and minimal design details, and the rich, finely detailed and distinctive building designs found in the Pioneer Square District to the north.

 Guideline 1: Development on sites with greater than 360 feet of linear street frontage should be divided into separate buildings or substantially separate components of no greater than approximately 300 feet in width.

 Considerations:

 * Between buildings or building components, vehicular drives and/or pedestrian walkways are encouraged. Such drives would act to create the perception that these large sites are broken down into more human-scale blocks, such as found in the nearby Pioneer Square District.

 * A homogeneous design theme and/or single design expression can exacerbate the appearance of a development's height, bulk and scale. In order to provide greater variety in design and break down the overall height, bulk and scale of large developments, separate components of the development should employ different overall design themes and/or expression.

 Guideline 2: Bulk and scale of development should be broken down architecturally to respond to the historical development pattern in Pioneer Square - characterized by buildings of approximately 60 to 120 feet in width along the street.

 Considerations:

 * Expression of individual structural bays, different building uses or functions, varying heights of cornice lines or parapet walls, and other techniques, are encouraged to achieve a compatible relationship with nearby historic development patterns.

 * In order to provide appropriate transition to historic properties to the north, architectural composition and details compatible with the historical development should be considered.

 * In particular, new buildings should be designed with a solid base that grounds the buildings to the streetscape, a distinct middle or body of the building that may often comprise the principal architectural statement, and a strong top or cap to the building that terminates the famayades with a distinctive treatment and/or creates an interesting feature in the skyline.

 * Guideline 3: New buildings, and separate components of multi- building or multi-component large developments, should be designed with variety in overall architectural expression and design details.

 * Considerations:

 * Attention should be paid to the relationships between the new buildings and the design of nearby buildings - with the intent to create harmony yet variety in the streetscape.

 * Variety may be achieved by techniques such as varying widths of modules or bays, varying heights of cornice lines and/or parapet walls, varied design expression, and varied design details and/or materials.

 Section 10. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provisions shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 11. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ___ day of ______________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ___ day of _____________, 1999.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ___ day of _________________, 1999.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this ___ day of ____________________, 1999.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 kd duw-ord-v2 9/16/99

```
