

********

**Council Bill Number: 116032**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122529**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Existing Building Code, adding a new Chapter 22.110 to the Seattle Municipal Code to adopt by reference chapters 2 through 10, chapters 12, 13, 15, and Appendix A of the 2006 International Existing Building Code with errata published by the International Code Council; amending certain of those chapters and adopting a new Chapter 1 relating to administration for the Seattle Existing Building Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 1, 2007
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 11, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 11, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 24, 2007
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES, BUILDING-PERMITS, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CF 308937

**Fiscal Note:**116032

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122529](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122529.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Existing Building Code, adding a new Chapter 22.110 to the Seattle Municipal Code to adopt by reference chapters 2 through 10, chapters 12, 13, 15, and Appendix A of the 2006 International Existing Building Code with errata published by the International Code Council; amending certain of those chapters and adopting a new Chapter 1 relating to administration for the Seattle Existing Building Code.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. A new Section 22.110.010 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 22.110.010 Adoption of International Existing Building Code.

 The Seattle Existing Building Code consists of the following portions of the 2006 edition of the International Existing Building Code and errata published by the International Code Council: Chapters 2 through 10, Chapters 12, 13, 15, and Appendix A, together with Chapter 1 and the amendments and additions adopted by Ordinance. One copy of the 2006 International Existing Building Code is filed with the City Clerk in C.F. 308937.

 Section 2. The following is adopted as Chapter 1 of the Seattle Existing Building Code to read as follows:

 Chapter 1

 ADMINISTRATION

 SECTION 101

 GENERAL

 101.1 Title. This subtitle shall be known as the "Seattle Existing Building Code."

 101.2 Applicability. If requested by the permit applicant, this code applies as a code alternate to Chapter 34 of the Seattle Building Code for repair, alteration, change of occupancy, relocation of and additions to existing buildings as defined in Chapter 2.

 Exceptions:

 1. Buildings within the scope of the International Residential Code are not permitted to comply with this code.

 2. Buildings undergoing substantial alteration as defined in the Seattle Building Code shall comply with Seattle Building Code Chapter 34.

 3. Repair of earthquake damage shall comply with the Seattle Building Code.

 4. Historic buildings shall comply with the Seattle Building Code.

 101.2.1 Compliance with other codes. Although this code may apply as an alternate to Chapter 34 of the Seattle Building Code for repairs, alternations, changes of occupancy and relocation of certain existing buildings, compliance with the applicable provisions of other codes, including but not limited to the Washington State Energy Code with Seattle Amendments, the Seattle Electrical Code, and the International Fire Code, is also required.

 101.2.2 Buildings previously occupied. The legal occupancy of any building existing on the date of adoption of this code is permitted to continue without change, except as specifically provided otherwise in this code, the International Fire Code, or the Seattle Housing and Building Maintenance Code, or as deemed necessary by the code official to correct an unsafe building. For the purpose of this section, "unsafe building" is not a mere lack of compliance with the current code.

 101.3 Purpose.

 101.3.1 General. The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, occupancy, location and maintenance of certain existing buildings and structures within the City and certain equipment in those buildings, as specifically regulated herein.

 101.3.2 Protection of the public. The purpose of this code is to provide for and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public, and not to create or otherwise establish or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or should be especially protected or benefited by the terms of this code.

 101.3.3 Flexibility. The intent of this code is to provide flexibility for the use of alternative approaches to achieve compliance with minimum requirements to safeguard the public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are affected by the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings.

 101.4 Internal Consistency. If in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive governs. If there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement applies.

 101.5 Referenced codes. The codes and standards referenced in this code are considered part of the requirements of this code to the extent prescribed by each such reference. If differences occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this code apply.

 101.6 Appendices. Provisions in the appendices do not apply unless specifically adopted.

 Exception: Where Appendix A, Guidelines for the Seismic Retrofit of Existing Buildings, is specifically referenced in this code, it is adopted as part of this code.

 101.7 Conflict with Ventilation Code. In the case of conflict between the ventilation requirements of this code and the Washington State Ventilation and Indoor Air Quality Code (VIAQ), the provisions of the VIAQ govern.

 101.8 Metric units. Wherever in this ordinance there is a conflict between metric units of measurement and English units, the English units govern.

 101.9 Impracticality. In cases where total compliance with all the requirements of this code is impractical, the applicant may arrange a pre-design conference with the design team and the code official. The applicant shall identify design solutions and modifications that conform to Section 102.2 or 102.3. The code official may waive specific requirements in this code, which the code official determines to be impractical.

 SECTION 102

 COMPLIANCE METHODS

 102.1 Compliance methods. The addition to or repair, alteration, change of occupancy, or relocation of all existing buildings shall comply with one of the methods listed in Sections 102.1.1 through 102.1.3 selected by the applicant.

 102.1.1 Prescriptive compliance method. To use the prescriptive compliance method, the repairs, alterations, additions, changes of occupancy and relocated buildings shall comply with Chapter 3 of this code.

 102.1.2 Work area compliance method. To use the work area compliance method, the repairs, alterations, additions, changes of occupancy and relocated buildings shall comply with Chapters 4-10 and Chapter 12 of this code.

 102.1.3 Performance compliance method. To use the performance compliance method, the repairs, alterations, additions, changes of occupancy and relocated buildings must comply with Chapter 13 of this code.

 102.2 Modifications. The code official may modify the requirements of this code for individual cases provided the code official finds: (1) there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code; (2) the modification is in conformity with the intent and purpose of this code; and (3) the modification will provide a reasonable level of fire protection and structural integrity when considered together with other safety features of the building or other relevant circumstances. The code official may, but is not required to, record the approval of modifications and any relevant information in the files of the code official or on the approved permit plans.

 102.3 Alternate Materials, Methods of Construction and Design. This code does not prevent the use of any material, design or method of construction not specifically allowed or prohibited by this code, provided the alternate has been approved and its use authorized by the code official.

 The code official may approve an alternate, provided the code official finds that the proposed alternate complies with the provisions of this code, and that the alternate, when considered together with other safety features of the building or other relevant circumstances, will provide at least an equivalent level of strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, safety and sanitation.

 The code official may require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to reasonably substantiate any claims regarding the use or suitability of the alternate. The code official may, but is not required to, record the approval of modifications and any relevant information in the files of the building official or on the approved permit plans.

 Section 3. The following sections of Chapter 2 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

 SECTION 201

 GENERAL

 ***

201.5 References to other codes. Whenever an International, National or Uniform Code is referenced in this code, it means the Seattle edition of that code, including local amendments. References to the "Building Code", "Residential Code", "Fire Code", "Mechanical Code" and "Plumbing Code" mean the Seattle editions of those codes.

SECTION 202

 GENERAL DEFINITIONS

 ***

 CODE OFFICIAL. The ~~officer or other designated authority charged with the administration and enforcement of this code~~Director of the Department of Planning and Development and authorized representatives.

 ***

 EXISTING BUILDING. A building erected prior to the date of adoption of ~~the appropriate~~this code, ~~or~~ one for which a ~~legal building permit~~valid Certificate of Occupancy has been issued, or one that has passed a final inspection.

 ***

SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATION. Alterations that are subject to Section 3404.9 of the Seattle Building Code.

***

 WORK AREA. That portion or portions of a building consisting of all reconfigured spaces as indicated on the construction documents. Work area excludes other portions of the building where incidental work entailed by the intended work must be performed and portions of the building where work not initially intended by the owner is specifically required by this code. The boundary of the work area includes all spaces not physically separated from rooms or spaces where work is being performed.

 Section 4. The following sections of Chapter 3 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

 [B] SECTION 301

 GENERAL

 301.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter ~~shall~~ apply to the alteration, repair, addition and change of occupancy of existing structures, including ~~historic and~~ moved structures~~, as referenced in Section 101.5.1~~.

 Exception: Existing bleachers, grandstands and folding and telescopic seating shall comply with ICC 300-02.

 301.1.1 Compliance with other methods. Alterations, repairs, additions, relocations and changes of occupancy to existing structures shall comply with the provisions of this chapter or with one of the other methods provided in Section ~~101.5~~ 102.1.

 SECTION 302

 ADDITIONS, ALTERATIONS OR REPAIRS

 [B] 302.1 Existing buildings or structures. Additions or alterations to any building or structure shall comply with the requirements of the International Building Code for new construction except as specifically provided in this code. Additions or alterations shall not be made to an existing building or structure that will cause the existing building or structure to be in violation of any provisions of the International Building Code. An existing building plus additions shall comply with the height and area provisions of the International Building Code. Portions of the structure not altered and not affected by the alteration are not required to comply with the code requirements for a new structure.

 [B] 302.1.1 Flood hazard areas. For buildings and structures in flood hazard areas established in Section 1612.3 of the International Building Code, any additions, alterations or repairs that constitute substantial improvement of the existing structure, as defined in Section 1612.2 of the International Building Code, shall comply with the flood design requirements for new construction and all aspects of the existing structure shall be brought into compliance with the requirements for new construction for flood design.

 ***

~~[EC]~~ 302.5 Energy. Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs to an existing building, building system or portion thereof shall conform to the provisions of the Washington State Energy Code with Seattle Amendments.~~this code as they relate to new construction without requiring the unaltered portion(s) of the existing building or building system to comply with this code. Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs shall not create an unsafe or hazardous condition or overload existing building systems.~~Exceptions: The following need not comply, provided the energy use of the building is not increased:

 1. Storm windows installed over existing fenestration.

 2. Glass only replacements in an existing sash and frame.

 3. Existing ceiling, wall or floor cavities exposed during construction provided that these cavities are filled with insulation.

 4. Construction where the existing roof, wall or floor cavity is not exposed.

~~[ICC EC]~~ 302.6 Electrical. Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs to electrical installations shall conform to the ~~ICC~~Seattle Electrical Code ~~without requiring the existing installation to comply with all of the requirements of this code. Additions, alterations or repairs shall not cause an existing installation to become unsafe, hazardous or overloaded.~~Minor additions, alterations, renovations and repairs to existing installations shall meet the provisions for new construction, unless such work is done in the same manner and arrangement as was in the existing system, is not hazardous and is approved.

 ***

 SECTION 305

 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY

 [B] 305.1 Conformance. No change shall be made in the use or occupancy of any building that would place the building in a different division of the same group of occupancy or in a different group of occupancies, unless such building is made to comply with the requirements of the International Building Code for such division or group of occupancy. Subject to the approval of the building official, the use or occupancy of existing buildings ~~shall be~~is permitted to be changed and the building is allowed to be occupied for purposes in other groups without conforming to all the requirements of the International Building Code for those groups, provided the new or proposed use is less hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use. The hazard tables of Chapter 9 may be used to demonstrate the relative fire and life risk of the existing and the new proposed uses.

 ***

~~[EC]~~ 305.5 Energy. Buildings undergoing a change in occupancy ~~that would result in an increase in demand for either fossil fuel or electrical energy~~ shall comply with the ~~International~~~~Energy~~~~Conservation Code~~Washington State Energy Code with Seattle Amendments.

~~[ICC EC]~~ 305.6 Electrical. ~~It shall be unlawful to make a change in the occupancy of a structure that will subject the structure to the special provisions of the ICC Electrical Code applicable to the new occupancy without approval. The code official shall certify that the structure meets the intent of the provisions of law governing building construction for the proposed new occupancy and that such change of occupancy does not result in any hazard to the public health, safety or welfare.~~Buildings undergoing a change in occupancy shall comply with the Seattle Electrical Code.

 ***

~~[B] SECTION 306~~HISTORIC BUILDINGS

 306.1 Historic buildings. The provisions of this chapter relating to the construction, repair, alteration, addition, restoration and movement of structures and change of occupancy shall not be mandatory for historic buildings where such buildings are judged by the code official to not constitute a distinct life safety hazard.

 306.2 Flood hazard areas. Within flood hazard areas established in accordance with Section 1612.3 of the International Building Code, where the work proposed constitutes substantial improvement as defined in Section 1612.2 of the International Building Code, the building shall be brought into conformance with Section 1612 of the International Building Code.

 Exception: Historic buildings that are:

 1. Listed or preliminarily determined to be eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places; or

 2. Determined by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined to qualify as an historic district; or

 3. Designated as historic under a state or local historic preservation program that is approved by the Department of the Interior.

 ***

 [B] SECTION 308

 ACCESSIBILITY FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS

 308.1 Scope. The provisions of Sections 308.1 through 308.8 apply to maintenance, change of occupancy, additions, relocations of and alterations to existing buildings~~, including those identified as historic buildings~~.

 Exception: Type B dwelling or sleeping units required by Section 1107 of the International Building Code are not required to be provided in existing buildings and facilities.

 ***

~~308.9 Historic buildings. These provisions shall apply to buildings and facilities designated as historic structures that undergo alterations or a change of occupancy, unless technically infeasible. Where compliance with the requirements for accessible routes, ramps, entrances or toilet facilities would threaten or destroy the historic significance of the building or facility, as determined by the authority having jurisdiction, the alternative requirements of Sections 308.9.1 through 308.9.4 for that element shall be permitted.~~308.9.1 Site arrival points. At least one accessible route from a site arrival point to an accessible entrance shall be provided.

 308.9.2 Multilevel buildings and facilities. An accessible route from an accessible entrance to public spaces on the level of the accessible entrance shall be provided.

 308.9.3 Entrances. At least one main entrance shall be accessible.

 Exceptions:

 1. If a main entrance cannot be made accessible, an accessible nonpublic entrance that is unlocked while the building is occupied shall be provided; or

 2. If a main entrance cannot be made accessible, a locked accessible entrance with a notification system or remote monitoring shall be provided.

 Signs complying with Section 1110 of the International Building Code shall be provided at the primary entrance and the accessible entrance.

 308.9.4 Toilet and bathing facilities. Where toilet rooms are provided, at least one accessible toilet room complying with Section 1109.2.1 of the International Building Code shall be provided.

 Section 5. The following sections of Chapter 4 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

 SECTION 401

 GENERAL

 401.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall be used in conjunction with Chapters 5 through 10 and Chapter 12 and ~~shall~~ apply to the alteration, repair, addition and change of occupancy of existing structures, including ~~historic and~~ moved structures ~~, as referenced in Section 101.5.3~~. The work performed on an existing building shall be classified in accordance with this chapter.

 401.1.1 Compliance with other alternatives. Alterations, repairs, additions and changes of occupancy to existing structures shall comply with the provisions of Chapters 4 through 10 and Chapter 12 or with one of the alternatives provided in Section ~~101.5~~ 102.1.

 ***

 SECTION 405

 ALTERATION - LEVEL 3

 405.1 Scope. Level 3 alterations apply where the work area exceeds 50% of the ~~aggregate~~floor area of the building.

 ***

~~SECTION 408~~HISTORIC BUILDINGS

 408.1 Scope. Historic buildings provisions shall apply to buildings classified as historic as defined in Chapter 2.

 408.2 Application. Except as specifically provided for in Chapter 11, historic buildings shall comply with applicable provisions of this code for the type of work being performed.

 ***

 Section 6. The following sections of Chapter 5 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

 SECTION 501

 GENERAL

 501.1 Scope. Repairs as described in Section 302 shall comply with the requirements of this chapter. ~~Repairs to historic buildings shall comply with this chapter, except as modified in Chapter 11.~~

 ***

 SECTION 506

 STRUCTURAL

 506.1 General. Repairs of structural elements shall comply with this section.

 506.1.1 Seismic evaluation and design. Seismic evaluation and design of an existing building and its components shall be based on the following criteria.

 506.1.1.1 Evaluation and design procedures. The seismic evaluation and design shall be based on the procedures specified in the International Building Code, ASCE 31 or FEMA 356. The procedures contained in Appendix A of this code shall be permitted to be used as specified in Section 506.1.1.3.

 506.1.1.2 IBC level seismic forces. When seismic forces are required to meet the International Building Code level, they shall be one of the following:

 1. One hundred percent of the values in the International Building Code. The R-factor used for analysis in accordance with Chapter 16 of the International Building Code shall be the R-factor specified for structural systems classified as "Ordinary" in accordance with Table 12.2-1 of ASCE 7, unless it can be demonstrated that the structural system satisfies the proportioning and detailing requirements for systems classified as "Intermediate" or "Special."

 2. Those associated with the BSE-1 and BSE-2 Earthquake Hazard Levels defined in ~~FEMA 356~~ASCE 41. Where ~~FEMA 356~~ASCE 41 is used, the corresponding performance levels shall be those shown in Table 506.1.1.2.

 TABLE 506.1.1.2

~~FEMA 356~~ASCE 41 AND ASCE 31 PERFORMANCE LEVELS

 OCCUPANCY PERFORMANCE LEVEL FOR USE PERFORMANCE LEVEL FOR CATEGORY WITH ASCE 31 AND WITH USE WITH ((FEMA 356)) (BASED ON IBC ((FEMA 356)) ASCE 41 BSE-1 ASCE 41 BSE-2 TABLE 1604.5) EARTHQUAKE HAZARD LEVEL EARTHQUAKE HAZARD LEVEL

 I Life Safety (LS) Collapse Prevention (CP)

 II Life Safety (LS) Collapse Prevention (CP)

 III Note a Note a

 IV Immediate Occupancy (IO) Life Safety (LS)

 a. ~~Performance levels for Occupancy Category III shall be taken as halfway between the performance levels specified for Occupancy Category II and IV.~~Where seismic forces are permitted to meet reduced International Building Code levels, the performance level for Occupancy Category III shall be Life Safety (LS). Where seismic forces are required to meet the International Building Code levels, acceptance criteria for Occupancy Category III shall be taken as 80 percent of the acceptance criteria specified for Occupancy Category II performance levels, but need not be less than (more restrictive than) the acceptance criteria specified for Occupancy Category IV performance levels. 506.1.1.3 Reduced IBC level seismic forces. When seismic forces are permitted to meet reduced International Building Code levels, they shall be one of the following:

 1. Seventy-five percent of the forces prescribed in the International Building Code. The R-factor used for analysis in accordance with Chapter 16 of the International Building Code shall be the R-factor as specified in Section 506.1.1.2 of this code.

 2. In accordance with the applicable chapters in Appendix A of this code as specified in Items 2.1 through 2.5 below. Structures or portions of structures that comply with the requirements of the applicable chapter in Appendix A shall be deemed to comply with the requirements for reduced International Building Code force levels.

 2.1. The seismic evaluation and design of unreinforced masonry bearing wall buildings in Occupancy Category I or II are permitted to be based on the procedures specified in Appendix Chapter A1.

 2.2. Seismic evaluation and design of the wall anchorage system in reinforced concrete and reinforced masonry wall buildings with flexible diaphragms in Occupancy Category I or II are permitted to be based on the procedures specified in Appendix Chapter A2.

 2.3. Seismic evaluation and design of cripple walls and sill plate anchorage in residential buildings of light-frame wood construction in Occupancy Category I or II are permitted to be based on the procedures specified in Appendix Chapter A3.

 2.4. Seismic evaluation and design of soft, weak or open-front wall conditions in multiunit residential buildings of wood construction in Occupancy Category I or II are permitted to be based on the procedures specified in Appendix Chapter A4.

 2.5. Seismic evaluation and design of concrete buildings and concrete with masonry infill buildings in all occupancy categories are permitted to be based on the procedures specified in Appendix Chapter A5.

 3. In accordance with ASCE 31 based on the applicable performance level as shown in Table 506.1.1.2 using the BSE-1 earthquake hazard level as defined in ASCE 41.

Note: Item 3 uses the lesser of an earthquake with a 10% chance of exceedance in 50 years or 2/3 of the maximum considered earthquake to be consistent with Item 4 below and with Seattle Building Code Chapter 34.

4. Those associated with the BSE-1 Earthquake Hazard Level defined in ~~FEMA 356~~ASCE 41 and the performance level as shown in Table 506.1.1.2. Where ~~FEMA 356~~ASCE 41 is used, the design spectral response acceleration parameters SXS and SX1 shall not be taken less than seventy-five percent of the respective design spectral response acceleration parameters SDS and SD1 defined by the International Building Code and its reference standards.

 506.1.2 Wind design. Wind design of existing buildings shall be based on the procedures specified in the International Building Code or International Residential Code as applicable.

 ***

 SECTION 507

 ELECTRICAL

 507.1 Material. Existing electrical wiring and equipment undergoing repair shall comply with the Seattle Electrical Code.~~be allowed to be repaired or replaced with like material.~~507.1.1 Receptacles. Replacement of electrical receptacles shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 406.3(D) of NFPA 70.

 507.1.2 Plug fuses. Plug fuses of the Edison-base type shall be used for replacements only where there is no evidence of over fusing or tampering per applicable requirements of Section 240.51(B) of NFPA 70.

 507.1.3 Nongrounding-type receptacles. For replacement of nongrounding-type receptacles with grounding-type receptacles and for branch circuits that do not have an equipment grounding conductor in the branch circuitry, the grounding conductor of a grounding-type receptacle outlet shall be permitted to be grounded to any accessible point on the grounding electrode system or to any accessible point on the grounding electrode conductor in accordance with Section 250.130(C) of NFPA 70.

 507.1.4 Group I-2 receptacles. Non-"hospital grade" receptacles in patient bed locations of Group I-2 shall be replaced with "hospital grade" receptacles, as required by NFPA 99 and Article 517 of NFPA 70.

 507.1.5 Grounding of appliances. Frames of electric ranges, wall- mounted ovens, counter-mounted cooking units, clothes dryers and outlet or junction boxes that are part of the existing branch circuit for these appliances shall be permitted to be grounded to the grounded circuit conductor in accordance with Section 250.140 of NFPA 70.

 ***

 Section 7. The following sections of Chapter 6 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

 SECTION 601

 GENERAL

 601.1 Scope. Level 1 alterations as described in Section 403 shall comply with the requirements of this chapter. ~~Level 1 alterations to historic buildings shall comply with this chapter, except as modified in Chapter 11.~~

 ***

 SECTION 602

 BUILDING ELEMENTS AND MATERIALS

 ***

 602.3 Materials and methods. All new work shall comply with materials and methods requirements in the ~~ICC~~Seattle Electrical Code, International Building Code, ~~International Energy Conservation Code~~, Washington State Energy Code with Seattle Amendments, International Mechanical Code, and ~~International~~Uniform Plumbing Code, as applicable, that specify material standards, detail of installation and connection, joints, penetrations, and continuity of any element, component, or system in the building.

 [FG] 602.3.1 International Fuel Gas Code. The following sections of the International Fuel Gas Code shall constitute the fuel gas materials and methods requirements for Level 1 alterations.

 1. All of Chapter 3, entitled "General Regulations," except Sections 303.7 and 306.

 2. All of Chapter 4, entitled "Gas Piping Installations," except Sections 401.8 and 402.3.

 2.1. Sections 401.8 and 402.3 shall apply when the work being performed increases the load on the system such that the existing pipe does not meet the size required by code. Existing systems that are modified shall not require resizing as long as the load on the system is not increased and the system length is not increased even if the altered system does not meet code minimums.

 3. All of Chapter 5, entitled "Chimneys and Vents."

 4. All of Chapter 6, entitled "Specific Appliances."

 ***

 SECTION 607

 ENERGY CONSERVATION

 607.1 Minimum requirements. Level 1 alterations to existing buildings or structures ~~are permitted without requiring the entire building or structure to comply with the energy requirements of the International Energy Conservation Code or International Residential Code. The alterations shall conform to the energy requirements of the International Energy Conservation Code or International Residential Code as they relate to new construction only.~~shall comply with the Washington State Energy Code with Seattle Amendments.

 Section 8. The following sections of Chapter 7 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

 SECTION 701

 GENERAL

 ***

 701.3 Compliance. All new construction elements, components, systems, and spaces shall comply with the requirements of the International Building Code.

 Exceptions:

 1. Windows may be added without requiring compliance with the light and ventilation requirements of the International Building Code.

~~2. Newly installed electrical equipment shall comply with the requirements of Section 708.~~

 3. The length of dead-end corridors in newly constructed spaces shall only be required to comply with the provisions of Section 705.6.

 4. The minimum ceiling height of the newly created habitable and occupiable spaces and corridors shall be 7 feet (2134 mm).

 ***

 SECTION 704

 FIRE PROTECTION

 704.1 Scope. The requirements of this section shall be limited to work areas in which Level 2 alterations are being performed, and where specified they shall apply throughout the floor on which the work areas are located or otherwise beyond the work area.

Exception: For Level 2 alteration projects in which the value of the fire protection requirements constitutes an excessive burden, the fire protection requirements may be waived by the fire code official.

704.2 Automatic sprinkler systems. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of Sections 704.2.1 through 704.2.5. Installation requirements shall be in accordance with the International ~~Building~~Fire Code  and NFPA 13 or NFPA 13R.

 704.2.1 High-rise buildings. In high-rise buildings, work areas that include exits or corridors shared by more than one tenant or that serve an occupant load greater than 30 shall be provided with automatic sprinkler protection in the entire work area where the work area is located on a floor that has a sufficient sprinkler water supply system from an existing standpipe or a sprinkler riser serving that floor.

 704.2.1.1 Supplemental automatic sprinkler system requirements. Where the work area on any floor exceeds 50 percent of that floor area, Section 704.2.1 shall apply to the entire floor on which the work area is located.

 Exception: Tenant spaces that are entirely outside the work area.

 704.2.2 Groups A, E, F-1, H, I, M, R-1, R-2, R-4, S-1 and S-2. In buildings with occupancies in Groups A, E, F-1, H, I, M, R-1, R-2, R- 4, S-1, and S-2,work areas that include exits or corridors shared by more than one tenant or that serve an occupant load greater than 30 shall be provided with automatic sprinkler protection where all of the following conditions occur:

 1. The work area is required to be provided with automatic sprinkler protection in accordance with the International Building Code as applicable to new construction;

 2. The work area exceeds 50 percent of the floor area; and

 3. The building has sufficient municipal water supply for design of a fire sprinkler system available to the floor without installation of a new fire pump.

 Exception: Work areas in Group R occupancies three stories or less in height.

 704.2.2.1 Mixed uses. In work areas containing mixed uses, one or more of which requires automatic sprinkler protection in accordance with Section 704.2.2, such protection shall not be required throughout the work area provided that the uses requiring such protection are separated from those not requiring protection by fire- resistance-rated construction having a minimum 2-hour rating for Group H and a minimum 1-hour rating for all other occupancy groups.

 704.2.3 Windowless stories. Work located in a windowless story, as determined in accordance with the International Building Code, shall be sprinklered where the work area is required to be sprinklered under the provisions of the International Building Code for newly constructed buildings and the building has a sufficient municipal water supply available to the floor without installation of a new fire pump.

 704.2.4 Other required suppression systems. In buildings and areas listed in Table 903.2.13 of the International Building Code, work areas that include exits or corridors shared by more than one tenant or serving an occupant load greater than 30 shall be provided with sprinkler protection under the following conditions:

 1. The work area is required to be provided with automatic sprinkler protection in accordance with the International Building Code applicable to new construction; and

 2. The building has sufficient municipal water supply for design of a fire sprinkler system available to the floor without installation of a new fire pump.

 704.2.5 Supervision. Fire sprinkler systems required by this section shall be supervised by one of the following methods:

 1. Approved central station system in accordance with NFPA 72;

 2. Approved proprietary system in accordance with NFPA 72;

 3. Approved remote station system of the jurisdiction in accordance with NFPA 72; or

 4. Approved local alarm service that will cause the sounding of an alarm in accordance with NFPA 72.

 Exception: Supervision is not required for the following:

 1. Underground gate valve with roadway boxes.

 2. Halogenated extinguishing systems.

 3. Carbon dioxide extinguishing systems.

 4. Dry and wet chemical extinguishing systems.

 5. Automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with NFPA 13R where a common supply main is used to supply both domestic and automatic sprinkler systems and a separate shutoff valve for the automatic sprinkler system is not provided.

 ***

 SECTION 708

 ELECTRICAL

 708.1 Electrical work. Electrical work in Level 2 alterations shall comply with theSeattle Electrical Code.~~New installations. All newly installed electrical equipment and wiring relating to work done in any work area shall comply with the materials and methods requirements of Chapter 5.~~Exception: Electrical equipment and wiring in newly installed partitions and ceilings shall comply with all applicable requirements of the ICC Electrical Code.

 708.2 Existing installations. Existing wiring in all work areas in Group A-1, A-2, A-5, H, and I occupancies shall be upgraded to meet the materials and methods requirements of Chapter 5.

 708.3 Residential occupancies. In Group R-2, R-3, and R-4 occupancies and buildings regulated by the International Residential Code, the requirements of Sections 708.3.1 through 708.3.7 shall be applicable only to work areas located within a dwelling unit.

 708.3.1 Enclosed areas. All enclosed areas, other than closets, kitchens, basements, garages, hallways, laundry areas, utility areas, storage areas, and bathrooms shall have a minimum of two duplex receptacle outlets or one duplex receptacle outlet and one ceiling or wall-type lighting outlet.

 708.3.2 Kitchens. Kitchen areas shall have a minimum of two duplex receptacle outlets.

 708.3.3 Laundry areas. Laundry areas shall have a minimum of one duplex receptacle outlet located near the laundry equipment and installed on an independent circuit.

 708.3.4 Ground fault circuit interruption. Newly installed receptacle outlets shall be provided with ground fault circuit interruption as required by the ICC Electrical Code.

 708.3.5 Minimum lighting outlets. At least one lighting outlet shall be provided in every bathroom, hallway, stairway, attached garage, and detached garage with electric power, and to illuminate outdoor entrances and exits.

 708.3.6 Utility rooms and basements. At least one lighting outlet shall be provided in utility rooms and basements where such spaces are used for storage or contain equipment requiring service.

 708.3.7 Clearance for equipment. Clearance for electrical service equipment shall be provided in accordance with the ICC Electrical Code.

 ***

 SECTION 711

 ENERGY CONSERVATION

 711.1 Minimum requirements. Level 2 alterations to existing buildings or structures ~~are permitted without requiring the entire building or structure to comply with the energy requirements of the International Energy Conservation Code or International Residential Code. The alterations shall conform to the energy requirements of the International Energy Conservation Code or International Residential Code as they relate to new construction only.~~shall comply with the Washington State Energy Code with Seattle Amendments.

 Section 9. The following sections of Chapter 8 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

 ***

 SECTION 807

 STRUCTURAL

 ***

 807.5 Structural alterations. Buildings and structures undergoing Level 3 structural alterations or buildings in which the seismic base shear is increased by more than 10 percent or in which the seismic base shear capacity is decreased by more than 10 percent because of alterations shall comply with this section. Changes in base shear and base shear capacity shall be calculated relative to conditions at the time of the original construction.

 Exceptions:

 1. Buildings of Group R occupancy with no more than five dwelling or sleeping units used solely for residential purposes that are altered based on the conventional light-frame construction methods of the International Building Code or in compliance with the provisions of the International Residential Code.

 2. Where such alterations involve only the lowest story of a building and the change of occupancy provisions of Chapter 9 do not apply, only the lateral-force-resisting components in and below that story need comply with this section.

 3. If the building's seismic base shear capacity has been increased since the original construction, the percentage changes shall be permitted to be calculated relative to the increased value.

 807.5.1 Evaluation and analysis. An engineering evaluation and analysis that establishes the structural adequacy of the altered structure shall be prepared by a registered design professional and submitted to the code official. For structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, the registered design professional shall submit to the code official a seismic evaluation report of the existing building based on one of the procedures specified in Section 506.1.1.3. This seismic evaluation report shall not be required for buildings in compliance with the benchmark building provisions of ASCE 31, Section 3.2.

~~807.5.2 Substantial structural alteration. Where more than 30 percent of the total floor and roof areas of the building or structure have been or are proposed to be involved in structural alteration within a 12-month period, the evaluation and analysis shall demonstrate that the altered building or structure complies with the International Building Code for wind loading and with reduced International Building Code level seismic forces as specified in Section 507.1.1.3 for seismic loading. For seismic considerations, the analysis shall be based on one of the procedures specified in Section 507.1.1.1. The areas to be counted toward the 30 percent shall be those areas tributary to the vertical load-carrying components, such as joists, beams, columns, walls and other structural components that have been or will be removed, added or altered, as well as areas such as mezzanines, penthouses, roof structures and in-filled courts and shafts.~~~~

807.5.3 Limited structural alteration. Where not more than 30 percent of the total floor and roof areas of the building are involved in structural alteration within a 12-month period, the evaluation and analysis shall demonstrate that the altered building or structure complies with the loads applicable at the time of the original construction or of the most recent substantial structural alteration as defined by Section 807.5.2.~~

 ***

 SECTION 808

 ENERGY CONSERVATION

 808.1 Minimum requirements. Level 3 alterations to existing buildings or structures ~~are permitted without requiring the entire building or structure to comply with the energy requirements of the International Energy Conservation Code or International Residential Code. The alterations shall conform to the energy requirements of the International Energy Conservation Code or International Residential Code as they relate to new construction only~~shall comply with the Washington State Energy Code with Seattle Amendments.

 Section 10. The following sections of Chapter 9 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

~~SECTION 908~~ELECTRICAL

 908.1 Special occupancies. Where the occupancy of an existing building or part of an existing building is changed to one of the following special occupancies as described in the ICC Electrical Code, the electrical wiring and equipment of the building or portion thereof that contains the proposed occupancy shall comply with the applicable requirements of the ICC Electrical Code whether or not a change of occupancy group is involved:

 1. Hazardous locations.

 2. Commercial garages, repair, and storage.

 3. Aircraft hangars.

 4. Gasoline dispensing and service stations.

 5. Bulk storage plants.

 6. Spray application, dipping, and coating processes.

 7. Health care facilities.

 8. Places of assembly.

 9. Theaters, audience areas of motion picture and television studios, and similar locations.

 10. Motion picture and television studios and similar locations.

 11. Motion picture projectors.

 12. Agricultural buildings.

 908.2 Unsafe conditions. Where the occupancy of an existing building or part of an existing building is changed, all unsafe conditions shall be corrected without requiring that all parts of the electrical system be brought up to the current edition of the ICC Electrical Code.

 908.3 Service upgrade. Where the occupancy of an existing building or part of an existing building is changed, electrical service shall be upgraded to meet the requirements of the ICC Electrical Code for the new occupancy.

 908.4 Number of electrical outlets. Where the occupancy of an existing building or part of an existing building is changed, the number of electrical outlets shall comply with the ICC Electrical Code for the new occupancy.

 ***

 SECTION 912

 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION

 912.1 General. The provisions of this section ~~shall~~ apply to buildings or portions thereof undergoing a change of occupancy classification. This includes a change of occupancy classification within a group as well as a change of occupancy classification from one group to a different group. Such buildings shall also comply with Sections 902 through 911. The application of requirements for the change of occupancy shall be as set forth in Sections 912.1.1 through 912.1.4.A change of occupancy, as defined in Section 202, without a corresponding change of occupancy classification shall comply with Section 901.2

 912.1.1 Compliance with Chapter 8. The requirements of Chapter 8 shall be applicable throughout the building for the new occupancy classification based on the separation conditions set forth in Sections 912.1.1.1 and 912.1.1.2. All existing buildings with a change of occupancy classification shall comply with the seismic provisions of Section 907.3.

 912.1.1.1 Change of occupancy classification without separation. Where a portion of an existing building is changed to a new occupancy classification and that portion is not separated from the remainder of the building with fire barriers having a fire-resistance rating as required in the International Building Code for the separate occupancy, the entire building shall comply with all of the requirements of Chapter 8 applied throughout the building for the most restrictive occupancy classification in the building and with the requirements of this chapter.

 912.1.1.2 Change of occupancy classification with separation. Where a portion of an existing building that is changed to a new occupancy classification and that portion is separated from the remainder of the building with fire barriers having a fire-resistance rating as required in the International Building Code for the separate occupancy, that portion shall comply with all the requirements of Chapter 8 for the new occupancy classification and with the requirements of this chapter.

 912.1.2 Fire protection and interior finish. The provisions of Sections 912.2 and 912.3 for fire protection and interior finish, respectively, shall apply to all buildings undergoing a change of occupancy classification.

 912.1.3 Change of occupancy classification based on hazard category. The relative degree of hazard between different occupancy classifications shall be determined in accordance with the category specified in Tables 912.4, 912.5 and 912.6. Such a determination shall be the basis for the application of Sections 912.4 through 912.7.

 912.1.4 Accessibility. All buildings undergoing a change of occupancy classification shall comply with Section 912.8.

 ***

 Section 12. The following sections of Chapter 13 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, are amended as follows:

 CHAPTER 13

 PERFORMANCE COMPLIANCE METHODS

 SECTION 1301

 GENERAL

 SECTION 1301

 GENERAL

 1301.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter ~~shall~~ apply to the alteration, repair, addition and change of occupancy of existing structures, including ~~historic and~~ moved structures ~~, as referenced in Section 101.5.3~~. The provisions of this chapter are intended to maintain or increase the current degree of public safety, health and general welfare in existing buildings while permitting repair, alteration, addition and change of occupancy without requiring full compliance with Chapters 4 through 12, except where compliance with other provisions of this code is specifically required in this chapter.

 1301.1.1 Compliance with other methods. Alterations, repairs, additions and changes of occupancy to existing structures shall comply with the provisions of this chapter or with one of the  other methods provided in Section ~~101.5~~102.1.

 ***

 1301.4 Investigation and evaluation. For proposed work covered by this chapter, the building owner shall cause the existing building to be investigated and evaluated in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1301.4 through 1301.9.

 1301.4.1 Structural analysis. The owner shall have a structural analysis of the existing building made to determine adequacy of structural systems for the proposed alteration, addition, or change of occupancy. The ~~existing building shall be capable of supporting the minimum load~~analysis shall demonstrate that the altered building or structure complies with the requirements of Chapter 16 of the International Building Code.

Exception: The reduced International Building Code level seismic forces as specified in Section 506.1.1.3 shall be permitted to be used for this analysis.

1301.4.2 Submittal. The results of the investigation and evaluation as required in Section 1301.4, along with proposed compliance alternatives, shall be submitted to the code official.

 1301.4.3 Determination of compliance. The code official shall determine whether the existing building, with the proposed addition, alteration, or change of occupancy, complies with the provisions of this section in accordance with the evaluation process in Sections 1301.5 through 1301.9.

 ***

 Section 13. Chapter 15 of the International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, is amended by adding referenced standards as follows:

 CHAPTER 15

 REFERENCED STANDARDS

 ASCE American Society of Civil Engineers

 Standard Reference Number Title

 41-06 Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings

 NFPA National Fire Protection Association

 Standard Reference Number Title

 13-02 Installation of Sprinkler Systems Section 14. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Maureen Traxler/mt

 DPD IEBC ordinance

 July 9, 2007

 Version #2

 Form Last Revised on December 16, 2006 34

```
