

********

**Council Bill Number: 116084**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122584**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into an Agreement with the Seattle Foundation relating to the implementation of the Seward Park Reforestation Program; authorizing acceptance of funds from the Seattle Foundation for such purpose; amending the 2007-2012 Capital Improvement Program; and increasing appropriations in the Department of Parks and Recreation's 2007 Adopted Budget; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 10, 2007
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 14, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 13, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 19, 2007
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** DELLA
   
   
**Index Terms:** GIFTS-TO-THE-CITY, SEWARD-PARK, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, TREES, PLANTS, CAPITAL-IMPROVEMENT-PROGRAM

**Fiscal Note:**116084

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122584](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122584.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into an Agreement with the Seattle Foundation relating to the implementation of the Seward Park Reforestation Program; authorizing acceptance of funds from the Seattle Foundation for such purpose; amending the 2007-2012 Capital Improvement Program; and increasing appropriations in the Department of Parks and Recreation's 2007 Adopted Budget; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, Seward Park contains approximately 150 contiguous acres of true old-growth forest and over two miles of shoreline that are threatened by non-native invasive plants; and

 WHEREAS, citizens of the City of Seattle ("City") have voiced a strong desire to see the Seward Park forest and shoreline restored, and they have performed thousands of hours of volunteer stewardship toward that effort; and

 WHEREAS, the 2004 Seward Park Vegetation Management Plan ("VMP") clearly identifies restoration of the native forest and shoreline vegetation as its highest priority; and

 WHEREAS, the general public has demonstrated support for the forest restoration work through their support of the VMP; and

 WHEREAS, various groups and organizations such as the Friends of Seward Park, the Native Plant Society and the Audubon Society are on record in support of this work; and

 WHEREAS, an anonymous citizen has offered to generously donate One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) in support of forest restoration in Seward Park; and

 WHEREAS, the said One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) will be paid to the Seattle Foundation ("Foundation") in equal amounts over a consecutive three year period; and

 WHEREAS, the Foundation will make this donation available to the Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR) for the single purpose of restoring the forest in Seward Park in annual predetermined funding increments, beginning in 2007 and ending when both principal and interest are expended; and

 WHEREAS, a Memorandum of Agreement ("MOA") between DPR and the Foundation will be entered into to delineate roles and responsibilities and the process for the annual allocation of funds from the donation account; and

 WHEREAS, the MOA between DPR and the Foundation will also include annual work performance indicators to be accomplished by the City and demonstrated to the Foundation before future funds are allocated; and

 WHEREAS, DPR and the Foundation wish to memorialize the relative roles and responsibilities of the Foundation and the City with respect to donated funds allocated for forest restoration in Seward Park; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent or his or her designee, is authorized to execute an MOA with the Seattle Foundation, substantially in the form of Attachment A, to this ordinance, to delineate the relative roles and responsibilities of the Foundation and the City with respect to the allocation and acceptance of donated funds for Seward Park reforestation.

 Section 2. The Superintendent, or his or her designee, is authorized on behalf of the City to accept donations from an anonymous donor through the Foundation to be used solely for the restoration of the Seward Park forest.

 Section 3. Contingent upon the execution of the MOA authorized in Section 1 above and the receipt of the funds described in Section 2 above, and in order to pay for necessary capital costs and expenses for which insufficient appropriations were made, the appropriation for the following item in the 2007 Adopted Budget is increased as follows:

 Fund Department Budget Control Amount Level/ CIP Program

 Cumulative Parks and Rehabilitation or Reserve Subfund - Recreation Restoration $225,000 Unrestricted ( K72442) (00164)

 Any amounts unspent and unencumbered shall automatically carry forward from year to year until spent or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 4. The Seward Park Forest Restoration project, as described in Attachment B to this ordinance, is established in the 2007-2012 Adopted Capital Improvement Program.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: City of Seattle, Parks and Recreation and The Seattle Foundation Grant Agreement Exhibit 2 to Attachment A: The Seattle Foundation - Investment and Fee Information Attachment B: Seward Park Forest Restoration - Project Description

 August 9, 2007 Version #3a

 ATTACHMENT A: City of Seattle, Parks and Recreation and The Seattle Foundation

 Grant Agreement

 The Seattle Foundation is awarding a grant from the Seward Park Reforestation Fund to the City of Seattle, Parks and Recreation, subject to the terms and conditions of this grant agreement.

 Grant Description:

 Grantee: City of Seattle, Parks and Recreation 100 Dexter Ave N. Seattle, WA 98109

 Grant Purpose: Restoration of Seward Park

 Project Description: This grant is to support expenses related to reforestation of Seward Park.

 Grant Amount: A total grant in the principal amount of $1,000,000 to be paid out over a ten-year time period (plus any investment income earned, less fees incurred by the Seward Park Reforestation Fund.)

 Grant Period: January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2018

 Grant Amount and Payment Schedule

 The total principal amount of the grant is $1,000,000 (adjusted for any investment income earned, less fees incurred by the Seward Park Reforestation Fund.) Funds will be expended over a ten-year time period as outlined below:

 * In the first year of the program, approximately $225,000 will be transferred to the Department of Parks and Recreation ("Parks") to address specific high impact projects in four areas of Seward Park.

 * In the second year, $108,000 will be transferred to fund the necessary follow-up work on invasives and to assure the establishment of the plants and trees planted previously.

 * In the third year, $90,000 will be transferred for continuation of restoration and plant establishment work.

 * The remainder of the funds will remain in the Seward Park Reforestation Fund with the Seattle Foundation for expenditure in subsequent years, as outlined in the attached proposal (Exhibit 1). After initial establishment of the program, annual expenditures will range from $90,000 to $113,000 until the funds are exhausted, which is expected to be in 2018.

 All funds in the Seward Park Reforestation Fund shall be invested in accordance with The Seattle Foundation's general financial management practices and assessed designated fees in accordance with The Seattle Foundation's fees schedule (Exhibit 2). Budget allocation estimates in the attached proposal indicating expected earnings on invested funds are for illustrative purposes only and are not guaranteed by The Seattle Foundation. Actual investment earnings and resulting payments will depend on actual fund performance.

 The release of the second grant installment payment and all subsequent payments are contingent upon satisfactory performance of the project as described in the attached proposal. If, in its sole discretion, the Foundation determines that the program has for any reason become impracticable, the Foundation may modify, withhold or cancel future grant payments.

 The Seward Park Reforestation Fund is being established and funded by an individual donor who is expected to be making three contributions of $333,000 to establish and fully fund the project. All grant payments outlined in this agreement and attached proposal are fully dependent on receiving payment from the donor. A lack of funding from the donor may result in the Foundation modifying, withholding or canceling future grant payments.

 Parks may make adjustments in the scope of work and the allocation of costs after receiving written approval from The Seattle Foundation who will ensure that the changes are consistent with the original intent of the donor.

 Parks shall track its time and costs and shall only use grant funds based on the actual level of services provided, up to the total grant amount. Should expenditures be less than the total approved amount, the remaining funds may be reprogrammed by The Seattle Foundation.

 Grant Requirements

 1. This grant is made subject to the condition that the entire amount will be expended for the purposes stated above.

 2. All grant funds must be expended by December 31, 2018. Any unused funds must be returned to The Seattle Foundation at the conclusion of the Grant Period, unless permission is given to carry them over to a new grant period.

 3. The Foundation must be promptly notified about any of the following during the grant period:

 a. Change in key personnel of the project or organization. b. Change in address or phone number. c. Change in name of the organization. d. Any development that significantly affects the operation of the project or the organization.

 4. The Grantee will provide the Foundation with the performance and financial reports described below.

 5. The Grantee will abide by all provisions of this agreement and will keep adequate supporting records to document the expenditure of funds and the activities supported by the funds.

 6. If the Grantee fails or becomes unable to perform the activities funded by this grant, or if conditions arise that make the project untenable, or if the Grantee materially breaches this agreement, all unexpended grant funds must be returned to The Seattle Foundation.

 Project Reports

 The Grantee agrees to provide The Seattle Foundation with a written progress report by December 31, 2008 (or at year-end from initial grant date), and an annual report thereafter for the duration of the grant agreement. These reports should include but are not limited to:

 * A financial statement detailing how grant funds were used.

 * Information on the specific activities and accomplishments during the grant period.

 * A candid assessment of the successes and challenges of the project.

 * Any lessons learned that would help inform future grantmaking by The Seattle Foundation.

 IRS Status

 It is the understanding of the Foundation that the Grantee organization has obtained a determination from the Internal Revenue Service that qualifies it as a section 501(c)(3) organization or that it is a governmental unit described in section 170(c)(1) of the IRS code. If there is any change in the Grantee's status or classification, the Grantee must promptly notify the Foundation. In the event of loss of tax-exempt status under Federal law, any unspent grant funds must be returned to the Foundation within 30 days.

 City of Seattle The Seattle Foundation Department of Parks and Recreation By:______________________ By:_______________________ Christopher M. Williams Phyllis Campbell Interim Superintendent President/CEO Date:___________________ Date:____________________

 Exhibit 1: Proposal Exhibit 2: The Seattle Foundation's fees scheduled

 EXHIBIT 1 TO ATTACHMENT A:

 Proposal for Seward Park Reforestation Program Donation

 The Department of Parks and Recreation has been given the opportunity to restore the crown jewel of our emerald city's forested parklands, the old growth forest of Seward Park. The gracious donation of $1,000,000 by a single donor will stem the tide of invasive plants already in the park and help plant the next generation of trees and shrubs. This funding will also help build the stewardship ethic in the surrounding community and across the city that will be necessary to assure the long term sustainability of this irreplaceable asset. Seward Park is one of the last stands of untouched native forest in the city; this is a treasure we can now preserve for generations to come.

 Initial Allocation of Funds

 Phasing for the project is based upon an intended stream of funding. The donor has requested that the gift be made through the Seattle Foundation in equal amounts ($333,000) over a three-year period. The Foundation will transfer an agreed upon specified amount of the funds to the City each year via ordinance, as required by City procedures.

 In the first year of the program, approximately $225,000, of the initial $333,000 would be transferred from the Seattle Foundation to the Department of Parks and Recreation to address specific high impact projects in four areas of Seward Park. In 2009, $108,000 would be transferred to fund the necessary follow up work on invasives and to assure the establishment of the plants and trees planted previously.

 In 2009, the second installment check of $333,000 from the donor would be deposited with the Seattle Foundation. Of this installment, $90,000 would be transferred to the City of Seattle for continuation of restoration and plant establishment work in 2010. The remainder of the funds will remain in an interest bearing account with the Seattle Foundation for expenditure in the following years. After initial establishment of the program annual expenditures are estimated to be $90,000 to $113,000 until the funds are exhausted.

 Parks expects to leverage these funds as well as it has done successfully in similar, although much smaller, projects across the City. At the end of this ten year program, Parks expects to have developed the necessary personnel and city funding to support the long term maintenance of the areas worked.

 Budget Allocation

 (Estimate: assumes 3% inflation on expenditures and 6% interest on invested funds)

 Year Allocation Fund Balance Expenditure New Balance Interest

 2008 $333,000 $333,000 $225,000 $108,000 $6,480

 2009 $333,000 $447,480 $108,000 $339,480 $20,369

 2010 $333,000 $692,849 $90,000 $602,489 $36,150

 2011 $638,638 $92,700 $545,938 $32,756

 2012 $578,694 $95,481 $483,213 $28,993

 2013 $512,206 $98,345 $413,861 $24,832

 2014 $438,693 $101,295 $337,398 $20,244

 2015 $357,642 $104,339 $253,303 $15,198

 2016 $268,501 $110,599 $157,902 $9,474

 2017 $167,376 $113,917 $54,459 $3,208

 2018 $57,567 $57,567 0 -

 Scope of Work

 The first years of this program will be focused on eradicating invasives and establishing native vegetation in three highly visible and impacted areas of the Park and to restore a site severely damaged in the December 2006 storm. The Establishment of a year-round youth program in 2008 will provide the foundation for a park-wide invasive removal program. This initial work outlined below was drawn from the Seward Park Vegetation Management Plan and will begin in 2008. The interior and less visible portions of the Plan will be implemented in subsequent years through this program.

 ~The Forest Edge

 The transition zone from one type of landscape, grassland for example, to true forest is known as the forest "edge". It's along this edge that the forest is most challenged by invasive species. These edges are also the most visible to the public. Therefore, restoration of these areas will provide the dual purposes of stopping the spread of invasives along the open areas and expand the forest, while providing a positive visual image to the majority of Seward Park's users. This will be particularly true along the south edge of the old growth forest. A major objective for 2008 will be to remove the blackberries from this area and move this area to more native plant composition. Removal of blackberries will require extensive handwork and planting. Planting for this area will include seedlings grown from trees on site, and the installation of taller native shrubs to preclude re-invasion by blackberry and other invasives. As access is easier than other areas in the park, there will opportunities to utilize equipment and contracted crews for the hard work on blackberry removal, allowing volunteer and youth crews to focus on the necessary planting and follow-up monitoring of the site for invasives as well as care for the new plantings. Estimated costs for 2008-09 are $65,000.

 Forest Edge Conversion with Volunteers

 ~The Lake Edge

 Much like the forest edge, the lake edge is open to sunlight in many areas and is easily overtaken by invasive plants like blackberry. A limited amount of the lakeshore has been restored but a great deal of the lake shoreline remains to be restored. Restoration of selected areas along the lake shoreline will include removals of large poplar trees to be replaced by native evergreens and taller wetland species trees. Additional challenges for this site include the heavy impact of users and the need to provide more near shore vegetation to support young salmon. This will also be an excellent area to model native plant communities and their positive impacts on the shoreline and surrounding area. As the shoreline areas receives the heaviest use in the park these positive changes will generate significant public education and stewardship recruitment opportunities. Estimated costs for 2008-09 are $50,000.

 ~Garry Oak Ecosystem

 In the southeast corner of the Park, the combination of soils, hydrology and sun exposure makes the site conducive to naturally growing native Garry Oaks. The area is bordered by the Amphitheatre to the west and picnic facilities to the east. It is quite visible and heavily used. Garry oak communities are rare this far north of Tacoma and provide a very different experience both visually and environmentally. The combination of easy access and an uncommon plant community will provide a unique native plant adventure for Seattleites. Unfortunately, poison oak is also found in the area and is sometimes associated with the native oak communities. As poison oak is not a necessary component of the oak ecosystem and is hazardous to users, Parks will test several strategies for poison oak removal in this area. Continuing the process of converting this area to a true Garry Oak forest, with associated grasslands, is a very desirable project for the current Friends of Seward Park as well. Estimated costs for 2008-09 are $30,000.

 Lawn Conversion to Forest

 ~Wind Damage Response

 Along the western edge of the property, across from the main entrance and near the tennis courts, exists an area of less than an acre which was severely impacted by last December's wind storms. This area of spruce has seen losses over the last four to five years due to disease and poor planting conditions for the trees. If not planted with an appropriate species of tree shortly it will be come a field of blackberry and other invasives. Re-establishment of the canopy in this area will also provide screening from the homes to the west, helping to preserve the forest atmosphere of Seward Park. A short intensive study will be made of the soils and associated features of this site to develop a more specific set of proscription for the site. There is the potential this area may be converted to a native oak or Madrona stand. Estimated costs for 2008-09 are $40,000.

 ~Ivy Free Trees

 Volunteers and non-profits have had a great deal of success removing ivy from a large number of the trees across Seward Park. The Ivy Free Trees element of this program will help to continue and support this effort by beginning a concerted effort to remove ivy from every tree in Seward Park's forest. This Ivy Free Trees project will include revisiting all trees, including trees previously cleared of ivy, to clear any re-growth as well as expansion of the ivy cleared areas around the trees from five to 20 feet. An added element will be the measurement and mapping of all trees cleared of ivy. Estimated costs for 2008-09 are $40,000.

 Freeing trees from ivy

 Resources Utilized

 Just like many other projects across the City, Parks will rely heavily on partners such as Seattle Conservation Corps, Earthcorps (Americorps program), summer youth programs and other existing non- profit organizations. These groups are using contracted and utilized paid staff to organize and lead volunteers or trainees. These groups may work in concert with citizen volunteers. As funding will be strong for this program, additional resources will be drawn from contracted crews for specialized work and to deal with the bulk of the heavier work. Parks has found that the most successful programs of this size also have a dedicated Parks staff person coordinating the overall efforts with duties that include: recruiting, training and leading volunteers, coordination of all contractors, work site planning and daily on site labor. Parks also plans on establishing a year-round weekend youth leadership program that will help build youth crews that can lead volunteers in this effort throughout the year.

 Additional support will come from local Parks District field staff in the form of services already performed for volunteers and will not be directly funded by this program. A vital link in the Seward Park project will be the volunteer "Forest Stewards" which will be recruited, trained and tracked through the citywide Green Seattle Partnership. The Green Seattle Partnership will provide logistical support and coordination of efforts with over 50 similar projects across the City at no cost to the Seward Program.

 Parks currently has a similar program at Coleman Park. The Coleman Park program has initiated restoration in over 12 acres of Coleman, planted over 3,200 plants, recruited and utilized over 4,000 volunteers and generated over 17,000 volunteer hours and cleared over 18 acres of invasives in the last four years. Each year the Coleman project utilized the services of youth teams through the Parks' summer Steps toward Environmental Partnership (STEP) program. This success will be repeated and amplified at Seward Park with the donation mentioned above.

 Plants for the program will come from the close by Parks nursery and from contracted native plant growers. Irrigation for new plantings will come from existing irrigation, temporary irrigation systems to be installed through this program, contracted hand watering and when possible through volunteers.

 Work Methods

 Several different work methods will be employed to undertake this work in 2008. All sites worked will be mapped and work progress will be tracked via established Green Seattle Partnership protocols, to not only assure the success of the work at Seward but to also include these efforts in the citywide Partnership.

 To accelerate the project some of the areas that are heavily covered by blackberry will be mown down and will be controlled mechanically or chemically as the blackberry re-grows. In these areas Parks may lay down a thick blanket of wood chips five to six inches thick to help smother the blackberry and build up the soils. Some native plants will usually be found in these sites, but generally these sites will require extensive replanting with taller native shrubs as soon as the blackberry is brought under control. During the transition from blackberry to native forest, "Future Forests" informational signs will be placed in these areas.

 In many areas the blackberry, ivy and other invasive weeds will need to be removed by hand. These are areas were machines can not go and/or have existing native plant communities that can be freed of invasive plants. Much of this work will be done by volunteers under the supervision of groups like Earthcorps or trained volunteer "Forest Stewards". Steeper areas and areas with poison oak are not conducive to volunteer work and will require contracting one of our non-profit or for profit contractors.

 Typically a work area is cleared of non-native invasive plants in the winter, spring and through the summer, with initial invasive work beginning in early spring of 2008. Depending on the degree of invasive plant coverage in an area, new plantings may or may not be planted the next fall. If the invasive plant coverage is heavy, replanting may be delayed one year to ensure control of the invasive plants. However, in the initial project sites of this program all efforts will be made to at a minimum plant the next generation of trees in each site in the fall of 2008.

 Once the new plants are planted, the work is typically watered, monitored for invasive plants and native plant success for three years. The year-round youth program mentioned above and Forest Stewards for the site will perform a great deal of the site monitoring. Volunteer work parties will participate in the delicate tasks of removing invasives from these planting areas.

 Continued Work

 Seward Park is not only one of the most valued forests in the City; it is also one of the City's largest parks. This donation will fund a great deal of the work necessary to restore Seward Park to native like conditions. The work described above will only be the initial efforts of this ten year program. Parks and its partners will rely heavily on the existing Seward Park Vegetation Management Plan to guide the use of the donated funds. Care of the areas cleared initial will be complimented by an expansion into the interior areas of Seward Park. It is expected and welcomed that the current Friends of Seward Park volunteer groups and the newly resident Audubon Center will have a great deal of input on priorities for subsequent years work.

 Summary

 Parks would once again thank the donor for this gift. This funding will help restore a large portion of one of Seattle's most treasured and visible assets. The size of this donation and its specific direction toward Seward Park makes this donation unique and timely. Parks has an outstanding record of success with forest restoration efforts; we are grateful for the opportunity to apply these skills and efforts to Seward Park and our community through this donation.

[2008-09 Work Zones for Seward Park](/~ordpics/115084_0809WorkZonesforSewardPark.gif)

 Overall Restoration Strategy for Seward Park Distribution of Donation Funds and Costs to be Leveraged.

 Area Issue Action Amount Rate Proposed Total Distributi Amount For Work Timeline on of Parks to Donation Leverage

 1. FOREST HEALTH

 Invasive All existing populations are contained and Plants eventually removed

 Ivy Remove ivy 12,000 $10 / $ 80,000 $40,000 $120,000 ASAP from all trees tree trees in park

 Ivy Holly Remove holly 78 acres $3,000/Acre $80,000 $154,000 $234,000 ASAP from all X 10 areas of acres / park year

 Himalayan Remove from 134 acres $5,000/Acre $200,000 $470,000 $670,000 12 Blackberry all areas of X 10 years park acres / year

 Other Remove from 17 acres $15,000/Acr $30,000 $30,000 8 years Invasive all areas of e X 2 park acres / year

 Native Regeneration (Planting & Establishment)

 Native Plant in all 158 acres 100 $124,000 $666,000 $790,000 ASAP Trees appropriate trees/acre areas as @ $50 tree soon as possible

 Under story Scaled with 158 acres 500 $180,000 $1,005,000 $1,185,000 8 years Plants invasive plants/acre removal @ $15 plant

 Zone 12 Intense 0.4 acres $20,000 / $8,000 $8,000 4 years Rehabilita- restoration Acre tioon to native plant community

 2. WILDLIFE HABITAT

 Forest Edge Grass 40,000 $10,000 / $100,000 $100,000 10 margins linear feet 4,000 years converted to ft./yr forest where appropriate

 Eagle Partner $5,000 $5,000 ASAP Nesting with Audubon Areas to develop plan and implement

 3. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION

 Forest Develop 10 youth $12,000 $240,000 $120,000 $120,000 Annual Stewardship year-round per youth paid youth per year stewardship program

 4. RETENTION OF PARK CHARACTER

 Gateway Work with 5 acres $15,000 / $75,000 $75,000 TBD entrance neighbors to Acre improvements improve west areas of park

 Trails Improve 42,000 5 years Improvement designated linear feet trail system

 5. VEGETATION MONITORING

 Develop Develop $20,000 $20,000 Scaled tools forest to health program monitoring growth system

 6. PRESERVATION OF RARE, SENSITIVE PLANT COMMUNITIES AND OUTSTANDING TREES

 Garry Oak 3 acres $15,000 $45,000 $45,000 ASAP Enhance/expand Acre Oak stands to native conditions

 7. SHORELINE VEGETATION MANAGEMENT

 Shoreline Increase $50,000 Vegetation upper Management canopy/shading remove invasives

 8. GRASSLANDS AND LAWNS

 8.1 Non-native Managed to Approx. 10 Unknown grasses reduce acres encroachment into native forest

 8.2 Unmowed Evaluated 4.8 acres TBD $60,000 Grassland and Management converted to forest, where appropriate

 9. POISON OAK CONTROL

 Poison Oak Manage for 7 acres $20,000 $ 70,000 $70,000 $140,000 ASAP Control public Acre safety where appropriate

 OVERALL PROGRAM

 Total $ $ program 1,137,000 2,989,000 $3,976,000

 EXHIBIT 2 TO ATTACHMENT A Investment & Fee Information

 As a community foundation, The Seattle Foundation holds the charitable endowment for this community in perpetuity. As stewards of our donors' funds, we have three main investment priorities:1. Protect principal2. Maximize income commensurate with safety of principal and3. Ensure capital growthThe Investment Committee, a standing committee of the Board of Trustees, is responsible for oversight of the Foundation's investments and investment managers.

 Annualized Rate of Return as of December 31, 2006 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years 11.31% 11.27% 9.62% 9.77%

 Relevant Benchmarks 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years S & P 500 15.80% 10.44% 6.19% 8.42% Russell 2000 18.37% 13.56% 11.39% 9.44% Lehman Aggregate 4.33% 3.70% 5.06% 6.24% 90 Day T-Bills 4.85% 3.07% 2.43% 3.80% CPI 2.67% 3.22% 2.83% 2.56%

 As of February 2007, The Seattle Foundation's investment managers are:

 Aeltus/ING Investment Management HarbourVest Artisan Partners Harris Associates AXA Rosenberg INVESCO Private Capital Calvert Group Morgan Stanley Capital Guardian Trust Company Northgate Capital Columbia Management Oaktree Capital Management Commonfund Capital Inc. PIMCO Dodge and Cox Rigel Capital Management Euro Pacific/American Funds RREEF Goldman, Sachs & Co./Whitehall The TCW Group

 with R. V. Kuhns & Associates, Inc serving as investment advisors.Bank of New York is custodian and Clark Nuber P.S. is the Foundation's independent auditor.Legal counsel is Davis Wright Tremaine.FUND ADMINISTRATION FEES

 Donor Advised Fund Rates LEVEL 1: First $500K 1.50% LEVEL 2: Next $500K (Total = $1M) 1.35% LEVEL 3: Next $1M (Total = $2M) 1.20% LEVEL 4: Next $2M (Total = $4M) 1.00% LEVEL 5: Next $1M (Total = $5M) 0.75% LEVEL 6: Next $1M (Total = $6M) 0.75% LEVEL 7: Next $2M (Total = $8M) 0.50% LEVEL 8: Next $2M (Total = $10M) 0.25% LEVEL 9: Additional $ (Total > $10M) 0.25% Minimum fee $1,500

 Community Fund2 Rates Percentage fee 1.25% Minimum fee N/A

 Area of Interest Fund2 Rates Percentage fee 1.25% Minimum fee N/A

 Designated Fund2 Rates Percentage fee 1.25% Minimum fee $250

 Scholarship Fund2 Rates LEVEL 1: First $500K 1.75% LEVEL 2: Next $500K (Total = $1M) 1.60% LEVEL 3: Next $1M (Total = $2M) 1.45% LEVEL 4: Next $2M (Total = $4M) 1.25% LEVEL 5: Additional $ (Total > $4M) 1.00% Minimum fee $1,750

 Supporting Organization Rates LEVEL 1: First $2M 1.00% LEVEL 2: Next $2M (Total = $4M) .75% LEVEL 3: Next $2M (Total = $6M) .50% LEVEL 4: Next $2M (Total = $8M) .25% LEVEL 5: Additional $ (Total > $8M) .15% Minimum fee N/A

 Nonprofit Endowment Fund Rates Percentage fee 1.00% Minimum fee $250

 Fund Administration Fees: Your annual fees cover all administrative costs to manage your grantmaking and may also provide funds to support our community leadership activities. We do not provide financial benefits of any sort to third-party participants in the gift planning process.

 Investment Management Fees: The rates listed above do not include investment fees that typically fluctuate between 70 and 90 basis points.

```
