

********

**Council Bill Number: 116057**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122597**
********

 AN ORDINANCE granting Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound permission to maintain and operate a pedestrian tunnel under and across East Thomas Street, east of 15th Avenue East, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; and providing for acceptance of the permit and conditions.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 17, 2007
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 20, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 20, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 22, 2007
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** TUNNELS, PERMITS, CAPITOL-HILL, HOSPITALS

**Fiscal Note:**116057

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122597](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122597.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE granting Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound permission to maintain and operate a pedestrian tunnel under and across East Thomas Street, east of 15th Avenue East, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; and providing for acceptance of the permit and conditions.

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 102519, granted permission to Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound to construct, maintain, and operate a tunnel for pedestrian and hospital purposes at the above location; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 113876 and Resolution 28949 each renewed Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound's permit for a ten-year period; and

 WHEREAS, Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound has submitted a written request to the Director of Transportation to continue maintaining and operating this pedestrian tunnel; and

 WHEREAS, Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound has satisfied all terms and conditions of the original authorizing ordinance; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this ordinance, permission is hereby granted to Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound, its successors and assigns ("Permittee") to maintain and operate a tunnel for pedestrian and hospital purposes under and across East Thomas Street, east of 15th Avenue East Avenue, connecting Block 5, Lot 1 of Harper's Addition to Block 4, Lots 3-8 of D.M. Crane's Addition, between the properties known as King County parcel numbers 1806900305 and 3117000005; the pedestrian tunnel is located approximately 65 feet east of 15th Avenue East and occupies a horizontal space of approximately 16 feet and a vertical space of approximately 20 feet.

 Section 2. The permission herein granted to the Permittee its successors and assigns shall be for a term of ten (10) years commencing on September 28, 2003, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. on September 27, 2013; provided, however, that upon written application of the Permittee at least thirty (30) days before expiration of the term the Director of Transportation ("Director") may renew the permit for two (2) successive ten (10) year terms, provided further that the total term of the permission as originally granted and thus extended shall not exceed thirty (30) years, subject to the right of The City of Seattle ("City") by ordinance to then revise any of the terms and conditions contained herein.

 Section 3. The permission is hereby subject to any protection, support or relocation of existing utilities deemed necessary by the owner of the utility and shall be done at Permittee's expense with the Permittee being responsible for any subsequent damage to the utilities to the extent due to the construction, repair, reconstruction, maintenance, or operation of the tunnel.

 Section 4. The permit granted hereby is subject to primary and secondary use by the public of the street right-of-way for travel and utility purposes, and the City expressly reserves the right to require the Permittee to remove the tunnel at Permittee's sole cost and expense in the event that:

 a) the City Council determines, by ordinance, that the space occupied by the tunnel is necessary for any primary or secondary public use or benefit, or that the tunnel interferes with any primary or secondary public use or benefit; or

 b) the Director determines that any term or condition of this ordinance has been violated, and such violation is not been corrected by the Permittee after notice of violation has been given by the City.

 A City Council determination that the space is necessary for a primary or secondary public use or benefit shall be conclusive and final.

 Section 5. In the event that the permission hereby granted extends to its termination in thirty (30) years and the Permittee is not granted extension, or the City orders removal of the tunnel pursuant to the terms of this ordinance, then within ninety (90) days after such expiration, termination or order of removal, or prior to the date stated in an "Order to Remove," as the case may be, the Permittee shall remove the tunnel and shall place all portions of the street that may have been disturbed for any part of the tunnel, in as good condition for public use as it was prior to construction of the tunnel, and in at least as good condition in all respects as the abutting portions thereof. Whereupon, the Director shall issue a certificate discharging the Permittee from responsibility under this ordinance for occurrences after the date of such discharge.

 Section 6. The Permittee shall not commence reconstruction, relocation, readjustment or repair, other than routine maintenance, of the tunnel except under the supervision of, and in strict accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Director. The Director in his/her judgment may order such reconstruction, relocation, readjustment or repair of the tunnel at the Permittee's own cost and expense because of (a) the deterioration or unsafe condition of the tunnel, or (b) grade separations, or the installation, construction, reconstruction, maintenance, operation or repair of any and all municipally owned public utilities, or (c) for any other cause.

 Section 7. After notice to the Permittee, and failure of the Permittee to correct the unsafe or risk prone condition within the time stated in such notice, the Director may order the tunnel closed if the Director deems that it has become unsafe or creates a risk of injury to the public. In a situation in which there is an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public, notice is not required.

 Section 8. Notwithstanding termination or expiration of the permission granted, or closure or removal of the tunnel, the Permittee shall remain bound by its obligation under this ordinance until:

 a) the tunnel and all its equipment and property are removed from the street;

 b) the area is cleared and restored in a manner and to a condition satisfactory to the Director; and,

 c) the Director certifies that the Permittee has discharged its obligation herein.

 Provided, that upon prior notice to the Permittee and entry of written findings that such is in the public interest, the Director may, in his/her sole discretion, excuse the Permittee, conditionally or absolutely, from compliance with all or any of the Permittee's obligations to remove the tunnel and its property, and restore disturbed areas.

 Section 9. The tunnel shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Permittee. The Permittee, by acceptance of this ordinance and the permission hereby granted, does release the City from any and all claims resulting from damage or loss to the Permittee's own property and does covenant and agree for itself, its successors and assigns, with the City, to at all times protect and save harmless the City from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expense or damages of every kind and description (excepting only such damages that may result from the negligence of the City), which may accrue to, or be suffered by, any person or persons and/or property or properties, including without limitation, damage or injury to the Permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, invitees, tenants and tenants' invitees, licensees or its successors and assigns, (a) by reason of the maintenance, operation or use of the tunnel, or any portion thereof, or (b) by reason of anything that has been done, or may at any time be done, by the Permittee, its successors or assigns, by reason of this ordinance, or (c) by reason of the Permittee, its successors or assigns, failing or refusing to strictly comply with each and every provision of this ordinance; and if any such suit, action or claim be filed, instituted or begun against the City, the Permittee, its successors or assigns, shall, upon notice thereof from the City, defend the same at its or their sole cost and expense, and in case judgment shall be rendered against the City in any suit or action, the Permittee, its successors or assigns, shall fully satisfy the judgment within ninety (90) days after such action or suit shall have been finally determined, if determined adversely to the City. Provided that if it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that RCW 4.24.115 applies to this ordinance, then in the event claims or damages are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of:

 a) the City, its agents, contractors or employees; and,

 b) the Permittee, its agents, contractors, employees or its successors or assigns, this indemnity provision shall be valid and enforceable only to the extent of the negligence of the Permittee or the Permittee's agents, contractors, employees or its successors or assigns.

 Section 10. For as long as the Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall exercise any permission granted by this ordinance and until the tunnel is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1 or until discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 5 of this ordinance, the Permittee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at its own expense, insurance policies which fully protect the City from any all claims and risks of any loss from perils which can be insured against under general liability insurance contracts and fire insurance contracts, including any extended coverage endorsements thereto which are customarily available from time to time, in conjunction with:

 a) construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance, use or existence of the tunnel permitted by this ordinance and of any and all portions of the tunnel;

 b) Permittee's activity upon or the use or occupation of the area described in Section 1 of this ordinance, as well as;

 c) any and all claims and risks in connection with and activity performed by the Permittee by virtue of the permission granted by this ordinance.

 Minimum insurance requirements shall be a policy of comprehensive commercial general liability of a form acceptable to the City. The City will require insurance coverage to be placed with a company admitted and licensed to conduct business in Washington State, except that if it is infeasible to obtain such a policy, the City may approve an alternative company. Minimum policy limits shall be $2,000,000 per occurrence and $4,000,000 annual aggregate each period. Coverage shall specifically name the tunnel exposure. Liability coverage shall add by endorsement the City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents as additional insured. Coverage shall contain a Separation of Insureds clause indicating essentially that "except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned in this coverage part of the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought."

 The City will not accept a certificate of insurance as evidence of current coverage. Evidence of current coverage shall be submitted to the City in the form of a copy of the insurance policy declaration page, indicating all endorsements attached thereto, to the receipt of which is a requisite for the validity of this permit.

 The Director, in consultation with the City Risk Manager, may adjust minimum levels of liability insurance and surety bond requirements. The Director shall notify the Permittee of the new requirements in writing. Upon receipt, the Permittee shall provide proof of the required levels of insurance and surety bond to the Director within 60 days.

 Should the Permittee be self-insured, a letter from the Corporate Risk Manager, or appropriate Finance Officer, is acceptable, stipulating if actuarially funded and funds limit: plus any excess declaration pages to meet the contract requirements. Further, this letter shall advise how Permittee would protect and defend the City of Seattle as an Additional Insured in their Self- Insured layer, and include claims handling directions in the event of a claim.

 Section 11. The Permittee shall require that any and all of its contractors performing construction work on the premises as contemplated by this permit, name the City as an additional insured on all policies of public liability insurance, and shall include in all contract documents a provision extending construction indemnities and warranties granted to Permittee to the City as well.

 Section 12. Within sixty (60) days after the effective date of this ordinance the Permittee shall deliver to the Director of Transportation for filing with the City Clerk a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $50,000, executed by a surety company authorized and qualified to do business in the State of Washington, conditioned that the Permittee will comply with each and every provision of this ordinance and with each and every order of the Director pursuant thereto. The bond shall remain in effect until such time as the tunnel is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1, or until discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 5 of this ordinance.

 Section 13. The right, privilege and authority hereby granted shall not be assignable or transferable by operation of law, nor shall the Permittees, their successors or assigns, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge or encumber the same without the consent of the Director, which consent Director shall not unreasonably refuse. The Director may approve assignment and/or transferal of the permit to a successor entity in the case of a change of name and/or ownership provided that the successor or assignee has demonstrated its acceptance of all of the terms of the permission granted to the initial Permittees. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, consent of the Director shall not be required for any transfer or assignment of the privileges conferred by this ordinance by way of mortgage, pledge or encumbrance or by way of foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure of any mortgage, pledge or encumbrance.

 Section 14. The Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall pay to the City such amounts as may be justly chargeable by the City as to its inspection of the tunnel during construction, reconstruction, repair, annual structural inspections, and at other times deemed necessary by the Director to ensure the safety of the tunnel, as provided by Municipal Code Section 15.76. Permittee, it successors and assigns, shall submit each year to the Seattle Department of Transportation - Roadway Structures Division an inspection report detailing the physical dimensions and condition of all load bearing elements of the tunnel; subject report to be stamped by a Professional Civil or Structural Engineer who is licensed in the State of Washington and is experienced in the inspection of tunnels. All recommended repairs in the report shall be described and prioritized; the report to be submitted each year within thirty days of the anniversary date of the completion of the construction of the tunnel. Permittee shall also promptly pay to the City in advance upon statements rendered by the Director an annual fee for the privileges granted and exercised hereunder of Two Thousand Three Hundred Fifty-Two Dollars and Sixteen Cents ($2,352.16). Adjustments to the annual fee amount shall be made in accordance with a term permit fee schedule adopted by the City Council by ordinance and may be adjusted every year. In the absence of such a schedule, the Director may only increase or decrease the previous year's fee amount annually to reflect any inflationary changes so as to charge the fee in constant dollar terms. This adjustment will be calculated by adjusting the previous year's fee amount by the percentage change between the two most recent year-end values available of the Consumer Price Index for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Area, All Urban Consumers, All Products, Not Seasonally Adjusted, Base Period 1982-84 = 100. All payments shall be made to the City Finance Director for credit to the Transportation Operating Fund.

 Section 15. The Permittee shall not discriminate against any (1) employee, (2) applicant for employment, or (3) person with respect to the award or referral of a contract or with respect to the conditions, terms, price or performance standards, or other provisions of a contract in connection with the design, architectural or structural engineering work or the construction, repair, or maintenance of the tunnel permitted to be erected and/or operated pursuant to this ordinance, on the basis of race, religion, creed, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, age, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap unless based upon bona fide occupational qualification. The Permittee shall:

 a) post in conspicuous places available to such employees and applicants for such employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this non discrimination clause.

 b) insert in any contract for work undertaken in connection with the design, architectural or structural engineering work or the repair, construction, maintenance or operation of the tunnel referenced in this ordinance language substantially similar to the language contained in this Section 15 and which requires any person or entity entering into such contract to comply with the non discrimination provisions of this Section.

 Section 16. The Permittee shall deliver its written acceptance of the permission conferred by this ordinance and its terms and conditions to the Director within sixty (60) days after the effective date of this ordinance. The acceptance shall be filed with the City Clerk. If no such acceptance is received by then, the privileges provided by this ordinance shall be deemed declined or abandoned; and the permission extended, contingent upon its acceptance, deemed lapsed and forfeited.

 Section 17. Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound's use of the pedestrian tunnel under and across East Thomas Street from the end of the franchise period authorized by Resolution 28949 is hereby ratified and confirmed through the effective date of this ordinance.

 Section 18. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 7/23/07 version #7

```
