

********

**Council Bill Number: 116088**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122610**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate changes proposed as part of the 2007 Comprehensive Plan annual amendment process.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 17, 2007
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 21, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 21, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 26, 2007
   
**Committee:** Urban Development and Planning
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** COMPREHENSIVE-PLAN, AMENDMENT, LAND-USE-PLANNING, HOUSING, OPEN-SPACE-LAND PARKS, MULTI-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, TRANSPORTATION-DEMAND-MANAGEMENT, HEALTH-CARE-DELIVERY, ENVIRONMENTAL-HEALTH, PREVENTIVE-MEDICINE, PUBLIC-HEALTH, SOCIAL-SERVICES, DRUG-REHABILITATION, PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES, MIDDLE-INCOME, JOB-TRAINING, LABOR-SUPPLY, INDUSTRIAL-DEVELOPMENT, ECONOMIC-DEVELOPMENT, MANUFACTURING, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICTS, MIXED-INCOME-HOUSING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 30976

**Fiscal Note:**116088

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122610](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122610.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate changes proposed as part of the 2007 Comprehensive Plan annual amendment process.

 WHEREAS, the City Council adopted procedures in Resolution 30261, as amended by Resolution 30976, for amending the Comprehensive Plan, consistent with the requirements for amendment prescribed by the Growth Management Act, RCW 36.70A; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Council Resolution 30976, a number of proposals for Plan amendments were submitted for Council consideration, both from within City government and from the public; and

 WHEREAS, on May 14, 2007, the City Council considered these proposed Comprehensive Plan amendments and adopted Council Resolution 30976, directing that City staff further review and analyze certain proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, these proposed amendments have been reviewed and analyzed by the Department of Planning and Development and considered by the Council; and

 WHEREAS, the City has provided for public participation in the development and review of these proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and considered the Executive's report and recommendations, public testimony made at the public hearing, and other pertinent material regarding the proposed amendments; and

 WHEREAS, the Council finds that the amendments to be adopted are consistent with the Growth Management Act, and will protect and promote the health, safety, and welfare of the general public; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle Comprehensive Plan, as last amended by Ordinance 121313, is amended as follows:

 A. 1. Amend Land Use Policy 80 as follows:

Provide for predictability about the allowed intensity of development with appropriate development standards and density limits for each zone to accommodate a range of housing types and achieve development that meets the policy intent for each zone.~~Limit density to provide greater predictability about the allowed intensity of development, by specifying a maximum number of units that may be permitted on sites in each lowrise multifamily zone. Accommodate a range of housing types to achieve development that meets the policy intent for each zone.~~

 2. Amend Land Use Policy 81 as follows:

Limit building heights to establish predictable maximum heights, maintain scale relationships with adjacent buildings, and limit view blockage. Allow for a variety of roof forms, and allow additional height to encourage pitched roofs, where appropriate.~~Limit building heights to establish predictable maximum heights, maintain a consistent height limit throughout the building envelope, maintain scale relationships with adjacent buildings, and limit view blockage. Encourage pitched roofs in lowrise and midrise multifamily areas.~~

 3. Amend Land Use Policy 83 as follows:

Limit bulk to ensure that buildings contribute to the desired pattern of development for the applicable multifamily zone, to maintain compatibility with the surrounding areas, and to encourage infill and single lot development where appropriate.~~Limit bulk to ensure that buildings conform to the prevailing pattern of development in the surrounding area, to prevent the development of wide buildings that block views, and to encourage infill and single lot development.~~

 4. Delete Land Use Policy 84 in its entirety, as follows:

~~Allow greater lot coverage for townhouses in low-density and moderate-density multifamily zones to encourage development of ground-related housing.~~

 5. Amend Land Use Policy 85 as follows:

Establish building setback requirements from property lines, as appropriate for the type and scale of multifamily development allowed in the zone. This is to help ensure access to light and air, to provide a sense of privacy, and to provide adequate transition between zones of different intensities.~~Require multifamily developments to provide open space for the use of the residents and to maintain existing street patterns of landscaped front yards, encourage permeable surfaces and vegetation, and mitigate the cumulative effects of development on open space and recreation resources in an area.~~

 6. Amend Land Use Policy 86 as follows:

Provide for the recreational needs of residents with standards for amenity areas that may include private or shared open space, whether in the form of rooftop decks, balconies or ground level spaces.~~Provide residents of lowrise multifamily buildings with usable ground-level open space, while allowing some required open space to be provided as private decks and balconies or roof gardens.~~

 7. Delete Land Use Policy 87 in its entirety, as follows:

~~Use setback requirements to ensure access to light and air, and provide a sense of privacy, for residents of multifamily structures, and to maintain compatibility between new development and the existing pattern of setbacks and view corridors parallel to streets. Vary setback requirements so that the greater the size of a structure, the greater the required setback. Allow averaging of required side setbacks, within limits, to encourage modulation and visual interest of side facades. In addition to the general function of setbacks, use rear setbacks to provide adequate transition between zones of differing intensity.~~

 8. Delete Land Use Policy 90 in its entirety, as follows:

~~Provide opportunities for attached housing at slightly higher densities than single-family areas.~~

 9. Amend Land Use Policy 92 as follows:

Establish a range of low-density multifamily zones to accommodate a range of housing choices that:  * Provide opportunities for multifamily infill development compatible with surrounding zones;

 * Allow for densities and building types that encourage both new construction and the conversion of existing structures; and

 * Provide for multifamily development where units have direct access to residential amenities, which may include ground-level open space, to increase opportunities for families with children.

~~Use a range of low-density multifamily zones to:~~* Provide opportunities for limited multifamily and single-family infill housing while preserving the character of a neighborhood;

 * Allow for densities and building types that encourage both new construction and the conversion of existing single family structures to duplexes and triplexes;

 * Provide for multifamily development, such as townhouses, of low height and small bulk where units have direct access to private yards, thereby increasing housing opportunities for families with children and others seeking ground-related housing; or

 * Encourage a variety of multifamily housing types with less emphasis on ground-related units, at a scale compatible with single-family structures.

 10. Amend Land Use Policy 94 as follows:

In order to maintain a consistent and appealing character in low-density multifamily areas, adopt development standards that help ensure new development and converted structures contribute positively to the character of multifamily neighborhoods and are compatible with abutting single-family zoned areas in terms of scale, open space and setbacks, siting, and unit orientation.~~In order to maintain a consistent and appealing character in low-density multifamily areas, seek to ensure, through development standards for low-density multifamily zones, that new and converted structures are compatible with existing development and reflective of the character of that~~development in terms of scale, open space, setbacks, siting and unit orientation.

 11. Amend Land Use Policy 102 as follows:

Use zoning incentives and other development-related tools to provide for, or preserve, public benefits. Public benefits or other features may include housing affordable to low- and moderate-income households, preservation of historic resources or provision of new public open space.~~In order to provide public open spaces easily accessible to the public, preserve or provide housing affordable to low and moderate-income households, preserve historically or architecturally significant buildings, or provide more space between towers to decrease view blockage and shadows on adjacent structures and open spaces, consider allowing additional height in the highest-density multifamily areas.~~

 B. Amend Land Use Policy 5.2 as follows:

 Seek opportunities in rezones or changes in development regulations to incorporate incentive programs for development of housing ~~affordable to lower income~~that is affordable for the longest term practicable ~~into legislative rezones or changes in development regulations that increase development potential~~.

 C. Amend the Future Land Use Map to designate the portion of the Fort Lawton U.S. Army Reserve Complex shown in Attachment A as a Multi-Family Residential Area.

 D. 1. Amend Environmental Policy 18 as follows:

~~In order to assess the City's success in moving toward a sustainable urban environment, the City should identify and establish goals for key indicators of such factors as human health, the economy, population, energy use, sprawl, natural systems and pollution.~~Collect data and regularly report on ~~these indicators~~the sustainability measures and numeric goals in this plan to inform and enable citizens and decision-makers to consider alternative policies or programs, where outcomes differ from what was

 intended~~by this Plan~~. Conduct an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions in Seattle at least every three years. Use data, public input, and approaches developed by other public agencies and private organizations that address sustainability. Consider combining this monitoring activity with the one described in the Urban Village Element of this Plan.

 2. Add new discussion to the Environment Element under Part E, as follows:

 Part E. Climate Change

 Climate change and the human factors that contribute to it are not confined to jurisdictional boundaries. Nevertheless, Seattle City government can contribute to reductions of those factors through public education, regulation, and by reducing emissions from City government operations.

 Seattle is a regional employment center and, as such, is the locus for the generation of greenhouse gas emissions from industry and traffic that are the shared responsibility of the region, state, and nation. By monitoring and seeking to respond to emissions within Seattle's geographic boundaries, Seattle can contribute to regional reduction in greenhouse gases.

 This Comprehensive Plan addresses the period between 2004 and 2024. The greenhouse gas emission goals below are set to correspond to a 50-year goal consistent with studies prepared by national and international organizations. These studies indicate that developed countries must reduce greenhouse gases as much as 80% in carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) below 1990 levels by 2050 in order to achieve climate stabilization.

 Meeting targets for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions will require political consensus and technology innovation. Without such consensus and innovation, there is a risk that the City may not continue to make necessary progress in meeting these goals. Seattle can, and should, be in the forefront of developing new economic opportunities in industrial sectors that can positively impact greenhouse gas reduction.

 3. Amend Environment Goal 7 as follows:

 To control the impact of climate change globally and locally, reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other climate-changing greenhouse gases in Seattle by 30% from year 1990 levels by 2024, and by 80% from 1990 levels by 2050.

 4. Amend Environment Policy 15 as follows:

 Work with private and public sector partners in seeking to achieve goal EG7 for reducing~~to reduce~~climate-changing greenhouse gas emissions from private and public sources to control the impacts of global warming on the city's water supply, electrical energy supply, ecosystems, public health, and economy. Work to establish a standard for greenhouse gas emissions for privately owned buildings.

 5. Amend Environment Goal 8 as follows:

~~Strive to c~~Continuously improve the City's environmental performance in its roles as a large employer, builder and maintainer of capital facilities, land owner and regulator to not only improve the natural environment but also to set an example for others' behavior.

 6. Add new Environment Goal 9, as follows:

 Reduce fossil-fuel consumption in constructing new and renovating existing City-owned buildings to one-half the U.S. average for each building type.

 7. Amend Environment Policy 16 as follows:

 In the operations of City government, strive to reduce the use of resources and toxics, prevent pollution, reuse existing resources such as historic structures, control waste, and protect natural areas and biodiversity. Repairs of City-owned buildings should employ green building practices.

 8. Add new Environment Goal 10, as follows:

 Reduce consumption of fossil-fuels in all new City government buildings in the following increments (percent reduction from 2007 U.S. average for each building type):

 60% in 2010; 70% in 2015; 80% in 2020; 90% in 2025; and

 Carbon Neutral by 2030 (meaning new buildings will use no fossil fuel, green house gas emitting energy to operate).

 9. Add a new policy to the Environment element as follows:

 Seek to meet greenhouse gas emission goals EG7 - EG10.

 10. Add new Environment Policy 11, as follows:

 Strive to achieve no net loss of tree canopy coverage starting in 2008, and strive to increase tree canopy coverage by 1% per year up to a total of 40%, to reduce storm runoff, absorb air pollutants, reduce noise, stabilize soil, provide habitat, and mitigate the heat island effect of developed areas.

 11. Add new Environment Policy 12, as follows:

 Update the 2000 tree canopy inventory in the Urban Forest Management Plan every 10 years to measure progress toward the goal of increased

 canopy coverage.

 12. Add new Utilities Policy 12, as follows:

 Pursue the long-term goal of diverting 100% of the city's solid waste from disposal by maximizing recycling, reducing consumption, and promoting products that are made to be reused, repaired or recycled back into nature or the marketplace.

 13. Amend Urban Village Goal 4 as follows:

 Promote densities, mixes of uses, and transportation improvements that support walking,~~and~~ use of public transportation and other transportation demand management (TDM) strategies, especially within urban centers and urban villages.

 14. Amend Urban Village Policy 2 as follows:

 Promote conditions that support healthy neighborhoods throughout the city, including those conducive to helping mixed-use urban village communities thrive, such as focused transportation demand management strategies~~frequent transit service~~, vital business districts, a range of housing choices, a range of park and open space facilities, and investment and reinvestment in neighborhoods.

 15. Amend discussion in the Transportation Element under Part C, as follows:

 Part C. Increasing Transportation Choices

 To reduce car use, the City will employ land use policies and parking strategies that encourage increased use of transit, walking, biking and carpooling. To be effective, the City must provide for transportation alternatives and educate people on transportation choices that are responsive to the specific needs of Urban Centers as well as other residential and employment areas. These kinds of tools enable the City to better manage, or control, the need to travel by car. Transportation alternatives to the single occupancy- vehicle (SOV) need to address cost, convenience and travel time. The City recognizes that transportation needs and travel choices will change over time as alternatives to car travel become more viable.

 16. Amend Transportation Policy 19 as follows:

 Pursue transportation demand management (TDM) strategies at the regional and urban center levels, and strengthen regional and urban center-based partnerships working on TDM measures. Coordinate and develop relationships with urban center, regional and state partners so customers see their travel choices and the various TDM promotions as a coordinated, integrated system that makes a difference in the community.

 17. Amend Transportation Policy 54 as follows:

 Identify, evaluate, and mitigate environmental impacts of transportation investments and operating decisions (including impacts on air and water quality, noise, environmentally critical areas and endangered species). Pursue transportation projects, programs, and investment strategies consistent with noise reduction, air quality improvement, vehicle trip reduction, protection of critical areas and endangered species and water quality improvement objectives.

 18. Amend Transportation Policy 55 as follows:

 Coordinate with other city, county, regional, state and federal agencies to pursue opportunities for air and water quality improvement, street and stormwater runoff prevention, reduction in  vehicle miles traveled

 and noise reduction.

 19. Amend discussion in the Economic Development Element, as follows:

 A strong Seattle and Puget Sound economy is a critical underpinning of a positive future for Seattle and is a central component of the Urban Village strategy. The Comprehensive Plan promotes a sound economy through planning for future growth in ways that maintain the city's high quality of life by directing facilities and services to areas that support jobs and by identifying and encouraging economic sectors that offer the best opportunities for new job creation and future economic growth. A diverse and stable economy offers long- term economic opportunity and social equity to all Seattle residents. Promoting affordability for Seattle residents as part of the overall strategy for economic development in the city will result in tangible benefits that improve the economic vitality of Seattle.

 City government has a limited ability to directly influence the economy, and thus must be strategic in its activities and use of resources. Through a Strategic Action Plan the City will implement the policies of the Comprehensive Plan and will undertake economic development initiatives that build on its competitive economic advantages to enhance its economic base. Realizing the increasingly international nature of the local economy and the pace of technological change, the City will monitor the economy and will periodically alter and refine the goals and policies in this element in response to on-going changes in the economy. In addition to the goals and policies of this element, the Comprehensive Plan contains a number of goals and policies in other elements that complement the Economic Development element.

 20. Add new Economic Development Goal 1.5, as follows:

 Establish Seattle as a place where average wages are high and costs of living are reasonable so that the city can accommodate households at a wide range of income levels.

 21. Amend discussion in the Human Development Element under Part D, as follows:

 Part D. Effective Disease Prevention, Access to Health Care ,~~to Be as~~ Physical~~ly~~& Mental~~ly~~ Fitness~~as Possible~~for Everyone

~~People's h~~Health is a major determinant of ~~their~~ quality of life and the ability to participate fully in the community. The City recognizes the importance of health care for all of Seattle's residents, particularly the poor and uninsured. Local efforts should help people ~~in groups~~ who experience greater health risks and adverse conditions and should focus on primary prevention through effective policies. The City encourages the King County Board of Health to create and support policies with measurable outcomes based on the most current science, best practices and promising approaches to preventing acute and chronic disease. The City will regularly evaluate the effectiveness of Board of Health policy implementation based on indicators of the number of healthy years lived by people in Seattle. Certain policies pertaining to recreation may be found in Section E. Open Space Network of the Land Use Element; and policies pertaining to the environment may be found in Land Use, Transportation and Capital Facilities elements.

 22. Amend Human Development Goal 6 as follows:

 Create a healthy environment where all community members , including those currently struggling with homelessness, mental illness and chemical dependence, are able to ~~practice~~aspire to and achieve a healthy life~~living~~, are well nourished, and have ~~good~~ access to affordable health care.

 23. Amend Human Development Policy 21 as follows:

 Encourage Seattle residents to adopt healthy and active lifestyles to improve their general health and well-being and to increase their number of healthy years lived. Provide opportunities for people to participate in fitness and recreational activities and to enjoy available open space.

 24. Add new Human Development Policy 22.5, as follows:

 Collaborate with community organizations and health providers to advocate at the State level for expanded access to health insurance and to expanded coverage for preventive care and long-term health.

 25. Amend Human Development Policy 23 as follows:

 Work to reduce environmental threats and hazards to health in the workplace, at home and at play.

 a. Make use of the City's building and fire codes, food licensing and permit processes, and hazardous materials and smoking regulations for fire and life safety protection.

 b. Collaborate through joint efforts among City agencies, such as fire, police, and construction and land use to address health and safety issues in a more efficient manner.

c. Prepare land use plans in ways that support development and design that promote physical activities, use safe materials, and protect water and air quality.

 26. Amend Human Development Policy 24 as follows:

 Seek to improve the quality ~~of,~~ and equity of access to ~~,~~ health care, including physical and mental health, emergency medical, and addiction services.

 a. Collaborate with community organizations and health providers to advocate for quality health care and broader accessibility to services.

 b. Pursue co-location of programs and services, particularly in under-served areas and in urban village areas.

 27. Add new Human Development Policy 24.5, as follows:

 Support increased access to preventive interventions at agencies that serve the homeless, mentally ill and chemically dependent

 populations. Pursue co-location of health services at these and other agencies serving those disproportionately affected by disease.

 28. Amend Human Development Policy 25 as follows:

 Work with other jurisdictions, institutions, health care providers and community organizations to develop a strong continuum of community-based long-term care services.

 E. In the Neighborhood Planning Element add new Crown Hill-Ballard Policy 6.5 as follows:

 In the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village, single family-zoned portions of split-zoned lots having an existing multifamily use may be rezoned to an abutting multifamily-zoning designation. This policy is intended to guide future rezone decisions and to lead to amendment to the Land Use Code by changing limits on the zones to which single-family areas may be rezoned within the Crown Hill Residential Urban Village, as prescribed by S.M.C. 23.34.010.B.2.

 F. Add new Land Use Policy 53.5, as follows:

 When designing parking facilities in City parks, strive to preserve parks open space, green space, trees and other mature vegetation; limit parking to discourage auto use and discourage the conversion of surface area to parking for private automobiles.

 G. Amend Transportation Goal 36 as follows:

 Promote safe walking, bicycling, and driving behavior through education, enforcement and engineering design, in order to provide public health benefits and reinforce pedestrian, bicycle and motorists' rights and responsibilities.

 H. 1. Amend discussion in the Transportation Element under Part B, as follows:

 Part B. Make the Best Use of the Streets We Have to Move People & Goods

 The City has a limited amount of street space, and is unlikely to expand this space significantly. To make the best use of existing rights-of-way for moving people and goods, the City must allocate street space carefully among competing uses to further the City's growth management and transportation goals. The Complete Streets principles set out in Ordinance 122386 promote safe and convenient access and travel for all users-pedestrians, bicyclists, transit riders, and people of all abilities, as well as freight and motor vehicle drivers.

 As guided below by this Plan, the Transportation Strategic Plan (TSP) will include detailed maps and descriptions of Seattle's street classifications. Street classifications define how a street should function to support movement of people, goods and services versus access to property. Street classifications provide the basis for determining how individual streets should be used and operated. The TSP also designates street types to further define streets by relating them to the adjacent land uses and their function for pedestrians, bicyclists, transit and freight. Street types enhance the citywide street classifications with more site-specific design guidance that balances the functional classification, adjacent land uses, and competing travel needs.

 2. Amend Transportation Policy 6 as follows:

 Allocate street space among various uses (e.g., traffic, transit, trucks, carpools, bicycles, parking, and pedestrians) according to Complete Streets principles, set out in Ordinance 122386, to enhance the key function(s) of a street as described in the Transportation Strategic Plan.

 3. Amend Transportation Policy 48 as follows:

 Recognize the importance of the freight network to the city's economic health when making decisions that affect Major Truck streets as well as other parts of the region's roadway system. Complete Street improvements supporting freight mobility along with other modes of travel may be considered on Major Truck streets.

 I. Amend Housing Policy 30 as follows:

 Address the city's share of ~~low-income~~affordable housing needs resulting from expected countywide household growth, consistent with the countywide affordable housing policies, by planning for:

 a. At least 20 percent of expected ~~households~~housing growth to be affordable to households earning up to 50 percent of median income (estimated 9,400 affordable units).

 b. At least 17 percent of expected ~~household~~housing growth to be affordable to households earning between 51 percent and 80 percent of median income (estimated 7,990 affordable units).

 c. At least 27 percent of expected housing growth to be affordable to householdsearning between 81 percent and 120 percent of median income (estimated 12,690units).

 Both new housing and existing housing that is acquired, rehabilitated or preserved for long-term low-income and affordable occupancy count toward~~as~~ meeting this policy.

 J. 1. Amend Economic Development Policy 18 as follows:

 Facilitate the creation of coalitions of business, labor, civic  and educational institutions, including community colleges, to develop competency-based education and training programs for Seattle community members that are targeted to the needs of business. This may include vocational training programs, apprenticeship programs, entrepreneurial skills training, customized on-site training and technical and vocational preparatory programs at the high school level.

 2. Amend Economic Development Policy 20 as follows:

~~Encourage~~Work with employers, nonprofits, educational institutions and social service agencies to create opportunities for people in training, retraining or working to meet their dependent care needs.

 3. Add new Economic Development Policy 26.5 as follows:

 Assist working families by increasing access to training and social service resources.

 4. Add new Economic Development Policy 16.5 as follows:

 Support key sectors of Seattle' economy to create jobs that pay wages that can support a family, provide necessary benefits, and contribute to the vitality of the City including, but not limited to, the industrial, manufacturing, service, hospitality and retail sectors.

 K. 1. Amend discussion in the Cultural Resources Element under Part A, as follows:

 Part A. Community

 Seattle is a city of communities. Some communities are defined as an identifiable place (neighborhoods) with particular physical conditions, tradition or history. Other communities are not geographically based, but rather are defined by people sharing a common identity, heritage or experience. Within a community, people learn about themselves and customs, and traditions are kept alive.

 Communities provide a place for people to meet and share experiences. By exploring the culture, heritage and customs of other communities, people learn how they fit into the larger Seattle community and beyond. Celebrating the diversity of our communities encourages civil behavior among citizens. By teaching tolerance, fueling natural inquisitiveness, and expanding understanding, cultural resources contribute to conditions that make it possible for people from different backgrounds to live together with mutual respect.

 2. Amend Cultural Resources Policy 1 as follows:

 Encourage and support communities in celebrating, preserving, and transmitting their traditions through cultural and heritage activities, the arts, education, publishing and reading, and public events.

 3. Amend Cultural Resources Goal 6 as follows:

 A city that celebrates and strives to protect its cultural legacy  and heritage, to preserve and protect historic neighborhoods and to preserve, restore and reuse its built resources of cultural, heritage, architectural and social significance in order to maintain its unique sense of place and adapt to change gracefully.

 L. 1. Add new Human Development Goal 8.6 as follows:

 Achieve an increased sense of security and a decrease in the per capita incidence of crimes, as indicated by decreased homicides, aggravated assaults, residential burglaries, and auto theft; increased perception of police presence; and decreased perception of crime.

 2. Add new Human Development Policy 36.5 as follows:

 Periodically report on crime statistics and the public perception of safety to guide future decisions about programs and resource allocation that can help control crime and make Seattle residents feel safer in the city.

 M. 1. Amend discussion in the Human Development Element under Part B, as follows:

 Part B. Food to Eat & a Roof Overhead

 Seattle's economic future and quality of life depend on the development of its people. There are people, especially frail elders, individuals and families, who lack food or shelter, who are vulnerable, or face barriers to functioning independently. The community should help them flourish and participate fully in the life of the city. The City recognizes its role in making Seattle the kind of place people of all ages want to live and raise their families, and those who are most vulnerable will have access to assistance they need. The safety of such vulnerable populations may also need special attention before and after an emergency or disaster. Certain policies pertaining to low income and special needs housing and emergency shelters may be found in the Housing Element.

 2. Add new Human Development Policy 11.5 as follows:

 Coordinate service delivery plans for vulnerable populations in the event of an emergency or disaster.

 N. 1. Add new Human Development Goal 4.5 as follows:

 Strengthen educational opportunities for all Seattle students.

 2. Amend discussion in the Human Development Element under Part C, as follows:

 Part C. The Education & Job Skills to Lead an Independent Life

 The City of Seattle recognizes the importance of a well educated population and young people with the skills to pursue opportunities and careers of their choice. The City recognizes the need to work with other~~s~~public agencies, nonprofit agencies, community groups and the business community to make quality education and opportunities for learning and training available to children, youth and adults. Certain policies pertaining to employment and training may be found in Section A. Labor Force Education, Development and Training in the Economic Development Element.

 3. Amend Human Development Policy 20 as follows:

 Work with schools and other educational institutions, community-based organizations, businesses and other governments to develop strong linkages between education and training programs and employability development resources.

 4. Amend Economic Development Goal 6 as follows:

 Develop a highly trained and well educated local work force that effectively competes for meaningful and productive employment, earns a living wage and meets the needs of business

 5. Amend discussion in the Economic Development Element under Part C, as follows:

 Part C. Labor Force Education, Development & Training

 A skilled and competitive workforce is important to the city's growth and prosperity. While not having direct control over the education of its citizens, the City has a responsibility to advocate actively on their behalf. The following policies encourage employers, employee organizations and education and training institutions to provide all Seattle residents opportunities for academic and professional education, training and retraining. Certain policies related to education and employability may be found in Section D of the Human Development Element.

 6. Amend Economic Development Policy 17 as follows:

 Work with the Seattle Public Schools to improve the quality of public education, identify opportunities to help implement the district's strategic planning goals, and increase the likelihood that all young people will complete high school having achieved the competency needed to continue their education or enter the work force.

 7. Amend Economic Development Policy 18 as follows:

 Facilitate the creation of coalitions of business, labor, civic  and educational institutions, including community colleges, to develop competency-based education and training programs for Seattle community members that are targeted to the needs of business. This may include vocational training programs, apprenticeship programs, entrepreneurial skills training, customized on-site training and technical and vocational preparatory programs at the high school level.

 O. Add new Environment Policy 8.5 as follows:

 Where there would be measurable benefits to people or wildlife, place priority on solving drainage problems, such as flooding and frequent reliance on the combined sewer overflow system, with natural drainage system approaches and by restoring watershed elements such as forest, wetlands, and natural channels.

 P. 1. Add new Land Use Policy 147.5 as follows:

 IG zones are most appropriately located in the designated manufacturing/industrial centers, where impacts from the types of industrial uses these zones permit are less likely to affect residential or commercial uses. Outside of manufacturing/industrial centers, IG zones may be appropriate along waterways in order to provide land for maritime uses.

 2. Add new Land Use Policy 147.6 as follows:

 Industrial zones are generally not appropriate within urban centers or urban villages, since these are places where the City encourages concentrations of residential uses. However, in locations where a center or village abuts a manufacturing/industrial center, the IC zone within the center or village may provide an appropriate transition to help separate residential uses from heavier industrial activities.

 3. Add new Urban Village Policy 24.6 as follows:

 The City should limit its own uses on land in the manufacturing/industrial centers to uses that are not appropriate in other zones and should discourage other public entities from siting non-industrial uses in manufacturing/industrial centers. An exception for essential public facilities should be provided.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: Amended Future Land Use Map 12/17/07 Version #6 ta

[ Attachment A - Amended Future Land Use Map ](/~ordpics/116088a1.gif)

```
