

********

**Council Bill Number: 116116**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122616**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Municipal Court; authorizing execution, pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, of an agreement with the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services regarding the funding of a part-time State of Washington Funding Services Specialist in the Seattle Municipal Court Resource Center to provide screening services to Court defendants and the community; declaring an emergency; and ratifying and confirming certain acts, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 17, 2007
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Absent: Drago, Rasmussen)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 21, 2007
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 21, 2007
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 10, 2007
   
**Committee:** Public Safety, Governmental Relations and Arts
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, WASHINGTON-STATE, MUNICIPAL-COURT DRUG-REHABILITATION, CITY-EMPLOYEES, BUDGET

**Fiscal Note:**116116

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122616](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122616.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Municipal Court; authorizing execution, pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, of an agreement with the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services regarding the funding of a part-time State of Washington Funding Services Specialist in the Seattle Municipal Court Resource Center to provide screening services to Court defendants and the community; declaring an emergency; and ratifying and confirming certain acts, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services will no longer be able to fund the Funding Services Specialist performing screening functions at the Seattle Municipal Court due to budget cuts; and

 WHEREAS, the Financial Service Specialist accepts initial applications for the food assistance program, financial and medical assistance programs; process changes of circumstance; and provides information on DSHS programs and services to current recipients, their authorized representatives, criminal justice staff and the general public; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Municipal Court is committed to addressing the human service needs of its defendant population and will no longer be able to deliver this service unless the interlocal agreement is entered into; and

 WHEREAS, the jail services budget has additional funds in 2007 and 2008 as the result of a terminated chemical dependency contract with Yakima County due to underutilization; and those funds have been identified as an acceptable use for the funding of the Financial Service Specialist;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The City Council hereby makes the following legislative findings of fact and declarations:

 The Washington State Department of Social and Human Services has placed a Fiscal Service Specialist to accept initial applications for the food assistance program, financial and medical assistance programs; process changes of circumstance; and provide information on DSHS programs and services to current recipients, their authorized representatives, criminal justice staff and the general public for the past five years at no charge to the City.

 The Washington State Department of Social and Human Services recently informed the Seattle Municipal Court that it will no longer be able to provide the Fiscal Service Specialist in the Court due to budget constraints. The Department has offered to keep the position at the Court if the City is willing to fund the position.

 The Department of Social and Health Services has informed the Seattle Municipal Court that, unless the ILA is signed by December 17, 2007, they cannot staff the position in 2008. The Financial Service Specialist has provided crucial services to Seattle Municipal Court defendants and the broader community. For some defendants, addressing underlying causes of criminal behavior, such as financial hardships or chemical dependency, may reduce that behavior in the future. Removal of the Financial Services Specialist from the Court may result in defendants losing vital support for critical needs such as health care and financial assistance.

 Because of the foregoing facts, an emergency is declared to exist under Seattle City Charter Article 4, Subsection 1(I). It is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety that this ordinance takes effect without delay. This ordinance therefore shall become effective immediately upon its passage by a three-fourths vote of the City Council, and its approval by the Mayor, as provided in the Charter.

 Section 2. The Mayor or his designee, is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services substantially in the form of the attached Exhibit A, "Interlocal Agreement: Outstation staff at Seattle Municipal Court."

 Section 3. By reason of the findings set out in Section 1, and the emergency that is hereby declared to exist, this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its approval by three-fourths of all the members of the City Council and its approval by the Mayor, as provided by the Article 4, Subsection 1(I) of the Charter of the City.

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Passed by a three-fourths vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2007, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2007. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2007. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 12/18/2007 Version #2.2 ta

 EXHIBIT A: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT Outstation staff at Seattle Municipal Court

 DSHS Agreement Number: 0764-30808

 This Agreement is by and between the State of Washington Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS) and the Contractor identified below, and is issued pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, chapter 39.34 RCW.

 Program Contract Number:

 Contractor Contract Number:

 CONTRACTOR NAME Seattle, City of

 CONTRACTOR doing business as (DBA)

 CONTRACTOR ADDRESS 618 Second Avenue, Suite 1020 Seattle, WA 98104-2232

 WASHINGTON UNIFORM BUSINESS IDENTIFIER (UBI) - -

 DSHS INDEX NUMBER 1066

 CONTRACTOR CONTACT Lorri Cox

 CONTRACTOR TELEPHONE (206) 615-1606 Ext:

 CONTRACTOR FAX

 (206) 233-0056

 CONTRACTOR E-MAIL ADDRESS Lorri.Cox@seattle.gov

 DSHS ADMINISTRATION Economic Services Administration

 DSHS DIVISION Division of Employment and Assistance Programs

 DSHS CONTRACT CODE 3000LC-64

 DSHS CONTACT NAME AND TITLE Mary OBrien Business Manager

 DSHS CONTACT ADDRESS 400 Mercer Street Suite 600 Seattle, WA 98109-

 DSHS CONTACT TELEPHONE (206) 272-2153 Ext:

 DSHS CONTACT FAX (206) 298-4601

 DSHS CONTACT E-MAIL ADDRESS obrieme@dshs.wa.gov

 IS THE CONTRACTOR A SUBRECIPIENT FOR PURPOSES OF THIS CONTRACT? No

 CFDA NUMBER(S)

 AGREEMENT START DATE 12/17/2007

 AGREEMENT END DATE 12/31/2008

 MAXIMUM AGREEMENT AMOUNT $-33,455.50

 EXHIBITS. The following Exhibits are attached and are incorporated into this Agreement by reference:

 Exhibits (specify): No Exhibits.

 The terms and conditions of this Agreement are an integration and representation of the final, entire and exclusive understanding between the parties superseding and merging all previous agreements, writings, and communications, oral or otherwise regarding the subject matter of this Agreement, between the parties. The parties signing below represent they have read and understand this Agreement, and have the authority to execute this Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding on DSHS only upon signature by DSHS.

 CONTRACTOR SIGNATURE PRINTED NAME AND TITLE ________________________ DATE SIGNED

 DSHS SIGNATURE PRINTED NAME AND TITLE ________________________ Charley Barron, ESA Contract Legal Analyst

 ________________________ DATE SIGNED

 1. Definitions. The words and phrases listed below, as used in this Contract, shall each have the following definitions:

 a. "Central Contract Services" means the DSHS central headquarters contracting office, or successor section or office.

 b. "Confidential Information" means information that is exempt from disclosure to the public or other unauthorized persons under RCW 42.56 or other federal or state laws. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, Personal Information.

 c. "Contract" or "Agreement" means the entire written agreement between DSHS and the Contractor, including any Exhibits, documents, or materials incorporated by reference.

 d. "Contracts Administrator" means the manager, or successor, of Central Contract Services or successor section or office.

 e. "Contractor" means the individual or entity performing services pursuant to this Contract and includes the Contractor's owners, members, officers, directors, partners, employees, and/or agents, unless otherwise stated in this Contract. For purposes of any permitted Subcontract, "Contractor" includes any Subcontractor and its owners, members, officers, directors, partners, employees, and/or agents.

 f. "Debarment" means an action taken by a Federal agency or official to exclude a person or business entity from participating in transactions involving certain federal funds.

 g. "DSHS" or the "Department" means the state of Washington Department of Social and Health Services and its employees and authorized agents.

 h. "Encrypt" means to encipher or encode electronic data using software that generates a minimum key length of 128 bits.

 i. "Hardened Password" means a string of at least eight characters containing at least one alphabetic character, at least one number and at least one special character such as an asterisk, ampersand or exclamation point.

 j. "Personal Information" means information identifiable to any person, including, but not limited to, information that relates to a person's name, health, finances, education, business, use or receipt of governmental services or other activities, addresses, telephone numbers, Social Security Numbers, driver license numbers, other identifying numbers, and any financial identifiers.

 k. "Physically Secure" means that access is restricted through physical means to authorized individuals only.

 l. "Program Agreement" means an agreement between the Contractor and DSHS containing special terms and conditions, including a statement of work to be performed by the Contractor and payment to be made by DSHS.

 m. "RCW" means the Revised Code of Washington. All references in this Contract to RCW chapters or sections shall include any successor, amended, or replacement statute. Pertinent RCW chapters can be accessed at http://apps.leg.wa.gov/rcw/.

 n. "Regulation" means any federal, state, or local regulation, rule, or ordinance.

 o. "Secured Area" means an area to which only authorized representatives of the entity possessing the Confidential Information have access. Secured Areas may include buildings, rooms or locked storage containers (such as a filing cabinet) within a room, as long as access to the Confidential Information is not available to unauthorized personnel.

 p. "Subcontract" means any separate agreement or contract between the Contractor and an individual or entity ("Subcontractor") to perform all or a portion of the duties and obligations that the Contractor is obligated to perform pursuant to this Contract.

 q. "Tracking" means a record keeping system that identifies when the sender begins delivery of Confidential Information to the authorized and intended recipient, and when the sender receives confirmation of delivery from the authorized and intended recipient of Confidential Information.

 r. "Transport" means the movement of Confidential Information from one entity to another, or within an entity, that (1) places the Confidential Information outside of a Secured Area or system (such as a local area network) and (2) is accomplished other than via a Trusted System.

 s. "Trusted Systems" include only the following methods of physical delivery: (1) hand-delivery by a person authorized to have access to the Confidential Information with written acknowledgement of receipt, and (2) United States Postal Service ("USPS") delivery services that include Tracking, such as Certified Mail, Express Mail or Registered Mail. Any other method of physical delivery will not be deemed a Trusted System.

 t. "Unique User ID" means a string of characters that identifies a specific user and which, in conjunction with a password, passphrase or other mechanism, authenticates a user to an information system.

 u. "WAC" means the Washington Administrative Code. All references in this Contract to WAC chapters or sections shall include any successor, amended, or replacement regulation. Pertinent WAC chapters or sections can be accessed at http://apps.leg.wa.gov/wac/.

 2. Amendment. This Contract may only be modified by a written amendment signed by both parties. Only personnel authorized to bind each of the parties may sign an amendment.

 3. Assignment. The Contractor shall not assign this Contract or any Program Agreement to a third party without the prior written consent of DSHS.

 4. Billing Limitations.

 a. DSHS shall pay the Contractor only for authorized services provided in accordance with this Contract.

 b. DSHS shall not pay any claims for payment for services submitted more than twelve (12) months after the calendar month in which the services were performed.

 c. The Contractor shall not bill and DSHS shall not pay for services performed under this Contract, if the Contractor has charged or will charge another agency of the state of Washington or any other party for the same services.

 5. Compliance with Applicable Law. At all times during the term of this Contract, the Contractor shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to, nondiscrimination laws and regulations.

 6. Confidentiality.

 a. The Contractor shall not use, publish, transfer, sell or otherwise disclose any Confidential Information gained by reason of this Contract for any purpose that is not directly connected with Contractor's performance of the services contemplated hereunder, except:

 (1) as provided by law; or,

 (2) in the case of Personal Information, with the prior written consent of the person to whom the Personal Information pertains.

 b. The Contractor shall protect and maintain all Confidential Information gained by reason of this Contract against unauthorized use, access, disclosure, modification or loss. This duty requires the Contractor to employ reasonable security measures, which include restricting access to the Confidential Information by:

 (1) Encrypting electronic Confidential Information during Transport;

 (2) Physically Securing and Tracking media containing Confidential Information during Transport;

 (3) Limiting access to staff that have an authorized business requirement to view the Confidential Information

 (4) Using access lists, Unique User ID and Hardened Password authentication to protect Confidential Information placed on computer systems;

 (5) Physically Securing any computers, documents or other media containing the Confidential Information; and

 (6) Encrypting all Confidential Information that is stored on portable devices including but not limited to laptop computers and flash memory devices.

 c. Upon request by DSHS or at the end of the Contract term, the Contractor shall return the Confidential Information or certify in writing that the Contractor employed a DSHS approved method to destroy the information. Contractor may obtain information regarding approved destruction methods from the DSHS contact identified on the cover page of this Contract.

 In the event of a theft, loss, unauthorized disclosure, or other potential or known compromise of Confidential Information, the Contractor shall notify DSHS within one (1) business day of the discovery of the event. Contractor must also take actions to mitigate the risk of loss and comply with any notification or other requirements imposed by law.

 7. Debarment Certification. The Contractor, by signature to this Contract, certifies that the Contractor is not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded by any Federal department or agency from participating in transactions (Debarred). The Contractor also agrees to include the above requirement in any and all Subcontracts into which it enters. The Contractor shall immediately notify DSHS if, during the term of this Contract, Contractor becomes Debarred. DSHS may immediately terminate this Contract by providing Contractor written notice if Contractor becomes Debarred during the term hereof.

 8. Governing Law and Venue. This Contract shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state of Washington and the venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in Superior Court for Thurston County. In the event that an action is removed to U.S. District Court, venue shall be in the Western District of Washington.

 9. Independent Contractor. The parties intend that an independent contractor relationship will be created by this Contract. The Contractor and his or her employees or agents performing under this Contract are not employees or agents of the Department. The Contractor, his or her employees, or agents performing under this Contract will not hold himself/herself out as, nor claim to be, an officer or employee of the Department by reason hereof, nor will the Contractor, his or her employees, or agent make any claim of right, privilege or benefit that would accrue to such officer or employee.

 10. Inspection. The Contractor shall, at no cost, provide DSHS and the Office of the State Auditor with reasonable access to Contractor's place of business, Contractor's records, and DSHS client records, wherever located. These inspection rights are intended to allow DSHS and the Office of the State Auditor to monitor, audit, and evaluate the Contractor's performance and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and these Contract terms. These inspection rights shall survive for six (6) years following this Contract's termination or expiration.

 11. Maintenance of Records. The Contractor shall maintain records relating to this Contract and the performance of the services described herein. The records include, but are not limited to, accounting procedures and practices, which sufficiently and properly reflect all direct and indirect costs of any nature expended in the performance of this Contract. All records and other material relevant to this Contract shall be retained for six (6) years after expiration or termination of this Contract.

 Without agreeing that litigation or claims are legally authorized, if any litigation, claim, or audit is started before the expiration of the six (6) year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims, or audit findings involving the records have been resolved.

 12. Order of Precedence. In the event of any inconsistency or conflict between the General Terms and Conditions and the Special Terms and Conditions of this Contract or any Program Agreement, the inconsistency or conflict shall be resolved by giving precedence to these General Terms and Conditions. Terms or conditions that are more restrictive, specific, or particular than those contained in the General Terms and Conditions shall not be construed as being inconsistent or in conflict.

 13. Severability. If any term or condition of this Contract is held invalid by any court, the remainder of the Contract remains valid and in full force and effect.

 14. Survivability. The terms and conditions contained in this Contract or any Program Agreement which, by their sense and context, are intended to survive the expiration or termination of the particular agreement shall survive. Surviving terms include, but are not limited to: Billing Limitations; Confidentiality, Disputes; Indemnification and Hold Harmless, Inspection, Maintenance of Records, Notice of Overpayment, Ownership of Material, Termination for Default, Termination Procedure, and Treatment of Property.

 15. Termination Due to Change in Funding. If the funds DSHS relied upon to establish this Contract or Program Agreement are withdrawn, reduced or limited, or if additional or modified conditions are placed on such funding, DSHS may immediately terminate this Contract by providing written notice to the Contractor. The termination shall be effective on the date specified in the termination notice.

 16. Waiver. Waiver of any breach or default on any occasion shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any subsequent breach or default. Any waiver shall not be construed to be a modification of the terms and conditions of this Contract. Only the DSHS Chief Administrative Officer or designee has the authority to waive any term or condition of this Contract on behalf of DSHS.

 Additional General Terms and Conditions - Interlocal Agreements:

 17. Disputes. Disputes shall be determined by a Dispute Board. Each party to this Agreement shall appoint one member to the Dispute Board. The members so appointed shall jointly appoint an additional member to the Dispute Board. The Dispute Board shall review the facts, Agreement terms, and applicable statutes and rules and make a determination of the dispute. As an alternative to this process, either party may request intervention by the Governor, as provided by RCW 43.17.330, in which event the Governor's process shall control. Participation in either dispute process shall precede any judicial or quasi-judicial action and shall be the final administrative remedy available to the parties.

 18. Hold Harmless.

 a. The Contractor shall be responsible for and shall hold DSHS harmless from all claims, loss, liability, damages, or fines arising out of or relating to the Contractor's, or any Subcontractor's, performance or failure to perform this Agreement, or the acts or omissions of the Contractor or any Subcontractor. DSHS shall be responsible for and shall hold the Contractor harmless from all claims, loss, liability, damages, or fines arising out of or relating to DSHS' performance or failure to perform this Agreement.

 b. The Contractor waives its immunity under Title 51 RCW to the extent it is required to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the State and its agencies, officials, agents, or employees.

 19. Ownership of Material. Material created by the Contractor and paid for by DSHS as a part of this Contract shall be owned by DSHS and shall be "work made for hire" as defined by Title 17 USCA, Section 101. This material includes, but is not limited to: books; computer programs; documents; films; pamphlets; reports; sound reproductions; studies; surveys; tapes; and/or training materials. Material which the Contractor uses to perform the Contract but is not created for or paid for by DSHS is owned by the Contractor and is not "work made for hire"; however, DSHS shall have a perpetual license to use this material for DSHS internal purposes at no charge to DSHS, provided that such license shall be limited to the extent which the Contractor has a right to grant such a license.

 20. Subrecipients.

 a. General. If the Contractor is a subrecipient of federal awards as defined by Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133 and this Agreement, the Contractor shall:

 (1) Maintain records that identify, in its accounts, all federal awards received and expended and the federal programs under which they were received, by Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) title and number, award number and year, name of the federal agency, and name of the pass-through entity;

 (2) Maintain internal controls that provide reasonable assurance that the Contractor is managing federal awards in compliance with laws, regulations, and provisions of contracts or grant agreements that could have a material effect on each of its federal programs;

 (3) Prepare appropriate financial statements, including a schedule of expenditures of federal awards;

 (4) Incorporate OMB Circular A-133 audit requirements into all agreements between the Contractor and its Subcontractors who are subrecipients;

 (5) Comply with any future amendments to OMB Circular A-133 and any successor or replacement Circular or regulation;

 (6) Comply with the applicable requirements of OMB Circular A-87 and any future amendments to OMB Circular A-87, and any successor or replacement Circular or regulation; and

 (7) Comply with the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe streets Act of 1968, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and The Department of Justice Non-Discrimination Regulations, 28 C.F.R. Part 42, Subparts C.D.E. and G, and 28 C.F.R. Part 35 and 39. (Go to www.ojp.usdoj.gov/ocr/ for additional information and access to the aforementioned Federal laws and regulations.)

 b. Single Audit Act Compliance. If the Contractor is a subrecipient and expends $500,000 or more in federal awards from any and/or all sources in any fiscal year, the Contractor shall procure and pay for a single audit or a program-specific audit for that fiscal year. Upon completion of each audit, the Contractor shall:

 (1) Submit to the DSHS contact person the data collection form and reporting package specified in OMB Circular A-133, reports required by the program-specific audit guide (if applicable), and a copy of any management letters issued by the auditor;

 (2) Follow-up and develop corrective action for all audit findings; in accordance with OMB Circular A-133, prepare a "Summary Schedule of Prior Audit Findings."

 c. Overpayments. If it is determined by DSHS, or during the course of a required audit, that the Contractor has been paid unallowable costs under this or any Program Agreement, DSHS may require the Contractor to reimburse DSHS in accordance with OMB Circular A-87.

 21. Termination.

 a. Default. If for any cause, either party fails to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement in a timely and proper manner, or if either party violates any of the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, then the aggrieved party will give the other party written notice of such failure or violation. The responsible party will be given 15 working days to correct the violation or failure. If the failure or violation is not corrected, this Agreement may be terminated immediately by written notice from the aggrieved party to the other party.

 b. Convenience. Either party may terminate this Interlocal Agreement for any other reason by providing 30 calendar days' written notice to the other party.

 c. Payment for Performance. If this Interlocal Agreement is terminated for any reason, DSHS shall only pay for performance rendered or costs incurred in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and prior to the effective date of termination.

 22. Treatment of Client Property. Unless otherwise provided, the Contractor shall ensure that any adult client receiving services from the Contractor has unrestricted access to the client's personal property. The Contractor shall not interfere with any adult client's ownership, possession, or use of the client's property. The Contractor shall provide clients under age eighteen (18) with reasonable access to their personal property that is appropriate to the client's age, development, and needs. Upon termination of the Contract, the Contractor shall immediately release to the client and/or the client's guardian or custodian all of the client's personal property.

 1. Definitions Specific to Special Terms

 The words and phrases listed below, as used in this Contract, shall each have the following definitions:

 a. "Financial Services Specialist" or "FSS" means a Washington State Department of Personnel job classification used within DSHS. Typical duties of FSS staff include the determination of eligibility for specific state and federal programs targeted to provide basic needs, including medical services of low-income individuals.

 b. "Regulation" means any federal, state or local regulation, rule or ordinance.

 2. Hold Harmless

 In addition the "Hold Harmless" clause in section 18 of the General Terms and Conditions above, DSHS shall be responsible for and shall hold the Contractor harmless from all claims, loss, liability, damages, or fines arising out of or relating to the acts or omissions of DSHS.

 3. Purpose

 The purpose of this Contract is to provide application services for various DSHS benefits on-premises at the Seattle Municipal Court for low income individuals and families served by the Seattle Municipal Court system. Seattle Municipal Court will reimburse to DSHS an amount equivalent to the salary and benefit costs for a one-half time FSS placement at the Court facility.

 4. Statement of Work

 DSHS shall provide the services and staff, and otherwise do all things necessary for or incidental to the performance of work, as set forth below:

 a. DSHS Obligations

 (1) Under the direction of the Belltown Community Services Office Administrator, assign one (1) half-time FSS to work on-site at the Seattle Municipal Court facility.

 (2) Assist individuals and families through the DSHS application process on-site at the Seattle Municipal Court with the goal that all eligible applicants receive appropriate DSHS benefits as quickly as possible.

 (3) Provide appropriate supervision, training and other supports to the FSS to assure his/her ability to work effectively in an out- stationed work environment.

 (4) Provide and maintain on-site access to DSHS secured computerized systems needed to determine eligibility and enrollment into DSHS benefits for the exclusive use of the FSS working on-site at the Seattle Municipal Court.

 (5) Upon request, DSHS shall provide Seattle Municipal Court with general client information regarding the number of clients served, demographics, and number and type of services for which clients were deemed eligible.

 b. Seattle Municipal Court Obligations

 (1) Provide and maintain a personal computer, printer, internet access and telephone with voice mail, office furnishings and other general office amenities for use by the FSS while at Seattle Municipal Court. General office amenities include, but are not limited to, use of copying facilities, copy paper, postal and fax services.

 (2) Provide a locking file cabinet for security of confidential DSHS customer records stored temporarily on site.

 (3) Provide interview space for DSHS staff when meeting with applicants, their family members or staff from other organizations regarding any work within the scope of this agreement.

 (4) Assist in the identification and referral of appropriate applicants among Seattle Municipal Court customers. Facility the referral of applicants to on-site DSHS staff for consideration of services as described in this contract.

 c. General Obligations

 (1) Time away from the DSHS on-site staff schedule will be allowed for staff meeting, training, travel, vacation and sick leave. During such absences, DSHS can not guarantee alternative staff will be assigned to this project.

 (2) The work schedule for the assigned staff will be for 4 contiguous hours (plus lunch time and regular breaks as required by DSHS personnel policy) Monday through Friday. The DSHS staff will not be assigned or available to work during holidays awarded similar state employees.

 (3) If the position is vacant, DSHS will not bill Seattle Municipal Court for the cost of the position for the duration of the vacancy.

 (4) For the administrative funds the Seattle Municipal Court provides to DSHS under this Agreement, DSHS is an independent entity, and neither it nor its officers, agents, employees, or subcontractors are employees of the Seattle Municipal Court for any purpose. DSHS shall be responsible for all federal and/or state tax, industrial insurance, and Social Security liability that may result from the performance of and compensation for administrative costs and shall make no claim of career service or civil service rights which may accrue to a Seattle Municipal Court employee under state or local law.

 5. Consideration

 Total consideration payable to Contractor for satisfactory performance of the work under this Contract is up to a maximum of $33,455.50, including any and all expenses, and shall be based on payments of $2,573.50 monthly to DSHS by the Seattle Municipal Court. For the month of December, 2007 the cost of these contracted services are $1,286.75.

 6. Billing and Payment

 a. Invoice System. DSHS shall submit invoices to the Seattle Municipal Court. Consideration for services rendered shall be payable upon receipt of properly completed invoices which shall be submitted to Seattle Municipal Court by DSHS not more often than monthly. The invoices shall describe and document a description of the work performed, activities accomplished, the progress of the project, and fees. The rates shall be in accordance with those set forth in Section 4, Consideration, of this Contract.

 b. Payment. Payment shall be considered timely if made by the Seattle Municipal Court within thirty (30) days after receipt and acceptance by Seattle Municipal Court of the properly completed invoices. Payment shall be sent to the address designated on page one (1) of this Contract.

 7. Insurance

 a. DSHS certifies that it is self-insured under the State's self- insurance liability program, as provided by RCW 4.92.130, and shall pay for losses for which it is found liable.

 b. The Contractor certifies, by checking the appropriate box below, initialing to the left of the box selected, and signing this Agreement, that:

 The Contractor is self-insured or insured through a risk pool and shall pay for losses for which it is found liable; or

 The Contractor maintains the types and amounts of insurance identified below and shall, prior to the execution of this Agreement by DSHS, provide certificates of insurance to that effect to the DSHS contact on page one of this Agreement.

 Commercial General Liability Insurance (CGL) - to include coverage for bodily injury, property damage, and contractual liability, with the following minimum limits: Each Occurrence - $1,000,000; General Aggregate - $2,000,000. The policy shall include liability arising out of premises, operations, independent contractors, products- completed operations, personal injury, advertising injury, and liability assumed under an insured contract. The State of Washington, DSHS, its elected and appointed officials, agents, and employees shall be named as additional insureds.

 Custom Interlocal Agreement (9-11-07)

```
