

********

**Council Bill Number: 116189**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122682**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to drainage services of Seattle Public Utilities; establishing a stormwater facility credit to reduce drainage service charges for parcels with approved stormwater management facilities; updating definitions, revising the performance requirements for rainwater harvesting systems qualifying for drainage service charge reductions, revising the basis for bill adjustment requests and revising the right of entry for inspection in connection with the credit program; and amending Chapter 21.33 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** April 28, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 8, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 5, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 14, 2008
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-RATES, DRAINAGE, FLOOD-CONTROL-AND-DRAINAGE , FLOOD-CONTROL, SURFACE-WATER, STORM-SEWERS, RETENTION-DETENTION

**Fiscal Note:**116189

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122682](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122682.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to drainage services of Seattle Public Utilities; establishing a stormwater facility credit to reduce drainage service charges for parcels with approved stormwater management facilities; updating definitions, revising the performance requirements for rainwater harvesting systems qualifying for drainage service charge reductions, revising the basis for bill adjustment requests and revising the right of entry for inspection in connection with the credit program; and amending Chapter 21.33 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 WHEREAS, Resolution 30886, adopted by the City Council and approved by the Mayor in March 2007, directed Seattle Public Utilities ("SPU") to implement a drainage rate credit program to be effective beginning in 2009, and to establish a process for customers to submit applications for the rate credits beginning in 2008; and

 WHEREAS, SPU has determined that installation of approved stormwater management facilities on parcels throughout the city can help relieve some of the burden on the City's stormwater system by reducing or controlling flow or improving the water quality of stormwater entering into the City's stormwater system; and

 WHEREAS, SPU recommends recognizing the contribution that approved stormwater management facilities have on the City's stormwater system by establishing stormwater facility credits, that will reduce the drainage service charge on parcels that have installed such facilities; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 21.33.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.33.010

 Definitions.

 For purposes of this chapter, the words or phrases below shall have the following meanings:

A. "Approved stormwater management facility" means a drainage control facility or improvement installed and properly maintained on any parcel in the City subject to a drainage service charge that reduces or controls flow or improves water quality, or both, of stormwater flowing from all or part of the impervious surfaces on the parcel to the City's stormwater system, and which meets the technical design requirements for the drainage discharge point applicable to the parcel as more particularly described in the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Code (Seattle Municipal Code 22.802) and SPU Director's Rules 03-00 and 04-00, as may be amended from time to time.

~~K.~~B. "Billable area" means the total parcel area less any portion of the parcel which is exempt from drainage service charges pursuant to Subsection 21.33.030A of the Seattle Municipal Code.

~~A.~~C. "Billing year" means the calendar year that bills are sent. The first billing year shall be from January 1, 1989 through December 31, 1989.

~~B.~~D. "City" means The City of Seattle.

~~C.~~E. "Condominiums" or "townhouses" means properties which contain more than two (2) residential dwelling units which are individually owned and are billed separately for property taxes.

F. "Drainage discharge point" means the end or receiving point of the City's stormwater system that a parcel's stormwater flows to, which may include a combined or sanitary sewer treatment facility, a large body of surface water, or a major creek basin, which dictates the type of stormwater performance goals and management facilities that may be required or accepted to manage the flow or quality, or both, of stormwater from that parcel.

~~D.~~G. "Drainage service charge" means the fee for surface and stormwater management services imposed by the City upon all parcels of real property, except exempted properties, located within the boundaries of the City. The drainage service charge shall be calculated in accordance with Section 33.030 of this Chapter.

~~E.~~H. "Drainage rate" means the dollar charge assigned to each rate category which shall be used in the calculation of the drainage service charge.

 I. "General service properties or parcels" means properties or parcels with no existing single family or duplex dwelling unit, including vacant properties, condominium complexes, townhouses, apartment buildings, and institutional, commercial or industrial properties.

~~H.~~J. "Highly infiltrative pervious surface" means vegetated surface of specific types such as forests or non-forested land that is in the natural progression back to a forested state.

~~F.~~K. "Houseboats and piers" means property or parcels that rest on or over natural bodies of water.

~~G.~~L. "Impervious surface" or "impervious ground cover" means those hard areas which prevent or retard the entry of water into the soil in the manner that such water entered the soil under natural conditions pre-existent to development, or which cause water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow than that present under natural conditions pre-existent to development, including, but not limited to, such surfaces as rooftops, asphalt or concrete paving, driveways, parking lots, walkways, patio areas, storage areas, hardpan, compacted surfaces, or other surfaces which similarly affect the natural infiltration or runoff patterns existing prior to development.

~~Q.~~M."Large residential property or parcel" means any single family residential property whose ~~total~~billable area is 10,000 square feet or greater.

~~J.~~N."Parcel" means the smallest separately segregated unit or plot of land having an identified owner(s), boundaries, and area as defined by the King County Assessor and recorded in the King County Assessor Real Property File or in the King County Assessor maps.

~~L.~~O. "Percent of impervious surface" means the quotient of the total amount of estimated impervious surface located on the parcel divided by the parcel's total billable area. For purposes of rate category determination, the resulting amount shall be rounded to the nearest whole percent.

~~M.~~P. "Property owner of record" shall be the person or persons recorded by the King County Assessor to be the owner(s) of property and to whom property tax statements are directed.

~~N.~~Q. "Rate category" means the classification of properties into groups based on their common characteristics (such as percentage of impervious surface), for purposes of establishing drainage service charges.

~~O.~~R."Residence" means a building or structure or portion thereof, designed to be used as a place of abode for human beings and not used for any other purpose. The term "residence" includes the term "residential," "residential unit," and "dwelling unit" as referring to the type of or intended use of a building or structure.

~~P.~~S. "Single-family residential property or parcel" means any property or parcel which contains one (1) or two (2) residential dwelling units, excluding townhouses which are considered general service properties or parcels.

~~R.~~T. "Small residential property or parcel" means any single family residential property whose ~~total~~billable area is less than 10,000 square feet.

U. "Stormwater facility credit" means a percentage credit, up to the allowable maximum, in accordance with Section 33.040 of this Chapter, which reduces the drainage service charge for a particular parcel because one or more approved stormwater management facilities are installed and maintained on the parcel that relieve some of the burden on the City's stormwater system.  V. "Stormwater performance goals" mean the standards for 1) water quality as shown by total suspended solids; 2) total volume; 3) two- year peak volume and duration; and 4) twenty-five-year peak volume as appropriate for the drainage discharge point as more particularly described in the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Code (Seattle Municipal Code 22.802).

~~T.~~W. "Stormwater ~~S~~system" means the entire system of flood protection and stormwater drainage and surface water runoff facilities owned or leased by the City or over which the City has right of use for the movement and control of storm drainage and surface water runoff, including both naturally occurring and man- made facilities.

~~S.~~X. "Submerged" means that portion of a parcel that extends beyond the shoreline, as delineated by the City's Geographic Information System (GIS).

~~U.~~Y. "Utility" means Seattle Public Utilities.

 Section 2. Subsection D of 21.33.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.33.030

 Drainage service charges and drainage rates - Schedule - Exemptions

 * * * * *

 4. SPU shall provide a 10% reduction in the drainage service charge~~rates~~ for parcels~~properties~~ containing new or remodeled commercial buildings that, after July 27, 2003, install and utilize rainwater harvesting systems that meet the performance requirement that the systems are sized to use ~~or infiltrate~~ the amount of rain that falls on the roofs of such buildings during a one year, 24-hour storm event. A system that involves indoor uses of rainwater must be permitted by Seattle-King County Department of Health to qualify for the rate reduction. A system that relies solely on the capture and indoor use of rainwater shall qualify for the drainage service charge~~rate~~ reduction only if the system is sized to meet the performance requirement stated above. Qualifying for the drainage service charge~~rate~~ reduction does not relieve the property owner from the obligation to comply with applicable stormwater and drainage code requirements for the buildings and site.

 * * * * *

 Section 3. A new Section is added to Chapter 21.33 of the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 SMC 21.33.040

Stormwater Facility Credit Program.  A. The Utility may apply a stormwater facility credit to be effective beginning January 1 of the 2009 billing year, in accordance with this section, to reduce the annual drainage service charge for a particular parcel within the City if one or more approved stormwater management facilities are installed on the parcel.

 B. Property owners must complete a stormwater facility credit application and submit it to the Utility by November 1st of any calendar year for credit against the subsequent year's drainage service charge. The stormwater facility credit will not be applied until the Utility has approved the application in writing.

 C. Prior to approving a stormwater facility credit, and annually thereafter, the Utility shall have the right to inspect the approved stormwater management facility(ies) and parcel to confirm application information and continued eligibility for the credit. Inspection may include confirmation of parcel characteristics, such as impervious surface area, and determination that the facility meets the technical design requirements and is maintained in a clean and properly functioning manner.

D. The Utility will calculate a stormwater facility credit for each eligible parcel that has applied for such credit based on the following:  1. the type and size of the approved stormwater management facility(ies) installed on the parcel. The Utility will assign a uniform rate credit to each type of approved stormwater management facility based on a weighting of the stormwater performance goals the facility satisfies and that are applicable to the appropriate drainage discharge point for the parcel,

 2. the percentage of impervious surface on the parcel that is managed by the approved stormwater management facility(ies), and

 3. the percentage of the parcel's drainage service charge which is based on runoff from impervious surfaces, as determined using flow calculation data for the applicable drainage service charge rate category.

E. To assign the uniform rate credit by facility type under Section 21.33.040.D.1 and calculate the stormwater facility credit only, the Utility will use the stormwater performance goals under the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Code adopted by Ordinance No. 119965, effective July 5, 2000, for any approved stormwater management facility installed prior to July 5, 2000. The Utility will use the stormwater performance goals under the Stormwater, Grading and Drainage Code in effect at the time the approved stormwater management facility is installed for any such facility installed after July 5, 2000.  F. The allowable maximum credit to the drainage service charge per parcel, including the stormwater facility credit and the reduction for rainwater harvesting systems under Section 21.33.030.D.4, may not exceed 50 percent of the drainage service charge for the parcel. The stormwater facility credit and reduction for rainwater harvesting systems may not reduce the drainage service charge per parcel below the minimum drainage service charge under Section 21.33.030.E.

 G. The Utility may terminate the stormwater facility credit for any parcel, upon written notice, for the following reasons:

 1. The property owner does not maintain the approved stormwater management facility in a clean and properly functioning manner and does not take corrective action within the time specified by a Utility inspector;

 2. the parcel changes ownership;

 3. the parcel is re-developed or the parcel boundaries change.

 Section 4. Subsection B of 21.33.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.33.050

 Drainage service charges -- Adjustments.

 * * * * *

 B. A request for a bill adjustment may be based on one (1) or more of the following:

 1. The billable area of the parcel is incorrect;

 2. The percent of impervious surface on a large residential or general service parcel places the parcel in a different rate category than the category assigned by the Utility;

 3. The parcel is a large residential or general service parcel which contains highly infiltrative pervious surface and meets all Utility requirements for low-impact rate category designation but has not been properly assigned to such a category by the Utility;

 4. The parcel meets the definition of exempted property;

 5. The parcel is wholly or partially outside City of Seattle limits; or

6. The parcel's stormwater facility credit was calculated with inaccurate data related to the parcel or to the approved stormwater management facility.

~~6~~.7. The drainage service charge is otherwise erroneous in applying the terms of this chapter.

 Section 5. Subsection B of 21.33.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.33.070

 Billing and collection procedures.

 * * * * *

 B. The drainage service charge shall be displayed and billed on the annual King County property tax statement for the parcel and shall be mailed to the name and address shown on the real property tax roll at the time annual property bills are prepared. Properties not subject to property taxes and not otherwise exempted will receive a separate drainage service charge billing statement. The drainage service charge billed on the annual King County property tax statement, or separate drainage service charge billing statement, shall be net of any stormwater facility credit, that has been approved by December 1st of the calendar year prior to the applicable billing year. Stormwater facility credit applications that are received timely in accordance with Section 21.33.040.B, but not approved until after December 1, will receive credit within the applicable billing year.

 * * * * *

 Section 6. Section 21.33.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.33.090

 Revenue disposition and expenditure conditions.

 All moneys obtained pursuant to this chapter shall be credited and deposited in the Drainage and Wastewater Fund. Moneys deposited in the Drainage and Wastewater Fund from drainage service charges shall be expended for administering, operating, maintaining, or improving the

~~drainage and wastewater~~stormwater system, including all or any part of the cost of planning, designing, acquiring, constructing, repairing, replacing, improving, regulating, educating the public, or operating present or future ~~drainage and wastewater~~stormwater management facilities owned by the Utility, or to pay or secure the payment of all or any portion of any debt issued for such purpose and the related reserve and coverage requirements. Moneys shall not be transferred to any other funds of the City except to pay for expenses attributable to the stormwater system.

 Section 7. Subsection A of 21.33.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 21.33.120

 Right of entry for inspection.

 A. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his or her duly authorized representatives, bearing proper credentials and identification, may with the consent of the owner or pursuant to lawfully issued warrant enter at all reasonable times upon any and all premises which generate surface or stormwater run-off for the purpose of ascertaining the area and type of such surfaces as required to determine the appropriate assignment of such property to a drainage rate category, calculation of a stormwater facility credit or verification of the installation and proper maintenance of an approved stormwater management facility.

 Section 8. The Utility shall evaluate the effect of the stormwater facility credit program on revenue requirements and on cost allocations across customer classes during the first five years of its operation and may propose changes to the program beginning with the 2014 billing cycle, including revision of the allowable maximum credit or termination of the program.

 Section 9. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, such offending provision or provisions, if feasible, shall be deemed to be modified to be within the limits of enforceability or validity. However, if the offending provision cannot be so modified, it shall be null and void with respect to the particular person or circumstance, and the offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, as well as all other provisions of this ordinance in all other respects, shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 10. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 4/21/2008 Version #6b t

```
