

********

**Council Bill Number: 116194**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122687**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing the execution of three agreements to provide for the transmission of power from the Summer Falls and Main Canal Hydroelectric Projects to the City of Seattle.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 12, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 20, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 20, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 21, 2008
   
**Committee:** Energy and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, CONTRACTS, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, ELECTRICITY, HYDROELECTRIC-FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**116194

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122687](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122687.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing the execution of three agreements to provide for the transmission of power from the Summer Falls and Main Canal Hydroelectric Projects to the City of Seattle.

 WHEREAS, the City Light Department ("City Light") and Tacoma Power ("Tacoma") (collectively the "Cities") purchase the output of the Summer Falls and Main Canal Hydroelectric Projects located in Grant County, Washington, both of which are managed by the Grand Coulee Project Hydroelectric Authority ("GCPHA"); and

 WHEREAS, the Cities previously purchased transmission from the Avista Corporation ("Avista") in order to transmit the energy from the Summer Falls and Main Canal Hydroelectric Projects to the Cities; and

 WHEREAS, the Cities allowed the Avista transmission agreement to expire because the Cities believed a more cost-effective transmission arrangement could be obtained; and

 WHEREAS, City Light and Tacoma considered the alternative of directly interconnecting with the Bonneville Power Administration ("BPA") and engaged in litigation at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") with the GCPHA; and

 WHEREAS, as a result of the BPA direct interconnection plan and a bill was introduced to the Seattle City Council to lift a budget proviso relating to the BPA interconnection, resulting in Ordinance 122449; and

 WHEREAS, the Cities and GCPHA desire to provide for the cost- effective transmission of the project output for the remaining term of the Power Purchase and Sale Contract between the Cities and GCPHA and to resolve the current litigation at FERC; and

 WHEREAS, a long-term means of achieving the parties' mutual interests has been developed through an exchange agreement with the Public Utility District No. 2 of Grant County ("Grant PUD"), a limited transmission agreement with Avista, and a use-of-facilities agreement with Avista; and

 WHEREAS, the three agreements identified above are a cost-effective means of providing necessary transmission for the output of the Summer Falls and Main Canal Hydroelectric Projects, resolving the on- going litigation, and mitigating the construction and material cost risks associated with the BPA direct interconnection; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the City Light, or his designee, is hereby authorized to execute for and on behalf of the City of Seattle the following three agreements:

 (a) a power exchange agreement with Grant PUD, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment A,

 (b) a long-term firm point-to-point transmission service agreement with Avista, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment B, and

 (c) a long-term firm use-of-facilities agreement with Avista, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment C.

 These agreements collectively provide for transmission services for the remaining term of the underlying power purchase agreements between the Cities and GCPHA. Accordingly, the Superintendent of the City Light, or his designee, is also authorized to execute any future amendments or agreements that are necessary to comply with any regulatory changes.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance that is taken after its passage but prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ___________________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: Grant County Power Exchange Agreement Exhibit to Attachment A: Exhibit 1: Example Calculations Referenced in Section 4

 Attachment B: Avista Long-Term Point-to-Point Transmission Service Agreement Exhibits to Attachment B: Exhibit 1: Specifications & Charges for Long-Term Point-to-Point Transmission Service Exhibit 2: Specifications & Charges for Ancillary Services

 Attachment C: Avista Long-Term Firm Use-of-Facilities Agreement Exhibits to Attachment C: Exhibit 1: Specifications and Charges for Long-Term Firm Use-of-Facilities

 Exhibit 2: Specifications and Charges for Ancillary Services

 05/07/2008 Version # 3 t

 Attachment A

 POWER EXCHANGE AGREEMENT

 Between

 PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 2 OF GRANT COUNTY, WASHINGTON,

 And

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, by and through its LIGHT DEPARTMENT dba SEATTLE CITY LIGHT

 This Power Exchange Agreement ("Exchange Agreement"), executed as of Januray __, 2008, is made by and between Public Utility District No. 2 of Grant County, Washington ("Grant PUD") and the City of Seattle, Washington, by and through its Light Department, dba Seattle City Light ("Seattle"). Grant PUD and Seattle are sometimes referenced in this Agreement individually as "Party" and collectively as "Parties."

 RECITALS

 A. Grant PUD and Seattle each own and operate facilities for the production, transmission and distribution of electricity.

 B. The transmission systems of Grant PUD and Seattle are connected indirectly through the intervening systems of Bonneville Power Administration ("BPA") and Avista Corporation ("Avista").

 C. Seattle has Power Purchase and Sale Contracts with the South, East and Quincy Columbia Basin Irrigation Districts (collectively, the "Irrigation Districts").

 D. The Main Canal Output could be utilized by Grant PUD for purposes of serving its Grant County electrical loads at Coulee City and Wilson Creek in the vicinity of the Main Canal project. Power from Summer Falls and Main Canal can be used to meet loads in Grant County that are connected via a 115 kV transmission line to the Stratford Switchyard.

 E. Seattle desires to deliver and Grant PUD is willing to accept delivery of Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output in exchange for corresponding amounts of Grant PUD System Power in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 F. Grant PUD intends to execute a materially identical exchange agreement with the City of Tacoma, Department of Public Utilities, Light Division, dba "Tacoma Power."

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth below, Grant PUD and Seattle agree as follows:

 1. DEFINITIONS

 As used in this Exchange Agreement, terms with initial capitalization, whether singular or plural, shall have the meanings set forth in this Section 1. Certain other terms are defined where they appear elsewhere in this Exchange Agreement.

 "Agreement Limiting Liability Among Western Interconnected Systems" means that certain agreement among Seattle, Grant PUD, Avista, BPA, Tacoma and other signatories, originally dated as of August 1973, as amended from time to time.

 "Avista Losses" means losses assessed to Seattle by Avista related to use of Avista's transmission line between the Main Canal hydroelectric project and Avista's Stratford Switching Station.

 "Balancing Authority" sometimes called a "balancing authority area," means an electrical system bounded by interconnection metering and telemetry, in which the system operator controls generation to balance its interchange schedules with other Balancing Authority Areas and contributes to frequency regulation in accordance with NERC and WECC standards and requirements.

 "Effective Date" has the meaning specified in Section 2.1.

 "Execution Date" means the date shown above in the opening paragraph of this Exchange Agreement.

 "Grant Exchange Point" means the Mid-Columbia ("MidC") point of delivery, or other point of delivery designated by mutual agreement of the Parties, at which Grant PUD makes Grant Exchange Power available to Seattle. The delivery point MidC is used in regional scheduling practice for deliveries from Grant PUD. The Priest Rapids Dam and Switchyard, the Wanapum Dam and Switchyard, and the Columbia Substation are facilities included in the MidC delivery point.

 "Grant Exchange Power" means Grant System Power, made available by Grant PUD to Seattle at the Grant Exchange Point, at times and in amounts as set forth in Section 4.1 of this Exchange Agreement.

 "Grant System Power" means electrical power which Grant has available from its various resources, subject to interruption or curtailment due to Uncontrollable Force.

 "Grant's Coulee City/Wilson Creek Load" means the total hourly load scheduled by Grant PUD to its customers in its Coulee City and Wilson Creek substations.

 "Main Canal Headworks" means the location where the Main Canal Headworks Hydroelectric Project interconnects to the Avista 115 kV transmission line.

 "Main Canal Output" means Seattle's contractual share of the metered energy generated at the Main Canal hydroelectric project, FERC Project No. 2849, which Seattle is entitled to receive from the Irrigation Districts pursuant to the Power Purchase and Sale Contract between Seattle and the Irrigation Districts, which contract is administered for the Irrigation Districts by the Grand Coulee Project Hydroelectric Authority ("GCPHA").

 "Main Canal Output Expiration Date" means January 1, 2027, the expiration date of the Power Purchase and Sale Contract between Seattle and the Irrigation Districts regarding Main Canal Output.

 "NERC" means the North American Electric Reliability Corporation or its successor organization.

 "Power" means electrical capacity and energy.

 "Power Purchase and Sale Contract" means, depending on the context, either the agreement between Seattle and the Irrigation Districts regarding Main Canal Output or the agreement regarding Summer Falls Output.

 "Prudent Utility Practice" means any of the procedures, methods, and acts engaged in or approved by a significant portion of the electric utility industry, which, in the exercise of reasonable judgment in light of facts known at the time, could be expected to accomplish the desired result at the lowest reasonable cost consistent with good business practices, reliability, safety, and reasonable expectations. Prudent Utility Practice is not required to be the optimum practice, method, or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather to be a spectrum of practices, methods, or acts which could reasonably be expected to accomplish the desired result at the lowest reasonable costs consistent with reliability and safety. Prudent Utility Practice includes due regard for manufacturers' warranties and the requirements of governmental agencies of competent jurisdiction.

 "Pseudo-Tie" means a telemetered reading or value that is updated in real time and used as a "virtual" tie line flow in the AGC/ACE equation but for which no physical tie or energy metering actually exists. The integrated value is used as a metered MWh value for interchange accounting purposes.

 "Summer Falls Output" means Seattle's contractual share of the metered energy generated at the Summer Falls hydroelectric project, FERC Project No. 3295, which Seattle is entitled to receive from the Irrigation Districts pursuant to the Power Purchase and Sale Contract between Seattle and the Irrigation Districts, which contract is administered for the Irrigation Districts by GCPHA.

 "Summer Falls Output Expiration Date" means January 1, 2025, the expiration date of the Power Purchase and Sale Contract between Seattle and the Irrigation Districts regarding Summer Falls Output.

 "Summer Falls-Stratford Line" means the 115 kV transmission line, that is owned by the Irrigation Districts and operated by GCPHA, between the Summer Falls hydroelectric project and Avista's Stratford Switching Station.

 "Uncontrollable Force" means any cause or causes that by the exercise of due diligence the Party unable to perform could not reasonably have been expected to avoid and that by the exercise of due diligence that Party has been unable to overcome, including, but not limited to, the following: emergency or electrical disturbance on or transmitted through a Party's electric system or any electric system with which a Party is directly or indirectly interconnected; failure or threat of failure of equipment or facilities; flood, earthquake, volcanic activity, wind, storm, drought, fire, pestilence, lightning and other natural catastrophes; epidemic, war, riot, civil disturbance or disobedience; sabotage, vandalism, strike, lockout, labor disturbance or labor or material shortage; restraint by court order or by any governmental authority other than a Party.

 "WECC" means the Western Electricity Coordinating Council or successor organization.

 2. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM

 2.1 Effective Date. This Exchange Agreement shall become effective ("Effective Date") on the later of: i.) the Execution Date; ii.) the date on which it shall have been approved by the governing board, council or commission of each of the Parties; iii.) the effective date of Seattle's agreement(s) with Avista executed contemporaneously with this Exchange Agreement, or iv.) the effective date of Grant's amended transmission agreement with Avista executed contemporaneously with this Exchange Agreement.

 2.2 Term. The Term of this Exchange Agreement shall commence at 0000 hours on the Effective Date and terminate at 2400 hours on the Main Canal Output Expiration Date for the Main Canal Output and on the Summer Falls Output Expiration Date for the Summer Falls Output.

 2.3 Survival. All payment and indemnification obligations incurred and continuing under this Exchange Agreement shall survive the Term until satisfied in full.

 2.4 Extension. If the power purchase and sale agreements between Seattle and the Irrigation Districts regarding Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output are renewed or extended, then Seattle shall have the right to extend this Exchange Agreement on the same terms and conditions as contained herein for a term coincidental with such renewal or extension period agreed to between Seattle and the Irrigation Districts; provided however that the compensation to be

 paid to Grant shall be determined by, and subject to, mutual agreement of the Parties.

 3. DELIVERY AND RECEIPT OF SEATTLE'S POWER

 3.1 Main Canal Output. Seattle shall make available and cause to be delivered all of the Main Canal Output to Grant PUD in accordance with the following provisions. Seattle shall cause to be delivered to Grant PUD at the Main Canal Headworks such portion of Main Canal Output as Grant PUD determines, from time to time, is required to serve up to 50% of Grant's Coulee City/Wilson Creek Load. Seattle shall cause to be delivered the remaining balance of the Main Canal Output to Grant PUD at the Stratford Switching Station, net of any Avista Losses.

 3.2 Summer Falls Output. Seattle shall make available and cause to be delivered all of the Summer Falls Output to Grant PUD at the Stratford Switching Station, net of the losses, currently 0.68%, incurred over the Summer Falls-Stratford Line as a meter location correction factor. If Grant PUD constructs and energizes a bypass transmission line ("Bypass") that directly connects the Grant PUD system to the primary line of the Summer Falls hydroelectric project pursuant to a separate agreement among Grant PUD, Seattle and GCPHA, the point of delivery shall then become the point where the transmission system of Grant PUD connects with the Summer Falls- Stratford line.

 3.3 Contingency Reserve Requirements. Seattle is responsible for all contingency reserve requirements associated with Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output, as a Balancing Authority under applicable NERC standards.

 3.4 Seattle's Delivery of Power to Grant PUD

 3.4.1 Delivery and Tagging. Seattle shall dynamically schedule and deliver to Grant PUD all Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output as determined in accordance with Sections 3.1 through 3.3. This exchange will be represented as a Pseudo-Tie with a Point-of-Receipt ("POR") in Seattle's Balancing Authority Area and a Point-of-Delivery ("POD") in Grant PUD's Balancing Authority Area. Each party is independently responsible for all tagging requirements associated with the Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output. Summer Falls and Main Canal will remain in Seattle's Balancing Authority Area.

 3.4.2 Transmission of Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output. Seattle intends to contemporaneously execute and maintain such transmission agreements as are necessary to permit the transmission of Main Canal Output and Summer Output as provided in this Section 3.

 3.5 Grant PUD's Receipt of Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output. Grant PUD shall accept delivery of all Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output delivered to Grant PUD in accordance with Section 3. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to give Grant PUD any right or interest in either Power Purchase and Sale Contract between Seattle and the Irrigation Districts.

 4. DELIVERY AND RECEIPT OF GRANT EXCHANGE POWER

 4.1 Determination of and Delivery of Grant Exchange Power to Seattle. During each hour in which Seattle delivers Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output to Grant PUD pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement, Grant PUD will deliver Grant Exchange Power to Seattle at the Grant Exchange Point in accordance with the following provisions. The amount of Grant Exchange Power for each such corresponding hour will be determined in accordance with the following formula:

 A = Summer Falls Output multiplied by .9932 (.9932 = 1.0 minus Losses on the Summer Falls-Stratford Line)

 B = Main Canal Output minus Avista Losses

 C = The greater of 1) zero or 2) B minus one half of the amount of Grant's Coulee City/Wilson Creek Load

 D = (A plus C) multiplied by .984 (.984 = 1.0 minus Losses on the Stratford-Larson Line)

 E = The lesser of 1) 50% of Grant loads at Wilson Creek and Coulee City or 2) B

 Grant Exchange Power = D + E

 The foregoing calculation incorporates the following loss factors which shall only be subject to change in the future by mutual agreement as a result of any system changes:

 Losses on the Summer Falls-Stratford Line .68%

 Losses on the Stratford-Larson Line 1.60%

 Examples of the application of this formula are listed in Exhibit 1.

 4.2 Contingency Reserve Requirements. Grant PUD is responsible for all the contingency reserve requirements associated with the necessary generation used to deliver Grant Exchange Power to Seattle, as a Balancing Authority under applicable NERC standards.

 4.3 Grant PUD's Delivery of Grant Exchange Power to Seattle. Grant PUD shall dynamically deliver all Grant Exchange Power to the Grant Exchange Point at MidC, as determined in accordance with Section 4.1. This exchange will be represented as a Pseudo-Tie with a POR in Grant PUD's Balancing Authority Area and a POD in Seattle's Balancing Authority Area.

 4.4 Seattle's Receipt of Grant Exchange Power.

 4.4.1 BPA Transmission Requirements. Seattle shall be responsible for taking all actions necessary under its BPA Point-to-Point Transmission Service Agreement(s) and applicable provisions of BPA's Open Access Transmission Tariff as may be necessary to allow it to receive Grant Exchange Power at the Grant Exchange Point(s).

 4.4.2 Receipt of Power. Seattle shall accept delivery of all Grant Exchange Power delivered to it by Grant PUD at the Grant Exchange Point(s) in accordance with Section 4.1.

 5. SEATTLE PAYMENT

 For the exchange services specified in this Agreement, Seattle shall pay Grant PUD a one-time amount of $1 million, payable by electronic funds transfer within 45 days of the Effective Date. Seattle shall not be entitled to any monetary compensation for its performance of this Exchange Agreement.

 6. OTHER PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES

 6.1 Access To Information. The Parties agree to exchange information related to telemetry sent and received with respect to the delivery of energy (i) at the request of the other Party for purposes of after-the-fact interchange accounting, or (ii) on demand for any other purpose.

 6.2 Cooperation In Dealing With Third Parties. Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to assist the other Party in dealing with Avista, BPA, the Irrigation Districts, GCPHA and others regarding the implementation of this Exchange Agreement.

 6.3 NERC And WECC Requirements. Nothing in this Exchange Agreement is intended to change, supersede, or alter either Party's obligations to abide by NERC standards and WECC criteria.

 6.4 Data to be Provided to Avista by Grant PUD. Throughout the term of this Exchange Agreement, Grant PUD shall provide all information reasonably required by Avista relating to the scheduling and delivery of Main Canal Output and Summer Falls Output and billing for the relevant transmission services provided to Seattle by Avista.

 7. INDEMNIFICATION

 The Parties' indemnification obligations under this Exchange Agreement shall be those specified in the Agreement Limiting Liability Among Western Interconnected Systems.

 8. MUTUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

 Each Party represents and warrants to the other Party that it has full authority and power to enter into this Exchange Agreement, that the Party's representative who signs below is duly authorized by it to enter into this Exchange Agreement, subject to the approval requirements of its board, council or commission, and that nothing herein violates any law, regulation, judicial or regulatory order, or agreement applicable to such warranting Party.

 9. ASSIGNMENT

 Neither Party may assign any of its rights under this Exchange Agreement or delegate any of its obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.

 10. DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

 10.1 Default. In the event either Party ("Defaulting Party") materially breaches any of its obligations under this Exchange Agreement that remains uncured upon expiration of any specified cure period, the other Party ("Non-Defaulting Party") may, by written notice to the Defaulting Party, (i) terminate this Exchange Agreement, and (ii) exercise such other rights and remedies to which it may be entitled at law or in equity. No remedy will be deemed exclusive of any other right or remedy, and each remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to any other right or remedy provided for hereunder or otherwise legally available.

 10.2 Cure Period. A Defaulting Party shall have a cure period of 30 calendar days, commencing on the day on which the Non- Defaulting Party notifies the Defaulting Party thereof in writing. Such notice shall be effective upon receipt. Absent cure to its satisfaction within the specified period, the non-defaulting Party may then pursue its remedies under this Section 10.

 10.3 Choice of Law. This Exchange Agreement and the rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington, without regard to that state's choice-of-law principles.

 10.4 Jurisdiction and Venue. Each Party hereby irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction and venue of the federal, state and local courts located in Spokane County, Washington, in connection with any action arising out of or in connection with this Exchange Agreement, except with respect to either Party's right to initiate arbitration pursuant to Section 10.5. The substantially prevailing Party in any judicial proceeding relating to a dispute arising under, or relating to, this Exchange Agreement shall be entitled to recover all of its costs, including reasonable attorney fees.

 10.5 Special Provision Relating to Arbitration. Disputes arising under the Agreement Limiting Liability Among Western Interconnected Systems are subject to arbitration in accordance with Section 2 thereof. Any such arbitration that relates to the subject matter of this Exchange Agreement shall be conducted so as to give maximum effect to the provisions of Section 10.4 of this Exchange Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement Limiting Liability Among Western Interconnected Systems, the substantially prevailing Party in any arbitration relating to a dispute arising under, or relating to, this Exchange Agreement shall be entitled to recover all of its costs, including reasonable attorney fees.

 10.6 Duty to Mitigate. Each Party has a duty to mitigate damages and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize any damages it may incur as a result of the other Party's Default under this Exchange Agreement.

 10.7 Limitation of Liability. Regarding any default of this Exchange Agreement, the Defaulting Party's liability shall be limited to direct actual damages only, the direct actual damages shall be the exclusive remedy, and all other remedies or damages at law or in equity are waived. Neither Party shall have any liability for consequential, incidental, punitive, exemplary, or indirect damages, lost profits, lost or damaged product or data, or other business interruption damages, whether by statute, in tort or contract, under any indemnity provision, or otherwise, even if the Party subject to liability has been advised in advance of the possibility of those damages. The limitations on remedies imposed by this provision are without regard to the cause or causes of the applicable default, including the negligence of a Party, whether that negligence is sole or joint or active or passive.

 11. NOTICES

 Any notice required by a Party under this Exchange Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed delivered (1) when sent via U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested; (2) when sent via overnight delivery service requiring a signature from the Party receiving the notice; or (3) when hand delivered. In the event notice is required under this Exchange Agreement, it shall be addressed as follows:

 If to Tacoma: Power Manager Tacoma Power - Power Management 3628 South 35th Street Tacoma, Washington 98409

 If to Seattle: Power Management Executive Seattle City Light - Power Management P.O. Box 34023 Seattle, Washington 98124-4023

 If to Grant PUD: Director of Power Management Public Utility District #2 of Grant County, WA PO Box 878 Ephrata, WA 98823

 with a copy to: Manager of Transmission Services Public Utility District #2 of Grant County, WA PO Box 878 Ephrata, WA 98823

 Either Party may change the name or addresses of its designee by giving written notice to the other Party pursuant to this Section 11.

 12. MISCELLANEOUS

 12.1 Uniform Interpretation and Implementation of Parallel Contracts. The Parties intend and agree that all provisions of this Exchange Agreement and all provisions of the materially identical exchange agreement between Grant PUD and Tacoma Power shall be interpreted, construed and enforced in a uniform manner such that Seattle and Tacoma receive identical exchange services from Grant PUD.

 12.2 Entirety. This Exchange Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties regarding the service that is the subject matter of this Exchange Agreement.

 12.3 Binding Effect. This Exchange Agreement shall bind, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.

 12.4 Amendments. No amendment, modification or change to this Exchange Agreement shall be enforceable unless reduced to writing and hereafter executed by both Parties.

 12.5 Non-Waiver. No waiver of any breach in the performance of any provision of this Exchange Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any other breach.

 12.6 Severability. In the event that any provision of this Exchange Agreement shall be deemed unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, so long as the purpose and effect of this Exchange Agreement is not thereby rendered meaningless, such provision shall be severed from the remainder of this Exchange Agreement, and the remainder of this Exchange Agreement shall continue in effect, fully binding. The Parties agree to meet to determine their need for any replacement language and to negotiate a suitable replacement for the severed provision as soon thereafter as reasonably practicable.

 12.7 Headings. Headings used in this Exchange Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of its provisions.

 12.8 Preparation of Agreement. This Exchange Agreement shall be considered for all purposes as having been prepared through the joint efforts of the Parties and shall not be construed against one Party or the other as a result of the manner in which this Exchange Agreement was negotiated, prepared, drafted, or executed.

 12.9 No Joint Venture. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as creating a partnership or joint venture between the Parties. Neither Party shall be responsible in any way for the debts or obligations of the other Party; it being the express intent of the Parties that their relationship is that of independent contractors to a contract.

 12.10 No Dedication of Facilities. No undertaking by Seattle or Grant PUD under any provision of this Exchange Agreement shall constitute a dedication of either Party's generation or transmission system (or any portion thereof) to the public or to the other Party.

 12.11 Standard of Care. In implementing all actions, procedures and practices the Parties shall follow Prudent Utility Practices.

 12.12 No Transfer of Environmental or Renewable Attributes. Neither Party intends by this Exchange Agreement to transfer to, or receive from, the other Party any present or future renewable energy credit, or any other similar environmental or renewable attribute associated with the Main Canal hydroelectric project, the Summer Falls hydroelectric project, or any other generating resource.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties, by their respective duly authorized representatives, have executed this Agreement on the date shown in the first paragraph thereof. This Agreement shall not bind any Party until executed by both Parties.

 PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT NO. 2 OF GRANT COUNTY, WASHINGTON

 ATTEST:

 By:

 Secretary

 By:

 Tim Culbertson

 Title: General Manager

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, by and through its CITY LIGHT DEPARTMENT,

 dba SEATTLE CITY LIGHT

 By:

 Jorge Carrasco

 Title: Superintendent

 Exhibit 1:

 Example Calculations Referenced in Section 4

 The following represent two numerical examples of the calculations as they would apply on a dynamic basis:

 Example 1

 Metered Generation at Summer Falls: 92 MW

 Metered Generation at Main Canal Headworks: 20 MW

 Seattle Schedule to Avista for Avista Losses: 1 MW

 Schedule from Grant PUD to Avista for Load at Coulee City and Wilson Creek: 12 MW

 Summer Falls Output = 92 MW/2 = 46 MW

 A = 46 MW x .9932 = 45.69 MW

 Main Canal Output = 20 MW/2 = 10 MW

 B = 10 MW - 1 = 9 MW

 C = greater of (9 MW - 12 MW/2 = 9 MW - 6 MW = 3 MW) or (0 MW) = 3 MW

 Power Delivered to Grant at Stratford under Section 3 = 45.69 MW + 3 MW = 48.69 MW

 D = 48.69 MW x .984 = 47.91 MW

 E = lesser of (12 MW/2 = 6 MW) or (9 MW) = 6 MW

 Grant Exchange Power = 47.91 MW + 6 MW = 53.91 MW

 Example 2

 Metered Generation at Summer Falls: 92 MW

 Metered Generation at Main Canal: 10 MW

 Seattle Schedule to Avista for Avista Losses: 1 MW

 Schedule from Grant PUD to Avista for Load at Coulee City and Wilson Creek: 12 MW

 Summer Falls Output = 92 MW/2 = 46 MW

 A = 46 MW x .9932 = 45.69 MW

 Main Canal Output = 10 MW/2 = 5 MW

 B = 5 MW - 1 MW = 4 MW

 C = greater of (4 MW - 12 MW/2 = 4 MW - 6 MW = -2) or (0 MW_) = 0 MW

 Power Delivered to Grant at Stratford under Section 3 = 45.69 MW + 0 MW = 45.69 MW

 D = 45.69 MW x .984 = 44.96 MW

 E = lesser of (12 MW/2 = 6 MW) or (4 MW) = 4 MW

 Grant Exchange Power = 44.96 MW + 4 MW = 48.96 MW

 - 1 -

 Exhibit 1 to Attachment A to SCL GCPHA IC ORD

 Avista Contract No. AV-TR08-1053-2

 LONG-TERM FIRM POINT-TO-POINT TRANSMISSION SERVICE AGREEMENT

 under

 AVISTA CORPORATION'S

 OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF

 FERC ELECTRIC TARIFF, VOLUME NO. 8

 This LONG-TERM FIRM POINT-TO-POINT TRANSMISSION SERVICE AGREEMENT made and entered into this _____ day of , 2008, by and between AVISTA CORPORATION ("Avista") and the CITY OF SEATTLE ACTING BY AND THROUGH ITS LIGHT DEPARMENT ("Seattle City Light"), which hereinafter may be referred to individually as "Party" or collectively as "Parties."

 W I T N E S S E T H

 WHEREAS, Avista provides Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service over its Transmission System under Avista's Open Access Transmission Tariff; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle City Light historically obtained transfer service from Avista for the output of the Main Canal Generating Plant pursuant to Avista's Rate Schedule FERC No. 164 and, on an interim basis, pursuant to a Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service Agreement under Avista's Tariff (Avista Contract No. AV-TR06- 0208); and

 WHEREAS, the Main Canal Generating Plant, being an irrigation related project, is not typically able to generate power during the months of November through February; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle City Light has considered alternative methods to transfer the output of the Main Canal Generating Plant, including the construction of new transmission facilities intended to bypass Avista's Transmission System; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle City Light desires to continue to obtain Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service under Avista's Open Access Transmission Tariff for a portion of the output of the Main Canal Generating Plant; and

 NOW THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:

 Section 1 - Definitions

 Unless otherwise defined herein, all capitalized terms shall have their respective meanings as set forth in Avista's Open Access Transmission Tariff, FERC Electric Tariff, Volume No. 8 ("Tariff"). Seattle City Light shall be the Transmission Customer as such term is used in the Tariff and Avista shall be the Transmission Provider as such term is used in the Tariff.

 Section 2 - Standard Provisions

 2.1 Terms and Conditions: The terms and conditions under which Long-Term Firm Transmission Service is offered and accepted are pursuant to this Service Agreement and to the Tariff. The Tariff is hereby incorporated by this reference and made a part of this Service Agreement. Avista may change the terms and conditions of the Tariff upon, and only upon, approval by the Commission pursuant to a filing by Avista.

 2.2 Completed Application: Avista has determined that Seattle City Light is deemed to have a Completed Application for Firm Point-to- Point Transmission Service under the Tariff.

 2.3 Application Deposit: Pursuant to Avista's posted business practices with respect to the rollover or continuation of historical transfer service, Avista has waived Seattle City Light's requirement to provide an Application deposit in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.3 of the Tariff.

 2.4 System Impact and Facilities Studies: Study Agreements for a System Impact Study and/or a Facilities Study are not required to continue to transfer the output of the Main Canal Generating Plant over Avista's Transmission System.

 Section 3 - Term and Regulatory Filing

 3.1 Effective Date and Filing: This Service Agreement shall be effective on the Service Commencement Date of June 1, 2008 or such other date as may be designated by the Commission when accepted for filing ("Effective Date"). Avista shall file this Service Agreement with the Commission as a Service Agreement under the Tariff.

 3.2 Termination of Agreement: This Service Agreement shall remain in effect through October 31, 2026.

 Section 4 - Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service

 Commencing on the Effective Date Avista shall provide, and Seattle City Light shall take and pay for, Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service pursuant to the Tariff. Exhibit 1 to this Service Agreement lists the Points of Receipt and Points of Delivery, the amounts of Reserved Capacity at the Points of Receipt and Points of Delivery and applicable charges for Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service.

 Section 5 - Other Services

 Commencing on the Effective Date Avista shall provide, and Seattle City Light shall take and pay for, the following Ancillary Services:

 5.1 Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service

 5.2 Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or Other Sources Service

 5.3 Regulation and Frequency Response Service

 5.4 Energy Imbalance Service

 5.5 Operating Reserve - Spinning Reserve Service

 5.6 Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service

 The amounts of such services, specific terms and conditions associated with such services and the charges for such services are listed in Exhibit 2 to this Service Agreement.

 Section 6 - Construction of Facilities

 No construction of Direct Assignment Facilities or Network Upgrades are required for Firm Transmission Service to be provided pursuant to this Service Agreement.

 Section 7 - Billing and Payment

 Billing and payment for all services provided under this Service Agreement shall be pursuant to Section 7 of the Tariff. Bills sent to Seattle City Light shall be sent to:

 Attention: Power Accounts Coordinator

 Seattle City Light

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3200

 P. O. Box 34023

 Seattle, Washington 98124-4023

 All payments to Avista shall be submitted via electronic funds transfer to the account specified on each invoice.

 Section 8 - Miscellaneous Provisions

 8.1 Waivers: Any waiver at any time by either Party hereto of its rights with respect to the other Party or with respect to any matter arising in connection with this Service Agreement shall not be considered a waiver with respect to any other default of the same or any other matter.

 8.2 Effect of Section Headings: Section headings appearing in this Service Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be construed to be interpretations of the text of this Service Agreement.

 8.3 Notices: Any written notice or request made to Avista under this Service Agreement shall be directed to:

 Attention: Manager, Transmission Services

 Avista Corporation

 1411 East Mission Avenue

 Spokane, Washington 99202-1902

 or

 P. O. Box 3727

 Spokane, Washington 99220-3727

 Any written notice or request made to Seattle City Light under this Service Agreement shall be directed to:

 Attention: Power Manager

 Seattle City Light

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3200

 P. O. Box 34023

 Seattle, Washington 98124-4023

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Service Agreement to be executed in their respective names by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first noted above.

 AVISTA CORPORATION

 By:

 Jeff Schlect

 Manager, Transmission Services

 Signed this _____ day of February, 2008.

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:

 Jorge Carrasco

 Superintendent

 Signed this _____ day of ____________, 2008.

 4

 Attachment B

 Attachment B to SCL GCPHA IC ORD

 EXHIBIT 1

 SPECIFICATIONS AND CHARGES FOR

 LONG-TERM FIRM POINT-TO-POINT TRANSMISSION SERVICE

 Point of Receipt

 Location: The point on Avista's Chelan-Stratford 115 kV Transmission Line where the 115 kV facilities of the Main Canal Generating Plant and Avista are connected.

 Reserved Capacity: As defined for Reserved Capacity below.

 Delivering Party: Seattle City Light

 Point of Delivery

 Location: The point in Avista's Stratford 115 kV Switching Station where the 115 kV facilities of Avista and the Public Utility District No. 2 of Grant County are connected.

 Reserved Capacity: As defined for Reserved Capacity below.

 Receiving Party: Seattle City Light (PUD No. 2 of Grant County Balancing Authority Area)

 Reserved Capacity

 For the months March through October of each year the Reserved Capacity shall be the greater of: (i) the Monthly Net Project Output and (ii) the maximum Monthly Net Project Output recorded during the prior thirty-six (36) months.

 The Monthly Net Project Output for each month shall be the maximum Hourly Net Project Output calculated for each hour of such month where:

 Hourly Net Project Output = (Hourly Project Output) - (Hourly Grant County Transfer Loads)

 Hourly Project Output shall equal one-half of the total electric energy generated from the Main Canal Generating Plant and delivered to the Avista Transmission System at the Point of Receipt.

 Hourly Grant County Transfer Loads shall be one-half of the energy transferred by Avista for the Public Utility District No. 2 of Grant County ("Grant PUD") from the Main Canal Generating Plant to Grant PUD's loads at the Wilson Creek and Coulee City points of delivery pursuant to the Power Transfer Agreement between Grant PUD and Avista, Avista Rate Schedule FERC No. 104, or its successor.

 For the months November through February of each year the Reserved Capacity shall be zero (0 kW).

 Monthly Transmission Charge

 (Pursuant to Schedule 7 of the Tariff)

 One twelfth of the then-current yearly transmission demand charge multiplied by the Reserved Capacity. As of the Effective Date, the yearly transmission demand charge is $16.79/kW.

 Losses

 (Pursuant to Section 15.7 of the Tariff)

 Loss Factor is three percent (3%) applied to actual energy transmitted, to be delivered to Avista at the Point of Delivery, or such other point as may be mutually agreed upon by the Parties from time to time. Avista shall specify and Seattle City Light shall return the applicable on-peak and off-peak loss return obligation amounts, in whole megawatt increments, for delivery seven (7) days following the transmission of such energy.

 Seattle City Light and Avista may from time to time agree to provide for financial settlement of losses. Any change between physical return and financial settlement of losses shall have a term of at least one year and shall be preceded by at least six-months' notice, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the Parties. As of the Effective Date, the Parties have agreed to settle losses financially.

 Financial settlement of Seattle City Light's loss return obligation, calculated on a kilowatt basis for each hour, shall be at 100% of the Hourly Pricing Proxy plus 0.5 mills/kilowatt-hour.

 Hourly Pricing Proxy: For purposes of financially settling losses, the "Hourly Pricing Proxy" is defined as the Dow Jones Mid-Columbia Daily Firm Index, On-Peak (hours ending 0700 through 2200 Pacific Prevailing Time Monday through Saturday inclusive, excluding NERC holidays) and Off-Peak (all other hours). If data for calculating any Hourly Pricing Proxy is not available from Dow Jones, data from the same time of day from the previous day shall be used. Should the Dow Jones Mid-Columbia Daily Firm Index become no longer generally available, the Parties shall agree upon a replacement definition for the Hourly Pricing Proxy and shall specify such replacement definition in this Service Agreement.

 System Impact and/or Facilities Study Charges

 (Pursuant to Section 19 of the Tariff)

 None required

 Direct Assignment Facilities Charges

 None required

 Designation of Party Subject to Reciprocal Service Obligation

 (Pursuant to Section 6 of the Tariff)

 Seattle City Light

 2

 Exhibit 1 to Attachment B to SCL GCPHA IC ORD

 EXHIBIT 2

 SPECIFICATIONS AND CHARGES FOR ANCILLARY SERVICES

 Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service

 Pursuant to Schedule 1 of the Tariff.

 Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or Other Sources Service

 Pursuant to Schedule 2 of the Tariff.

 Regulation and Frequency Response Service

 (Pursuant to Schedule 3 of the Tariff)

 The Main Canal Generating Plant does not reside in Avista's Balancing Area. Accordingly, this service is not applicable.

 Energy Imbalance Service

 (Pursuant to Schedule 4 of the Tariff)

 The Main Canal Generating Plant does not reside in Avista's Balancing Area. Accordingly, this service is not applicable.

 Operating Reserve - Spinning Reserve Service

 (Pursuant to Schedule 5 of the Tariff)

 The Main Canal Generating Plant does not reside in Avista's Balancing Area. Accordingly, this service is not applicable.

 Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service

 (Pursuant to Schedule 6 of the Tariff)

 The Main Canal Generating Plant does not reside in Avista's Balancing Area. Accordingly, this service is not applicable.

 Exhibit 2 to Attachment B to SCL GCPHA IC ORD

 Avista Contract No. AV-TR08-1054-2

 LONG-TERM FIRM USE-OF-FACILITIES AGREEMENT

 under

 AVISTA CORPORATION'S

 OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF

 FERC ELECTRIC TARIFF, VOLUME NO. 8

 This LONG-TERM FIRM USE-OF-FACILITIES AGREEMENT made and entered into this _____ day of , 2008, by and between AVISTA CORPORATION ("Avista") and the CITY OF SEATTLE ACTING BY AND THROUGH ITS LIGHT DEPARTMENT ("Seattle City Light"), which hereinafter may be referred to individually as "Party" or collectively as "Parties."

 W I T N E S S E T H

 WHEREAS, Avista provides Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service over its Transmission System under Avista's Open Access Transmission Tariff; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle City Light historically obtained transfer service from Avista for the output of the Summer Falls Generating Plant pursuant to Avista's Rate Schedule FERC No. 164 and, on an interim basis, pursuant to a Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service Agreement under Avista's Tariff (Avista Contract No. AV-TR06- 0208); and

 WHEREAS, Seattle City Light has considered alternative methods to transfer the output of the Summer Falls Generating Plant, including the construction of new transmission facilities intended to bypass Avista's Transmission System; and

 WHEREAS, under the current system configuration and revised Point of Delivery, Seattle City Light requires transfer service only over a portion of Avista's Stratford 115 kV Switching Station facilities and does not require transmission service over any substantial distance of Avista's Transmission System; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle City Light desires to continue to obtain long-term firm transfer service over Avista's transmission facilities at the Stratford 115 kV Switching Station for the output of the Summer Falls Generating Plant pursuant to a use-of-facilities arrangement; and

 NOW THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:

 Section 1 - Definitions

 Unless otherwise defined herein, all capitalized terms shall have their respective meanings as set forth in Avista's Open Access Transmission Tariff, FERC Electric Tariff, Volume No. 8 ("Tariff"). Seattle City Light shall be the Transmission Customer as such term is used in the Tariff and Avista shall be the Transmission Provider as such term is used in the Tariff.

 Section 2 - Standard Provisions

 2.1 Terms and Conditions: The terms and conditions under which Long-Term Firm Use-of-Facilities is offered and accepted are pursuant to this Service Agreement and to the Tariff. The Tariff is hereby incorporated by this reference and made a part of this Service Agreement. Avista may change the terms and conditions of the Tariff upon, and only upon, approval by the Commission pursuant to a filing by Avista.

 2.2 Application Deposit: Pursuant to Avista's posted discretionary practices with respect to the rollover or continuation of historical transfer service, Avista has waived Seattle City Light's requirement to provide an Application deposit in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.3 of the Tariff.

 2.3 System Impact and Facilities Studies: Study Agreements for a System Impact Study and/or a Facilities Study are not required to continue to transfer the output of the Summer Falls Generating Plant over Avista's Transmission System.

 Section 3 - Term and Regulatory Filing

 3.1 Effective Date and Filing: This Service Agreement shall be effective on the Service Commencement Date of June 1, 2008 or such other date as may be designated by the Commission when accepted for filing ("Effective Date"). Avista shall file this Service Agreement with the Commission as a Service Agreement under the Tariff.

 3.2 Termination of Agreement: This Service Agreement shall remain in effect through October 31, 2024.

 3.3 Early Termination of Agreement: If at any such time a bypass transmission line is to be constructed and energized that connects the Summer Falls Generating Plant to the transmission system of the Public Utility District No. 2 of Grant County, Washington and the Stratford-Summer Falls 115kV Transmission Line will no longer be required to integrate the Summer Falls Generating Project, Seattle City Light may terminate this Service Agreement upon one year's prior written notice. Upon receiving such notice Avista shall agree to a date within the one year period for de-energizing and disconnecting the Stratford-Summer Falls 115kV Transmission Line from the Stratford 115kV Switching Station.

 Section 4 - Long-Term Firm Use-of-Facilities

 Commencing on the Effective Date Avista shall provide, and Seattle City Light shall take and pay for, Long-Term Firm Use-of-Facilities over a portion of Avista's Stratford 115 kV Switching Station. Exhibit 1 to this Service Agreement lists the Point of Receipt and Point of Delivery, the amounts of Reserved Capacity at the Point of Receipt and Point of Delivery and applicable charges for Long-Term Firm Use-of-Facilities.

 Section 5 - Other Services

 Commencing on the Effective Date Avista shall provide, and Seattle City Light shall take and pay for, the following Ancillary Services:

 5.1 Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service

 5.2 Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or Other Sources Service

 5.3 Regulation and Frequency Response Service

 5.4 Energy Imbalance Service

 5.5 Operating Reserve - Spinning Reserve Service

 5.6 Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service

 The amounts of such services, specific terms and conditions associated with such services and the charges for such services are listed in Exhibit 2 to this Service Agreement.

 Section 6 - Construction of Facilities

 No construction of Direct Assignment Facilities or Network Upgrades are required for Use of Facilities to be provided pursuant to this Service Agreement.

 Section 7 - Billing and Payment

 Billing and payment for all services provided under this Service Agreement shall be pursuant to Section 7 of the Tariff. Bills sent to Seattle City Light shall be sent to:

 Attention: Power Accounts Coordinator

 Seattle City Light

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3200

 P. O. Box 34023

 Seattle, Washington 98124-4023

 All payments to Avista shall be submitted via electronic funds transfer to the account specified on each invoice.

 Section 8 - Miscellaneous Provisions

 8.1 Waivers: Any waiver at any time by either Party hereto of its rights with respect to the other Party or with respect to any matter arising in connection with this Service Agreement shall not be considered a waiver with respect to any other default of the same or any other matter.

 8.2 Effect of Section Headings: Section headings appearing in this Service Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be construed to be interpretations of the text of this Service Agreement.

 8.3 Notices: Any written notice or request made to Avista under this Service Agreement shall be directed to:

 Attention: Manager, Transmission Services

 Avista Corporation

 1411 East Mission Avenue

 Spokane, Washington 99202-1902

 or

 P.O. Box 3727

 Spokane, Washington 99220-3727

 Any written notice or request made to Seattle City Light under this Service Agreement shall be directed to:

 Attention: Power Manager

 Seattle City Light

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3200

 P. O. Box 34023

 Seattle, Washington 98124-4023

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Service Agreement to be executed in their respective names by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first noted above.

 AVISTA CORPORATION

 By:

 Jeff Schlect

 Manager, Transmission Services

 Signed this _____ day of February, 2008.

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 By:

 Jorge Carrasco

 Superintendent

 Signed this _____ day of ______________, 2008.

 4

 Attachment C

 Attachment C to SCL GCPHA IC ORD

 EXHIBIT 1

 SPECIFICATIONS AND CHARGES FOR

 LONG-TERM FIRM USE-OF-FACILITIES

 Point of Receipt

 Location: The point in Avista's Stratford 115 kV Switching Station where the 115 kV facilities of the Grand Coulee Project Hydroelectric Authority and Avista are connected.

 Reserved Capacity: Forty-eight megawatts (48MW)

 Delivering Party: Seattle City Light

 Point of Delivery

 Location: The point in Avista's Stratford 115 kV Switching Station where the 115 kV facilities of Avista and the Public Utility District No. 2 of Grant County are connected.

 Reserved Capacity: Forty-eight megawatts (48MW)

 Receiving Party: Seattle City Light (PUD No. 2 of Grant County Balancing Authority Area)

 Reserved Capacity

 Maximum Amount of Capacity and Energy to be Transmitted: Forty-eight megawatts (48MW)

 Monthly Use-of-Facilities Charge

 One twelfth of the annual use-of-facilities charge of $37,111, or $3,093, where such charge is based upon fifty-percent (50%) of the total investment in the Stratford 115kV Switching Station. In the event Avista makes capital replacements or improvements to the Stratford 115kV Switching Station Avista may, pursuant to a filing with the Commission, seek to adjust the annual use-of-facilities charge.

 Losses

 (Pursuant to Section 15.7 of the Tariff)

 No losses shall be assessed.

 System Impact and/or Facilities Study Charges

 (Pursuant to Section 19 of the Tariff)

 None required

 Direct Assignment Facilities Charges

 None required

 Exhibit 1 to Attachment C to SCL GCPHA IC ORD

 EXHIBIT 2

 SPECIFICATIONS AND CHARGES FOR ANCILLARY SERVICES

 Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service

 Not applicable.

 Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or Other Sources Service

 Not applicable.

 Regulation and Frequency Response Service

 (Pursuant to Schedule 3 of the Tariff)

 The Summer Falls Generating Plant does not reside in Avista's Balancing Area. Accordingly, this service is not applicable.

 Energy Imbalance Service

 (Pursuant to Schedule 4 of the Tariff)

 The Summer Falls Generating Plant does not reside in Avista's Balancing Area. Accordingly, this service is not applicable.

 Operating Reserve - Spinning Reserve Service

 (Pursuant to Schedule 5 of the Tariff)

 The Summer Falls Generating Plant does not reside in Avista's Balancing Area. Accordingly, this service is not applicable.

 Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service

 (Pursuant to Schedule 6 of the Tariff)

 The Summer Falls Generating Plant does not reside in Avista's Balancing Area. Accordingly, this service is not applicable.

 Exhibit 2 to Attachment C to SCL GCPHA IC ORD

```
