

********

**Council Bill Number: 116287**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122773**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Building Code, amending SMC 22.100.010 and Sections 508.2.1, 704.8, 1007.2, 1007.2.1, 1007.3, 1007.4, 1007.5, 1007.6, 1014.2.2, 1019.2, 1208.2.1, 1403.2, 1607, Table 1607.1, and Sections 3016.12, 3020.2 and 3021.1 of the Seattle Building Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 18, 2008
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Harrell, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 21, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 21, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 4, 2008
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, MECHANICAL-CODES, CONSTRUCTION, HEALTH-CARE-FACILITIES, ELEVATORS, BUILDING-COMPONENTS, DISABLED-PERSONS

**Fiscal Note:**116287

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122773](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122773.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Building Code, amending SMC 22.100.010 and Sections 508.2.1, 704.8, 1007.2, 1007.2.1, 1007.3, 1007.4, 1007.5, 1007.6, 1014.2.2, 1019.2, 1208.2.1, 1403.2, 1607, Table 1607.1, and Sections 3016.12, 3020.2 and 3021.1 of the Seattle Building Code.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 122528, is further amended as follows:

 SMC 22.100.010 Adoption of the International Building Code.

 The Seattle Building Code consists of: 1) the following~~:1) Chapters 2 through 28, 31 through 33, and 35~~portions of the 2006 edition of the International Building Code~~, 2006 edition,~~ published by the International Code Council: Chapters 2 through 28, 31 through 33, and 35;~~, as amended by City Council by ordinance,~~2) the amendments and additions to the 2006 International Building Code adopted by City Council by ordinance; 3) ~~and~~ all errata published by the International Code Council ~~after February 1, 2006~~before June 15, 2008; ~~and 2)~~4) Chapters 1, 29, 30 and 34 adopted by City Council by ordinance; ~~3~~5)American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) standards ASME17.1-2004 with ASME A17.1a-2005 with Addenda and Appendices A through D, F through I, K through M and P, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, excepting Section 5.10 of ASME A17.1, Elevators Used for Construction; ~~4~~6 ASME A18.1-2005, Safety Standard For Platform Lifts and Stairway Chairlifts; and ~~5~~7 Washington Administrative Code (WAC) Chapter 296-96, Safety regulations for all elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators and other conveyances~~as now exists or as hereafter amended~~. One copy of the 2006 International Building Code and each of the ASME standards listed above together with WAC Chapter 296-96~~above is~~are filed with the City Clerk in C.F. 308942.

 Section 2. Section 508 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 ***

 SECTION 508

 MIXED USE AND OCCUPANCY

 ***

 508.2 Incidental uses. Incidental use areas shall comply with the provisions of this section.

 Exception: Incidental use areas within and serving a dwelling unit are not required to comply with this section.

 508.2.1 Occupancy classification. An incidental use area shall be classified in accordance with the occupancy of that portion of the building in which it is located or the building shall be classified as a mixed occupancy and shall comply with Section 508.3.

Exception: Elevator machine rooms shall be separated according to Table 508.2.

***

 Section 3. Section 704 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 ***

 SECTION 704

 EXTERIOR WALLS

 ***

 704.8 Allowable area of openings. The maximum area of unprotected or protected openings permitted in an exterior wall in any story shall not exceed the values set forth in Table 704.8. Where both unprotected and protected openings are located in the exterior wall in any story, the total area of the openings shall comply with the following formula:

[(Equation 7-2)](/~ordpics/116287eq.gif)

 where:

 A = Actual area of protected openings, or the equivalent area of protected openings, Ae (see Section 704.7).

 a = Allowable area of protected openings.

 Au = Actual area of unprotected openings.

 au = Allowable area of unprotected openings.

Interpretation I704.8: For purposes of Section 704.8, if an exterior wall on a lower floor is recessed farther from the property line than the wall on the floor above, there are two options for wall and opening protection.  Option 1: The plane that projects vertically from the edge of the story, roof or deck above shall comply with the exterior wall and opening protection requirements. The portion of the plane where the wall is recessed is considered an opening.

 Option 2: Recessed exterior walls shall comply with the wall fire rating and wall opening protection percentages as if such walls were in the plane that projects vertically from the edge of the story, roof or deck above.

 See Figures I704.8a and I704.8b.

[Figure I704.8a](/~ordpics/1162878a.gif)

[Figure I704.8b](/~ordpics/1162878b.gif)

 ..TX: ***

 Section 5. Section 1007 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 ***

 1007.2 Continuity and components. Each required accessible means of egress shall be continuous to a public way and shall consist of one or more of the following components:

 1. Accessible routes complying with Section 1104.

 2. Stairways within vertical exit enclosures complying with Sections 1007.3 and 1020.

 3. Exterior exit stairways complying with Sections 1007.3 and 1023.

 4. Elevators complying with Section 1007.4.

 Interpretation I1007.2a: An exit passageway is not required on the level of exit discharge to connect the elevator with the exterior exit door.

 5. Platform lifts complying with Section 1007.5.

~~6. Horizontal exits complying with Section 1022.~~

6.~~7.~~ Ramps complying with Section 1010.

7.~~8.~~ Areas of refuge complying with Section 1007.6.

 Exceptions:

 1. Where the exit discharge is not accessible, an exterior area for assisted rescue must be provided in accordance with Section 1007.8.

 2. Where the exit stairway is open to the exterior, the accessible means of egress shall include either an area of refuge in accordance with Section 1007.6 or an exterior area for assisted rescue in accordance with Section 1007.8.

 1007.2.1 Elevators required. In buildings where a required accessible floor is four or more stories above or below a level of exit discharge, at least one required accessible means of egress shall be an elevator complying with Section 1007.4.

 Interpretation I1007.2b: The level of exit discharge is not counted when determining whether an accessible floor is four stories above ~~or below~~ a level of exit discharge. See Figure 1007.2b.

 Exception~~s~~:

~~1. In buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, the elevator shall not be required on floors provided with a horizontal exit and located at or above the level of exit discharge.~~

~~2.~~ In buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, the elevator shall not be required on floors provided with a ramp conforming to the provisions of Section 1010.

 Interpretation I1007.2c: In the exception~~2~~, the ramp shall be part of an accessible means of egress.

[Figure I1007.2b](/~ordpics/1162872b.gif)

 1007.3 Exit stairways. In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an exit stairway shall have a clear width of 48 inches (1219 mm) minimum between handrails and shall either incorporate an area of refuge within an enlarged floor-level landing or shall be accessed from ~~either~~an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6.l~~or a horizontal exit~~.

 Exceptions:

 1. Unenclosed exit stairways as permitted by Section 1020.1 are permitted to be considered part of an accessible means of egress.

 2. The area of refuge is not required at unenclosed exit stairways as permitted by Section 1020.1 in buildings or facilities that are equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.

 3. The clear width of 48 inches (1219 mm) between handrails is not required at exit stairways in buildings or facilities equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.

~~4. The clear width of 48 inches (1219 mm) between handrails is not required for exit stairways accessed from a horizontal exit.~~

4.~~5.~~ Areas of refuge are not required at exit stairways serving open parking garages.

 1007.4 Elevators. In order to be considered part of an accessible means of egress, an elevator shall comply with the emergency operation and signaling device requirements of Section 2.27 of ASME A17.1. Legally required standby power shall be provided in accordance with Sections 2702 and the Seattle Electrical Code. The elevator shall be accessed from ~~either~~ an area of refuge complying with Section 1007.6~~or a horizontal exit~~.

 Exception: Elevators are not required to be accessed from an area of refuge~~or horizontal exit~~ in open parking garages.

 1007.5 Platform lifts. Platform (wheelchair) lifts shall not serve as part of an accessible means of egress, except where allowed as part of a required accessible route in Section 1109.7, Items 1 through 9. ~~Standby~~Legally required standby power as defined by the Seattle Electrical Code shall be provided in accordance with Section 2702.2.6 for platform lifts permitted to serve as part of a means of egress.

 1007.5.1 Openness. Platform lifts on an accessible means of egress shall not be installed in a fully enclosed hoistway.

 1007.6 Areas of refuge. Every required area of refuge shall be accessible from the space it serves by an accessible means of egress. The maximum travel distance from any accessible space to an area of refuge shall not exceed the travel distance permitted for the occupancy in accordance with Section 1016.1. Every required area of refuge shall have direct access to an enclosed stairway complying with Sections 1007.3 and 1020.1 or an elevator complying with Section 1007.4. Where an elevator lobby is used as an area of refuge, the shaft and lobby shall comply with Section 1020.1.7 for smokeproof enclosures except where the elevators are in an area of refuge formed by a ~~horizontal exit or a~~smoke barrier.

 1007.6.1 Size. Each area of refuge shall be sized to accommodate one wheelchair space of 30 inches by 48 inches (762 mm by 1219 mm) for each 200 occupants or portion thereof, based on the occupant load of the area of refuge and areas served by the area of refuge. Such wheelchair spaces shall not reduce the required means of egress width. Access to any of the required wheelchair spaces in an area of refuge shall not be obstructed by more than one adjoining wheelchair space.

 1007.6.2 Separation. Each area of refuge shall be separated from the remainder of the story by a smoke barrier complying with Section 709.~~or a horizontal exit complying with Section 1022.~~ Each area of refuge shall be designed to minimize the intrusion of smoke.

 Exception: Areas of refuge located within a vertical exit enclosure.

 ***

 Section 6. Section 1014 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1014

 EXIT ACCESS

 ***

 [W] 1014.2.2 Group I-2. Habitable rooms or suites in Group I-2 occupancies shall have an exit access door leading directly to a corridor.

 Exception: Rooms with exit doors opening directly to the outside at ground level.

1014.2.2.1 Definition. For the purposes of this section, a suite means a cluster of rooms or spaces sharing common circulation. Partitions within a suite are not required to have smoke or fire- resistance-rated construction unless required by another section of this code.  Interpretation I1014.2a: For purposes of Sections 1014.2.3 and 1014.2.4, corridors are not considered intervening rooms for suites. Circulation spaces that do not meet the provisions of Section 1017.1 are considered intervening rooms.

Interpretation I1014.2b: For suites that are required to have two exits, one means of egress may travel through an adjacent suite if all other requirements of Section 1014.2 are satisfied.

 ***

 Section 7. Section 1019 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 SECTION 1019

 NUMBER OF EXITS AND CONTINUITY

 ***

 1019.2 Buildings with one exit. Only one exit shall be required in buildings as specified below:

 1. Buildings meeting the limitations of Table 1019.2, provided the building has not more than one level below the first story above grade plane.

 2. Buildings of Group R-3 occupancy.

 3. Single-level buildings with occupied spaces at the level of exit discharge provided each space complies with Section 1015.1 as a space with one exit or exit access doorway.

 4. Not more than 5 stories of Group R-2 occupancy other than boarding houses in buildings not over 6 stories are permitted to be served by a single exit under the following conditions:

 4.1. There shall be no more than four dwelling units on any floor.

 4.2. The building shall be of not less than one-hour fire-resistive construction and shall also be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. Residential- type sprinkler heads shall be used in all habitable spaces in each dwelling unit.

 4.3. There shall be no more than two single exit stairway conditions on the same property.~~~~4.4. An exterior stairway or exit enclosure shall be provided. The exit enclosure, including any related exit passageway, shall be pressurized in accordance with Section 909.21. Doors in the exit enclosure shall swing into the exit enclosure regardless of the occupant load served, provided that doors from the exit enclosure to the building exterior are permitted to swing in the direction of exit travel.

 4.5. A corridor shall separate each dwelling unit entry/exit door from the door to an exit enclosure, including any related exit passageway, on each floor. Dwelling unit doors shall not open directly into an enclosed stairway. Dwelling unit doors are permitted to open directly into an exterior stairway.

 4.6. There shall be no more than 20 feet (6096 mm) of travel to the exit stairway from the entry/exit door of any dwelling unit.

 4.7. Travel distance measured in accordance with Section 1016.1 shall not exceed 125 feet (38 100 mm).

 4.8 The exit shall not terminate in an exit court where the court depth exceeds the court width unless it is possible to exit in either direction to the public way.

 4.9. Elevators shall be pressurized in accordance with Section 707.14.2 or shall open into elevator lobbies. Elevator lobbies shall be separated from the remainder of the building and from the exit stairway with fire partitions. Doors shall be automatic closing actuated by smoke detector. Where approved by the building official, natural ventilation is permitted to be substituted for pressurization where the ventilation would prevent the accumulation of smoke or toxic gases.

 4.10. Other occupancies are permitted in the same building provided they comply with all the requirements of this code. Other occupancies shall not communicate with the Group R occupancy portion of the building or with the single-exit stairway.

 Exception: Parking garages accessory to the Group R occupancy are permitted to communicate with the exit stairway.

 4.11. The exit serving the Group R occupancy shall not discharge through any other occupancy, including an accessory parking garage.

 4.12. There shall be no openings within 10 feet (3048 mm) of unprotected openings into the stairway other than required exit doors having a one-hour fire-resistance rating.

 ***

 Section 8. Section 1208 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 ***

 SECTION 1208

 INTERIOR SPACE DIMENSIONS

 ***

1208.2.1 Furred ceiling. Any room with a furred ceiling is required to have the minimum ceiling height in two-thirds of the area  thereof, but in no case shall the height of the furred ceiling be less than 7 feet (2134 mm).

***

 Section 9. Section 1403 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows is amended as follows:

 ***

 SECTION 1403

 PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS

 ***

 1403.2 Weather protection. Exterior walls shall provide the building

 with a weather-resistant exterior wall envelope. The exterior wall envelope shall include flashing, as described in Section 1405.3. The exterior wall envelope shall be designed and constructed in such a manner as to prevent the accumulation of water within the wall assembly by providing a water-resistive barrier behind the exterior veneer, as described in Section 1404.2, and a means for draining water that enters the assembly to the exterior. ~~Protection against condensation in the exterior wall assembly shall be provided in accordance with the Washington State Energy Code with Seattle Amendments.~~An air space cavity is not required under the exterior cladding for an exterior wall clad with panel siding made of plywood, engineered wood, hardboard, or fiber cement.

 Exceptions:

 1. A weather-resistant exterior wall envelope shall not be required over concrete or masonry walls designed in accordance with Chapters 19 and 21, respectively.

 2. Compliance with the requirements for a means of drainage, and the requirements of Sections 1404.2 and 1405.3, shall not be required for an exterior wall envelope that has been demonstrated through testing to resist wind-driven rain, including joints, penetrations and intersections with dissimilar materials, in accordance with ASTM E 331 under the following conditions:

 2.1. Exterior wall envelope test assemblies shall include at least one opening, one control joint, one wall/eave interface and one wall sill. All tested openings and penetrations shall be representative of the intended end-use configuration.

 2.2. Exterior wall envelope test assemblies shall be at least 4 feet by 8 feet (1219 mm by 2438 mm) in size.

 2.3. Exterior wall envelope assemblies shall be tested at a minimum differential pressure of 6.24 pounds per square foot (psf) (0.297 kN/m2).

 2.4. Exterior wall envelope assemblies shall be subjected to a minimum test exposure duration of 2 hours.

 The exterior wall envelope design shall be considered to resist wind-driven rain where the results of testing indicate that water did not penetrate control joints in the exterior wall envelope, joints at the perimeter of openings or intersections of terminations with dissimilar materials.

Interpretation I 1403.2: According to Section 1403.2, a rain- screen or similar construction method is not required for most exterior siding and cladding, and single-wall construction is allowed. Drainage methods should conform to the manufacturer's installation instructions and other sections of the code.Note: The "water-resistive barrier" behind the exterior wall covering provides "drainage" of the water that may enter an exterior wall envelope. If water penetrates the exterior wall covering, the felt paper or other approved material will direct the water to the bottom of the wall where it will escape to the exterior. ***

 Section 10. Section 1607 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 ***

 SECTION 1607

 LIVE LOADS

 ***

 TABLE 1607.1

 MINIMUM UNIFORMLY DISTRIBUTED LIVE LOADS AND MINIMUM CONCENTRATED LIVE LOADSg

 OCCUPANCY OR USE UNIFORM CONCENTRATED (psf) (lbs.)

 1. Apartments (see residential) - -

 2. Access floor systems Office use 50 2,000 Computer use 100 2,000

 3. Armories and drill rooms 150 -

 4. Assembly areas and theaters

 Fixed seats (fastened to floor) 60

 Follow spot, projections and 50 control rooms

 Lobbies 100 -

 Movable seats 100

 Stages and platforms 125

 [W]Other assembly areas 100

 [W] 5. Reserved -

 6. Bowling alleys 75 -

 7. Catwalks 40 300

 8. Dance halls and ballrooms 100 -

 [W] 9. Decks and balconiesm Same as occupancy - servedh

 10. Dining rooms and restaurants 100 -

 11. Dwellings (see residential) - -

 12. Canopiesg and cornices 60 -

 13. Corridors, except as 100 - otherwise indicated

 14. Elevator machine room grating - 300 (on area of 4 in2)

 15. Finish light floor plate - 200 construction (on area of 1 in2) -

 16. Fire escapes 100 - On single-family dwellings only 40

 17. Garages (passenger vehicles 40 Note a only) See Section 1607.6 Trucks and buses

 18. Grandstands (see stadium and - - arena bleachers)

 19. Gymnasiums, main floors and 100 - balconies

 20. Handrails, guards and grab See Section 1607.7 bars

 21. Hospitals Corridors above first floor 80 1,000 Operating rooms, laboratories 60 1,000 Patient rooms 40 1,000

 22. Hotels (see residential) - -

 23. Libraries Corridors above first floor 80 1,000

 Reading rooms 60 1,000

 Stack rooms 150b 1,000

 24. Manufacturing Heavy 250 3,000

 Light 125 2,000

 26. Office buildings Corridors above first floor 80 2,000

 File and computer rooms shall be designed for heavier loads based on anticipated occupancy - -

 Lobbies and first-floor corridors 100 2,000

 Offices 50 2,000

 27. Penal institutions Cell blocks 40 -

 Corridors 100

 [W] 28. Residential One- and two-family dwellings

 Uninhabitable attics without 10 storagei

 Uninhabitable attics with limited 20 - storagei, j, k

 Habitable attics and sleeping 30 areas

 All other areas 40

 Hotels and multiple-family dwellings

 Private rooms and corridors 40 serving them

 Public rooms and corridors 100 serving them

 29. Reviewing stands, grandstands Note c and bleachers

 30. Roofs All roof surfaces subject to 300 maintenance workers

 Awnings and canopies

 Fabric construction supported by 5 a lightweight rigid skeleton nonreduceable structure

 All other construction 20

 Ordinary flat, pitched, and 20 curved roofs

 Primary roof members, exposed to a work floor Single panel point of lower chord of roof trusses or any point along primary structural members supporting roofs: Over manufacturing, storage 2,000 warehouses, and repair garages

 All other occupancies 300

 Roofs used for other special Note l Note l purposes

 Roofs used for promenade purposes 60

 Roofs used for roof gardens or 100 assembly purposes

 31. Schools Classrooms 40 1,000 Corridors above first floor 80 1,000 First-floor corridors 100 1,000

 32. Scuttles, skylight ribs and - 200 accessible ceilings

 33. Sidewalks, vehicular 250d 8,000e driveways and yards, subject to trucking

 34. Skating rinks 100 -

 35. Stadiums and arenas Bleachers 100c - Fixed seats (fastened to floor) 60c

 36. Stairs and exits Note f One- and two-family dwellings 40 All other 100

 37. Storage warehouses (shall be designed for heavier loads if required for anticipated storage) Heavy 250 Light 125

 38. Stores Retail First floor 100 1,000 Upper floors 75 1,000 Wholesale, all floors 125 1,000

 39. Vehicle barriers See Section 1607.7.3

 40. Walkways and elevated 60 - platforms (other than exitways)

 41. Yards and terraces, 100 - pedestrians

 For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 square inch = 645.16 mm2, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2, 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479 kN/m2, 1 pound = 0.004448 kN, 1 pound per cubic foot = 16 kg/m3

 a. Floors in garages or portions of buildings used for the storage of motor vehicles shall be designed for the uniformly distributed live loads of Table 1607.1 or the following concentrated loads: (1) for garages restricted to vehicles accommodating not more than nine passengers, 3,000 pounds acting on an area of 4.5 inches by 4.5 inches; (2) for mechanical parking structures without slab or deck which are used for storing passenger vehicles only, 2,250 pounds per wheel.

 b. The loading applies to stack room floors that support nonmobile, double-faced library bookstacks, subject to the following limitations:

 1. The nominal bookstack unit height shall not exceed 90 inches;

 2. The nominal shelf depth shall not exceed 12 inches for each face; and

 3. Parallel rows of double-faced bookstacks shall be separated by aisles not less than 36 inches wide.

 c. Design in accordance with the ICC Standard on Bleachers, Folding and Telescopic Seating and Grandstands.

 d. Other uniform loads in accordance with an approved method which contains provisions for truck loadings shall also be considered where appropriate.

 e. The concentrated wheel load shall be applied on an area of 20 square inches.

 f. Minimum concentrated load on stair treads (on area of 4 square inches) is 300 pounds.

 g. This loading condition need only be considered for canopies that meet all of the following conditions.

 i. The upper surface is sloped less than 30 degrees (0.5 rad) from horizontal; and

 ii. The canopy is located adjacent to a right of way or assembly area; and

 iii. The canopy is located less than 10 feet (3048 mm) above the ground at all points, or less than 10 feet (3048 mm) below an adjacent roof, or less than 10 feet (3048 mm) from operable openings above or adjacent to the level of the canopy.

 For other canopies, roof loads as specified in this chapter shall be applied.

 Canopy is defined in Section 3105.2.

 h. See Section 1604.8.3 for decks attached to exterior walls.

 i. Attics without storage are those where the maximum clear height between the joist and rafter is less than 42 inches, or where there are not two or more adjacent trusses with the same web configuration capable of containing a rectangle 42 inches high by 2 feet wide, or greater, located within the plane of the truss. For attics without storage, this live load need not be assumed to act concurrently with any other live load requirements.

 j. For attics with limited storage and constructed with trusses, this live load need only be applied to those portions of the bottom chord where there are two or more adjacent trusses with the same web configuration capable of containing a rectangle 42 inches high by 2 feet wide or greater, located within the plane of the truss. The rectangle shall fit between the top of the bottom chord and the bottom of any other truss member, provided that each of the following criteria is met:

 i. The attic area is accessible by a pull-down stairway or framed opening in accordance with Section 1209.2, and

 ii. The truss shall have a bottom chord pitch less than 2:12.

 iii. Bottom chords of trusses shall be designed for the greater of actual imposed dead load or 10 psf, uniformly distributed over the entire span.

 k. Attic spaces served by a fixed stair shall be designed to support the minimum live load specified for habitable attics and sleeping rooms.

 l. Roofs used for other special purposes shall be designed for appropriate loads as approved by the building official.

m. Decks and balconies that are accessed only from a dwelling unit or private office must comply with live load requirements of the occupancy served. Other decks and balconies are considered "other assembly areas".

***

 Section 11. Section 3016 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, are amended as follows:

 ***

 SECTION 3016

 NEW INSTALLATIONS-CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS

 ***

 3016.12 Elevator car to accommodate ambulance stretcher. In buildings four stories or more above grade plane ~~or four or more stories below grade plane~~and in buildings that are required to have an elevator and contain Group R-1, R-2 or I occupancies on a level other than the level of exit discharge, at least one elevator shall be provided for fire department emergency access to all floors. The elevator car shall be of such a size and arrangement to accommodate a 24-inch by 84-inch (610 mm by 2134 mm) ambulance stretcher in the horizontal, open position and shall be identified by the international symbol for emergency medical services (star of life). The symbol shall not be less than 3 inches (76 mm) high and shall be placed inside on both sides of the hoistway door frame. The elevator car shall be supplied with power from a legally required standby or emergency system. "Connection ahead of the service disconnecting means" in accordance with Seattle Electrical Code Section 701.11(E) is permitted as a source of legally required standby power.

Note: The stretcher-sized elevator car may also serve as an accessible means of egress as required by Section 1007.2.1 of the Seattle Building Code.

 ***

 Section 12. Section 3020 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 SECTION 3020

 NEW INSTALLATIONS-CONSTRUCTION OF HOISTWAYS AND MACHINE ROOMS

 ***

 3020.2 Elevator equipment and machine rooms. Elevator controls and machinery other than driving machines and governors shall be located in a room dedicated exclusively to elevator equipment. Listed electrical equipment that serves the machine room is permitted to be installed in machine rooms. Air conditioning equipment is permitted to be installed in machine rooms in accordance with ASME A17.1, 2.8.4.

 Elevator equipment and machine rooms shall be enclosed by fire barriers and horizontal assemblies with at least a 1-hour fire- resistance rating. Machine rooms in high-rise buildings shall have a fire-resistance rating at least equal to that required for the hoistway. Exterior walls and roofs are not required to have a fire-resistance rating unless required by other sections of this code.

 ***

 Section 13. Section 3021 of the Seattle Building Code, which Code was adopted by Ordinance 122528 and which adoption is reflected in Section 22.100.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is amended as follows:

 SECTION 3021

 NEW INSTALLATIONS - CONSTRUCTION OF FLOORS (ASME 17.1, 2.1.3.3)

 3021.1 New installations-Construction of floors. All new elevator hoistways and machine rooms shall comply with ASME A17.1, 2.1.3.4, Construction of Floors, as amended below.

 ASME 2.1.3.4 Construction of Floors. Floors shall ~~be~~have a concrete or metal surface without perforations that will resist absorption of oil, grease and similar materials.

 ***

 Section 14. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Maureen Traxler/mt

 DPD - 2008 SBC ORD

 June 20, 2008

 Version #6

```
