

********

**Council Bill Number: 116267**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122747**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Educational and Developmental Services; approving amendments to an implementation and evaluation plan originally approved by Ordinance 121815, as required by Ordinance 121529, and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 21, 2008
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Clark, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 31, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 30, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 7, 2008
   
**Committee:** Public Safety, Human Services and Education
   
**Sponsor:** BURGESS
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, SCHOOLS, EDUCATION, SCHOOL-DISTRICT-1, CHILDREN, YOUTHS, FAMILY, STATING-POLICY, AUDITS, PLANNING

**Fiscal Note:**116267

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122747](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122747.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to Educational and Developmental Services; approving amendments to an implementation and evaluation plan originally approved by Ordinance 121815, as required by Ordinance 121529, and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 121529, the City placed before voters a proposition to authorize the City to levy regular property taxes for up to seven years in excess of the 101% limitation and any other limitation on levies in Chapter 84.55 RCW for the purpose of providing City services, including providing Seattle School District public school students, Seattle youth, and their families with Educational and Developmental Services; and

 WHEREAS, on September 14, 2004, the City's voters approved that proposition; and

 WHEREAS, Section 7 of Ordinance 121529 states that the voter-approved additional taxes deposited into the 2004 Families and Education Subfund of the Educational and Developmental Services Fund, and interest earnings on those taxes, may be spent only in accordance with an implementation and evaluation plan (the "Plan") approved by ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, Section 7 of Ordinance 121529 also states that the Plan will set forth the criteria, measurable outcomes and methodology by which programs funded by those additional taxes and interest earnings will be selected and evaluated; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 121815 approved the original Plan that set forth the aforementioned criteria, measurable outcomes and methodology; and

 WHEREAS, Section 7 of Ordinance 121529 states that the Plan may be amended by ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, academic results from the Plan's 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 high risk youth program component were modest, and new data have emerged demonstrating the long-term impact of academically-focused, 9th grade transitional programming; and

 WHEREAS, in order to maximize the Families and Education Levy's return on investment, the City wishes to amend the Plan to shift a portion of the Plan's focus to a high school academic achievement strategy; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Families and Education Levy Implementation and Evaluation Plan, originally approved by Ordinance 121815, as amended and attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance is approved as called for by Section 7 of Ordinance 121529.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment:

 Exhibit A - Families and Education Levy Implementation and Evaluation Plan

 Gary T. Smith:gts

 DON Families & Education Levy Implementation Plan ORD

 06/09/08

 Version #4 Families and Education Levy

 Implementation and Evaluation Plan

 Exhibit A

 Overview -

 This implementation and evaluation plan sets forth the criteria, measurable outcomes and methodology by which Families and Education Levy (FEL) programs will be selected and evaluated. The objectives of the Levy programs are set out in criteria and measurable outcomes described below. Targets will be used to measure the success of the Levy and to provide information for mid-course corrections.

 In summary, all FEL programs will be selected and evaluated using the Outcomes Funding framework developed by the Rensselaerville Institute to guide levy investments. In this approach the City is viewed as an investor and has defined three city-wide outcomes that should result from the investment of FEL proceeds:

 * School Readiness - as measured by a kindergarten readiness assessment and the first grade Developmental Reading Assessment

 * Academic Achievement and Reduction of the Academic Achievement Gap- as measured by the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) and second grade Developmental Reading Assessment

 * Dropout Reduction - as measured by the number of students who stay in school and graduate

 To achieve the above results, the City will set clear numeric targets for each FEL program and will define and track indicators that measure progress toward targets. These indicators include, but are not limited to:

 * Families attending parent/teacher conferences and other school events

 * Students progressing on-time to the next grade level

 * Students improving attendance

 * Reductions in student disciplinary actions

 * Three and four-year-olds who meet developmental standards

 * Trends in key health indicators that impact academic performance including chronic conditions, births to teens and immunizations

 The outcome funding framework includes the tracking and verification of results as the key tool of program evaluation. The City will consistently review progress toward targets and make mid-course corrections. Targets will be updated annually based on interim results.

 Levy funded programs will rely on approaches that have demonstrated success at achieving results. Evaluation of programs will verify results in two ways:

 1) Quality control and course correction. Periodic, in-depth analysis of Levy funded programs will be conducted to provide direction for course correction.

 2) Overall reporting of the Families and Education Levy results. Annual reports will be provided to the Mayor, City Council and citizens identifying services and the key results. Reports will identify progress on key indicators, and will be disaggregated by race, ethnicity, refugee/immigrant status, free and reduced lunch eligibility, English proficiency and school.

 Following are the criteria, measurable outcomes and methodology by which FEL programs will be selected and evaluated:

 Preschool and Early Childhood Education (Early Learning)

 Criteria:

 * High-quality preschool will be provided to a target group of low- income four-year-olds in southeast and southwest Seattle that will ready them for kindergarten and enhance their long-term school success.

 * Two Early Learning Networks (ELNs)-one in southeast and one in southwest Seattle-will align existing programs and outcomes, achieve greater gains for children and families than simply funding unconnected programs, and will provide a structure for multiple stakeholders to combine their resources to fund preschools and other Early Learning services, including:

 degrees Professional development for preschool and child care teachers in southeast and southwest Seattle to improve their ability to prepare young children for kindergarten

 degrees Subsidies for some children in ELN preschools to provide full-day services

 degrees Services to parents, schools and community organizations to assist children from the ELN neighborhoods in making successful transitions to kindergarten

 degrees Home visits to low-income families with toddlers who are not in preschool programs, to build the families' skills in promoting literacy

 degrees Increased compensation for preschool staff in the southeast and southwest neighborhoods to reduce turnover and reward professional development

 degrees The southeast ELN in 2005/2006 is defined as neighborhoods east of Elliott Bay and the Duwamish that are south of I-90, and in 2006/2007 and for the remainder of the Levy term, the southeast ELN is defined as neighborhoods east of Elliot Bay and the Duwamish that are south of Madison Street. The southwest ELN is defined as neighborhoods (including Harbor Island) bounded by Elliott Bay on the north, the City's southern border on the south, the Duwamish on the east, and 35th Avenue SW on the west.

 Measurable Outcomes:

 Investments in Early Learning will contribute toward the city-wide targets for School Readiness and Academic Achievement and Reduction of the Academic Achievement Gap.

 Methodology:

 * Preschools will be selected through a competitive process and could be located in both schools and community-based organizations in southeast and southwest Seattle.

 * Preschools may co-enroll children served by other funds such as state or city child care subsidies, ECEAP, and/or private pay, to maximize the total number of children served, up to 700 each year.

 * Contractors will be required to use tested curricula, which will include embedded assessments of children's progress to be administered three times each year.

 * Data will drive course corrections: kindergarten readiness assessments conducted by the school district and curricula-linked assessments conducted by preschool teachers.

 Family Support and Family Involvement Services

 Criteria:

 * Family Support Workers (FSWs) will serve elementary and K-8 schools and will support academic achievement among high-need students:

 degrees FSWs will be part of a multidisciplinary team-composed of school staff and staff from community programs-that will identify those students at greatest academic risk.

 degrees FSWs will directly engage families to help students achieve academically and will, as needed, refer students and families to other community resources to meet basic needs.

 * The Family Partnership Program Coordinator will be funded by the Levy. This position was previously funded by the School District.

 * The remaining school-based Family Involvement funding will be distributed through a citywide competitive grant process available to all elementary and K-8 schools.

 * Schools that apply for school-based family involvement "SBFI" grants will describe goals for family involvement in their schools focused on high need populations and analyzed by ethnicity. The $250,000 of community-based funding will be awarded through a competitive process to organizations that serve high-need populations identified in the SBFI grants.

 * The City and District will jointly develop the grant process and allocation of community-based family involvement services.

 * If one program coordinator administers both the school-based and community-based program the cost of the program coordinator should be allocated to both programs.

 * School-based Family Involvement will assist schools to implement partnerships that involve families in their children's learning at school and at home, and improve academic achievement.

 * Community-based Family Involvement will build strong links among schools, community organizations, refugee/immigrant families and families of color to further academic achievement.

 Measurable Outcomes:

 Family Support and Family Involvement investments will contribute toward the city-wide targets for Academic Achievement and Reduction of the Academic Achievement Gap.

 Methodology:

 * The City and the Seattle School District will identify up to ten high-need elementary schools in southeast and southwest Seattle that will receive for the first year of the Levy, the most concentrated investment of FSWs with at least one FTE assigned to each school. All other schools will receive FSW services based on their level of need. All schools will have access to FSW services.

 * Family Involvement (school-based and community-based) will focus on research-driven activities that positively impact academic achievement.

 * Data will drive course corrections: academic achievement indicators, Direct Reading Assessments, and WASL scores.

 Middle School Support and Out-of-School Time Activities

 Criteria:

 * Middle School Support (MSS) programs will provide school-based services for middle school students during school hours.

 degrees MSS programs will provide mental health services, social/emotional counseling and truancy/dropout prevention and will use evidence-based interventions and treatment approaches to address truancy, substance abuse, behavior problems, and stressors such as death, divorce, anxiety and/or depression that negatively impact student achievement.

 * Out-of-school time programs will provide numerous services for students, and families, to improve academic achievement at four elementary and ten middle school Community Learning Center (CLC) sites that are school or community-based:

 degrees Using schools as a hub, CLCs will provide a comprehensive set of services, activities and learning experiences that are culturally relevant and tailored to the needs of students and families. They will include homework and tutoring support focused on math and literacy, English as a second language instruction, project- based learning, technology activities and numerous other developmentally appropriate learning opportunities.

 degrees CLCs will be modeled on best practices of after-school programs that have helped students achieved academically.

 degrees Out-of-school time activities at the selected sites will be coordinated by school teams to maximize learning by connecting to students' school day.

 degrees CLC programs will engage families and will provide community resource and referral information as well as parent and family activities during out-of-school time that promote academic achievement.

 * After-school activity programs (ASAP) will be provided at nine K-8 schools, which are not CLC sites.

 * FEL investments will also help support athletics programs for middle school youth.

 Measurable Outcomes:

 Investments in Middle School Support and Out-of-School Time will contribute toward the city-wide targets for Academic Achievement and Reduction of the Academic Achievement Gap.

 Methodology:

 * Out-of-School Time services will be delivered by community-based providers, selected through a competitive Request for Investment (RFI) process.

 * MSS services will be delivered by both school staff and community- based providers. Community-based providers will be selected through a competitive Request for Qualifications (RFQ) or Request for Investment (RFI) process.

 * Up to four high-need middle schools may be innovation sites for the coordination and implementation of multiple Levy-funded programs-- including, where applicable, MSS, Out-of-School Time, Student Health and High Risk Youth. Instead of setting result targets for these schools by individual programs, they will have whole-school targets for the total FEL investment they receive.

 * Students will be identified and referred to the appropriate direct services and program participants' progress will be tracked.

 * Data will drive course corrections: academic achievement indicators and WASL scores.

 Support for High-Risk Middle and High School Age Youth (High-Risk Youth)

 Criteria:

 * Support for High Risk Youth will be provided through the Seattle Team for Youth (STFY) program, which provides case management to keep high-risk youth in school, or return them to school, and improve their academic achievement:

 degrees Case management services help youth navigate the school and court systems and access tutoring, mentoring, heath, mental health, employment, and drug and alcohol services.

 degrees The program brings together community-based organizations, with the Seattle Police Department and the Seattle Public Schools, to work collaboratively toward reducing the dropout rate, improving education outcomes and reducing juvenile delinquency.

 * High School Achievement Strategy programs will provide academically focused school-based services for at-risk high school students during and after school hours, and during days when school is not in session.

 * High School Achievement Strategy programs will be modeled on best practices that have helped students achieve academically, including 9th grade transition programs, staff support to students, and extended learning time.

 * Extended day and year programs will provide numerous services for students to improve academic achievement, including basic skill building, credit retrieval, and WASL preparation.

 Measurable Outcomes:

 Investments in High Risk Youth will contribute toward the city-wide targets for Academic Achievement and Dropout Reduction and Reduction of the Academic Achievement Gap.

 Investments in High School Academic Achievement programs will contribute toward the city-wide targets for Academic Achievement, Reduction of the Academic Achievement Gap, Dropout Prevention, and Increase Graduation Rates.

 Methodology:

 * The STFY program will contract with community-based organizations to achieve Academic Achievement and Reduction of the Academic Achievement Gap and Dropout Reduction targets through culturally appropriate case management for high risk students at schools with the highest dropout rates including Aki Kurose, Meany, Mercer, Denny, Madison,Cleveland, Franklin, Rainier Beach, Chief Sealth, West Seattle, Southlake, Marshall, and Interagency.

 * An increased presence in Seattle Public Schools and the school- based health centers will integrate case managers into school intervention teams, increase identification of students, and facilitate referrals and service planning.

 * Youth with risk factors for dropping out of school will be identified earlier and contractors will be expected to demonstrate how they will increase referrals from school personnel from 37% to a minimum of 50% of program participants.

 * Data will drive course corrections: academic achievement indicators, information on truancy and discipline, and WASL scores.

 * High School Achievement Strategy programs will be delivered by school staff.

 * The City and the Seattle School District will select up to four Seattle School District high schools for investment based on the number and concentration of students with risk indicators for dropping out of school. These schools will be asked to complete a Request for Investment (RFI) process that will ask schools to propose how Levy funds would be integrated into the schools' efforts to identify at-risk students and implement academic intervention strategies based on a best practices summary compiled by the Office for Education.

 * Students will be identified with research-based indicators and referred to the appropriate academically focused school-based services. Program participants' progress will be periodically tracked using formative assessments and benchmarks, such as course completion and promotion to 10th grade.

 * Data will drive course corrections: academic achievement indicators, such as credits earned, information on attendance and discipline, and WASL scores.

 Student Health Services

 Criteria:

 * Student health services will provide access to primary care for students in all regular high schools and selected middle schools:

 degrees The medical focus will be on reproductive health care, immunizations, well child care, and chronic conditions such as asthma.

 degrees Mental health counseling and services will be available for all students, including evidence-based evaluation and treatment of depression.

 * New interventions will focus on students most at risk of dropping out of school or transferring to alternative settings:

 degrees Screenings will aim for earliest possible identification of students at risk.

 degrees Interventions will identify students to provide the appropriate level of counseling, case management, and follow-up interventions.

 * FEL-supported school nurses will play leadership and planning roles in identifying schools' priorities in population-based, preventive services:

 degrees Nurses will screen for students at risk of dropping out.

 degrees Through broader participation in school-wide or neighborhood health campaigns, nurses will promote immunizations and well child care.

 Measurable Outcomes:

 Investments in Health Services will maintain access to primary care at all regular high schools and high-need middle schools and contribute toward the citywide targets for Academic Achievement and Reduction of the Academic Achievement Gap and Dropout Reduction.

 Methodology:

 * Health centers will align with other Levy investments to maximize mental health and behavioral counseling, case management, and follow- up interventions that support academic achievement and dropout reduction.

 * Health centers will collaborate with the District on more intentional screening to identify students at risk of dropping out.

 * School nurses will contribute more directly to improved academic results and population health.

 * Data will drive course corrections: health indicators, academic achievement indicators and WASL scores.

 Crossing Guards

 The Executive is directed to develop a proposal and recommendation on his program, and submit it to the Council, by the end of 2005.

 Exhibit A to the Ordinance

```
