

********

**Council Bill Number: 116270**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122754**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent to enter into a Concession Agreement with Seattle Court Sports Unlimited for the purpose of constructing and operating an indoor/outdoor tennis facility at Warren G. Magnuson Park.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 28, 2008
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 30, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 30, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 14, 2008
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, MAGNUSON-PARK, SPORTS, TENNIS, RECREATIONAL-FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**116270

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122754](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122754.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent to enter into a Concession Agreement with Seattle Court Sports Unlimited for the purpose of constructing and operating an indoor/outdoor tennis facility at Warren G. Magnuson Park.

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation ("DPR") has jurisdiction over, and manages Warren G. Magnuson Park ("Magnuson Park"), including the buildings therein; and

 WHEREAS, in 2006, Seattle Court Sports Unlimited ("SCSU") was formed for the explicit purpose of expanding recreational opportunities and programs in the Puget Sound Region and specifically at Magnuson Park; and

 WHEREAS, in 2005, DPR issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) to find partners to expand Magnuson Park's public recreation opportunities, including among other things a tennis center; and

 WHEREAS, subsequent to the RFP process, in 2006 SCSU independently submitted a proposal to DPR for the development of an indoor/outdoor tennis facility that was accepted by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent") as having merit; and

 WHEREAS, DPR and SCSU are both committed to providing high-quality recreational programs to the citizens of the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, DPR and SCSU desire to collaborate in order to achieve their shared long-term vision and goals with respect to the development of recreation activities at Magnuson Park; and

 WHEREAS, the parties agree that Seattle citizens will benefit from SCSU's financial and program commitments to develop a tennis facility and public tennis programs, and that the public benefits associated with SCSU's new facility are consistent with those offered at the City-managed Amy Yee Tennis Center; and

 WHEREAS, DPR and SCSU wish to enter into a long-term Concession Agreement for the purpose of setting forth the terms and conditions under which SCSU will construct and operate a tennis facility, including the proposed terms and conditions under which the construction project (the "Project") shall be financed, constructed, and operated;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent or his or her designee is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City, a twenty-year Concession Agreement with SCSU, in substantially the form attached hereto as Attachment 1, with such minor additions, modifications, or deletions as the Mayor or said Superintendent deem necessary or advisable to carry out the intent of this Ordinance.

 Section 2. SMC 3.26.041.B.2 or any successor ordinance authorizing the Superintendent to extend the parties' agreement with respect to the subject matter hereof without City Council approval shall not apply to the contract between the City and SCSU.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Concession Agreement Between the City Of Seattle and Seattle Court Sports Unlimited, INC.

 Exhibit A: Legal Description

 Exhibit B: Map of the Premises with Dimensions

 Exhibit C: Conceptual Plan for Initial Improvements and Roadway and Parking Replacement

 Exhibit D: USA Deed

 Exhibit E: Insurance Requirements

 Eric Friedli/Valles

 DPR Magnuson SCSU Tennis Agreement ORD

 July 7, 2008

 Version #3

 1

 CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 THIS CONCESSION AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("the City"), a first class city of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent"), and SEATTLE COURT SPORTS UNLIMITED, INC. ("Concessionaire"), a Washington corporation.

 RECITALS

 A. Whereas, the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation ("DPR") has jurisdiction over and manages certain land formerly known as US Naval Air Station Sand Point/Magnuson Park ("Magnuson Park"), and deeded to the City by quitclaim deed recorded on May 4, 1999, in the records of King County at Recording Number 9905041194 (the "USA Deed"); and

 B. Whereas, Recreation Use Covenant No. 3 of the USA Deed provides that the property "shall not be sold, leased, assigned or otherwise disposed of except to another eligible governmental agency . . . However, nothing in this provision shall preclude the [City] from providing recreational facilities and services compatible with the approved application, through concession agreements entered into with third parties, provided prior concurrence to such agreements is obtained in writing from the Secretary of the Interior;" and

 C. Whereas, the City and Concessionaire desire to provide a participant tennis facility as more specifically described below on a portion of Magnuson Park for the use and benefit of the general public; and

 D. Whereas, the City is satisfied that provision of these additional services and facilities at Magnuson Park is in the City's best interest; and

 E. Whereas, the Secretary of Interior's delegated representative at the National Park Service has concurred in writing with the issuance

 of this Agreement.

 AGREEMENT

 NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual covenants contained herein, the City and Concessionaire covenant and agree as follows:

 1. Concession Agreement Data; Exhibits. The following terms have the following meanings, except as otherwise specifically modified in this Concession Agreement ("Agreement"):

 1.1 Premises. The Premises available for Concessionaire's use and occupancy under this Agreement consist of:

 A. The building commonly known as Magnuson Park Building 41 (the "Building"), the street address of which is 6327 NE 74th Street, Seattle, WA, 98105 and which contains 2,083 square feet, more or less; and

 B. 72,550 square feet of land, more or less, in Magnuson Park lying immediately north of the Magnuson Community Center (the "Land").

 The Premises are situated on the real property legally described on Exhibit A and are depicted on Exhibit B.

 1.2 Effective Date. The date when the Superintendent signs this Agreement.

 1.3 Possession Date. The earlier of the date when Concessionaire receives a building permit from the Seattle Department of Planning and Development ("DPD") to construct the Initial Improvements or authorization from the Superintendent to commence the Roadway Improvement project, each as defined in Sections 7.1 and 7.2.

 1.4 Concession Fee Commencement Date. The date DPD issues a certificate of occupancy for the Initial Improvements.

 1.5 Expiration Date. The date that is twenty (20) years from the Concession Fee Commencement Date, unless this Agreement is extended pursuant to Section 3.2.

 1.6 Concession Fee and Additional Charges. The term "Concession Fee" as used herein, means the Base Concession Fee and the Percentage Concession Fee.

 1.6.1 Base Concession Fee. $1.00 per square foot, annually, for the Land and $9.00 per square foot, annually, for the Building. The parties agree that the total initial annual Base Concession Fee is $91,297.00.

 1.6.2 Percentage Concession Fee. Ten percent (10%) of the total compensation Concessionaire receives from short-term rentals of the Premises to third parties for corporate conferences, meetings, promotions and similar events ("Third-Party Rentals").

 1.6.3 Additional Charges. Whether or not so designated, all other sums due from Concessionaire under this Concession Agreement shall constitute Additional Charges, payable when specified in this Agreement and if not specified, then upon Concessionaire's receipt of the City's invoice therefor.

 1.6.4 Gross Receipts. As used herein, Gross Receipts means and includes the total income of Concessionaire and every other person or entity conducting business in, on or from the Premises for or on behalf of Concessionaire including, but not limited to, the proceeds from all Third-Party Rentals; retail and wholesale sales and rentals of services or merchandise of any kind whatsoever, for cash, barter, exchange or credit, regardless of collections; sales from vending devices; all deposits not refunded to purchasers; fees; commissions; catalog sales; and rental receipts. An installment or credit sale shall be deemed to have been made for the full price on the date of sale regardless of when payment is received. The term Gross Receipts does not mean or include the amount of money refunded to, and not merely credited to the account of, customers who return or do not accept services or merchandise sold by Concessionaire; any exchange of merchandise between stores or the central warehouses of Concessionaire where such exchange is made solely for the convenient operation of Concessionaire's business and not for the purpose of consummating a sale made in, on or from the Premises; returns to shippers or manufacturers; any discount allowed by Concessionaire to customers; or the Washington State Sales Tax and any other tax imposed by any government agency directly on sales.

 1.7 Notice & Delivery Addresses.

 To City: The City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 Attention: Manager

 Contracts and Business Resources

 6310 NE 74th Street

 Seattle, WA 98105

 To Concessionaire: Before Occupancy:

 c/o Scott Marshall

 Managing Member, SCSU

 1048 NE 100th Street

 Seattle, WA 98125

 After Occupancy: At the Premises

 1.8 Exhibits. The following exhibits are made a part of this Agreement:

 Exhibit A: Legal Description

 Exhibit B: Map of the Premises with Dimensions

 Exhibit C: Conceptual Plan for Initial Improvements (including Replacement Parking) and Roadway Improvements

 Exhibit D: USA Deed

 Exhibit E: Insurance Requirements

 2. Premises.

 2.1 Grant. Subject to all of the terms and conditions contained herein, City hereby grants to Concessionaire and Concessionaire hereby accepts from City, the exclusive right throughout the Term to use the Premises to operate indoor and outdoor public tennis facilities, for a fee.

 2.2 Conditions in USA Deed. This Agreement and the obligations of the parties hereto are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the USA Deed, Exhibit D. Concessionaire shall use the Premises in strict accordance with all terms and conditions imposed by the United States of America and set forth in the USA Deed that pertain to its use including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions regarding hazardous materials, lead based paints, asbestos, and historic resources contained in the paragraphs numbered 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 of the USA Deed. In the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions of the USA Deed and any provision of this Agreement, the terms of the USA Deed shall control. Violations of the said terms and conditions of the USA Deed may be grounds for reversion to the United States of America of the Premises, in the discretion of the United States of America and with no compensation to either Concessionaire or the City from the United States of America.

 2.3 Condition. Concessionaire accepts the Premises in their "as is" condition. Concessionaire acknowledges that the Building may contain Hazardous Substances (as defined in Section 8.8), particularly including lead paint and asbestos and agrees that any improvements to the Premises shall comply with all applicable laws relating to the abatement and disposal of Hazardous Substances.

 2.4 License. Concessionaire and its licensees, invitees and customers may use the public areas of Magnuson Park (the "Park") as the same may be constituted from time to time, in common with the general public and other Park occupants and their respective licensees, invitees, customers and employees. City shall at all times have exclusive control and management of the Park; provided, however, that the City agrees to exercise such control and management of the Park in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with Concessionaire's business operations on the Premises. In addition, for so long as is reasonably necessary to carry out the work, Concessionaire and its licensees, invitees and contractors shall have the right to use portions of the Park to construct the Roadway Improvements as depicted generally on Exhibit C.

 2.5 Permitted Use. Commencing on the Possession Date, Concessionaire shall use the Premises to construct and, upon receipt of a certificate of occupancy therefor, to operate upon the Land an indoor tennis facility containing six or more regulation-sized tennis courts, and four or more regulation-sized outdoor tennis courts. Concessionaire shall use the Building for purposes incidental to the operation of the tennis facility, including storage, offices, locker rooms and meeting rooms. Concessionaire may sell food and beverages at the Premises; provided, however, that in no event shall Concessionaire conduct any food service operation that, if open to the general public, has any interior seating area dedicated exclusively for use by food and beverage customers with twenty (20) or more seats.

 With the Superintendent's prior approval, Concessionaire may engage in Third-Party Rentals of all or part of the Premises on an intermittent basis involving not more than five (5) consecutive days for any one event or, collectively, for not more than thirty (30) days in any one calendar year, provided such use is consistent with the Permitted Use of the Premises. Concessionaire shall include the process for selection of individuals or groups to use the Premises in the annual Management and Operations Plan, together with the standard terms and conditions of any proposed use agreements.

 2.6 Continuous Operation. Concessionaire shall conduct its business operations on the Premises continuously throughout the Term and shall keep the Premises open for business during the usual business hours of each and every business day as is customary for businesses of like character except for closures for remodeling, repair or renovation that the Superintendent approves, in advance.

 2.7 Public Program Requirement. Throughout the Term Concessionaire shall provide open court time, free of charge, to youth (defined as children between the ages of 10 and 18) and seniors (defined as adults 65 or over) in an amount equal to or greater than that offered by the City's Amy Yee Tennis Center, but in no event less than a total of 8.75 hours per week. Concessionaire shall propose for the Superintendent's approval, the proposed schedule and terms and conditions for open court time.

 3. Concession Agreement Term.

 3.1 Term. This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and terminate twenty (20) years from the Concession Fee Commencement Date unless the Agreement is terminated earlier as provided herein. On the Possession Date, Concessionaire shall have exclusive access to the Premises in order for Concessionaire to design and construct the Initial Improvements.

 3.2 Extended Term. Provided Concessionaire is not in default under this Agreement and has continuously used and occupied the Premises for the Permitted Use, Concessionaire shall have the option to extend the Term of this Agreement for two (2) additional terms of five (5) years, each, on the same terms and conditions as are set forth herein except that the renewed Concession Agreement shall contain no further renewal option. Concessionaire shall exercise its option(s) to extend the Term by giving the City written notice of its intention to do so at the address specified in Section 27, at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the then-current Term.

 4. Concession Fee.

 4.1 Concession Fee Payment. Beginning on the Concession Fee Commencement Date and thereafter, in advance, on the 20th day of each month, Concessionaire covenants to pay the City at the address and to the account the City specifies, without notice or demand, in lawful money of the United States, the monthly amount of the Base Concession Fee together with any Percentage Concession Fee due from Third-Party Rentals that occurred during the immediately preceding month. Concessionaire shall pay the Percentage Concession Fee due for the last month of the Term within thirty (30) days from the date this Agreement expires or is terminated. The Concession Fee and, if appropriate, as reasonably determined by City, Additional Charges shall be prorated on a daily basis for any partial month during the Concession Agreement Term. Concessionaire's obligation to pay the Concession Fee shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 4.2 Adjustments to Base Concession Fee. Beginning on the first anniversary of the Concession Fee Commencement Date and every anniversary thereafter until the expiration or termination of this Agreement (each, a "Concession Fee Adjustment Date"), the Base Concession Fee shall be increased to an amount determined by multiplying the Base Concession Fee payable during the year immediately preceding the Concession Fee Adjustment Date by a fraction, the denominator of which shall be the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (All Items) in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton region (1982-84 = 100) ("CPI"), published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, in effect as of the date which is twelve (12) months prior to the Concession Fee Adjustment Date, and the numerator of which shall be the CPI in effect as of the date immediately preceding the Concession Fee Adjustment Date.

 By way of example, only, if the CPI on the commencement date of this Concession Agreement is 100 and the CPI most recently issued prior to the first Concession Fee Adjustment Date is 110 and the annual Base Concession Fee due under this Concession Agreement is $60,000.00, then the total CPI adjustment would be 110% and the annual Base Concession Fee under this Concession Agreement would increase to $66,000.00 effective as of the Concession Fee Adjustment Date.

 If the CPI is discontinued, the parties shall agree upon another similar index to be used to calculate the contemplated adjustment and, in the event of an inability to agree, the parties shall request the American Arbitration Association or its successor to appoint a qualified arbitrator to establish an appropriate adjustment standard to measure inflation.

 Notwithstanding the foregoing, beginning on the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Concession Fee Commencement Date and every five (5) years thereafter (each such period a "Concession Fee Review Date"), the City shall have the option to adjust the Base Concession Fee by either (i) the percentage increase in the CPI during the preceding year or (ii) the percentage increase in Concessionaire's Gross Receipts from the "Revenue Base Year" to the relevant "Revenue Adjustment Year," as defined and illustrated in the table below:

 Concession Fee Adjustment Date Revenue Base Year Revenue Adjustment Year Year 10 Sixth full calendar year after the Concession Fee Commencement Date Ninth full calendar year after the Concession Fee Commencement Date Year 15 Eleventh full calendar year after the Concession Fee Commencement Date Fourteenth full calendar year after the Concession Fee Commencement Date Year 20 (in the event the Agreement is extended) Sixteenth full calendar year after the Concession Fee Commencement Date Nineteenth full calendar year after the Concession Fee Commencement Date Year 25 (in the event the Agreement is extended) Twenty-first full calendar year after the Concession Fee Commencement Date Twenty-fourth full calendar year after the Concession Fee Commencement Date

 By way of further example, only, if the CPI on the ninth (9th) anniversary of the Concession Fee Commencement Date is 100 and the CPI most recently issued prior to the tenth anniversary of the Concession Fee Commencement Date is 110 and the annual Base Concession Fee then due under this Agreement were $250,000.00, the City could increase the annual Base Concession Fee 110% to $275,000.00 as of the tenth (10th) anniversary date. Alternatively, if Concessionaire's Gross Receipts were $600,000.00 for the sixth (6th) full calendar year of the Agreement and $900,000.00 for the ninth (9th) full calendar year then, in lieu of the CPI adjustment for that year, the City could elect to increase the Base Concession Fee 150% to $375,000.00, effective on the tenth (10th) anniversary. The CPI adjustment formula would thereafter be applied each year as described above, until the next Concession Fee Review Date.

 Under no circumstances shall the Base Concession Fee, as adjusted for any period, be less than Base Concession Fee payable during the immediately preceding period.

 4.3 Roadway Improvement Project Offset. Throughout the Term, Concessionaire shall be entitled to apply as an offset against up to twenty percent (20%) of each monthly Base Concession Fee payment the actual remaining unamortized costs expended by Concessionaire and directly related to the design, permitting and construction of the Roadway Improvement Project, as depicted generally on Exhibit C, to a maximum of $200,000.00. These improvements shall generally be limited to roadway and sidewalk construction and related street tree, landscaping and lighting improvements. These costs may include hard and soft costs such as, but not limited to, labor, materials, architecture and engineering fees, permits, licensing fees, equipment costs or rental fees, construction or project management fees, sales tax, and consultants' fees.

 4.3.1 Superintendent's Approval of Alterations Budget. Prior to commencing construction of the Roadway Improvement Project, Concessionaire shall submit to the Superintendent a budget for the same (the "Construction Budget"). Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the Construction Budget and subject to the provisions of Section 4.3.1, the Superintendent shall indicate the total amount of budgeted construction costs for the improvements that the Superintendent approves as potentially eligible for a Concession Fee Offset.

 4.3.2 Superintendent Approval of Alterations' Actual Costs. Not later than six (6) months after Concessionaire finally completes the Roadway Improvement Project, as evidenced by Concessionaire's proof of final payment for the Roadway Improvement Project, Concessionaire shall provide the Superintendent with an accounting of its actual costs associated with the capital improvements, together with such supporting documentation as the Superintendent may reasonably request. The Superintendent shall certify the final amount of costs expended by Concessionaire in connection with such improvements and this amount shall constitute the amount of Roadway Improvement Project Offset.

 4.3.3 Concession Fee Offset Reporting. Each month throughout the Term, Concessionaire shall report to the Parks Finance Director, or his or her designee, the dollar amount of Roadway Improvement Project Offset it is applying to the Base Concession Fee. If the aggregate amount of capital expenditures subject to the Roadway Improvement Project Fee Offset exceeds the total Base Concession Fee payable under this Concession Agreement during the Term, Concessionaire shall not have any right to recover from the City the balance. Unless the Superintendent agrees otherwise, upon the termination or expiration of this Concession Agreement, any remaining balance shall be deemed to be donated to the City, and the improvements shall be surrendered with the Premises in accordance with Sections 11.3 and 14.

 4.4 Public Program Concession Fee Offsets. Concessionaire may request a Public Program Concession Fee Offset against Base Concession Fee to reflect expenditures for programming that is available to the public (such as scholarship programs or free public classes) beyond that which is required by Section 2.7. In the annual Management and Operations Plan described in Section 8.5, Concessionaire may identify the amount of Public Program Concession Fee Offset it is requesting for the upcoming calendar year based upon public programming it provided during the preceding calendar year and any other justification for the request. The Superintendent will respond to the request within thirty (30) days, stating the amount, if any, of the Public Program Concession Fee Offset allowed for the upcoming calendar year. The amount of the Public Program Concession Fee Offset for a given year shall rest in the Superintendent's sole discretion.

 5. Late Charge; Interest. If Concessionaire fails to pay the City any sum when due, such amount shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum from the date due until the date paid.

 6. Recordkeeping and Reporting; Audit. Concessionaire shall keep true, full and accurate books of account setting forth Concessionaire's receipts and all related revenues associated with the Tennis Center, together with any other information that will affect the determination of the Concession Fee and Additional Charges and shall account for its Gross Receipts on a daily basis. Together with each monthly Percentage Concession Fee payment due hereunder, Concessionaire shall deliver to the City an accurate, itemized accounting report of all revenues earned during the month for which payment is being made. Within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar year throughout the Term, Concessionaire shall deliver to the City a written report, itemized by revenue source, identifying the aggregate amount of Gross Receipts generated from operation of the Premises during the immediately preceding calendar year.

 The City shall be allowed, after five (5) days' prior written notice to Concessionaire, to inspect Concessionaire's books of account at Concessionaire's office and to procure audits thereof by an auditor at the City's sole cost and expense (except as provided below). If in the reasonable judgment of such auditor Concessionaire's books of account are incomplete or improperly reflect the information necessary for an accurate determination of the Concession Fee, or if the audit shall show that the reports submitted by Concessionaire understated Concessionaire's receipts by more than three percent (3%) thereof for any year covered by the audit, the costs and fees for such audit shall be paid by Concessionaire to the City. Concessionaire shall retain all books of accounting and any other information that will affect the determination of the Concession Fee and Additional Charges for a period of six (6) years after the last day of the period that such particular record covers, and Concessionaire shall make them available for inspection at Concessionaire's office within ten (10) days of City's prior written demand therefor. For example, Concessionaire shall maintain its 2010 financial records through December 31, 2016. Concessionaire's obligations under this Section shall survive expiration or termination of this Concession Agreement.

 Concessionaire shall supply the City with any documentation that the City requires in order for it to file required compliance reports required by the Federal Lands to Parks Program, National Park Service.

 7. Conditions Subsequent.

 7.1 Concessionaire's Alteration Requirements. The parties acknowledge and agree that the construction of the improvements as contemplated herein, is a fundamental purpose of this Concession Agreement and Concessionaire agrees to use every commercially reasonable effort to complete the Initial Improvements and the Roadway Improvement Project and to obtain a certificate of occupancy for the Permitted Use within twenty-four (24) months of the Effective Date. The Parks Superintendent may extend this deadline if Concessionaire can demonstrate that the delay is attributable to obtaining necessary city permits through no fault of Concessionaire, necessary pending amendments to the Land Use Code, or Force Majeure events. Concessionaire's conceptual plan for the Initial Improvements and Roadway Improvements are depicted generally on Exhibit C. If Concessionaire fails to complete the Initial Improvements and the Roadway Improvement Project by the above date, the City may terminate this agreement by providing written notice to Concessionaire and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations with respect to one another.

 7.2 Approval of Initial Improvement and Roadway Improvement Plans. Prior to June 1, 2009, Concessionaire shall submit to the Superintendent for review and approval, in his or her reasonable discretion, plans and specifications detailing the Initial Improvements and the Roadway Improvements Concessionaire proposes to make to the Premises, which plans and specifications shall, to the extent commercially reasonable, incorporate environmentally sustainable design principles. The Superintendent shall approve the

 Initial Improvements and Roadway Improvement plans or provide Concessionaire with written comments thereon by 30 days after the date of the Initial Improvements and the Roadway Improvements plan submission. If the Superintendent does not deliver written comments on Concessionaire's Initial Improvements and Roadway Improvement plans by 30 days after the plan submission, then the Initial Improvements and Roadway Improvement plans shall be deemed approved by the Superintendent for purposes of this Concession Agreement, only. If the Superintendent delivers written comments by 30 days after the plan submission, Concessionaire shall make such modifications to the plans as will address the Superintendent's concerns.

 7.3 Concessionaire's Funding Responsibilities. Concessionaire shall be fully responsible for and shall promptly pay all costs associated with the Initial Improvements and the Roadway Improvements including, but not limited to, all design, permitting and construction costs. The City shall provide no funds for the Initial Improvements or the Roadway Improvements. Prior to starting construction, Concessionaire shall present evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Parks Finance Director that it has access to sufficient funds to complete the Initial Improvements and the Roadway Improvements. If Concessionaire fails to present satisfactory evidence, the City may terminate this agreement by providing written notice to Concessionaire and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations with respect to one another.

 7.4 Land Use Code Amendments. Concessionaire and the Superintendent shall work together to develop and propose to the City Council amendments to Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.72 (Sand Point Overlay District) that would allow the Permitted Use of the Premises under this Concession Agreement. If applicable land use ordinances, rules or regulations do not allow the Permitted Use of the Premises on or before June 31, 2010, either party may terminate this Concession Agreement by providing written notice to the other not later than July 31, 2010 and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations with respect to one another under this Concession Agreement.

 7.5 Approval of Signage Plan. Prior to July 1, 2009, Concessionaire shall submit to the Superintendent for review and approval, in his or her sole discretion, a plan for exterior signage for the Premises and for the Park describing Concessionaire's Permitted Use. The Superintendent shall approve the plan or provide written comments thereto by 45 days after the signage plan submission. If the Superintendent does not deliver to Concessionaire written comments on Concessionaire's signage plan by 45 days after the plan submission, then Concessionaire's signage plan shall be deemed approved by the Superintendent. If the Superintendent objects to any element of Concessionaire's signage plan by 45 days after the plan submission, City and Concessionaire shall negotiate in good faith revisions to Concessionaire's signage plan. The Superintendent shall approve or deny the plan by 120 days after the initial submission. If Concessionaire's signage plan is not approved by 120 days after the initial submission, then Concessionaire may terminate this Agreement by providing written notice to the City not later than 150 days after the initial submission, and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations with respect to one another.

 8. Concessionaire's Operations.

 8.1 Use of Premises. Concessionaire shall use the Premises only for the Permitted Use. As City's willingness to enter into this Concession Agreement with Concessionaire was predicated, in part, on the nature of Concessionaire 's business, and the compatibility of such business with the use of the remainder of the Park, Concessionaire shall not use or permit the use of the Premises for any other business, or purpose, without City's prior written consent. Furthermore, Concessionaire's use shall be in strict accordance with all terms and provisions imposed by the United States of America as set forth in the USA Deed. Written concurrence by the National Park Service shall be required for other proposed use in conjunction with or in addition to the Permitted Use. Concessionaire shall promptly comply, at its sole cost and expense, with such reasonable rules and regulations relating to the use of the Premises and Park as City, from time to time, may promulgate provided that such rules and regulations shall not materially interfere with Concessionaire's business operations related to the Permitted Use. In the event of any conflict between the rules and regulations promulgated by City and the terms of this Concession Agreement, the terms of this Concession Agreement shall control. Concessionaire shall maintain the Premises in a clean and neat fashion and to a standard found at other Parks properties similar in age, level of public use, and public visibility, permitting no objectionable odors to be emitted from the Premises and shall neither commit waste nor permit any waste to be committed thereon. Concessionaire shall not permit any accumulation of trash on or about the Premises.

 8.2 Alcoholic Beverage Sales. Lessee shall not permit intoxicating beverages of any kind to be used, sold, consumed, or dispensed upon the Premises unless the Superintendent has approved such use, sale, consumption or dispensing in advance, in writing, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed and such approval shall be deemed to have been given if not withheld in writing within forty-five (45) days after delivery of a request for consent. Any such use sale, consumption or dispensing shall comply with applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations then in force.

 8.3 Fees. Fees that Concessionaire charges the public for court time devoted to singles and doubles play shall be set at no less that 75% and no greater than 150% of fees charged for similar time at the Amy Yee Tennis Center. Concessionaire may increase fees above this level based on increases in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), using the formula described in Subsection 4.2, above.

 8.4 High-Capacity Events. Magnuson Park has limited capacity to handle multiple events with large numbers of attendees. Therefore, if Concessionaire reasonably anticipates that more than 150 people will be in attendance at any event on the Premises, Concessionaire shall provide the City with no less than thirty (30) days' advance written notice of the event. If the City determines that the event would conflict with other high-capacity events that have already been scheduled to take place at the same time, the City shall notify Concessionaire within five (5) business days after receipt of Concessionaire's notice. Upon receipt of such notice, Concessionaire shall either reschedule the event or reduce the size of the event to less than 50 attendees.

 8.5 Management and Operations Plan. Concessionaire shall prepare and submit to the Superintendent, for his or her approval (which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed), an annual plan for the management and operation of the Premises. The first plan shall be due on or before the date that is thirty (30) days prior to Concessionaire's occupancy of the Premises for operational purposes, and subsequent plans shall be due on or before October 1st of each year thereafter. The Management and Operations Plan shall include such information as the Superintendent may reasonably specify from time to time for comparable Parks facilities, but at a minimum shall include a description of Concessionaire's proposed capital improvements to the Premises (other than the Initial Improvements and the Roadway Improvement Project); the anticipated programming for the upcoming year; the number of people served, by age group, during the preceding year and projected for the upcoming year; the dollar amount of scholarships given for the past year and anticipated to be given for the upcoming year; criteria for scholarship awards; and information concerning Third-Party usage. The Management and Operations Plan shall also set forth how the Concessionaire shall ensure that the use of the Premises shall conform to the requirement set forth in the USA Deed that the Premises be used for public park and public recreation purposes. The City shall be deemed to have approved the Management and Operations Plan (and all uses and events noted therein) unless the Superintendent delivers to Concessionaire written objections thereto within sixty (60) days after submission of the Management and Operations Plan to City. If the Superintendent delivers written comments on the Management and Operations Plan within the sixty (60) day period, City and Concessionaire shall negotiate in good faith such revisions to the Management and Operations Plan as will satisfy the Superintendent's concerns. Concessionaire may amend or modify the plan from time to time with the prior approval of the Superintendent, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. City shall be deemed to have approved the amended plan (and all uses and events noted therein) unless it rejects the amended plan in writing within twenty (20) days.

 8.6 Compliance with Laws; Nondiscrimination.

 8.6.1 General Obligation. Concessionaire shall not use or permit the Premises or any part thereof to be used for any purpose in violation of any municipal, county, state or federal law, ordinance or regulation, or any term or condition contained in the USA Deed, or for any purpose offensive to the standards of the community. Concessionaire shall promptly comply, at its sole cost and expense, and ensure that its contractors and agents comply, with all terms and conditions in the USA Deed, and with all laws, ordinances and regulations now in force or hereafter adopted relating to or affecting the renovation or improvement of the Premises or condition or use or occupancy of the Premises during the term of this Concession Agreement.

 8.6.2 Nondiscrimination. Without limiting the generality of Section 8.6.1,Concessionaire shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle, including but not limited to those laws set forth in conditions 5 and 6 of the USA Deed and Chapters 14.04, 14.10 and 20.42 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as they may be amended from time to time, and rules, regulations, orders and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 8.7 Liens and Encumbrances. Concessionaire shall keep the Premises free and clear of, and shall indemnify, defend and hold City harmless from, any and all, liens and encumbrances arising or growing out of any act or omission, or breach of this Concession Agreement or its use, improvement or occupancy of the Premises by Concessionaire or any of its principals, officers, employees or agents or subtenants. Concessionaire shall inform the City in writing of any lien filed against the Premises within ten (10) days of the filing date of the lien. If any lien is so filed against the Premises, Concessionaire shall either cause the same to be fully discharged and released of record within ten (10) days after City's written demand therefor or, within such period, provide City with cash or other security acceptable to City in an amount equal to one and one-half (11/2) times the amount of the claimed lien as security for its prompt removal. City shall have the right to disburse such security to cause the removal of the lien if City deems such necessary, in City's sole discretion. The indemnification and defense obligation of this Section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Concession Agreement.

 8.8 Hazardous Substances. As used in this Concession Agreement, "Hazardous Substances" means any substance designated as, or containing any component now or hereafter designated as hazardous, dangerous, toxic or harmful and/or subject to regulation under any federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance.

 8.8.1 Use and Disposal of Hazardous Substances. Concessionaire shall not, without City's prior written consent, keep on or about the Premises any Hazardous Substances except customary office, kitchen, cleaning and other related supplies in normal quantities and handled in compliance with applicable laws. With respect to any Hazardous Substances stored with City's consent, Concessionaire shall promptly, timely and completely comply with all applicable governmental requirements for reporting and record keeping; submit to City true and correct copies of all reports, manifests and identification numbers (if any) at the same time as they are required to be and/or are submitted to the appropriate governmental authorities; within five (5) days after City's request therefor, provide evidence satisfactory to City of Concessionaire's compliance with all applicable governmental rules, regulations and requirements; and comply with all governmental rules, regulations and requirements regarding the proper and lawful use, sale, transportation, generation, treatment and disposal of Hazardous Substances used at the Premises. Any and all costs incurred by City and associated with City's inspections of the Premises and City's monitoring of Concessionaire's compliance with this Section 8.8.1, including City's attorneys' fees and costs, shall be Additional Charges and shall be due and payable to City within ten (10) days after City's demand therefor, if Concessionaire's violation of this Section 8.8.1 is discovered as a result of such inspection or monitoring. Concessionaire shall be fully and completely liable to City for any and all cleanup costs and expenses and any and all other charges, expenses, fees, fines, penalties (both, civil and criminal) and costs imposed with respect to Concessionaire's use, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances in or about the Premises.

 8.8.2 Hazardous Substances Indemnity. Concessionaire covenants and agrees to indemnify, defend and hold the City, its agents and employees, harmless from any and all of the damages, costs, fees, penalties, charges and expenses assessed against, or imposed, upon City (as well as City's attorneys' fees and costs) from (i) any claims for personal injury to the extent caused by exposure, after the date on which Concessionaire took control of the Premises, to lead-based paint, asbestos or other Hazardous Substances; and (ii) Concessionaire's use, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances on or about the Premises during the Term. City shall indemnify, defend and hold Concessionaire harmless from any and all of the costs, fees, penalties, charges and expenses assessed against, or imposed upon Concessionaire (including Concessionaire's attorneys' fees and costs) as a result of the use, disposal, transportation, generation and/or sale of Hazardous Substances on or about the Premises except for such Hazardous Substances released by Concessionaire. The indemnification and defense obligations of this Section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Concession Agreement.

 9. Utilities.

 9.1 General. Concessionaire shall pay when due to the appropriate providers, all charges for utilities for the Premises, including but not limited to, electricity, water and sewer services and data and telecommunications services.

 9.2 Refuse Collection; Recycling of Waste Materials. Concessionaire shall provide all necessary housekeeping and janitorial services for the Premises to a level consistent with other similar Parks facilities and operations and to the Superintendent's reasonable satisfaction. Concessionaire shall be responsible for proper storage and removal of trash, litter pickup and recycling consistent with City standards.

 9.3 Interruption. Except as a result of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of City, City shall not be liable for any loss, injury or damage to person or property caused by or resulting from any variation, interruption or failure of services due to any cause whatsoever, including, but not limited to, electrical surges, or from failure to make any repairs or perform any maintenance. No temporary interruption or failure of such services incident to the making of repairs, alterations or improvements or due to accident, strike or conditions or events beyond City's reasonable control shall be deemed an eviction of Concessionaire or to relieve Concessionaire from any of Concessionaire's obligations hereunder or to give Concessionaire a right of action against City for damages. City has no obligation to provide emergency or backup power to Concessionaire. The provision of emergency or backup power to the Premises or to enable the equipment therein to properly function shall be the sole responsibility of Concessionaire.

 10. Licenses and Taxes.

 10.1 Payment of Licenses and Taxes. Without any deduction or offset whatsoever, Concessionaire shall be liable for, and shall pay prior to delinquency, all taxes, license and excise fees and occupation taxes applicable to Concessionaire's business activities conducted on the Premises and all personal property taxes and other impositions levied with respect to all personal property located at the Premises and owned by Concessionaire. Concessionaire shall be responsible for, and shall pay prior to delinquency, all fees, charges, or costs, for any governmental inspections or examinations relating to Concessionaire's use and occupancy of the Premises, and pay all taxes on the leasehold interest created by this Concession Agreement (e.g., leasehold excise taxes).

 10.2 Contests. Concessionaire shall have the right to contest the amount and validity of any taxes by appropriate legal proceedings, but this shall not be deemed or construed in any way as relieving Concessionaire of its covenant to pay any such taxes. City shall not be subjected to any liability or for the payment of any costs or expenses in connection with any such proceeding brought by Concessionaire, and Concessionaire hereby covenants to indemnify and hold City harmless from any such costs or expenses. The indemnification obligation contained in this Section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Concession Agreement.

 11. Alterations by Concessionaire.

 11.1 Superintendent's Approval. Concessionaire shall not make any alterations, additions or improvements in or to the Premises without first submitting to the Superintendent professionally- prepared and stamped plans and specifications and a construction schedule for such work and obtaining the Superintendent's prior written approval thereof.

 11.2 Alteration Standards and Requirements. Concessionaire covenants that it will cause all alterations, additions and improvements to the Premises to be completed at Concessionaire's sole cost and expense by a licensed contractor approved by the City and in a manner that (a) is built in accordance with the Superintendent- approved plans and specifications and any conditions imposed by the Superintendent in connection therewith; (b) is in conformity with first-class, commercial standards; (c) includes acceptable insurance coverage and bonding, for City's benefit; (d) does not negatively affect the structural integrity of the Premises or any of the Premises' systems; and (e) does not invalidate or otherwise affect the construction or any system warranty then in effect with respect to the Premises. In addition, Concessionaire shall meet with the City's Green Building Team and shall use good faith efforts to incorporate green building practices and sustainable design into its design for the any alterations, additions and improvements to the Premises. Concessionaire shall secure all governmental permits and approvals required for the work; and shall comply or cause its contractors to comply with all other applicable governmental requirements and restrictions, including RCW 39.12 pertaining to prevailing wages.

 11.3 Ownership of Alterations. All alterations, additions and improvements (expressly including all light fixtures; heating and ventilation units; floor, window and wall coverings; and electrical wiring), shall become the property of City at the expiration or termination of this Concession Agreement without any obligation on its part to pay for any of the same. At the Superintendent's request, Concessionaire shall execute a deed or bill of sale in favor of City with respect to such alterations and/or improvements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Concessionaire shall remove all or any portion of such alterations and/or improvements on the expiration or termination of this Concession Agreement if the Superintendent specifically so directs, in writing, at the time the Superintendent issues his or her approval thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall Concessionaire be required to remove the underlying site and foundation work performed in constructing the Initial Improvements, or any of the Roadway Improvements.

 11.4 As-built Drawings. Within ninety (90) days after the completion of any alteration, addition or improvement to the Premises, Concessionaire shall deliver to the Superintendent a full set of "as-built" plans of the Premises showing the details of all alterations, additions and improvements made to the Premises by Concessionaire, if typically produced for alterations and improvement of like character.

 12. Care of Premises.

 12.1 General Obligation. Concessionaire shall take good care of the Premises and shall reimburse City for all damage done to the Premises that results from any act or omission of Concessionaire or any of Concessionaire's officers, contractors, subtenants, agents, invitees, licensees or employees, normal wear and tear excluded.

 12.2 Minor and Major Maintenance Obligation. Concessionaire shall be responsible for all minor and major maintenance of the Premises and structures erected on the Premises during the Term of this Concession Agreement including, but not limited to, repairs of cracked or broken glass, regular exterior painting and masonry maintenance, roof repairs and replacement, and HVAC repair and replacement. The foregoing sentence does not extend to maintenance occasioned by an act or omission of City or its officers, agents, employees, or contractors, for which City shall be responsible. Except in the event of City's gross negligence or intentional misconduct, there shall be no abatement or reduction of the Concession Fee arising by reason of City's making of repairs, alterations or improvements to the Premises. The City shall maintain the parking areas and Park common areas to the standard typical of other, similar park properties.

 12.3 Joint Annual Inspection of Premises; Remedial Action Obligation. Concessionaire shall participate in an annual inspection of the Premises with the City and shall take any and all action that is consistent with the terms of this Concession Agreement that the City may specify as necessary to maintain and operate the Premises in a clean and safe manner.

 12.4 City Remedy Upon Concessionaire's Failure to Maintain Premises. If Concessionaire fails to maintain the Premises in good order, condition, and repair, the City shall give Concessionaire notice to undertake such work as is reasonably required to so maintain the Premises. If Concessionaire fails to commence such work within thirty (30) calendar days after the effective date of the City's notice and to diligently prosecute it to completion, then the City shall have the right, at its option and in addition to all other remedies, to undertake such work and to invoice Concessionaire for the costs reasonably incurred by the City in connection therewith and Concessionaire shall promptly pay the same as Additional Charges. The City shall have no liability to Concessionaire for any damage, inconvenience, or interference with Concessionaire's use of the Premises as a result of the City's performing any such work, except to the extent it is the City's, or its agents' or contractors' gross negligence or intentional misconduct.

 12.5 Custodial Service for Premises. Concessionaire shall, at its own expense, at all times, keep the Premises, the entrance to the Premises and areas within ten (10) feet of the exterior Premises' walls in a neat, clean, safe, and sanitary condition; and keep the glass of all windows and doors serving the Premises clean and presentable. Concessionaire shall furnish all cleaning supplies and materials needed to operate such areas in the manner prescribed in this Concession Agreement and all necessary janitorial service to adequately maintain the inside of such areas using a company reasonably approved by City. To the maximum extent practicable, Concessionaire shall comply with any recycling program that the City establishes for the Premises and/or Park.

 If, after the City provides written notice to Concessionaire of Concessionaire's failure to comply with this Section, Concessionaire fails to take good care of such areas, City, at its option, may do so, and in such event, upon receipt of written statements from City, Concessionaire shall promptly pay the entire actual and reasonable cost thereof as an Additional Charge. City shall have the right to enter the Premises for such purposes. City shall not be liable for interference with light, air or view.

 12.6 Prohibition Against Installation or Integration of Any Work of Visual Art on Premises Without City's Consent. The City reserves to and for itself the right to approve or disapprove of the installation or integration on or in the Premises of any "work of visual art," as that term is defined in the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or as later amended, and to approve or disapprove of each and every agreement regarding any such installation or integration. Concessionaire shall not install on or integrate into, or permit any other person or entity to install on or integrate into, the Premises any such work of visual art without the City's prior, express, written consent. The City's consent to the installation of any such art work may be granted, granted upon one or more conditions, or withheld in the City's discretion.

 12.7 Concessionaire's Indemnification of City Against Liability under Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990. Concessionaire shall protect, defend, and hold the City harmless from and against any and all claims, suits, actions or causes of action, damages and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) arising as a consequence of (a) the installation or integration of any work of visual art on or into the Premises; or (b) the destruction, distortion, mutilation or other modification of the art work that results by reason of its removal; or (c) any breach of Section 12.6 of this Agreement; or (d) any violation of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or hereafter amended; by Concessionaire or any of its officers, employees or agents. This indemnification obligation shall exist regardless of whether the City or any other person employed by the City has knowledge of such installation, integration, or removal or has consented to any such action or is not required to give prior consent to any such action. The indemnification and defense obligation contained in this Section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Concession Agreement.

 13. Signs and Advertising.

 13.1 Signs, Generally. Except for those signs authorized by the Superintendent in connection with the approval of Concessionaire's signage plan described in Section 6.5, temporary signs permitted under Section 13.2, and the sign described in Section 13.3, Concessionaire shall not inscribe, post, place, or in any manner display any sign, notice, picture, poster, or any advertising matter whatsoever placed or installed the exterior of the Premises, without the Superintendent's prior written consent, which consent may be granted, withheld or conditioned in the Superintendent's reasonable discretion. Concessionaire shall remove all signage at the expiration or earlier termination of this Concession Agreement and repair any damage or injury to the Premises caused by such removal.

 13.2 Temporary Signs. Temporary signs or banners not more than 24 square feet in size may be displayed on or about the Premises to advertise a special event beginning two weeks immediately before the event advertised, through the conclusion of such event.

 13.3 Recognition. Concessionaire shall install one sign on or about the exterior of the Premises with the Seattle Parks Department logo and a statement recognizing Seattle Parks and Recreation's ownership of the building and memorializing the history of the building as part of the Sand Point Naval Air Station. Concessionaire shall also ensure that it does nothing to interfere or conflict with the City's obligation to provide signage as described in provision 2 of the USA Deed.

 14. Surrender of Premises. At the expiration or sooner termination of the Concession Agreement Term, Concessionaire shall return the Premises to City in the same condition in which received on the Possession Date (or, if altered, then the Premises shall be returned in such altered condition unless otherwise directed by City pursuant to Section 11), excluding normal wear and tear. Prior to such return, Concessionaire shall remove its moveable trade fixtures and appliances and equipment that have not been attached to the Premises, and shall repair any damage resulting from their removal. Concessionaire's obligations under this Section 14 shall survive the expiration or termination of this Concession Agreement.

 15. Waiver; Indemnification.

 15.1 Concessionaire's Indemnification. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, Concessionaire shall indemnify, defend (using legal counsel reasonably acceptable to City) and save City, City's officers, agents, employees and contractors, harmless from all claims, suits, losses, damages, fines, penalties, liabilities and expenses (including City's actual and reasonable personnel and overhead costs and attorneys' fees and other costs incurred in connection with claims, regardless of whether such claims involve litigation) resulting from any actual or alleged injury (including death) of any person or from any actual or alleged loss of or damage to, any property arising out of or in connection with (i) Concessionaire's occupation, use or improvement of the Premises, or that of any of its employees, agents or contractors, (ii) Concessionaire's breach of its obligations hereunder, or (iii) any act or omission of Concessionaire or any licensee or assignee of Concessionaire, or of any officer, agent, employee, guest or invitee of any of the same in or about the Premises. Concessionaire agrees that the foregoing indemnity specifically covers actions brought by its own employees. The indemnification and defense obligations contained in this Section shall survive termination or expiration of this Concession Agreement. The foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to, constitute a waiver of Concessionaire's immunity under Washington's Industrial Insurance Act, RCW Title 51, to the extent necessary to provide City with a full and complete indemnity from claims made by Concessionaire and its employees, to the extent of their negligence. Concessionaire shall promptly notify City of casualties or accidents occurring in or about the Premises.

 15.2 Concessionaire's Release of Claims. Concessionaire hereby fully and completely waives and release all claims against City to the extent a loss or damage is covered by insurance, for any losses or other damages sustained by Concessionaire or any person claiming through Concessionaire, resulting from any accident or occurrence in or upon the Premises, including but not limited to any defect in or failure of equipment; any failure to make repairs; any defect, failure, surge in, or interruption of building facilities or services; broken glass; water leakage; the collapse of any building component.

 15.3 Limitation of Concessionaire's Indemnification. In compliance with RCW 4.24.115, if and as the same is in effect on the Effective Date of this Concession Agreement, all provisions of this Concession Agreement pursuant to which City or Concessionaire (the "Indemnitor") agrees to indemnify the other (the "Indemnitee") against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property relative to the construction, alteration, repair, addition to, subtraction from, improvement to, or maintenance of, any building, road, or other structure, project, development, or improvement attached to real estate, including the Premises, (i) shall not apply to damages caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the Indemnitee, its agents or employees, and (ii) to the extent caused by or resulting from the concurrent negligence of (a) the Indemnitee or the Indemnitee's agents or employees, and (b) the Indemnitor or the Indemnitor's agents or employees, shall apply only to the extent of the Indemnitor's negligence.

 CITY AND CONCESSIONAIRE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY SPECIFICALLY NEGOTIATED AND AGREED UPON THE INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 15.

 16. Insurance. At all times throughout the Term of this Agreement, Concessionaire shall comply with the requirements of Exhibit E with respect to insurance.

 17. Assignment or Sublease by Concessionaire.

 17.1 Assignment or Sublease. Concessionaire shall not sublet or encumber the whole or any part of the Premises, nor shall this Agreement or any interest thereunder be assignable or transferable by operation of law or by any process or proceeding of any court or otherwise without the prior written consent of both the Superintendent and the National Park Service, whose consent shall be given or withheld in his, her, or its sole discretion. An assignment of this Agreement to a lender for security purposes shall constitute an assignment requiring the prior written consent of both the Superintendent and the National Park Service. If Concessionaire is a corporation, then any transfer of this Agreement by merger, consolidation or liquidation, or any direct or indirect change, in the ownership of, or power to vote the majority of, Concessionaire's outstanding voting stock, shall constitute an assignment requiring the prior written consent of both the Superintendent and the National Park Service. If Concessionaire is a partnership, then a change in general partners in or voting or decision-making control of the partnership shall also constitute an assignment requiring the prior written consent of both the Superintendent and the National Park Service. The granting of consent to a given transfer shall not constitute a waiver of the consent requirement as to future transfers. Any assignment or sublease without the Superintendent's or the National Park Service's prior written consent, at the Superintendent's or the National Park Service's option, shall be void. No assignment or sublease shall release Concessionaire from primary liability hereunder. Each assignment and sublease shall be by an instrument in writing in form satisfactory to the Superintendent and the National Park Service.

 17.2 Fees Due to City upon Transfer. If this Agreement is assigned, the Superintendent's consent shall not constitute the recognition of such assignee or other party as a tenant or act as a release of Concessionaire from the further performance of all of Concessionaire's covenants and obligations under this Agreement. If the Superintendent consents to any assignment or subletting (other than short term rentals), Concessionaire shall pay the Superintendent a fee not to exceed twenty-three and one-half percent (23.5%) of one month's installment of the Base Concession Fee due (before any offset) to the City, for expenses incurred in connection with processing of documents necessary to the giving of such consent and the additional monitoring and administration related to the same.

 17.3 City's Rights Upon Proposed Sale of Concessionaire's Business. Before entering into a contract with anyone else during the Term hereof respecting any potential sale of the assets and business of Concessionaire as conducted on the Premises ("Concessionaire's Business"), Concessionaire shall notify the City of such potential sale. Provided the City gives Concessionaire written notice of its desire to acquire Concessionaire's Business within five (5) business days after receipt of said notice, the City shall, thereafter, for a period of thirty (30) days, have the right to negotiate with Concessionaire for the sale of Concessionaire's Business to the City. Concessionaire and City agree to negotiate for such sale in good faith. If, after giving written notice of its exercise of its right to negotiate, the City and Concessionaire do not enter into an agreement within said thirty (30) day period and Concessionaire thereafter enters into an agreement with a third party for the sale of Concessionaire's Business, Concessionaire shall give notice to the City of the proposed transaction together with a copy of the contract and such other information as the City may reasonably request, and the City shall have the right, to be exercised not later than ten (10) business days following the City's receipt of the requested information and the contract of sale, to purchase Concessionaire's Business on the same terms and conditions as set forth in the contracted except that if the contract calls for the payment of the purchase price other than in full at the closing, the City shall have the right to pay the purchase price in full in an amount which shall be discounted to present value based on the current Prime Interest Rate as published in the Wall Street Journal at the time of close. It is understood that if the City does not exercise its rights hereunder in any particular instance, this provision shall nevertheless be applicable to any further or future potential transfer. The City agrees to not unreasonably withhold its consent to an assignment of the Concession Agreement pursuant to a sale of the business if the City has forgone its option to purchase the business. The City shall not be responsible for payment of any commission associated with the transaction.

 18. Assignment by the City. If the City sells or otherwise transfers the Premises, or if the City assigns its interest in this Concession Agreement, such purchaser, transferee, or assignee thereof shall be deemed to have assumed the City's obligations under this Concession Agreement arising after the date of such transfer, and the City shall thereupon be relieved of all liabilities under this Concession Agreement arising thereafter, but this Concession Agreement shall otherwise remain in full force and effect. Concessionaire shall attorn to the City's successor, which assumes and agrees to perform all of the City's obligations under this Concession Agreement.

 19. Destruction. If the improvements to the Premises are rendered partially or totally untenantable by fire or other casualty, and if the damage is repairable within twenty-four (24) months from the date of the occurrence, then, if insurance proceeds or self-insurance coverages are available to pay the full cost of the repairs (except for the deductible amounts), Concessionaire shall repair the Premises with due diligence and in addition, shall promptly repair, at its sole cost and expense, all damage to its personal and business property. If the improvements to the Premises are repaired, the Concession Fee and Additional Charges shall be abated in the proportion that the untenantable portion of the Premises bears to the whole thereof, as the City determines, for the period from the date of the casualty to the completion of the repairs. If the damage to the improvements to the Premises is uninsured or cannot be repaired within twenty-four (24) months from the date of the occurrence, Concessionaire may terminate this Concession Agreement upon sixty (60) days' written notice to the City. If this Concession Agreement is terminated due to casualty, the City shall be entitled to all insurance proceeds payable on account of the loss to the improvements to the Premises.

 20. Eminent Domain.

 20.1 Taking. If all of the Premises are taken by Eminent Domain, this Concession Agreement shall terminate as of the date Concessionaire is required to vacate the Premises and all Concession Fees and Additional Charges shall be paid to that date. Exercise by the United States of America of its right to revert the property under the terms and conditions of the USA Deed shall not be construed as an exercise of Eminent Domain by the United States of America. The term "Eminent Domain" shall include the taking or damaging of property by, through or under any governmental or statutory authority, and any purchase or acquisition in lieu thereof, whether the damaging or taking is by government or any other person. If a taking of any part of the Premises by Eminent Domain renders the remainder thereof unusable for Concessionaire's business, in the reasonable judgment of Concessionaire, Concessionaire may terminate this Concession Agreement by written notice given to the City not more than thirty (30) days after City gives Concessionaire written notice of the taking, and such termination shall be effective as of the date when Concessionaire is required to vacate the portion of the Premises so taken. If this Concession Agreement is so terminated, all Concession Fees and Additional Charges shall be paid to the date of termination. Whenever any portion of the Premises is taken by Eminent Domain and this Concession Agreement is not terminated, the City, at its expense, shall proceed with all reasonable dispatch to restore, to the extent of available proceeds and to the extent it is reasonably prudent to do so, the remainder of the Premises to the condition they were in immediately prior to such taking, and Concessionaire, at its expense, shall proceed with all reasonable dispatch to restore its personal property and all improvements made by it to the Premises to the same condition they were in immediately prior to such taking, to the extent award is available therefor. The Base Concession Fee and Additional Charges payable hereunder shall be reduced from the date Concessionaire is required to partially vacate the Premises in the same proportion that the usable area of the Premises taken bears to the total usable area of the Premises prior to taking.

 20.2 Award. Except as otherwise provided below, the City reserves all right to the entire damage award or payment for any taking by Eminent Domain, and Concessionaire waives all claim whatsoever against the City for damages for termination of its Concession leasehold interest in the Premises or for interference with its business. Concessionaire hereby grants and assigns to the City any right Concessionaire may now have or hereafter acquire to such damages and agrees to execute and deliver such further instruments of assignment as the City, from time to time, may request. Concessionaire, however, shall have the right to claim from the condemning authority all compensation that may be recoverable by Concessionaire on account of any loss incurred by Concessionaire in moving Concessionaire's merchandise, furniture, trade fixtures and equipment and the cost of restoring its personal property and improvements made by it to the Premises.

 21. Default by Concessionaire.

 21.1 Definition. If Concessionaire violates, breaches, or fails to keep or perform any term, provision, covenant, or any obligation of this Concession Agreement; or if Concessionaire files or is the subject of a petition in bankruptcy, or if a trustee or receiver is appointed for Concessionaire's assets or if Concessionaire makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or

 if Concessionaire is adjudicated insolvent, or becomes subject to any proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law whether domestic or foreign, or liquidated, voluntarily or otherwise; then Concessionaire shall be deemed in default ("Default").

 21.2 City Remedies. If Concessionaire has defaulted and such Default continues or has not been remedied to the reasonable satisfaction of the Superintendent within thirty (30) days after written notice thereof has been provided to Concessionaire, then the City shall have the following nonexclusive rights and remedies at its option: (i) to cure such default on Concessionaire's behalf and at Concessionaire's sole expense and to charge Concessionaire for all actual and reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the City in effecting such cure as an Additional Charge; (ii) to terminate this Concession Agreement; provided, however, that if the nature of Concessionaire's obligation (other than monetary obligations and other than vacation or abandonment of the Premises) is such that more than thirty (30) days is required for performance, then Concessionaire shall not be in default if it commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 21.3 Reentry by City Upon Termination. Upon the termination of this Concession Agreement, the City may reenter the Premises, take possession thereof, and remove all persons therefrom, for which actions Concessionaire shall have no claim thereon or hereunder. Concessionaire shall be liable and shall reimburse the City upon demand for all actual and reasonable costs and expenses of every kind and nature incurred in retaking possession of the Premises. If the City retakes the Premises, the City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to remove therefrom all or any part of the personal property located therein and may place the same in storage at any place selected by the City, including a public warehouse, at the expense and risk of Concessionaire. The City shall have the right to sell such stored property, after reasonable prior notice to Concessionaire or such owner(s) after it has been stored for a period of thirty (30) days or more. The proceeds of such sale shall be applied, first, to the cost of such sale; second, to the payment of the charges for storage, if any; and third, to the payment of any other sums of money that may be due from Concessionaire to the City; the balance, if any, shall be paid to Concessionaire.

 21.4 Vacation or Abandonment. If Concessionaire vacates or abandons the Premises in their entirety and fails to reoccupy them within thirty (30) days after the City (1) delivers a notice to Concessionaire's notice address set forth in Section 1.7, above, demanding such reoccupancy and (2) mails by certified or registered mail a copy of the notice to any forwarding address given by Concessionaire to the City in writing, Concessionaire shall be in default under this Concession Agreement.

 21.5 City's Non-exclusive Remedies upon Termination due to Default of Concessionaire. Notwithstanding any reentry by the City and anything to the contrary in this Concession Agreement, in the event of the termination of this Concession Agreement due to the Default of Concessionaire, the liability of Concessionaire for all sums due under this Concession Agreement provided herein shall not be extinguished for the balance of the Term of this Concession Agreement. Concessionaire shall also be liable to the City for any other amount (excluding consequential or specific damages) necessary to compensate the City for all the detriment proximately caused by Concessionaire's failure to perform its obligations under this Concession Agreement or that in the ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom, including but not limited to, any costs or expenses incurred in maintaining or preserving the Premises after such Default, and any costs incurred in authorizing others the use and occupancy of the Premises and in preparing the Premises for such use and occupancy, and such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Washington. The provisions of this Section 21.5 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Concession Agreement.

 22. City's Remedies Cumulative; Waiver. The City's rights and remedies hereunder are not exclusive, but cumulative, and the City's exercise of any right or remedy due to a default or breach by Concessionaire shall not be deemed a waiver of, or alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy that the City may have under this Concession Agreement or by law or in equity. Neither the acceptance of rent nor any other act or omission of the City at any time or times after the happening of any event authorizing the cancellation or forfeiture of this Concession Agreement shall operate as a waiver of any past or future violation, breach or failure to keep or perform any covenant, agreement, term or condition hereof or to deprive the City of its right to cancel or forfeit this Concession Agreement, upon the written notice provided for herein, at any time that cause for cancellation or forfeiture may exist, or be construed so as to estop the City at any future time from promptly exercising any other option, right or remedy that it may have under any term or provision of this Concession Agreement.

 23. Default by City. The City shall be in default if the City fails to perform its obligations under this Concession Agreement within thirty (30) days after its receipt of notice of nonperformance from Concessionaire; provided, that if the default cannot reasonably be cured within the thirty (30) day period, the City shall not be in default if the City commences the cure within the thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently pursues such cure to completion. Upon the City's default, Concessionaire may pursue any remedies at law or in equity that may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Washington.

 24. Attorneys' Fees. If either party retains the services of an attorney in connection with enforcing the terms of this Concession Agreement, each party agrees to bear its own attorneys' fees and costs.

 25. Access by City and National Park Service. The City and its agents shall have the right to enter the Premises at any reasonable time to examine the same, and to show them to prospective purchasers, lenders or tenants, and to make such repairs, alterations, improvements, additions or improvements to the Premises as the City may deem necessary or desirable. In addition, the National Park Service shall have the right to enter the Premises at any reasonable time to examine the same. If Concessionaire is not personally present to permit entry and an entry is necessary in an emergency, the City may enter the same by master key or may forcibly enter the same, without rendering the City liable therefor, except in the event of the City's gross negligence or intentional misconduct. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to impose upon the City any duty of repair or other obligation not specifically stated in this Agreement. Concessionaire shall change the locks to the Premises only through the City and upon paying the City for all actual and reasonable costs related thereto.

 26. Holding Over. Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the parties hereto, any holding over by Concessionaire after the expiration of the Concession Agreement Term, whether or not consented to by the City, shall be construed as a tenancy from month-to-month on the terms and conditions set forth herein. Either party may terminate any holdover tenancy by written notice delivered to the other party not later than twenty (20) days prior to the end of the final month. If Concessionaire fails to surrender the Premises upon the expiration or termination of this Concession Agreement without the City's written consent, Concessionaire shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City from all losses, damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from such failure, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any claims made by any succeeding tenant arising out of such failure. Concessionaire's obligations under this Section shall survive expiration or termination of this Concession Agreement.

 27. Notices. Any notice, demand or request required hereunder shall be given in writing to the party's address set forth in Section 1.7 hereof by any of the following means: (a) personal service; (b) commercial or legal courier; or (c) registered or certified, first class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested. Such addresses may be changed by notice to the other parties given in the same manner as above provided. Notices shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of actual receipt, as evidenced by the deliverer's affidavit, the recipient's acknowledgment of receipt, or the courier's receipt, except in the event of attempted delivery during the recipient's normal business hours at the proper address by an agent of a party or by commercial or legal courier or the U.S. Postal Service but refused acceptance, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of the day of attempted delivery, as evidenced by the messenger's affidavit of inability to deliver stating the time, date, place and manner in which such delivery was attempted and the manner in which such delivery was refused, or on the day immediately following deposit with such courier or, if sent pursuant to Subsection (c), forty-eight (48) hours following deposit in the U.S. mail.

 28. Successors or Assigns. All of the terms, conditions, covenants and agreements of this Concession Agreement shall extend to and be binding upon the City, Concessionaire and, subject to the terms of Sections 17 and 18, their respective heirs, administrators, executors, successors and permitted assigns, and upon any person or persons coming into ownership or possession of any interest in the Premises by operation of law or otherwise.

 29. Authority and Liability. Concessionaire warrants that this Concession Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Concessionaire, and that Concessionaire has the requisite power and authority to enter into this Concession Agreement and perform its obligations hereunder. Concessionaire covenants to provide the City with evidence of its authority and the authorization of this Concession Agreement upon request.

 30. Partial Invalidity. If any court determines that any provision of this Concession Agreement or the application hereof to any person or circumstance is, to any extent, invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Concession Agreement, or application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby and each other term, covenant or condition of this Concession Agreement shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.

 31. Force Majeure. Neither the City nor Concessionaire shall be deemed in default hereof nor liable for damages arising from its failure to perform its duties or obligations hereunder if such is due to any cause beyond its reasonable control, including, but not limited to an act of Nature, act of civil or military authority, fire, flood, windstorm, earthquake, strike or labor disturbance, civil commotion, delay in transportation, governmental delay, or war; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not excuse Concessionaire from the timely payment of the Concession Fee and Additional Charges due hereunder, when due.

 32. Counterparts. This parties may execute this Concession Agreement in counterparts, which, taken together, constitute the entire Concession Agreement.

 33. Headings. The section headings used in this Concession Agreement are used for purposes of convenience and do not alter in any manner the content of the sections.

 34. Context. Whenever appropriate from the context, the use of any gender shall include any other or all genders, and the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular. The use of the term National Park Service shall be deemed to include any delegated representative of the United States of America and/or the Department of the Interior under the USA Deed.

 35. Execution by City and Concessionaire; Effective Date. Neither the City nor Concessionaire shall be deemed to have made an offer to the other party by furnishing the other party with a copy of this Concession Agreement with particulars inserted. No contractual or other rights shall exist or be created between the City and Concessionaire until all parties hereto have executed this Concession Agreement and the appropriate legislative authority approves it. This Concession Agreement shall become effective on the date (the "Effective Date") on which this Concession Agreement is executed by City and Concessionaire and approved by the Seattle City Council. The City shall have no liability to Concessionaire and shall have the right to terminate this Concession Agreement upon written notice to Concessionaire if this Concession Agreement is legislatively disapproved.

 36. Time of Essence; Time Calculation Method. Time is of the essence with respect to this Concession Agreement. Except as otherwise specifically provided, any reference in this Concession Agreement to the word "day" means a "calendar day"; provided, however, that if the final day for any action required hereunder is a Saturday, Sunday or City holiday, such action shall not be required until the next succeeding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or City holiday. Any reference in this Concession Agreement to the word "month" means "calendar month."

 37. Standards. Concessionaire recognizes that, although it is operating its facilities as an independent operator, Seattle Parks and Recreation is organized and exists for the purpose of maintaining park and recreation facilities for the use and enjoyment of the general public. Concessionaire, its agents and employees, will devote their efforts toward rendering courteous service to the public as though they were employees of the City, with a view of adding to the enjoyment of the patrons of this recreational facility.

 38. City's Control of Premises and Vicinity. All common and other facilities provided by the City are subject to the City's exclusive control and management by the City. Accordingly, provided that the City acts reasonably to minimize the impacts on use of and access to the Premises, the City may do any and all of the following (among other activities in support of Parks or other municipal objectives), all without incurring any liability whatsoever to Concessionaire:

 38.1 Change of Vicinity. The City may increase, reduce, or change in any manner whatsoever the number, dimensions, and locations of the walks, buildings, landscaping, exhibit, service area, and parking areas in the vicinity of the Premises;

 38.2 Traffic Regulation. The City may regulate all traffic within and adjacent to the Premises, including the operation and parking of vehicles of Concessionaire and its invitees, employees, and patrons.

 38.3 Display of Promotional Materials. The City may erect, display, and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events on property adjacent to and nearby the Premises.

 38.4 Change of Businesses. The City may change the size, number, and type and identity of concessions, stores, businesses and operations being conducted or undertaken in the vicinity of the Premises.

 39. Dispute Resolution. In the event of a dispute or misunderstanding between the parties regarding any term of this Agreement, the parties shall first attempt to resolve the dispute through amicable negotiations, if possible. If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute informally, either party may request mediation of the dispute. The parties shall agree on a mediator who shall conduct the mediation within sixty (60) days of the request, unless extended by agreement of the parties. The mediation shall be conducted under such terms and procedures as determined by the mediator. Any positions expressed by the parties and recommendations of the mediator shall not be admissible as evidence in any subsequent legal or alternative dispute resolution proceeding. Unless waived by the parties, an attempt to mediate the dispute is a condition precedent to pursuing any other legal remedy. If the dispute is not resolved by the mediation, either party shall be entitled to pursue any legal remedy available.

 40. City's Consent or Approval. Whenever the consent of the City or the Superintendent to any act to be performed by Concessionaire is required under this Concession Agreement (a) Concessionaire must obtain the consent or approval in writing expressly for purposes of this Concession Agreement, regardless of whether a consent or approval shall have been granted by the City in its regulatory, public utility, or other capacity; and (b) unless otherwise expressly stated herein, such consent or approval may be withheld in the City's

 sole discretion.

 No permission, consent, or approval of the City or the Superintendent contained herein or given pursuant to this Concession Agreement is, or shall be construed as, a representation or assurance that the matter consented to or approved complies with applicable laws, regulations, ordinances or codes, nor shall any such consent or approval be construed to authorize any failure to comply with any of the foregoing.

 41. Miscellaneous.

 41.1 Entire Concession Agreement; Applicable Law. This Concession Agreement and the Exhibits attached hereto, and by this reference incorporated herein, set forth the entire agreement of the City and Concessionaire concerning the Premises, and there are no other agreements or understanding, oral or written, between the City and Concessionaire concerning the Premises. Any subsequent modification or amendment of this Concession Agreement shall be binding upon the City and Concessionaire only if reduced to writing and signed by them and concurred with in writing by the National Park Service. This Concession Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.

 41.2 Negotiated Concession Agreement. The parties to this Concession Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Concession Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Concession Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this instrument the day and year indicated below.

 CITY: CONCESSIONAIRE:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE SEATTLE COURTS SPORTS UNLIMITED, INC.

 By: ______________________________ By:

 Print Name/Title:____________________ ___________________________________

 Department of Parks and Recreation Seattle Court Sports Unlimited

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for City)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______________, 20__, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared _______________, known to me to be the ___________________ of the Department of Parks and Recreation of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the party that executed the foregoing instrument as City, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said party, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for ___________)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of _________________, 20__, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________, to me known to be the __________________of _____________________, the entity that executed the foregoing instrument as ___________; and acknowledged to me that he signed the same as the free and voluntary act and deed of said entity for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and that he was authorized to execute said instrument for said entity.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 Attachment 1

 1

 Attachment 1 to DPR Magnuson SCSU Tennis Agreement ORD

 Legal Description

 PARCEL 6

 Lot B

 Parcel Containing Bldg. 41

 Property Description

 (revised 09/16/97)

 That portion of the east one-half of the southwest quarter (SW4) of Section 2, TWP 25N, RNG 04E, W.M., said east one-half being acquired by the U. S. Navy on behalf of the United States of America by deed recorded in the records of King Co., Washington in Vol. 1306 at pg. 455, described as follows:

 Commencing at the west one-sixteenth corner common to Sections 2 and 11, TWP 25N, RNG 04E, W.M., accepted as being the same as the center- line intersection of NE 65th Street and Sand Point Way NE, thence N 00 degrees 48' 49" W on the centerline of Sand point Way NE a distance of 60.01 feet, thence leaving said centerline S 89 degrees 35' 06" E a distance of 40.01 feet to a point on the east margin of said Sand Point Way NE, said point being 60.00 feet north of the south line of said Section 2 as measured at right angles thereto, thence continuing S 89 degrees 35' 06" E parallel with the south line of said Section 2 a distance of 489.94 feet, thence N 00 degrees 19' 00" W a distance of 331.50 feet, thence N 23 degrees 24' 06" W a distance of 323.73 feet, thence N 00 degrees 01' 23" W a distance of 1211.94 feet to the True Point Of Beginning of this description, thence continuing N 00 degrees 01' 23" W a distance of 410.18 feet, thence N 89 degrees 42' 47" E a distance of 796.53 feet to the west boundary of a tract of land under the jurisdiction of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), thence S 00 degrees 02' 51" W on said NOAA boundary a distance of 276.81 feet to a concrete monument marking a boundary corner of Warren G Magnuson Park as established in 1975, thence continuing S 00 degrees 02' 51" W on said Park boundary a distance of 159.18 feet, thence leaving said Park boundary S 89 degrees 44' 09" W a distance of 546.98 feet, N 00 degrees 15' 51" W a distance of 25.49 feet, thence S 89 degrees 44' 09" W a distance of 248.90 feet to the True Point Of Beginning.

 Exhibit A

 1

 Exhibit A to DPR Magnuson SCSU

 Tennis Agreement ORD

[Exhibit B: Map of the Premises with Dimensions](/~ordpics/116270.gif)

[Exhibit C: Conceptual Plan for Initial Improvements and Roadway and Parking Replacement](/~ordpics/116270a.gif)

[Exhibit D: USA Deed](/~ordpics/116270.pdf)

 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

 1.1 Minimum Insurance Coverages and Limits to be Maintained by Concessionaire. Prior to the Possession Date Concessionaire shall secure, and thereafter maintain in full force and effect throughout the entire Term of this Agreement, at no expense to the City, minimum levels of insurance coverage and limits of liability as specified below:

 1.1.1 Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance including:

 Premises/Operations

 Products/Completed Operations

 Personal/Advertising Injury

 Contractual

 Stop Gap/Employers Liability

 Independent Contractors

 Host Liquor

 Liquor Liability (if alcoholic beverages are sold)

 Such insurance must provide the following minimum limits of liability:

 $2,000,000.00 each Occurrence Combined Single Limit Bodily Injury and Property Damage (CSL)

 $2,000,000.00 each Offense Personal/Advertising Injury

 $2,000,000.00 each Common Cause Liquor Liability (if applicable)

 $1,000,000.00 each Accident/ Disease/Employee Stop Gap/Employers Liability

 1.1.2 Automobile Liability Insurance, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles, as applicable, with a minimum limit of $2,000,000.00 CSL.

 1.1.3 Excess/Umbrella Liability Insurance as may be required to provide the minimum limits of liability required in Paragraphs 1.1.1. and 1.1.2.

 1.1.4 Workers' Compensation Insurance securing Concessionaire's liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington; provided, that if Concessionaire is qualified as a self- insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Concessionaire shall certify that qualification by a letter signed by a corporate officer of Concessionaire and delivered to City that sets forth the limits of any excess insurance workers' compensation policy.

 1.1.5 Property Insurance under which (i) the Building and other major insurable structures on the Premises, including the Initial Improvements and any other insurable improvements thereto that Concessionaire makes to the Premises (the "Structures"), and (ii) Concessionaire's furniture, fixtures, equipment, inventory and trade fixtures and ("Business Property") are insured throughout the Agreement Term. Such property shall be insured in an amount equal to the current replacement cost thereof (with respect to the Structures, as established on or about the Possession Date, and annually thereafter, in consultation with the City) against the following hazards: (i) loss from the perils of fire and other risks of direct physical loss, not less broad than provided by the insurance industry standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form (ISO form CP 1030 or equivalent); (ii) earthquake and flood; (iii) loss or damage from water leakage or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in or on the Premises; (iv) loss or damage by explosion of steam boilers, pressure vessels, oil or gasoline storage tanks or similar apparatus now or hereafter installed on the Premises; (v) loss from business interruption or extra expense, with sufficient coverage to provide for the payment of the Concession Fee and other fixed costs during any interruption of Concessionaire's business. The deductible for property insurance as required herein shall not exceed $10,000.00 each claim, unless otherwise approved by the City.

 During the time that the Initial Improvements are being made to the Structures, Concessionaire shall obtain such Builder's Risk Property Insurance as may be required by Concessionaire's property insurer. When so required, the amount of Builder's Risk Property Insurance shall be not less than the Structures' then-current replacement value plus all soft and hard costs of construction, and such valuation shall be the new initial replacement cost valuation after completion. Such Builder's Risk Property Insurance may be furnished by either the Concessionaire or its contractor.

 1.2 Minimum Insurance Coverages and Limits to be Maintained by Concessionaire's Contractor(s).

 1.2.1 Prior to the commencement of any construction activity on the Premises under this Agreement, Concessionaire shall cause its prime contractor(s) to secure and thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the period of construction, minimum levels of liability (and Builder's Risk Property, if applicable) insurance coverages and limits of liability as specified in Paragraphs 1.1.1 through 1.1.4. (excluding host liquor and liquor liability under CGL insurance) that complies with the terms and conditions specified in Paragraph 1.3. In addition, CGL additional insured status shall include and apply to products/completed operations coverage per the ISO CG 20 10 11 85 endorsement or equivalent, and CGL coverage shall be maintained in force for not less than three (3) years following the completion of work.

 1.2.2 In addition to the minimum coverages and limits specified in Paragraph 1.2.1, should on or off-site remediation of hazardous materials be necessary under the scope of work, Concessionaire or its contractor shall secure and maintain General Contractor's Pollution Liability Insurance with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000.00, each claim, and if transport of hazardous materials is required, CA 99 48 and MCS-90 endorsements must be attached to the Automobile Liability Insurance policy, with minimum limits of liability of $1,000,000.00, CSL.

 1.2.3 Proof of insurance required under this Paragraph 1.2 shall be furnished to the City as specified in Paragraph 1.4.

 1.3 Terms and Conditions (Not Applicable to Workers' Compensation Insurance). The insurance specified in Paragraphs 1.1 and 1.2 shall be comply with the following:

 1.3.1 All insurance shall be issued by an insurer rated A- VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus lines by a Washington State licensed Surplus lines broker.

 1.3.2 CGL and Auto Liability Insurance (and, as applicable, Excess/Umbrella Liability Insurance) shall include the City of Seattle as an additional insured on a primary and non- contributory basis with all insurance and self-insurance the City maintains. Such additional insured status shall apply up to the total limits of liability of all such insurance available to Concessionaire, whether such insurance is primary, excess, contingent or otherwise.

 1.3.3 Property Insurance (including Builder's Risk Property Insurance) shall include the City of Seattle as either an additional named insured or as an additional insured and shall also waive the insurer's right of subrogation as against the City.

 1.3.4 Any deductible or self-insured retention of more than Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) is subject to the City's approval. Concessionaire shall be responsible for any claims or payments that fall within the deductible or self-insured retention.

 1.3.5 The City may amend the requirements for coverage and/or limits upon ninety (90) days' notice but not more frequently than once every five (5) years and with reasonable justification demonstrating that the changed coverage is consistent with industry practice for comparable facilities.

 1.3.6 Insurance shall not be cancelled without written notice of such cancellation being delivered to the City not less than forty-five (45) days prior to the cancellation date, except thirty (30) days as respects insurance procured under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW (Surplus Lines) and ten (10) days as respects cancellation for non-payment of premium.

 1.3.7 The placement and storage of its personal property in the Premises shall be the responsibility, and at the sole risk, of Concessionaire.

 1.4 Proof of Insurance.

 1.4.1 Proof of insurance coverage shall contain sufficient detail to allow the City to assess compliance with the requirements herein and be delivered to the following address prior to the Possession Date:

 The City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 Attention: Manager

 Contracts and Business Resources

 6310 NE 74th Street

 Seattle, WA 98105

 A copy shall be delivered electronically as an email attachment or by fax to:

 The City of Seattle Risk Management Division

 Email: riskmanagement@seattle.gov

 Fax: (206) 470-1279

 1.4.2 A true copy of the additional insured policy in the CGL insurance policy must be attached, in order to document the City's additional insured status as required under Subsection 1.3.2.

 1.4.3 A true copy of the additional insured policy provision in the Property Insurance (including, if applicable, the same provision from any separate Builder's Risk Property Insurance policy) must be attached, in order to document the City's status as an additional insured and to verify the insurer's waiver of subrogation as required under Subsection 1.3.3.

 1.4.4 If either the CGL or Property Insurance policy has not been issued as of the date required, a current binder documenting coverages, limits of liability, additional insured status and the waiver of subrogation as required herein shall be substituted.

 Exhibit E

 1

 Exhibit E to DPR Magnuson SCSU Tennis Agreement ORD

```
