

********

**Council Bill Number: 116253**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122739**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment; authorizing the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Seattle and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77; establishing wage adjustments to certain job titles; and providing payment therefor.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 14, 2008
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Clark)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 23, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 23, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 23, 2008
   
**Committee:** Culture, Civil Rights, Health and Personnel
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** COLLECTIVE-BARGAINING, CITY-EMPLOYEES, WAGES-AND-SALARIES

**Fiscal Note:**116253

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122739](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122739.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment; authorizing the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Seattle and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77; establishing wage adjustments to certain job titles; and providing payment therefor.

 WHEREAS, City Light had identified a business a need to modify work rules and job duties for certain job classifications represented by Local 77 in the Systems Control Center and Civil Construction Division, in order to manage workload more efficiently and reduce overtime hours and associated costs; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77 entered into negotiations and have come to an agreement on changes in work rules, job duties, and compensation for certain represented classifications; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Authorizing the Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Seattle and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77. As requested by the Personnel Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized for and on behalf of the City of Seattle to execute the Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Seattle and the Public the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1, and identified as "Memorandum of Understanding By and between City of Seattle, Seattle

 City Light and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77."

 Section 2. Establishing Wage Adjustments to Certain Job Titles per the Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Seattle and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77. As stipulated in Attachment 1, the following salary rates are established as shown, effective as of the dates shown and pay authorized back to the effective dates:

 Department: City Light

 Title: Power Dispatcher

 New Salary Range: $40.61 - $42.05 - $43.51

 Old Salary Range: $37.95 - $39.30 - $40.66

 Effective: April 14, 2008

 Department: City Light

 Title: Senior Power Dispatcher

 New Salary Range: $49.19

 Old Salary Range: $44.72

 Effective: April 14, 2008

 Department: City Light

 Title: Power Structures Mechanic

 New Salary Range: $31.32

 Old Salary Range: $30.12

 Effective: April 14, 2008

 Department: City Light

 Title: Power Structures Mechanic Crew Chief

 New Salary Range: $35.91

 Old Salary Range: $33.88

 Effective: April 14, 2008

 Section 3. The heads of employing units and/or their designees are hereby authorized to use unexpended and unencumbered salary funds accumulating in their budgets to pay the compensation authorized in the attached Memorandum of Understanding.

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Memorandum of Understanding By and between City of Seattle, Seattle

 City Light And International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local

 Mark McDermott/David Bracilano/sb

 PERS Power Mechs and Disp MOU ORD

 May 28, 2008

 Version #1

 Form Last Revised on December 31, 2007 3

 Memorandum of Understanding

 By and Between

 City of Seattle, Seattle City Light

 And

 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77

 RE: Power Dispatchers/Power Structure Mechanics

 The following Understanding with respect to the Power Dispatcher and Power Structure Mechanic positions is by and between the City of Seattle and its Department Seattle City Light ( hereinafter referred to as City), and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Union Local 77 ( hereinafter referred to as Union). Collectively they shall be referred to as the parties.

 The parties have agreed certain contractual provisions or understandings will change to reflect agreed upon language surrounding the above mentioned classifications. For the Power Dispatchers the Memorandum of Agreement has been modified to reflect changes in work schedules and shift hours for appropriate coverage in the System Control Center (SCC). This will be considered part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) between the parties. For the Power Structure Mechanics there will be changes to Articles 39 "Working Rules for Underground Construction", and Article 36 "Working Rules for Power Production Personnel". Those changes are shown in the attachments affixed hereto.

 The parties have also agreed to certain wage adjustments for the referenced classifications. There will be an increase over the 2008 rate by 7% for the Power Dispatcher classification, and 10% for the Power Dispatcher Senior classification. There are a total of 24 employees affected by the rate increase. These adjustments are also reflected in the attachments affixed hereto.

 There will also be a wage adjustment for the Power Structure Mechanic series. Effective with the signing of this understanding there will be a 6% increase for five (5) Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chiefs, and a 4% increase for thirteen (13) Power Structure Mechanics. The Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief position will now become a working position in addition to its normal duties and assigned tasks.

 This Memorandum of Understanding will remain in full force and effect until the expiration of the current CBA between the parties which expires on January 22, 2009.

 For the City of Seattle For the Union IBEW Local 77

 ________________ ___________________

 Steven A. Jewell Joe Simpson

 Labor Negotiator Business Representative

 For Seattle City Light

 _________________

 Berle Hardie

 Labor Relations Coordinator

 ATTACHMENT A

 12 HOUR SHIFT COMPONENTS

 SCHEDULE

 The schedule is a 10 week rotation (see Attachment D) for Distribution Dispatchers and 12 week rotation (see Attachment G) for Generation/Transmission Dispatchers. The Distribution Dispatchers schedule is divided into two 5 week periods. Each 5 week period schedules each dispatcher to work 200 hours. This averages 40 hours per week for each dispatcher. This 40 hour average is comprised of individual work weeks of 48, 42, 42, 36 & 32 hours each. The Generation /Transmission Dispatchers Schedule is divided into two 6 weeks periods. Each 6 week period schedules each Dispatcher to work 240 hours. This averages 40 hours per week for each Dispatcher. This 40 hour average is comprised of individual work weeks of 48, 42, 42, 36, 32 & 40 hours each. This is mutually agreed to schedule under Article 15.1 of the Agreement between the Department of Lighting, City of Seattle, and the International Brotherhood of Electric Workers, Local 77, effective through January 22, 2009, herein after called the "Agreement". The schedule denotes the days and hours to be worked by each dispatcher. These hours will be worked without incurring contractual overtime unless the hours worked fall on a paid holiday (see Article 16.2). FLSA overtime will incurred for all hours worked within the schedule in excess of 40 hours in a give workweek. FLSA overtime will be compensated for at one and one half times the regular rate of pay. Any hours worked that differ from these, either scheduled or non-scheduled, will be considered contractual overtime and compensated at twice the normal rate of pay.

 Dispatchers rotating to fill Shifts A through F ( see Attachment G) and G through P (see Attachment D) will normally work the mutually agreed to schedule. These dispatchers will be allowed to change shifts amongst themselves under Article 40.2 of the Agreements.

 The Dispatcher working Schedule, S and R, Relief, will be assigned these positions on a rotating bases. The rotation in this position will normally be for a 50 or 60 week period. It will be filled by the Distribution Dispatchers, normally filling Schedules G through P and/or Generation/Transmission Dispatchers normally filling Schedules A through E. The dispatcher rotating out of the relief position will assume the schedule (Shift G-P or A-F) of the dispatcher being assigned the relief position.

 Non-rotating dispatchers will normally work the days and hours indicated on the mutually agreed to schedule per this Letter of Agreement dated ___________, 2007, here in after called the "Letter of Agreement". Days and hours of work for the Outage Dispatcher may not be changed without incurring contractual overtime.

 Relief Dispatchers, and Assistant Power Dispatcher positions may have their days and hour of work adjusted to cover vacations, training, sick leave and other absences. All hours worked by the dispatchers in these positions in the excess of 40 hours in a give work week will incur FLSA overtime. FLSA overtime will be compensated at one and one-half times the regular rate of pay. All hours worked by the dispatchers in these positions in excess of 200 hours in a formatted 5 week period or 240 hours in formatted 6 week period will incur contractual overtime.

 All hours worked by the dispatcher in these positions in excess of 48 hours in a given workweek will incur contractual overtime and will be compensated at twice the normal rate of pay. Dispatchers in these positions will work the mutually agreed to schedule unless their schedule has been adjusted otherwise.

 The 12 hour schedule as formatted calls for 16 dispatchers to rotate to cover the Transmission & Generation Desk and the North and South Distributions Desks on a continuing 24 hour basis. A second dispatcher is scheduled to work on the Transmission & Generation Desk Monday through Friday from 0600 through 1800. The schedule also provides each Generation/Transmission Dispatcher within the rotation 5 days of 4 hours to be scheduled for training and/or work assignments for each 12 week period.

 A dispatcher is scheduled to work the Service Desk Monday through Friday during the regular day shift hours on a rotating basis. These shifts shall be filled as shown in Attachment D. The schedule also provides each Distribution Dispatcher within the rotation 3 days each 10 week period to be scheduled for training and/or work assignments.

 ATTACHMENT B

 WORK RULES FOR 12 HOUR SHIFTS

 WORK WEEK

 The work week for all dispatchers will be from 0030 hours Saturday through 0030 hours next Saturday. Assistant Power Dispatchers will have an identical work week.

 WORK HOURS

 (0630 - 1830) 12 HOUR DAY SHIFT

 Worked by dispatchers on the Transmission - Generation Desk and the North and South Distribution Desks.

 (0700 - 1500) 8 HOUR DAY SHIFT

 Worked by the dispatchers working as the Distribution Dispatcher on work assignments or training days, Service Dispatcher, Relief Dispatcher when working the mutually agreed to schedule, or day shift Assistant Power Dispatcher.

 (0600-1400) 8 HOUR DAY SHIFT

 Worked by the dispatchers working as the Second Generation - Transmission Dispatcher or Relief Dispatcher when working the mutually agreed to schedule.

 (0700 - 1530) 8 HOUR DAY SHIFT

 Worked by Senior Dispatchers assigned and the Assistant Power Dispatcher assigned to Outage.

 (1400 - 2200) 8 HOUR SWING SHIFT

 Worked by the dispatchers working as the Second Generation - Transmission Dispatcher or Relief Dispatcher when working the mutually agreed to schedule.

 (1500 - 2300) 8 HOUR SWING SHIFT

 Worked by Assistant Power Dispatcher when working the mutually agreed to schedule.

 (1830 - 0630) 12 HOUR NIGHT SHIFT

 Worked by dispatchers on the Transmission - Generation Desk and the North and South Distribution Desks.

 (2300 - 0700) 8 HOUR GRAVEYARD SHIFT

 Worked by Assistant Power Dispatchers when required. This shift is included for the purpose of covering a 12 hour night shift with two person each working 8 hour shifts.

 HOLIDAYS

 Recognized Holidays are listed under Article 10.1 of the Agreement. When scheduled to work on any of these Holidays, the dispatcher will receive 8 hours pay plus one and one-half times their regular pay for the actual hours worked under Article 16.2 of the Agreement. Dispatchers not assigned to work on a recognized holiday will receive 8 hours Holiday pay. The dispatcher assigned to the Service Desk, the dispatcher on an 8 hour training day, and the second dispatcher assigned to Transmission/Generation, will not normally work on holidays. If a dispatcher is assigned to one of these positions on a holiday, they will be paid at the double time overtime rate. For accounting purposes, the holiday will begin with the start of the first shift scheduled, and end at the completion of the last shift scheduled on the actual holiday. The payroll system will prevent the loss of any benefits due to overtime being paid for hours worked that would normally be part of a standard work schedule.

 Attachment B - Page 1 of 2

 POSTING OF SCHEDULES

 The schedule will be posted in compliance with Article 40.2 of the Agreement. Any changes in the schedule after it is posted will require mutual agreement between the dispatchers involved and their supervisor. If a shift change has been initiated by the dispatcher, no overtime will be paid per section 40.2 of the Agreement. If a change has been initiated by management, all appropriate overtime will be paid per the Agreement.

 SCHEDULED RELIEF

 Assistant Power Dispatchers and Relief Dispatchers will be used to accommodate changes in the mutually agreed to schedule. Rotating Dispatchers may be upgraded to work Senior Dispatcher positions, but their days and hours of work may not be changed without their consent. In addition, no extension of a 12 hour shift shall be scheduled.

 When dispatchers normally working 8 hour shifts are used for relief of a 12 hour shift, such shifts shall be scheduled in one of the following ways: 1) in even numbers so as to insure 200 hours of work in the 5 week period with no work days of less than 8 hours, 2) as an 8 hour shift with 4 hours of overtime, 3) using 2 dispatchers working 8 hour shifts that span the period of absence.

 NON-SCHEDULED CHANGES

 Non-scheduled relief for sick leave, etc. may be covered by using 2 dispatchers working 8 hour shifts that span the time required to cover the vacant shift, one dispatcher working an 8 hour shift plus 4 hours of overtime or by calling a dispatcher back from scheduled days off. No shift shall be changed to avoid the payment of overtime that would have been necessary had the shift not been change. Extending a 12 hour shift to cover emergencies shall be avoided.

 SHORT CHANGES

 Short changes between shifts should be avoided but will be acceptable under certain conditions. A relief dispatcher working an 8 or a 12 hour shift must have a minimum of 8 hours off before returning to work an 8 hour shift. A minimum of 10 hours off before returning to work a 12 hours shift will be required. No dispatcher shall work a shift that exceeds 16 hours.

 ASSIGNMENTS TO 12 HOURS SCHEDULE

 Dispatchers will be assigned to the 12 hour schedule by the bid method per Article 28.14 of the Agreement. Per Article 41.2 of the Agreement, all dispatchers will be allowed to bid for vacant schedules. (i.e. A-F in Attachment G and G-P in Attachment D) in the rotation.

 The transition into or out of the 12 hour schedule shall not result in the loss of pay by any dispatcher. The 12 hour schedule includes unbalanced pay periods. Any pay received for other than a 40 hour work week and/or any differences in annual salaries received by employees working this 12 hour schedule will not be considered as a loss of pay by the Power Dispatchers working the schedule.

 ATTACHMENT C

 RULES OF IMPLEMENTATION

 DURATION

 This Agreement becomes effective upon signing by all parties to the Agreement, as mutually agreed between Local 77, the Department, and the City.

 These rules and/or agreement may be amended by mutual agreement between the Union, the Department, and the City. If mutual agreement cannot be reached on any desired changes, the Letter of Agreement may be terminated by any party at the end of the next defined 10 week rotation.

 If it becomes necessary to terminate the 12 hours schedule, City Light and Local 77 will meet and discuss the terms and conditions of such termination. In absence of a mutual agreement otherwise, the Dispatchers will return to and continue on the 8 hour schedule that was in effect on May 1, 1990. This will occur at the end of a five week period of the 12 hour schedule that coincides with the end of a pay period. Any open assignments in the 8 hour schedule that have occurred while the 12 Hour Shift was in effect will be filled by the bid method per Article 40.2 of the Agreement.

 Drafted Proposal - Working Rule addition Power Production - 8/22/07

 Article 36. WORKING RULES FOR POWER PRODUCTION PERSONNEL

 36.XX The Power Production Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief shall be a

 working Crew Chief.

 The Power Production Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief shall

 Supervise no more than 12 persons.

 Draft Proposed Work Rules 11/7/07

 Article 39. WORKING RULES FOR UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION

 CREWS

 39.1 Power Structure Mechanic shall operate construction equipment in excavation - backfilling of ditches and trenches of underground facilities.

 39.2 Power Structure Mechanic shall act as leadworker in the absence of the Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief, in the construction of transformer vaults, manholes, all nonmetallic conduit runs and installations of pre-cast transformer vaults, manholes and handholes. These crews may install the metal pre-fabricated 90 degree bend at the base of the pole, together with the first length pipe up the pole. No permanent attachments will be made to the pole nor will these crews bend steel pipe.

 39.3 Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief shall supervise only and shall not be permitted to use tools except in the case of emergency, or when the Underground Construction Crew numbers five (5) or less, the Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief shall be a working Crew Chief.

 39.4 The Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief shall coordinate and supervise the layout of all excavations fro distribution and Power Production. This does not preclude the use of contractors

 39.5 The Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief shall coordinate and dispatch the crews to be used for the sole purpose of hazardous material response, and the cleanup of PCB, and Non PCB oil, and all hazmat related operations within the Seattle City Light distribution area excluding Service Centers. It is recognized that first response can be done by others.

 39.6 A qualified Seattle City Light Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief may be assigned to review at appropriate intervals, during construction and prior to the acceptance by City Light, all civil and mechanical installations that will be owned by Seattle City Light. This work shall be done in coordination with the electrical reviewers.

 39.7 The Power Structure Mechanic Crew Chief shall supervise the work of underground construction crews of up to no more than seventeen (17) persons.

 Attachment "E"

 Wage Rates

 Wage rates shall be established for the titles below, effective as of the final date of signature of the Memorandum of Understanding by and between City of Seattle, Seattle

 City Light and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77 RE: Power Dispatchers/Power Structures Mechanics.

 The salary schedule in the collective bargaining agreement shall be amended to replace the existing "Percentage to 100%" values (wage alignment between job titles) with the values enumerated below.

 Title Step 1 Percentage Step 2 Percentage Step 3 Percentage to 100% to 100% to 100%

 Power Dispatcher $40.61 119.86% $42.05 124.11% $43.51 128.42%

 Power Dispatcher, $49.19 145.19% - - - - Senior

 Power Structures $31.32 92.44% - - - - Mechanic

 Power Structures $35.91 106% - - - - Mechanic Crew Chief

 10

 Attachment 1

```
