

********

**Council Bill Number: 116227**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122707**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent to enter into a ten-year Concession Agreement with Civic Light Opera for the purpose of improving and operating the theater in the Magnuson Community Center at Warren G. Magnuson Park.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2008
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Conlin)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 19, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 16, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 27, 2008
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, LEASES, MAGNUSON-PARK, CULTURAL-ACTIVITIES

**Fiscal Note:**116227

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122707](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122707.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent to enter into a ten-year Concession Agreement with Civic Light Opera for the purpose of improving and operating the theater in the Magnuson Community Center at Warren G. Magnuson Park.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation ("DPR") has jurisdiction over and manages Warren G. Magnuson Park ("Magnuson Park"), including the buildings therein; and

 WHEREAS, Civic Light Opera ("CLO") was founded in 1977 to present live theater to public audiences and has continuously engaged in recreational, educational, and public outreach activities pursuant to that purpose; and

 WHEREAS, DPR and CLO both endeavor to educate the general public about arts and recreation and to develop public programs; and

 WHEREAS, in 2005, DPR issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) to find partners to expand Magnuson Park's public recreation opportunities, including operation of the theater in the Magnuson Community Center; and

 WHEREAS, in response to the RFP, CLO submitted a proposal that was reviewed by a committee and accepted by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent") as having met the requirements of the RFP; and

 WHEREAS, CLO and DPR desire to collaborate in order to achieve their shared long-term visions and goals with respect to the development of arts, recreation, and educational activities at Warren G. Magnuson Park; and

 WHEREAS, the parties agree that there will be substantial public benefits from CLO's financial commitments to remodel and improve the theater, and CLO's program commitments to remodel and improve the theater in the Magnuson Community Center, thereby establishing an important community recreation facility at Magnuson Park; and

 WHEREAS, CLO and DPR wish to enter into a long-term agreement for the purpose of setting forth the terms and conditions under which CLO will occupy and use portions of the Magnuson Community Center, including the proposed terms and conditions under which the renovation project shall be financed, constructed, and operated;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent") is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle ("City"), a ten-year Concession Agreement with CLO, in substantially the form attached hereto as Attachment 1, with such minor additions, modifications, or deletions as the Mayor or said Superintendent deems necessary or advisable to carry out the intent of this ordinance.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Concession Agreement Between The City of Seattle and Civic Light Opera, Association

 Exhibit A: Site Map of the Premises

 Exhibit B: Legal Description

 Exhibit C: Parking

 Exhibit D: USA Deed

 Eric Friedli/cv

 DPR Civic Light Opera Agreement ORD

 May 21, 2008

 Version #3

 1

 Attachment 1: Concession Agreement Between The City of Seattle and Civic Light Opera, Association

 CONCESSION AGREEMENT

 THIS CONCESSION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a first class city of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent"), and CIVIC LIGHT OPERA, ASSOCIATION ("CLO"), a Washington not-for-profit corporation.

 RECITALS

 A. Whereas, the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation ("DPR") has jurisdiction over and manages certain land formerly known as US Naval Air Station Sandpoint and presently referred to as Warren G. Magnuson Park ("Magnuson Park"), which the City obtained from the United States of America ("USA"), as surplus property deeded to the City by quitclaim deed recorded on May 4, 1999, in the records of King County at Recording Number 9905041194, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit D ("USA Deed"); and

 B. Whereas, Condition No. 3 of the USA Deed provides that the property "shall not be sold, leased, assigned or otherwise disposed of except to another eligible governmental agency without the prior approval of the Secretary of the Interior in writing . . . [h]owever, nothing in this provision shall preclude the [City] from providing recreational facilities and services compatible with the approved application, through concession agreements entered into with third parties, provided prior concurrence to such agreements is obtained in writing from the Secretary of the Interior;" and

 C. Whereas, CLO was founded in 1977 to expand the Greater Seattle region's offerings of publicly accessible performing arts and has continuously engaged in artistic, recreational, educational and public outreach activities; and

 D. Whereas, pursuant to use permits granted by the City, CLO has been using the theater portion and areas adjacent thereto of the Community Center at Magnuson Park (the "Building") for public performances, which use complements DPR's mission to educate the general public about arts and recreation and to develop public recreational programs; and

 E. Whereas, CLO is undertaking a capital campaign to raise funds for the renovation of the Theater and areas adjacent thereto located within and outside the Building with the aim of consolidating its operations in the Building and collaborating with DPR to achieve their shared long-term vision and goals with respect to the development of arts, recreation and educational activities at Magnuson Park; and

 F. Whereas, the public will benefit substantially from CLO's commitment to remodel, renovate and improve the Theater and areas adjacent thereto located within the Building and to provide programs and activities with the goal of establishing an important community arts, recreation, and arts training center at Magnuson Park; and

 G. Whereas, CLO and the City wish to enter into this Agreement for the purpose of setting forth the terms and conditions under which CLO will occupy and use portions of the Building and other areas within Magnuson Park, including the proposed terms and conditions under which the renovation project shall be financed, constructed, and operated;

 THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual covenants contained herein, the City and CLO covenant and agree as follows:

 ARTICLE 1 AGREEMENT DATA; EXHIBITS As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings, except as otherwise specifically modified in this Agreement:

 1.1 Premises. The "Premises" shall include the theater portion (including the mezzanine and subsurface areas) of the Building, whose footprint is approximately 6,882 square feet (the "Theater"), as described on Exhibit A. As further described in Section 2 below, the "Premises" will be expanded to include the Stage Expansion Area (approximately 1,897 square feet), the Lobby Expansion Area (approximately 1,262 square feet) and the Theater Support Expansion Area (approximately 2,172 square feet) (each, an "Expansion Area"; and collectively, the "Expansion Areas") located at the Magnuson Community Center, as depicted on Exhibit A. The Building is located on the real property legally described on Exhibit B.

 1.2 Commencement Date and Rent Commencement Date. The date on which this Agreement is fully executed by CLO and the Superintendent following authorization of Seattle City Council.

 1.3 Expiration Date. The date that is ten (10) years from the Commencement Date, unless extended or terminated earlier under Section 3.

 1.4 Concession Fee and Additional Charges. The term "Concession Fee," as used herein, means Minimum Concession Fee, Base Concession Fee and Additional Concession Fee.

 1.4.1 Minimum Concession Fee. $9,000 annually.

 1.4.2 Base Concession Fee. $30,000 annually.

 1.4.3 Additional Concession Fee. 10% of CLO's gross receipts from short-term rentals of the Premises to third parties for corporate conferences, meetings, promotions and similar events as defined in Section 4.4.

 1.4.4 Additional Charges. Whether or not so designated, all other sums due from CLO under this Agreement shall constitute Additional Charges, payable when specified in this Agreement and if not specified, then upon CLO's receipt of the City's invoice therefor.

 1.5 Notice Addresses.

 To City: The City of Seattle

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 Attention: Manager

 Contracts and Business Resources

 6310 NE 74th Street

 Seattle, WA 98105

 To CLO: Civic Light Opera

 Attn: President

 7400 Sand Point Way NE, #101N

 Seattle, WA 98115

 1.6 Exhibits. The following exhibits are made a part of this Agreement:

 Exhibit A: Premises (including the Expansion Areas) and Common Areas

 Exhibit B: Legal Description of the real property where the Premises are located

 Exhibit C: Parking

 Exhibit D: USA Deed

 ARTICLE 2 PREMISES

 2.1 Grant. CLO is hereby authorized to use and occupy the Theater during the entire Term. Upon CLO's commencement of the Improvements on any Expansion Area, the Premises shall be permanently enlarged to include such Expansion Area, and CLO shall thereafter be authorized to use and occupy such Expansion Area until the end of the Term.

 2.2 Conditions in USA Deed. This Agreement and the obligations of the parties hereto are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the USA Deed. CLO shall use the Premises in strict accordance with all terms and conditions imposed by the United States of America as set forth in the USA Deed that pertain to the use of the Premises, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions regarding hazardous materials, lead based paints, asbestos, and historic resources contained in provisions in paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 of the USA Deed, if and to the extent applicable to the Premises. In the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions of the USA Deed and any provision of this Agreement, the terms of the USA Deed shall control. Violations of the said terms and conditions of the USA Deed may be grounds for reversion to the United States of America of the Premises, in the discretion of the United States of America and with no compensation to either CLO or the City from the United States of America.

 2.3 License for Construction Staging Area. CLO is hereby granted a license to use and occupy the areas which are reasonably necessary for the construction of the Improvements and which are reasonably approved by the City and CLO (the "Construction Staging Area") at such time as CLO begins construction of the Improvements and for such duration as is required by CLO's construction operations. Nothing herein shall be interpreted to prevent DPR from using the Construction Staging Area for other construction projects or other purposes so long as DPR makes the Construction Staging Area available to CLO at the time CLO commences construction. Additionally, CLO's use of the Construction Staging Area is subject to reasonable guidelines and rules the Superintendent may establish for public safety and convenience.

 2.4 Nonexclusive License to Use Common Areas. Throughout the Term, CLO, its officers, representatives, licensees, contractors, agents, volunteers, employees, performers and patrons, may use the Building common areas, such as the bathrooms and hallways, and the Magnuson Park common areas, including driveways and parking spaces, in common with other visitors and users of Magnuson Park and subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as the Superintendent may promulgate. At the City's sole cost and expense, the City shall maintain all such common areas in good condition and repair and develop such common areas consistent with adopted plans and designs therefor, as currently existing or subsequently amended, including Resolutions 28832, 29429, and 30063, and Ordinance 118622. Notwithstanding the foregoing, CLO shall obtain a DPR permit for any programming it wishes to conduct in any Magnuson Park area other than the Premises in accordance with standard DPR procedures.

 2.5 Acceptance of Premises. CLO has examined the Premises, has had a reasonable opportunity to obtain inspections and reports of professionals regarding the same, and has determined, after such examination, that the Premises are suitable for the use and occupancy desired by CLO hereunder. CLO accepts the Premises in their condition as of the Commencement Date AS IS, with all defects, and assumes all risk that one or more defects exist in the Premises, except as otherwise provided herein. The City makes no warranties or representations of any kind, express or implied, with respect to the condition of the Premises or their suitability for CLO's purposes other than as specified in this Agreement. CLO agrees that any express or implied representations or warranties made by or on behalf of the City prior to the Commencement Date, unless expressly set forth in this Agreement, have been effectively revoked and withdrawn and have no force or effect whatsoever. CLO makes no warranties or

 representations of any kind, express or implied, with respect to its use and occupancy of the Premises or the improvements to be made thereto other than as specified in this Agreement. The City agrees that any express or implied representations or warranties made by or on behalf of CLO prior to the Commencement Date, unless expressly set forth in this Agreement, have been effectively revoked and withdrawn and have no force or effect whatsoever.

 CLO agrees that the City shall have no liability or obligation as a result of any defect or condition of the Building or the Premises, including without limitation latent defects, unless expressly set forth in this Agreement. The City shall have no obligation to undertake any repairs, maintenance or other work of any kind except as expressly set forth in this Agreement.

 ARTICLE 3 TERM

 3.1 Term of Agreement. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.2 and unless terminated earlier or extended as provided elsewhere herein, the term (the "Term") of this Agreement shall be ten (10) years, commencing on the date on which the Agreement is fully executed by CLO and the City following its authorization by the Seattle City Council (the "Commencement Date"). On the Commencement Date, (i) the City shall deliver exclusive possession of the Premises to CLO; and (ii) any and all use permits granted by the City to CLO for the Premises shall terminate. If CLO exercises its option to extend the Term pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.3, the word "Term" as used herein will include the initial 10-year term of this Agreement and the Extended Term(s).

 3.2 CLO's Right of Early Termination. CLO shall have a one time right to terminate this Agreement for any or no reason, in CLO's sole discretion, effective on the fifth (5th) anniversary of the Commencement Date (the "Early Termination Date"), by providing the City with written notice of termination not less than six (6) months prior to the Early Termination Date, time being of the essence.

 3.3 CLO's Option to Extend Term. Provided this Agreement remains in effect and CLO is not in default after receipt of the City's written notice and expiration of any applicable cure period, CLO shall have the option to renew this Agreement for two (2) additional terms of five (5) years each, upon the same terms and conditions (the "Extended Term(s)"). If CLO elects in its sole discretion to exercise such option(s), CLO shall provide the City with written notice of exercise not less than six (6) months before the expiration date of the then-current Term of this Agreement.

 ARTICLE 4 USE

 4.1 Purposes Authorized. CLO shall use the Premises as a performing arts venue and arts training center, including such incidental activities as classes, exhibitions, sale of concession and gift items related to CLO's performing arts activities, regular and special meetings of CLO's board of trustees, fundraising activities and other events supporting the overall mission of CLO, and for licenses consistent with Section 4.5. CLO shall not use the Premises for any other purpose without the Superintendent's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. If CLO requests the Superintendent's consent to any additional purpose, the Superintendent shall be deemed to have approved the use unless he/she denies such consent in writing within twenty (20) business days.

 4.2 Level of Use. During the Term of this Agreement (except when the Improvements or other renovations are being made at the Premises and when the Premises are unusable due to casualty or otherwise), CLO shall make best efforts to present programs and

 performances at the Premises, whether directly or by sublicenses permitted under this Agreement, for forty-eight (48) weeks of every calendar year. In no case shall CLO program the Premises for less than forty (40) weeks of every calendar year. If the Premises are used during three (3) or more days of a week by CLO, the DPR or any of CLO's licensees, such week will be included in the computation. If CLO does not program the Premises for more than forty (40) weeks in any calendar year, as the City's sole remedy therefor, the City reserves the right to require that CLO, to the extent necessary to meet the 48-week goal, either sublicense the Theater to third parties referred by DPR during the unprogrammed days and/or increase the number of days on which the DPR is permitted to use the Theater under Section 4.4 below. CLO agrees to otherwise make reasonable efforts to support DPR's mission to ensure that the Premises are being utilized for programs available to the public for fee or free of charge.

 Magnuson Park has limited capacity to handle multiple events with large numbers of expected attendees. Therefore, if CLO reasonably anticipates that more than 150 people will attend any event on the Premises, excluding CLO's regular season of performances and other events as described in CLO's annual Management and Operations Plan (as such item is defined in Section 4.3 below), CLO shall provide the City with not less than thirty (30) days' advance written notice. If the City determines that the event would conflict with other high-capacity events that have already been scheduled to take place in or near the Building at the same time, the City shall so notify CLO within five (5) business days after its receipt of CLO's notice. Upon receipt of such notice, CLO shall either reschedule the event or reduce the size of the event to less than 150 attendees. The City shall make every reasonable effort to coordinate the scheduling of events at the Building and other parts of Magnuson Park in order to avoid a situation where parking demand is likely to exceed supply during CLO's prescheduled performances and events.

 4.3 Management and Operations Plan. Each year during the Term, CLO shall prepare and submit to the Superintendent an annual plan for the management and operation of the Premises (the "Management and Operations Plan"). CLO shall submit the initial Management and Operations Plan to the City within sixty (60) days from the Commencement Date. All subsequent Management and Operations Plans shall be due on or before October 1st. The Management and Operations Plan shall include such information as the Superintendent may reasonably request from time to time and as is typically requested for comparable DPR facilities and, at a minimum, shall include a description of the then-scheduled upcoming year's programming, anticipated amount of the Public Program Fee Offset, anticipated user fees/rental rates for third-party programming, and CLO's equal opportunity outreach program. CLO may amend or modify the Management and Operations Plan from time to time upon prior written notice to the Superintendent. The Management and Operations Plan is subject to the Superintendent's approval (which approval shall be deemed given if the Superintendent fails to deny it within twenty (20) business days after CLO's submission of the Management and Operations Plan to the Superintendent) with respect to CLO's third party programming, and to the extent CLO requests any Capital Improvement Offset and/or Public Program Fee Offset. The Superintendent's approval shall at all times be consistent with the terms of this Agreement, shall not materially alter the requirements of this Agreement, and shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.

 4.4 Park Department Use. Subject to availability and CLO's approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, DPR shall have the right to use the Theater portion of the Premises up to twenty (20) days during any 12-month period. CLO's personal property and equipment located at the Theater portion of the Premises may be used by DPR, but CLO reserves the right to require that the equipment/property is operated by person(s) approved by CLO in writing, and CLO may charge a reasonable fee based upon the cost of operating such equipment. On or before August 1 of each year during the Term of this Agreement, DPR shall submit to CLO, for CLO's review and approval, a list of events DPR has programmed or anticipates programming at the Premises. DPR's initial list of reserved program times shall be submitted to CLO, for CLO's review and approval, on the Commencement Date. DPR shall provide staffing or pay for opening and closing charges to CLO if the scheduled use is on a day when CLO's personnel would not otherwise be present at the Premises. DPR shall reimburse CLO for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by CLO, if any, in connection with such usage (including but not limited to cleaning and security costs). CLO shall notify the City in advance of any fee which the City will be required to pay to CLO as a result of DPR's use of the Theater portion of the Premises pursuant to this Section.

 4.5 Sublicenses. CLO, in CLO's sole discretion, has the right to permit other individuals or organizations to use all or portions of the Premises on a short-term basis for uses consistent with the Permitted Uses in Section 4.1. Additionally, CLO may license use of all or part of the Premises to third parties on an intermittent basis involving not more than five (5) consecutive days for any one event, or collectively, for not more than thirty (30) days in any one (1) calendar year for commercial or other uses and purposes, such as weddings or meetings. Unless the City agrees otherwise, CLO shall make diligent efforts to ensure that all licensees comply with all legal requirements applicable to their intended use.

 4.6 Notification. CLO shall notify the City, in writing, of each such third-party use at least fourteen (14) days prior to the commencement of the anticipated use.

 ARTICLE 5 CONCESSION FEES; REDUCTIONS AND OFFSETS THERETO; TAXES

 5.1 Minimum Concession Fee. CLO covenants to pay the City a "Minimum Concession Fee" in the amount of $9,000 per year, in advance in quarterly installments, beginning on the Commencement Date and thereafter, on or before the first day of January, April, July, and October throughout the Term. The Minimum Concession Fee shall be prorated based on the number of days at the beginning and end of the Term of this Agreement.

 5.2 Base Concession Fee. Subject to the offset provided herein, in addition to and payable with the Minimum Concession Fee, beginning on the Commencement Date, CLO covenants to pay the City a "Base Concession Fee" in the amount of $30,000 per year in advance in quarterly installments beginning on the Commencement Date and thereafter on or before the first day of January, April, July, and October throughout the Term. The Base Concession Fee shall be prorated based on the number of days at the beginning and end of the Term of this Agreement.

 5.3 Adjustments to Minimum and Base Concession Fees. Beginning on the first (1st) anniversary of the Commencement Date and every year thereafter until the expiration or termination of this Agreement (each a "Concession Fee Adjustment Date"), the Minimum and Base Concession Fees shall be adjusted upward only to reflect increases in the total noncompounded percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (All Items) in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton region (1982-84 = 100) ("CPI"), published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, during the year preceding the Concession Fee Adjustment Date; provided, however, that the increase shall not exceed four percent (4%) during any year. The City shall notify CLO in writing at least three (3) months prior to each Concession Fee Adjustment Date of the new monthly Minimum and Base Concession Fee amounts that will be due starting on such Concession Fee Adjustment Date.

 By way of example only, if the CPI on the Commencement Date is 100 and the CPI most recently issued prior to the first Concession Fee Adjustment Date is 110 and the annual combined amount of Minimum and Base Concession Fees due under this Agreement is $39,000, then the total CPI adjustment would be four percent (4%) and the annual Minimum and Base Concession Fees under this Agreement would increase to $40,560 effective as of the Concession Fee Adjustment Date. In no

 event shall the Minimum and Base Concession Fees, as adjusted for any period, be less than the Minimum and Base Concession Fees payable during the immediately preceding period. In the event that the CPI is discontinued, the parties shall agree upon another similar index to be used to calculate the contemplated adjustment and, in the event of the parties' inability to agree, the parties shall request the American Arbitration Association or its successor to appoint a qualified arbitrator to establish an appropriate adjustment standard to measure inflation.

 5.4 Additional Concession Fee. Commencing on the first (1st) anniversary of the Commencement Date, CLO shall pay the City annually, as an "Additional Concession Fee", ten percent (10%) of Gross Receipts that are derived from the sublicensing of the Premises during the immediately preceding one-year period.

 The term "Gross Receipts" does not mean or include any of the following: proceeds from the sale of tickets for CLO performances or other events; proceeds from CLO's sale of CLO related merchandise, concession, auction or other items; sums raised through fund-raising events benefiting CLO; CLO's class tuition charges; the amount of money refunded to, or credited to the account of, customers who return or do not accept merchandise or services sold by CLO or any sublicensee or concessionaire; returns to shippers or manufacturers; any discount allowed by CLO or any subtenant or concessionaire to customers; the Washington State Sales Tax and any other tax imposed by any government agency directly on sales; any other amount except for the amount actually received by CLO from the sublicensing of the Premises to third parties.

 5.5 Capital Improvement Offset. Throughout the Term of this Agreement, including the Extended Term(s), if any, CLO shall be entitled to an offset (the "Capital Improvement Offset"), applied against the Base Concession Fee and Additional Concession Fee, only, in an amount equal to CLO's expenditures (including all hard and soft costs such as, but not limited to, labor, materials, architect and engineering fees, permits, construction or project management, sales tax, and consultants' fees) for the Improvements and other Superintendent approved renovations and expansions of the Premises and any Superintendent-approved expenses incurred to repair the Premises' mechanical or HVAC systems. The Base Concession Fee and the Additional Concession Fee payable on and after the Commencement Date shall be subject to offset by the architectural and other fees and expenses paid or incurred by CLO prior to the Commencement Date, all which shall be certified by the DPR Finance Director as the Capital Improvement Offset upon CLO's submission of supporting documents. Not later than six (6) months after completing each phase of the Improvements or other approved improvements or repairs, CLO shall provide the City with an accounting of its costs associated therewith, together with such supporting documentation as the DPR Finance Director may reasonably request. The DPR Finance Director, acting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, shall, within thirty (30) days after CLO's submission of the relevant information, certify in writing the total amount of such costs based on the information submitted by CLO and this amount, in the aggregate, shall constitute the amount of the Capital Improvement Offset, or provide CLO with written explanation if any part of such costs is not so certified. The Capital Improvement Offset shall be credited against the Base Concession Fee and any Additional Concession Fee due, in such amounts as CLO may determine from time to time. On each date when Base Concession Fee or Additional Concession Fee is due, CLO shall report to the City the amount of Capital Improvement Offset it is applying to such Base Concession Fee and Additional Concession Fee. The Capital Improvement Offset shall be carried forward until the termination or expiration of this Agreement; if there remains any unused Capital Improvement Offset upon the termination or expiration of this Agreement (except as otherwise specifically provided herein), the value of CLO's prior expenditures represented by such unused Capital Improvement Offset shall be deemed to have been donated to the City at the termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 5.6 Public Program Offset. CLO may request a "Public Program Offset" against the Base Concession Fee and Additional Concession Fee equal to the fair market value of programming that CLO makes available to the public at reduced or no fees (such as scholarship programs or public classes). CLO shall estimate the amount of Public Program Offset it wishes to apply during the subsequent calendar year in the annual Management and Operations Plan. Within thirty (30) days of providing the public program, CLO shall provide DPR with supporting documentation establishing the actual amount of the Public Program Offset, and the DPR Finance Director, shall, within thirty (30) days after CLO's submission of the supporting documentation, certify in writing the total of such amount as the Public Program Offset, or provide CLO with written explanation if any part of such amount is not so certified. Any approved Public Program Offset shall be credited, in such amounts as CLO determines, against the Base Concession Fee and any Additional Concession Fee due. On each date when Base Concession Fee or Additional Concession Fee is due, CLO shall report to the City the amount of the approved Public Program Offset being applied to the Base Concession Fee and Additional Concession Fee; any unused approved Public Program Offset shall be carried forward until the expiration or termination of this Agreement; however any Public Program Offset still remaining as of the expiration of this Agreement will not be refunded to CLO.

 5.7 Taxes. Unless CLO is exempt, CLO shall pay to DPR quarterly whatever leasehold excise tax is assessed pursuant to Chapter 82.29A RCW as a consequence of CLO's use and occupancy of the Premises under this Agreement. In addition, CLO shall pay, before their delinquency, all other taxes that may be due and payable with respect to the property owned by and the activities of CLO on the Premises to the extent failure to do so could result in a lien against the Premises. CLO shall have the unrestricted right to contest the leasehold excise and other taxes payable by CLO hereunder.

 5.8 Tax Payments. Unless CLO is exempt from the payment of leasehold excise or other taxes, CLO shall pay all such taxes payable under this Agreement only in cash or other immediately available funds. The City shall not contest any application to the State of Washington by CLO for an exemption from the leasehold excise or any other tax.

 5.9 Concession Fee and Leasehold Excise Tax Payment Date and Address. All Concession Fees and the leasehold excise tax due and payable under this Agreement shall be remitted to the City at the address shown in Section 1.5 hereof, or to such other place as DPR may hereafter designate in writing.

 5.10 Late and Refused Payments. Any unpaid sums due the City from CLO shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum commencing on the tenth (10th) day after the date such payment was due to the City and continuing until paid in full; however, in the event the unpaid sum is contested by CLO due to a good faith dispute, so long as CLO has provided notice of the contested amount in writing, interest shall not accrue until the City has rejected CLO's notice in good faith and made demand in writing. In addition, CLO shall pay the City a Twenty Dollar ($20.00) charge for each check refused payment for insufficient funds or any other reason.

 ARTICLE 6 UTILITIES AND SERVICES

 6.1 Utilities. As part of the Improvements, CLO shall cause electrical and natural gas utilities to be separately metered for the Premises; until the electrical and natural gas utilities are so separately metered for the Premises, CLO shall pay to the City a reasonable charge for the electrical and natural gas utilities provided to the Premises within thirty (30) days after the City's written invoice to CLO therefor. CLO shall pay, before delinquency, all charges incurred for or in connection with the provision of separately-metered electrical, natural gas and telecommunication services to or for the Premises. The City shall provide to the Premises, at the City's sole cost, all necessary water, sewer service and refuse removal from the trash dumpsters provided by the City and located outside the Premises.

 6.2 City Not Liable for Utility Service Failures. When acting in its capacity as the owner of the Premises, the City shall not be liable for, and CLO hereby waives any claim against the City concerning the failure, for any reason other than the City's gross negligence or intentional misconduct, of any utility service for the Premises. In the event that CLO is unable to use the Premises for the purposes intended hereunder more than three (3) consecutive days due to utility interruption or any other cause within DPR's control, the Base and Additional Concession Fees shall abate until CLO is reasonably able to resume its use and occupancy of the entire Premises. If the Premises remain unusable for the purposes intended hereunder for ninety (90) consecutive days or longer due to utility failure or any other cause not attributable to CLO, CLO shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days' written notice to the City.

 ARTICLE 7 CARE OF PREMISES

 7.1 Maintenance and Repair Obligations.

 7.1.1 City's Obligation. Throughout the Term, the City, at the City's sole cost and expense, shall maintain, repair and replace, as necessary, the Premises' and Building's exterior (including without limitation the roof and its supporting members and exterior walls), structural elements (including without limitation bearing walls and foundation), HVAC, plumbing, electrical and other utility equipment and lines that serve the Building (including those which that serve the Premises and any other parts of the Building, but excluding those which exclusively serve the Premises), the common areas within the Building and Magnuson Park, and the parking lots, driveways and landscaped areas adjacent to the Building, all to the same standard as is applied at the Building and Magnuson Park in general.

 7.1.2 CLO's Obligation. Throughout the Term, CLO shall provide and pay for all routine and preventive maintenance for the interior, nonstructural portions of the Premises including, but not limited to, painting, plumbing, electrical and HVAC systems components that solely serve the Premises. The City hereby grants to CLO and its officers, employees, agents, contractors, representatives and invitees the nonexclusive right throughout the Term of this Agreement to enter areas of the Building outside the Premises not leased or licensed exclusively to third parties, including the bathrooms and hallway shown on Exhibit A, for purposes of inspection, maintenance, repairs and alterations affecting the Premises and for all purposes necessary to perform CLO's obligations under this Agreement. The City shall provide CLO with a key for such purposes, and CLO shall notify the Magnuson Park Manager, in advance, of any proposed entry except in cases of emergency, in which cases the notification shall occur as soon as practicable.

 7.2 Cleaning and Janitorial Services. Subject to the City's obligations provided elsewhere in this Agreement, CLO, at its sole expense, shall keep the interior, nonstructural portions of the Premises in a safe, sanitary and serviceable condition and shall provide all general cleaning and janitorial services as may be required in and for the Premises. CLO shall comply with commercially reasonable sorting and recycling standards adopted by the City. The City shall provide a trash dumpster for CLO's use in reasonable proximity to the Premises at no additional cost.

 7.3 CLO's Preventive Maintenance and Custodial Care Obligation. CLO shall implement, at no cost or expense to the City, a reasonable preventive maintenance and custodial care program for the interior, nonstructural portions of the Premises. CLO will include its plans for preventive maintenance and custodial care in the annual Management and Operations Plan.

 7.4 Intrusion Alarm Installation Obligation. As a part of the Improvements, CLO may at its discretion provide and install on the Premises, at no cost to the City, an intrusion alarm system reasonably acceptable to DPR.

 7.5 Fire Suppression Systems Installation Obligation. CLO shall install in all areas within the Premises where cooking is to occur, hoods, vents, and fire suppression systems that have been approved by the Washington Survey and Rating Bureau to qualify for maximum fire insurance rate credit. The foregoing shall not apply to coffee makers, warming trays and microwave ovens. If the premium for fire insurance on the Premises is increased as a result of CLO's failure to install such an approved system, CLO shall be liable for and shall promptly pay, upon the City's request, the increase.

 7.6 Joint Annual Inspection of Premises; Remedial Action Obligation. CLO and DPR shall participate in a joint annual inspection of the Premises, the Building and the common areas and shall take any and all action that is consistent with the terms of this Agreement that the other party may specify as necessary to maintain and operate the Premises, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.

 7.7 Remedy Upon Failure to Maintain Premises. If either party fails to maintain any part of the Premises, the Building and the common areas within the Building that serve the Premises as required by this Agreement, the other party shall (except in cases of emergency in which case no prior notice shall be required) give the defaulting party written notice to undertake such work as is reasonably required to so maintain the Premises, the Building and/or the common areas within the Building that serve the Premises. If the defaulting party fails to commence such work within thirty (30) calendar days after the effective date of the written notice and to diligently prosecute it to completion, then the non-defaulting party shall have the right, at its option and in addition to all other remedies, to undertake such work and to invoice the other party for the costs reasonably incurred in connection therewith. The non- defaulting party shall have no liability to the defaulting party for any damage, inconvenience or interference with the use of the Premises as a result of the performance of any such work, except to the extent of its or its agents' negligence or intentional misconduct.

 ARTICLE 8 ALTERATIONS OR IMPROVEMENTS

 8.1 CLO's Capital Improvement Obligation. The parties acknowledge and agree that CLO has undertaken to raise $ 5,000,000 for capital improvements (the "Improvements") to be made to the Premises, and further agree that the City's willingness to enter into this Agreement is conditioned in part on CLO's commitment to construct the Improvements. CLO may construct the Improvements in phases, subject to the following conditions: (a) the Superintendent shall have consented to the commencement of the phase of Improvements, in writing, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed and shall be deemed to have been given if not denied in writing within thirty (30) days after delivery of a written request for consent; and (b) the DPR Finance Director shall have determined that CLO is reasonably certain to have raised funds sufficient to complete the proposed phase of the Improvements, which determination shall rest in his or her reasonable discretion based upon a review of CLO's accounts, pledges, lines and letters of credit and such other documents or instruments as CLO proposes to rely upon to finance the Improvements.

 8.2 Failure to Achieve Fund-Raising Thresholds or to Complete Improvements. Either party may terminate this Agreement (i) if the total amount of Capital Improvement Offset accrued on or before the fifth anniversary of the Commencement Date is less than two and a half million dollars ($2,500,000); and (ii) if the total amount of Capital Improvement Offset accrued on or before the tenth anniversary of the Commencement Date is less that five million dollars ($5,000,000). For purposes of this Section, the amount of the Capital Improvement Offset accrued means the amount of Capital Improvement Offset certified by the DPR Finance Director under Section 5.5, regardless of whether it has been applied against the Base and Additional Concession Fees. Notice of termination shall be made in writing not less than ninety (90) days prior to the effective termination date; provided, however, that the City shall not issue such termination notice unless and until the City has provided CLO with reasonable opportunities to discuss with the City CLO's plans and prospects concerning the Improvements.

 8.3 Ownership of Improvements. All Improvements and other alterations, additions, renovations or improvements to the Premises that the Superintendent approves shall be made at CLO's sole cost and expense and, unless the Superintendent directs in writing otherwise at the time of his/her approval thereof, shall remain in and be surrendered with the Premises as a part thereof at the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement. CLO shall have no obligation to remove any of the Improvements. Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement, subject to the other express provisions of this Agreement, all Improvements and other alterations, additions, renovations and improvements made by CLO shall become the City's property without the need for further action by CLO or the City, except that upon the City's request, CLO shall execute in favor of the City a quitclaim deed or bill of sale therefore. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, all equipment and personal property owned by CLO shall remain the property of CLO, and CLO shall have the unrestricted right to remove or replace such equipment and personal property at any time during, and upon the expiration or termination of, the Term of this Agreement.

 8.4 Construction Conditions.

 8.4.1 Plans. CLO shall not permit any construction work to be performed at the Premises except in accordance with DPR- approved plans and specifications prepared by architects or engineers licensed to practice in Washington State; provided, however, that the Superintendent shall not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition his/her approval.

 8.4.2 Contractor Requirements. CLO shall engage only contractors licensed in the State of Washington and shall ensure that prior to commencing any construction work, each such contractor has in force insurance that complies with the requirements in Section 10.7 and names the City as an additional insured. If CLO requires any contractor to obtain a payment and/or performance bond for any work, it shall require the contractor to obtain a dual obligee rider naming the City as a co-obligee.

 8.4.3 Historic Preservation. In undertaking any alteration, modification, repair, renovation or any other work on or to the Premises, including the Improvements, CLO shall comply with all obligations imposed by applicable laws, regulations and ordinances concerning historic preservation, including the Sand Point Historic Properties Reuse and Protection Plan (adopted by the Seattle City Council in Resolution No. 29725 on April 27, 1998)(the "Sand Point Magnuson Park Design Guideline"), a copy of which has been provided to CLO. CLO shall have the right, at its sole expense, to contest the applicability of any law, regulation, or ordinance.

 8.4.4 Staging Area. Pursuant to the license granted to CLO in Section 2.3, CLO may fence off the Construction Staging Area if CLO deems necessary or desirable. DPR may permit CLO to use additional construction staging areas for each phase of the Improvements or other renovations as the work requires, provided that CLO submits its request to DPR for approval with the plans and specifications. CLO and its agents and contractors may place one or more construction trailers on the Construction Staging Area and may store construction materials and tools therein; however, the City will not be responsible for any damage to or loss of CLO's property stored in the Construction Staging Area.

 8.4.5. Impact on Other Building Occupants/Users. The City acknowledges that the Improvements and other work CLO may propose to do in the Building may require the occupant of the gym to vacate the Building for a period of time during construction. CLO shall propose a construction schedule that clearly shows anticipated impacts on other programs and areas within the Building (outside of the Premises) for review and approval of the Superintendent not less than thirty (30) days prior to the start of construction.

 ARTICLE 9 OPERATION AND SERVICES

 9.1 General. CLO shall ensure that all supplies and materials are appropriately stored and secured in such a way as to not inconvenience or conflict with other uses and users of the Building (other than the Premises) and Magnuson Park.

 9.2 Fees. Fees that CLO generally charges other non-profit entities for use of the Premises shall be set at no greater than two hundred percent (200%) of the fees then charged by the City for similar use at the Langston Hughes Performing Arts Center, excluding charges for staff and use of technical and other equipment. CLO may increase fees charged for the Premises above this level based on increases in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), using the formula described in Section 5.3 above.

 9.3 Alcohol sales. CLO shall not permit intoxicating beverages of any kind to be used, sold, consumed, or dispensed upon the Premises unless the Superintendent has approved such use, sale, consumption, or dispensing, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed and shall be deemed to have been given if not denied in writing within five (5) business days after delivery of a request for consent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall be prima facie reasonable for the Superintendent to condition his or her approval on CLO's agreement to comply with reasonable insurance requirements relating to intoxicating beverages established by the City's Risk Manager. CLO shall ensure that any permitted use, sale, consumption or dispensing of intoxicating beverages complies with applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations then in force.

 9.4 Staffing. CLO shall employ personnel or assign volunteers in sufficient numbers to meet the program staffing needs of the Premises.

 ARTICLE 10 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE

 10.1 Indemnification. Subject to Section 13, CLO does hereby release and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, shall defend, indemnify, and hold the City harmless from all losses, liabilities, claims (including claims arising under federal, state or local environmental laws), costs (including attorneys' fees), actions, or damages of any sort whatsoever arising out of CLO's use and occupancy of the Premises, including use and occupancy by CLO's employees, agents, and contractors and by third parties acting under license from CLO, including, but not limited to, any violation of any law, administrative rule or regulation. In the event of concurrent negligence by CLO and the City, CLO's indemnity obligation shall apply only to the extent of CLO's negligence.

 Subject to Section 13, the City does hereby release and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, shall defend, indemnify, and hold CLO harmless from all losses, liabilities, claims (including claims arising under federal, state or local environmental laws), costs (including attorneys' fees), actions, or damages of any sort whatsoever arising from the acts, omissions, negligence, willful misconduct, or violation of any law, administrative rule, regulation or this Agreement, of the City or its agents, contractors, concessionaries, invitees, licensees, or employees when using the Premises pursuant to Section 4.4 above or otherwise. In the event of concurrent negligence by CLO and the City, the City's indemnification obligation shall apply only to the extent of the City's negligence.

 In furtherance of the above obligations, the City and CLO waive, with respect to one another only, any immunity they may have under any industrial insurance, worker's compensation, disability, employee benefit or similar laws.

 BY SIGNATURE BELOW, THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE FOREGOING INDEMNIFICATION, RELEASE, AND WAIVER AGREEMENT WAS MUTUALLY NEGOTIATED.

 10.2 Survival of Indemnification Obligation. The indemnification obligations of the parties hereunder shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement with respect to all claims arising from events occurring prior to such expiration or termination.

 10.3 Insurance to be Maintained by CLO. Prior to the Commencement Date under this Agreement, CLO shall secure and shall thereafter maintain at no expense to City, insurance as specified below.

 10.3.1 Commercial General Liability (CGL) Insurance, including:

 * Premises/Operations

 * Products/Completed Operations

 * Personal/Advertising Injury

 * Contractual

 * Fire/Tenant Legal

 * Employers Liability/Stop Gap

 with a minimum limit of liability of $5,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage (CSL), except:

 * $1,000,000 each offense as respects Personal/Advertising Injury

 * $1,000,000 each occurrence as respects Fire/Tenant Legal

 * $1,000,000 each accident/employee as respects Employers Liability/Stop Gap.

 The limits of liability required herein may be evidenced by primary insurance or any combination of primary and excess/umbrella liability insurance.

 10.3.2 Automobile Liability insurance, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles as appropriate with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 CSL.

 10.3.3 Workers Compensation insurance in compliance with Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington (RCW).

 10.3.4 All risks property insurance on CLO's business and personal property on a replacement cost basis with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the City. The placement and storage of business personal property in the Premises shall be the responsibility and at the sole risk of CLO.

 10.4 Terms and Conditions. (Not Applicable to Workers Compensation Insurance)

 10.4.1 Insurance shall be issued by an insurer rated A- VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus lines by a Washington State licensed Surplus lines broker.

 10.4.2 Liability insurance shall include the City of Seattle as an additional insured on a primary and non-contributory basis with all insurance and self-insurance the City maintains. The limits of liability specified are minimum limits only and shall not be deemed to limit the liability of CLO or any of its insurers (except as respects the limits of liability applicable to each policy) and such additional insured status shall apply to the full limits of liability maintained by CLO, whether such limits are primary, excess, contingent or otherwise.

 10.4.3 Any self-insured retention of more than One

 Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) is subject to the City's reasonable approval; provided, that CLO shall provide the City with a statement of the dollar value of (i) 15% of its working capital, and (ii) 5% of its total assets. If either value is less than $100,000, then CLO agrees that its self-insured retention will exceed the lesser value.

 10.4.4 Insurance shall not be cancelled without written notice of such cancellation being hand-delivered or mailed to the City not less than forty-five (45) days prior to the cancellation date, except thirty (30) days as respects insurance procured under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW (Surplus Lines) and ten (10) days as respects cancellation for non-payment of premium.

 10.5 Evidence of Insurance. Certification of insurance coverage required under this Agreement shall be delivered to each of the following prior to the Commencement Date:

 Magnuson Park The City of Seattle*

 c/o Manager Risk Management Division

 6310 NE 74th Street; Suite 109E P O Box 94669

 Seattle, WA 98115 Seattle, WA 98124-4669

 *Certification sent to the Risk Management Division shall only be delivered electronically to fax number (206) 470-1270 or as an email attachment to riskmanagement@seattle.gov.

 A copy of the actual additional insured endorsement or blanket additional insured policy wording to the CGL insurance must be attached to document the City's additional insured status as required under Section 10.4.2.

 10.6 Insurance to be Maintained by the City.

 10.6.1 At all times during the Term of this Agreement, the City shall maintain at no cost to CLO "All-Risk" Property insurance or self-insurance, including earthquake and flood, on the Building (including the Premises as may be improved by CLO) and all improvements therein on a replacement cost basis with coverage for increased costs due to changes in law and an agreed value endorsement equal to the then current full replacement cost of the Building (including the Premises as may be improved by CLO). The deductible shall be as established in the City's then current master property insurance or self-insurance program; as of the effective date of this Agreement, it is a maximum of $1,000,000, each loss. Such property insurance shall not cover CLO's business and personal property, but shall cover the completed Improvements arising out of the renovation of the Premises.

 10.6.2 During such time as CLO is engaged in the performance of the Improvements or other renovation of the Premises, the City shall maintain in full force and effect "All Risks" Builder's Risk Property insurance for the portion of the Premises under renovation, including fire and flood, on a replacement cost basis subject to a deductible of no more than $50,000 each loss. The builder's risk property insurance shall replace the permanent property insurance maintained by the City pursuant to Section 9.6.1 above during such renovation of the Premises. Contractors of all tiers shall be provided with an insurer's waiver of subrogation. In the event of a claim under the builder's risk policy, CLO or its contractor(s) shall be responsible for paying any deductible under the policy if CLO or any of its agents, employees, or contractors is responsible for the loss or damage. It shall be CLO's responsibility to properly coordinate with the City's Risk Management Division the placement of Builder's Risk Property insurance prior to any new construction on, or structural alteration of, the Premises. Such responsibility shall specifically include the accurate completion and submission of a Builder's Risk Property insurance application and the prior notification of the commencement and ending of construction.

 10.7 Insurance to be Secured by CLO's Contractor(s). Prior to the commencement of any construction activity on the Premises under this Agreement, including the Improvements, CLO shall cause each of its contractor(s) to secure and thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the period of construction, insurance as specified below:

 10.7.1 Commercial General Liability (CGL) Insurance, including:

 * Premises/Operations

 * Products/Completed Operations

 * Personal/Advertising Injury

 * Contractual

 * Employers Liability/Stop Gap

 with a minimum limit of liability of $2,000,000 CSL, except:

 * $1,000,000 each offense as respects Personal/Advertising Injury

 * $1,000,000 each accident/employee as respects Employers Liability/Stop Gap.

 10.7.2 Automobile Liability insurance, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased, or hired vehicles as appropriate with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 CSL.

 10.7.3 Workers Compensation insurance in compliance with Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington (RCW).

 10.7.4 CGL and Automobile Liability insurance, which shall include the City of Seattle as an additional insured on a primary and non-contributory basis with all insurance and self- insurance the City maintains. The limits of liability specified are minimum limits only and shall not be deemed to limit to the liability of CLO's contractor(s) or any of its (their) insurers (except as respects the limits of liability applicable to each policy) and such additional insured status shall apply to the full limits of liability maintained by CLO's contractor(s), whether such limits are primary, excess, contingent or otherwise.

 10.7.5 Insurance certification shall be provided to the City as specified in Section 10.5 (Evidence of Insurance).

 10.8 Waiver of Subrogation. The City and CLO shall obtain an insurer's waiver of subrogation, each in favor of the other; provided, however that (i) the City reserves the right to subrogate against CLO for City's deductible amount if any loss of or damage to the Premises or Building is caused by CLO; and (ii) CLO reserved the rights to subrogate against the City for CLO's deductible amount if any loss of or damage to property insured by CLO is caused by the City.

 ARTICLE 11 DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

 If fire or other casualty damages the Building or the Premises, unless this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the following sentence, the City shall promptly commence such repairs as will restore the Premises (including the Improvements theretofore made by CLO therein) and the Building to their condition immediately preceding the casualty as nearly as reasonably possible; provided, however, that the City shall not be required to spend more than the available insurance proceeds plus any deductible amount. In addition, if (i) more than fifty percent (50%) of the Premises are damaged as a result of casualty; or (ii) repair and restoration cannot reasonably be completed within eighteen (18) months from the date of the casualty; or (iii) the casualty occurs during the final two (2) years of the initial Term or any Extended Term, then either party may terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days' written notice to the other, specifying the effective date of such termination, and, in such event, the City shall retain any insurance proceeds; notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the City is the party that elects to terminate this Agreement pursuant to the provisions of this sentence, CLO shall be entitled to an equitable distribution of the insurance proceeds taking into account any Capital Improvement Offset that would have otherwise offset Concession Fees for the remaining Term. If the City undertakes repairs, then from the date of the casualty through completion of repairs, Concession Fee shall be abated in the proportion that the untenantable portion of the Premises bears to the whole thereof, as reasonably determined by the City and CLO. In the event of damage by casualty, CLO shall, to the extent it deems necessary or desirable, at its sole cost and expense, repair all damage to its own personal property. The City shall not be liable to CLO for damages, compensation, or other sums for inconvenience, loss of business, or disruption arising from any repairs to or restoration of any portion of the Premises except in the event of the City's gross negligence or intentional misconduct.

 ARTICLE 12 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 12.1 General Requirements. CLO, at no cost to the City, shall comply with all laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and Municipal Code of the City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof, as such enactments now exist or are hereafter enacted or promulgated and are applicable to CLO's use, occupancy or renovation of the Premises, including RCW 39.12 pertaining to prevailing wages. Whenever CLO is informed of any violation of any such law, ordinance, rule, regulation, license, permit, or authorization committed by it or any of its officers, employees, contractors, subcontractors, agents, or invitees, CLO shall itself immediately desist from and shall use diligent efforts to prevent or correct such violation by its officers, employees, contractors, subcontractors, agents or invitees; provided, however, that CLO may contest any alleged violation in good faith by appropriate proceedings.

 12.2 Licenses and Other Authorizations. CLO, at no cost to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the Term of this Agreement, all required licenses, permits and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof relating to CLO's use, occupancy, or renovation of the Premises. Prior to the commencement of any modification of the Premises by CLO, CLO shall submit to DPR copies of any and all permits, if any, required therefor. CLO shall be responsible for payment of all fees and charges incurred in obtaining any required permits or other governmental approvals for the Improvements and other renovations which may be made by CLO.

 12.3 Equality of Treatment. CLO will comply with all equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.10, and 20.42 of the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), as they may be amended, and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and

 their officers, if and to the extent they are applicable to CLO.

 12.4 Americans with Disabilities Act Compliance. CLO, at no cost to the City, shall comply with all requirements of the Americans With Disabilities Act applicable to CLO's use or occupancy of the Premises, as now or hereafter amended, and all rules and regulations implementing the same; provided, however, that CLO shall not be required to make any structural alteration to the Premises or any other part of the Building.

 12.5 Lead-Based Paint and Asbestos Containing Materials. CLO is hereby informed and does acknowledge that lead based paint and asbestos containing materials exist at the Premises. CLO shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations with regard to CLO's use and disposal of lead-based paint and asbestos-containing materials at the Premises.

 ARTICLE 13 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.

 CLO shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City from any costs, expenses, liabilities, fines, or penalties (including attorneys' fees) arising out of or resulting from discharges, emissions, spills, storage, disposal or release of Hazardous Substances by CLO on or from the Premises occurring after the Commencement Date and during the Term of this Agreement, or any other action by CLO or any of its agents, licensees or invitees giving rise to the City's liability, civil or criminal, or responsibility under federal, state, or local environmental laws. This provision shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement to the extent that CLO's obligations hereunder shall apply whenever the City incurs costs or liabilities, which arise in whole or in part out of CLO's actions. This indemnity shall not apply to any discharge, emission, spill, storage, disposal or release of Hazardous Substances in, on, under, or about the Premises occurring prior to the Commencement Date, nor to any Hazardous Substances that migrate onto or flow under the Premises during the Term of this Agreement through no fault of CLO; provided that CLO's indemnity obligation shall apply to existing Hazardous Substances such as asbestos containing materials and lead- based paint that CLO disturbs, removes, and/or disposes of as part of any renovation, use or repair of the Premises or the Building.

 The City shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend CLO from any costs, expenses, liabilities, fines, or penalties (including attorneys' fees) arising out of or resulting from discharges, emissions, spills, storage, disposal, presence or release of Hazardous Substances in, on, under, or about the Premises occurring prior to the Commencement Date, or any Hazardous Substances that migrate onto or flow under the Premises during the Term of this Agreement, or any action by the City or any of its agents, giving rise to CLO's liability, civil or criminal, or responsibility under federal, state or local environmental laws.

 The City's and CLO's indemnification obligations under this section shall survive the earlier expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 "Hazardous Substance" means any hazardous, toxic, or dangerous waste, substance or material, including asbestos, lead-based paint, petroleum products, or any contaminant, pollutant, or chemical defined or identified in any federal, state or local environmental law or regulation as posing a risk to human health or the environment.

 CLO understands and agrees that flammable materials or Hazardous Substances, including explosives, petroleum products, paint, solvents, and resins in excess of the amount required for routine construction or maintenance, are not allowed on the Premises without the express written permission of the City. In the event written permission to store the preceding materials is granted by the City, CLO shall handle and dispose of such materials in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

 Prior to initiating any process requiring the use or storage of Hazardous Substances (other than normal and customary quantities of cleaning materials, construction materials, and office and stage supplies), CLO covenants and agrees to obtain the City's prior approval (which approval shall be deemed granted if not denied in writing within thirty (30) days after CLO's request therefor). In appropriate circumstances, the City may request that CLO demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that it has all necessary permits and a Hazardous Substance emergency response plan.

 CLO agrees to cooperate in any reasonable environmental audits conducted by the City's staff or independent third parties engaged by the City. CLO and the City agree to provide the other party with notice of every scheduled governmental (excluding the City) inspection of the Premises or Building, notice of violation, or order to perform remedial measures regarding Hazardous Substances within five (5) days after the receipt thereof by such party. CLO agrees to permit the City to participate in all settlement or abatement discussions regarding remedial measures or potential liabilities arising out of or resulting from the use or management of Hazardous Substances by CLO. In the event CLO fails to perform remedial measures as required by any final administrative or judicial order or decree signed by a state, federal, or local regulatory agency within ninety (90) days of such order or decree, the City may elect to perform such work, and CLO covenants and agrees to reimburse the City for all actual and reasonable out-of-pocket costs associated with the City's work, provided that such work arises entirely out of CLO's use or management of Hazardous Substances and that such work is not related to any Hazardous Substances existing in, on, under or about the Premises prior to the Commencement Date or to any such materials that migrate onto or flow under the Premises during the Term of this Agreement, unless CLO caused or contributed to their release.

 CLO further agrees to retain any and all liabilities arising from CLO's off-site disposal, handling, treatment, storage, or transportation of any Hazardous Substances removed from the Premises, provided that this provision shall not apply to any Hazardous Substances in, on, under or about the Premises prior to the Commencement Date or to any such materials that migrate onto or flow under the Premises during the Term of this Agreement.

 ARTICLE 14 LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES

 CLO shall keep the Premises and the Building free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising out of or resulting from its use and occupancy of the Premises. If, because of any act or omission of CLO, any mechanic or other lien or order for payment of money shall be filed against the Premises or Building, CLO shall promptly notify the City of the same and, at CLO's sole expense, cause the same to be discharged or bonded within thirty (30) days after the date of notice of such filing. At the City's request, CLO shall furnish the City written proof of payment or bond for any item that would or might constitute the basis for such a lien on the Premises if not paid.

 ARTICLE 15 RECORDS, BOOKS AND DOCUMENTS FOR CITY ACCESS AND AUDIT

 15.1 CLO to Maintain Books and Records. CLO shall maintain its books, records, and documents in such a manner as to sufficiently and properly reflect all income CLO receives from third parties, based on which the Gross Income is calculated, and all expenses it incurs in undertaking the Improvements and other renovations and expansions relating to the Premises authorized hereunder based on which the Capital Improvement Offset is calculated, and all records and documents in support of any claimed Public Benefit Offset. These records shall be subject at all reasonable times to inspection, review, copying, or audit in King County by personnel duly authorized by the City and other officials so authorized by law, rule, regulation, or contract.

 15.2 Over and Under-payments. In the event that through any audit CLO is found to have made any overpayment or underpayment hereunder, the Superintendent shall notify CLO of the amount of the over- or under-payment. Any over-payment shall be a credit against Concession Fee, Additional Charges or other fees and charges subsequently due or shall be refunded to CLO, at CLO's option; subject to any offset available hereunder, under-payments shall be immediately due and payable and shall be delinquent if not paid within ten (10) days after the date of CLO's receipt of such written notice from the City.

 15.3 Retention of Records. CLO shall retain all books, records, documents, and other material relevant to the Gross Income, the Capital Improvement Offset, and the Public Benefits Offset for six (6) years after the date of creation of such records, and make them available for inspection by persons authorized under this Agreement at such reasonable times during CLO's regular business hours as the City may require. The provisions of this Article shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 ARTICLE 16 KEYS; ACCESS

 CLO shall maintain keys to the Premises and may distribute keys to users as appropriate. DPR shall retain two sets of keys to the Premises. CLO shall provide DPR with two copies of the key to any new lock or bolt installed on any exterior door to the Premises and shall inform DPR of any access code for use with any alarm or security device installed in the Premises.

 ARTICLE 17 QUIET ENJOYMENT

 If CLO complies with and performs all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement on its part to be performed, it shall have quiet enjoyment of the Premises throughout the Term of this Agreement, subject, however, to DPR's right to enter the Premises at all reasonable times for purposes of inspection, cleaning, repairing, altering or improving the Premises as may be required or permitted hereunder. Except in cases of emergency, DPR shall provide 48 hours notice prior to entering the Premises and any entry shall not interfere with CLO's use of or operations on the Premises.

 ARTICLE 18 SIGNS OR ADVERTISING

 18.1 Signs. CLO shall have the right, upon advance written approval from DPR, to install a sign on the exterior of the Premises that identifies the same for CLO's purposes. Any such sign shall comply with the Sand Point Magnuson Park Design Guideline and the "Sand Point Magnuson Park, Seattle Parks & Recreation, Signage & Wayfinding Master Plan (2004)," copies of which have been provided to CLO.

 18.2 No Other Signage on Premises. Other than the approved exterior signage permitted by Section 18.1 above, CLO shall not inscribe, post, place, or in any manner display any sign, notice, picture, poster, or any advertising matter whatsoever anywhere on exterior facing walls or outside the Premises, without first obtaining DPR's written consent thereto, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned. Any consent so obtained from DPR shall be with the understanding and agreement that CLO shall remove the same at the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Agreement and repair any damage to the Premises caused thereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, CLO shall be permitted to place temporary signage for special events, without the City's consent, at locations pre-approved by DPR so long as such signs do not remain in place for more than 12 hours in any consecutive 24-hour period or for more than four (4) consecutive days.

 ARTICLE 19 WASTEFUL AND DANGEROUS USE

 CLO shall not commit or suffer any waste upon the Premises and shall not do or permit to be done in or about the Premises anything that is inconsistent with this Agreement or the Park Code as now existing or hereafter amended, or any activity that is inconsistent with the use authorized by this Agreement or that will be dangerous to life or limb. In the event of any conflict between the express provisions of this Agreement and the Park Code, the provisions of the Park Code shall prevail.

 ARTICLE 20 INSOLVENCY

 Either (i) the appointment of a receiver to take possession of all or any part of CLO's assets, (ii) CLO's general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or (iii) any action taken or suffered by CLO under any insolvency or bankruptcy act shall, if such appointment, assignment, or action continues for a period of ninety (90) days, constitute a breach of this Agreement by CLO, and DPR may, at its election, terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days' prior written notice to CLO, and, upon such termination, DPR shall be entitled to immediate possession of the Premises. If any provision of this Article is contrary to any applicable law, such provision shall be of no force or effect.

 ARTICLE 21 ASSIGNMENTS AND TRANSFERS

 21.1 No Mortgaging or Transferring of Agreement or CLO's Interest Therein. Except as provided in this Agreement (including, without limitation Section 4.5 above), CLO shall not transfer, assign, mortgage, hypothecate, or convey this Agreement or any interest therein, in whole or in part, or lease or license use or occupancy of the Premises or any part thereof or any of the rights or privileges or any portion of the Premises granted under this Agreement to any other person, firm or corporation without the Superintendent's prior written authorization.. This prohibition against transfers and assignments includes any transfer or assignment by operation of law. The rights and privileges granted hereunder, and the Premises, are not assignable or transferable by any process or proceedings in any court, or by attachment, execution, proceedings in insolvency or bankruptcy, either voluntary or involuntary, or receivership proceedings. Any assignee approved by the DPR must accept and assume in writing all the terms and conditions of this Agreement to be kept and performed by CLO. If CLO merges or consolidates with any entity, this Agreement may be assigned to such entity, and any transfer of this Agreement from CLO by merger or consolidation shall not constitute an assignment for purposes of this Agreement. DPR's consent to any assignment or transfer shall not operate as a waiver of the necessity for consent to any subsequent assignment or transfer, and the terms of such consent shall be binding upon any person or entity using or occupying the Premises by, under, or through CLO.

 21.2 Fees Due to City upon Transfer. If this Agreement is assigned, DPR's consent shall not constitute the recognition of such assignee or other party as the primary concessionaire or act as a release of CLO from the further performance of all of CLO's covenants and obligations under this Agreement unless DPR expressly consents to release CLO. If DPR consents to any assignment or subletting (other than any assignment, subletting or licensing for which DPR's consent is not required hereunder), CLO shall pay a fee not to exceed One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) to the City for expenses incurred in connection with processing of documents necessary for the giving of such consent and the additional monitoring and administration related to the same.

 ARTICLE 22 TERMINATION

 22.1 Defaults in Performance Constitute Material Breach. In the event that (i) CLO fails to perform any of its obligations or covenants under this Agreement; or (ii) CLO abandons, deserts or vacates the Premises for a period in excess of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days (except in the event of a casualty, during remodeling or due to a cause for which CLO is not responsible) without the consent of the City, then the City, at the option of the Superintendent at any time thereafter, may declare this Agreement to have been materially breached by CLO. In the event that the City fails to perform any of its obligations or covenants under this Agreement, then CLO, at its option, at any time thereafter, may declare this Agreement to have been materially breached by the City.

 22.2 Process for Termination of Agreement. If either party materially breaches this Agreement, the other party may terminate this Agreement in the event that the breaching party fails to cure or remedy such breach to the reasonable satisfaction of the non- breaching party within ninety (90) days after written notice of breach has been provided to the breaching party; provided, if the nature of the breaching party's obligation is such that more than ninety (90) days are required for performance, or if a good faith dispute exists concerning the existence or nature of the alleged breach, then the non-breaching party shall not have the right to terminate this Agreement if the breaching party commences its diligent efforts to cure or remedy its breach or to resolve such dispute, within such ninety (90) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 22.3 Notice of Termination. Notice of termination pursuant to Section 22.2 shall be in writing, and shall be given by the party terminating this Agreement to the other party not less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of termination.

 22.4 Re-entry by City upon Termination. Upon the termination of this Agreement, the City may re-enter the Premises using such legal procedures as may be required. If the City terminates this Agreement because of CLO's material breach of its obligations hereunder, CLO's liability for the Concession Fee provided herein shall not be extinguished unless and until the City re-licenses the Premises for an equal or greater amount of concession fee for a period of time equal to the Term herein; provided, however, that (i) the City shall make commercially reasonable efforts to re-license the Premises on commercially reasonable terms and otherwise mitigate its damages; and (ii) in calculating the total amount of damages or Concession Fees due from CLO in the event of the termination of this Agreement resulting from CLO's breach hereof, the City shall take into consideration any unused Capital Improvement Offset that has been certified by the Superintendent provided that the applicable phase of the Improvements was completed in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, plans and permits, and that such phase of the Improvements is free of liens or other encumbrances; however provisions of this Section shall in no way be interpreted to require the City to refund or reimburse CLO any sums for the Improvements or Capital Improvement Offset in the event of the termination of this Agreement resulting from CLO's breach hereof. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, no personal liability or personal responsibility is assumed by, nor shall at any time be asserted or enforceable against, CLO's officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, affiliates or their respective heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns on account of this Agreement or on account of any covenant, undertaking or agreement of CLO in this Agreement contained. Therefore, in consideration of the benefits accruing hereunder, the City and all successors and assigns covenant and agree that, in the event of any actual or alleged failure, breach or default hereunder by CLO: (a) the sole and exclusive remedy of the City shall be against CLO's then-existing assets, including any applicable insurance policies; (b) no officer, director, employee, agent, representative or affiliate of CLO (collectively, "CLO Affiliates") shall be sued or named as a party in any suit or action; (c) no CLO Affiliate shall be required to answer or otherwise plead to any service or process; (d) no judgment will be taken against any CLO Affiliate; (e) any judgment taken against any CLO Affiliate may be vacated and set aside at any time nunc pro tunc; (f) no writ of execution will ever be levied against the asset of any CLO Affiliate; and (g) these covenants and agreements are enforceable both by CLO and CLO Affiliates.

 22.5 CLO's Remedies. If CLO terminates this Agreement because of the City's material breach of its obligations hereunder, or if the City otherwise breaches any of its obligations hereunder, CLO shall be entitled to all the remedies available to CLO at law and in equity.

 ARTICLE 23 CITY'S CONTROL OF PREMISES AND VICINITY

 All common areas and other facilities provided by the City in or about the Building, including parking areas, are subject to the exclusive control and management by the City. Accordingly, provided that there is no material adverse impact on CLO's use of and access to the Premises, the City may do any and all of the following (among other activities in support of DPR or other municipal objectives) without incurring any liability whatsoever to CLO, subject to thirty (30) days' prior written notice to CLO for any permanent changes directly impacting CLO operations:

 23.1 Change of Vicinity. Increase, reduce, or change in any manner whatsoever the number, dimensions and locations of the walks, buildings, and parking areas in the vicinity of the Premises. The City shall maintain a minimum of 250 parking stalls within the Parking Area depicted on Exhibit C throughout the Term and shall not reduce the number, availability or access to designated "barrier free" parking stalls.

 23.2 Traffic Regulation. Regulate all traffic in the vicinity of the Premises, including the operation and parking of vehicles of CLO and its invitees, employees, and patrons.

 23.3 Display of Promotional Materials. Erect, display, and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events on property adjacent to the Premises.

 23.4 Promulgation of Rules. Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations of general application regarding the use and occupancy of any DPR property including but not limited to the Premises; provided, however, that, if there is any conflict between such rules and this Agreement, this Agreement shall take precedence.

 23.5 Change of Businesses. Change the size, number, and type and identity of concessions, stores, businesses, and operations being conducted or undertaken in the vicinity of the Premises.

 ARTICLE 24 VACATING OF PREMISES

 Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement for any reason other than the City's breach of this Agreement, CLO shall cause the interior, non-structural portions of the Premises, together with all Improvements and other DPR-approved improvements made by CLO thereto and fixtures installed by CLO therein, to be in good order and condition, except for normal wear and tear and casualty and condemnation damages, unless the City otherwise consents. On or before the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, CLO shall remove from the Premises all of its equipment and other personal property. If CLO fails to remove such equipment or personal property within thirty (30) days after the expiration or termination date of this Agreement and the City's written notice, DPR shall have the right, but not the obligation, to remove the same from the Premises, and to dispose of the same at its discretion and without recourse by CLO.

 ARTICLE 25 EMINENT DOMAIN.

 In the event of a Taking of all or any material portion of the Premises, this Agreement shall terminate as of the date of the taking of physical possession of the Premises, as the case may be. A "Taking" is defined as when any portion of the Premises is taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain (other than by the City). As of the date of such Taking, the Term of this Agreement shall expire as fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinabove described for the end of the Term of this Agreement and CLO shall thereupon vacate the Premises, without prejudice to any rights and remedies accrued to City or CLO under this Agreement prior to such termination and any Concession Fee paid or payable by CLO shall cease as of the date of such termination. CLO reserves all rights afforded it by law to damages and awards resulting from any Taking, regardless of whether or not such Taking results in a termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Article.

 ARTICLE 26 NOTICES

 Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all notices, statements, demands, requests, consents, approvals, authorizations, offers, agreements, appointments, or designations under this

 Agreement by either party to the other shall be in writing and shall be sufficiently given if either served upon or delivered by courier or messenger to the other party or sent via the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed to the addresses set forth in Section 1.5 or to such other address as either party hereto may specify for itself in a notice to the other. Notices sent by U.S. Mail shall be effective three (3) days after deposited in the mail or upon actual receipt if earlier.

 ARTICLE 27 MISCELLANEOUS

 27.1 Captions. The article, paragraph and section headings hereof are for convenience only and shall not be used to expand or interpret the meaning of any part of this Agreement.

 27.2 Time. Time is of the essence regarding this Agreement.

 27.3 Partial Invalidity. If any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be found or held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, and the application of such term, covenant or condition to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby and each term, covenant or condition of this Agreement shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.

 27.4 Binding Effect. The provisions, covenants, and conditions contained in this Agreement are binding upon the parties hereto and their successors and assigns.

 27.5 Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with Washington law.

 27.6 Jurisdiction and Venue. The jurisdiction and venue for any lawsuit between the parties arising out of this Agreement shall be in the Superior Court of the State of Washington for King County.

 27.7 No Partnership or Joint Venture Created. The City does not by this Agreement, in any way or for any purpose, become a partner or participant in a joint venture with CLO in the conduct of its business or otherwise.

 27.8 Remedies Cumulative. The parties' rights under this Agreement are cumulative; failure on the part of either party to exercise promptly any rights given hereunder shall not operate to forfeit any such rights. Each party shall have all rights and remedies given by law or in equity. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 27.9 Amendments. No modification of this Agreement shall be binding upon the City or CLO unless reduced to writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 27.10 Force Majeure. Any delay in or failure of performance by the City or CLO shall not constitute a default hereunder if and to the extent the cause for such delay or failure of performance was unforeseen and beyond the control of the party ("Force Majeure").

 27.11 No Third Party Rights. No term or provision of this Agreement (other than the second paragraph of Section 22.4) is intended to be, or shall be, for the benefit of any person, firm, organization or corporation that is not a party hereto nor shall any person, firm, organization or corporation other than a party hereto have any right or cause of action hereunder.

 27.12 Effectiveness of Agreement. This Agreement shall become effective only when approved by the Seattle City Council and executed by an authorized representative of each party.

 27.13 No Waivers. No action other than a written document from the Superintendent specifically so stating shall constitute a waiver by the City of any particular breach or default by CLO, nor shall such a document waive any failure by CLO to fully comply with any other term or condition of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any City officer or employee may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance. The City's failure to insist upon full performance of any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed to constitute consent to or acceptance of such incomplete performance in the future. No action other than a written document from an authorized officer of CLO specifically so stating shall constitute a waiver by CLO of any particular breach or default by the City, nor shall such a document waive any failure by the City to fully comply with any other term or condition of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any officer or employee of CLO may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance. CLO's failure to insist upon full performance of any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed to constitute consent to or acceptance of such incomplete performance in the future.

 27.14 City's Consent. Whenever the City's consent or approval in writing is required under this Agreement, (a) CLO must obtain a consent or approval in writing expressly for purposes of this Agreement, regardless of whether a consent or approval shall have been granted by the City in its regulatory, public utility, or other capacity; and (b) unless otherwise expressly stated herein, such consent or approval may not be unreasonably withheld by the City.

 No permission, consent, or approval of the City contained herein or given pursuant to this Agreement is, or shall be construed as, a representation or assurance that the matter consented to or approved complies with applicable laws, regulations, ordinances or codes, nor shall any such consent or approval be construed to authorize any failure to comply with any of the foregoing.

 ARTICLE 28 ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement and all exhibits pertaining to it constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement supersedes all prior oral or written understandings, agreements, promises or other undertakings between the parties regarding the subject matter hereof. The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of the Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's preparation of the same.

 [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.]

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this contract:

 CIVIC LIGHT OPERA, ASSOCIATION, a Washington nonprofit corporation

 By: __________________________________

 Name: Date

 Title: President

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: __________________________________

 Name: Date

 Title: Superintendent

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 Civic Light Opera

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss:

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know of or have satisfactory evidence that _________________ signed this instrument, on oath stated she was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the President of Civic Light Opera, Association, a Washington nonprofit corporation, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal the day and year first above written.

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires

 Print Name

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 Department of Parks and Recreation

 , Superintendent, Parks and Recreation

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss:

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that ____________________ signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of The City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes mentioned in this instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal the day and year first above written.

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of

 Washington, residing at

 My appointment expires

 Print Name

 Attachment 1

 1

 Attachment 1 to DPR Civic Light Opera Agreement ORD

 Civic Light Opera Agreement with Page 1

 City of Seattle

 Created 12/20/05, draft as of 5/22/08

 Exhibit A: Site Map of the Premises

[Premises (including the Expansion Areas) and Common Areas](/~ordpics/116227_exa.gif)

 Exhibit B: Legal Description

 Legal Description

 PARCEL 6

 Lot D

 Parcel Containing Bldg. 47

 Property Description

 (revised 09/16/97)

 That portion of the east one-half of the southwest quarter (SW4) of Section 2, TWP 25N, RNG 04E, W.M., said east one-half being acquired by the U. S. Navy on behalf of the United States of America by deed recorded in the records of King Co., Washington in Vol. 1306 at pg. 455, described as follows:

 Commencing at the west one-sixteenth corner common to Sections 2 and 11, TWP 25N, RNG 04E, W.M., accepted as being the same as the center- line intersection of NE 65th Street and Sand Point Way NE, thence N 00 degrees 48' 49" W on the centerline of Sand point Way NE a distance of 60.01 feet, thence leaving said centerline S 89 degrees 35' 06" E a distance of 40.01 feet to a point on the east margin of said Sand Point Way NE, said point being 60.00 feet north of the south line of said Section 2 as measured at right angles thereto, thence continuing S 89 degrees 35' 06" E parallel with the south line of said Section 2 a distance of 489.94 feet, thence N 00 degrees 19' 00" W a distance of 331.50 feet, thence N 23 degrees 24' 06" W a distance of 323.73 feet, thence N 00 degrees 01' 23" W a distance of 1211.94 feet to the True Point Of Beginning of this description, thence N 89 degrees 44' 09" E a distance of 248.90 feet, thence S 00 degrees 15' 51" E a distance of 438.41 feet, thence N 89 degrees 46' 57" W a distance of 250.75 feet, thence N 00 degrees 01' 23" W a distance of 436.31 feet to the True Point Of Beginning.

 Exhibit B

 1

 Exhibit B to DPR Civic Light Opera Agreement ORD

 Exhibit C: Parking

[Parking](/~ordpics/116227_exc.gif)

 Exhibit D: USA Deed

[USA Deed](/~ordpics/116227_exd.pdf)

 Exhibit D is a 6.16 MB PDF document, requiring Adobe Acrobat or equivalent program to view.

```
