

********

**Council Bill Number: 116292**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning, amending Chapter 23.48 of the Seattle Municipal Code; creating new SM/D 40-85 and SM/D 40-65 zoning classifications; adopting an affordable housing incentive program for increased height in areas zoned SM/D 40-85 or SM/D 40-65; and amending the Official Land Use Map at pages 72-73 to rezone land in the West Dravus commercial area to SM/D 40-85 and SM/D 40-65 contingent upon the creation of a Local Improvement District to finance transportation improvements.

**Status:** Retired March 29, 2010 (by Resolution No. 31195)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 4, 2008
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** REZONES, LAND-USE-PLANNING, INTERBAY, QUEEN-ANNE, MAGNOLIA, HOUSING, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, LOCAL-IMPROVEMENT-DISTRICTS, COMMERCIAL-AREAS

**Fiscal Note:**116292

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning, amending Chapter 23.48 of the Seattle Municipal Code; creating new SM/D 40-85 and SM/D 40-65 zoning classifications; adopting an affordable housing incentive program for increased height in areas zoned SM/D 40-85 or SM/D 40-65; and amending the Official Land Use Map at pages 72-73 to rezone land in the West Dravus commercial area to SM/D 40-85 and SM/D 40-65 contingent upon the creation of a Local Improvement District to finance transportation improvements.

 WHEREAS the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, policy LU6, provides that "the City Council may permit greater heights on commercially-zoned sites in the Interbay area along and near W. Dravus Street between 15th Avenue W. and 20th Avenue W., through overlay zoning, zoning map amendment, or other implementing measures"; and

 WHEREAS on October 3, 2006 the City Council adopted Resolution 30804 calling for consideration of an overlay zone or other zoning options, including height limit increases, to promote mixed-use development in the W. Dravus Commercial area, and directing the Department of Planning and Development to prepare legislation; and

 WHEREAS the goals of the zoning change in the W. Dravus Commercial area are to preserve and enhance the existing industrial employment base, provide opportunities for higher-density transit oriented development, create workforce housing in a new pedestrian-oriented, mixed use center in proximity to existing open space resources, and to promote a jobs housing balance within a walkable neighborhood; and

 WHEREAS the W. Dravus Commercial Area is not located within an urban center or urban village and new mixed use development of this area will require investments in transportation infrastructure that are not a capital priority of the City; and

 WHEREAS Council Resolution 30804 directed the Department of Planning and Development to consider providing financing for transportation and other public facilities through creation of a Local Improvement District; and

 WHEREAS changes in zone classification and height limit have the potential to substantially increase the development capacity of lots in the W. Dravus commercial area; and

 WHEREAS RCW 36.70A.540 provides express authority for the City to establish incentive programs to ensure that a portion of new housing created through increases in development capacity be affordable; and

 WHEREAS on December 4, 2006, the City Council adopted Resolution 30939 affirming the Council's and Mayor's support for the use of new affordable housing incentive program authority; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Subsection A of Section 23.48.002 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 121782, is amended as follows:

 23.48.002 Scope of provisions.

 A. This chapter identifies uses that are or may be permitted in ~~the~~ Seattle Mixed (SM) zonesand establishes development standards. The SM zone boundaries are shown on the Official Land Use Map. The "D" suffix with a height limit range may be applied to SM-zoned land in the West Dravus area.

 * * *

 Section Subsection A of Section 23.48.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 121782, is amended as follows:

 23.48.010 General structure height.

 A. Maximum Height. Maximum structure height shall be forty (40) feet, fifty-five (55) feet, sixty-five (65) feet, seventy-five (75) feet, eighty-five (85) feet or one hundred twenty-five (125) feet as designated on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32, except as provided in ~~subsection B of~~ this Section or in Section 23.48.016.

 * * *

 Section A new Section 23.48.011 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is adopted to read as follows:

 23.48.011 Affordable Housing Incentive Program

 A. Additional Height Conditioned on Low-income Housing. In the SM/D 40-65 and the SM/D 40-85 zones additional building height may be obtained for mixed-use projects and single-purpose residential projects if the applicant provides low-income housing, or makes a payment in lieu thereof, under the terms of this section.

 B. Finding; Definitions.

 1. Pursuant to the authority of RCW 36.70A.540, the City finds that the higher income levels specified in this subsection B, rather than those stated in RCW 36.70A.540, are needed to address local housing market conditions in each of the areas and zones to which this section applies.

 2. For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:

 a. "Affordable unit" means a unit of low-income housing provided as a condition to bonus development.

 b. "Base height limit" means forty (40) feet.

 c. "Bonus development" means floor area allowed in stories wholly or in part above the base height limit on condition that low-income housing be provided, or that a payment in lieu thereof be made, under this section.

 d. "Certificate of occupancy" means the first certificate of occupancy issued by the City for a project, whether temporary or permanent, unless otherwise specified.

 e. In the case of rental units, "low-income housing" means housing affordable to and occupied by households with incomes no higher than the lesser of eighty percent of median income, as defined in section 23.84A.025, or the maximum level permitted by RCW 36.70A.540 as in effect when the determination of affordability is made, and "low-income household" means such a household.

 f. In the case of owner occupancy housing units, "low-income housing" means housing affordable to and occupied by households with incomes no higher than the lesser of median income, as defined in section 23.84A.025, or the maximum level permitted by RCW 36.70A.540 as in effect when the determination of affordability is made, and "low-income household" means such a household.

 C. Bonus Options. Bonus development may be allowed when low- income housing is developed (the "performance option") or when the applicant makes a payment to the City in lieu of providing low-income housing (the "payment option"), or when a combination of the performance and payment options is used, in accordance with this section.

 1. Performance option.

 a. The applicant shall provide low-income housing with a gross floor area equal to the greater of (i) eleven (11) percent of the gross floor area of all stories on the lot that are wholly or in part above the base height limit, or (ii) seven hundred (700) square feet.

 b. Each affordable unit shall serve only low-income households for a minimum period of fifty (50) years. For rental housing, rent shall be limited so that housing costs, including rent and basic utilities, shall not exceed thirty (30) percent of the applicable income limit for the unit under this section, all as determined by the Housing Director, for a minimum period of fifty (50) years. For owner-occupied housing, the initial sale price shall not exceed an amount determined by the Housing Director to be consistent with affordable housing for a low-income household with the average family size expected to occupy the unit based on the number of bedrooms, and the units shall be subject to recorded instruments satisfactory to the Housing Director providing for sales prices on any resale consistent with affordability on the same basis for at least fifty (50) years. The Housing Director may promulgate rules specifying the method of determining affordability, including eligible monthly housing costs. The Housing Director may also promulgate rules for determining whether units satisfy the requirements of this section and any requirements relating to down- payment amount, design, quality, maintenance and condition of the low-income housing.

 c. Affordable units each shall include at least three hundred fifty (350) net square feet, and they shall be provided in a range of sizes consistent with RCW 36.70A.540. The affordable units shall comply with all other requirements of RCW 36.70A.540, as in effect on the date as of which the provisions of this title apply to the application for a use permit for the project using the bonus development. Affordable units that are developed as part of the project using bonus development shall be completed and ready for occupancy at or before the time when a certificate of occupancy is issued for any other units in that project, and as a condition to any right of the applicant to such a certificate of occupancy. The Housing Director may provide, by rule promulgated after the effective date of this ordinance, for terms and conditions on which an extension of time may be allowed due to delays that the applicant could not reasonably have avoided.

 d. If the affordable units are not being developed within the project using the bonus development:

 (i) The applicant must ensure that a certificate of occupancy for the affordable units is issued before or within two (2) years after the date that the first building permit, other than for grading and shoring, is issued for the project using the bonus development, or such later date as the Housing Director may approve based on delays that the applicant or housing developer could not reasonably have avoided and conditioned on the security provided under subsection C1d(ii) of this section being extended and increased as may be necessary. To the extent the City receives payment through a letter of credit or other security in an amount determined under subsection C1d(ii) of this section, the obligation of the applicant to provide affordable units will be deemed satisfied.

 (ii) The applicant shall provide to the City an irrevocable letter of credit, or other sufficient security approved by the Housing Director, prior to and as a condition of issuance of the first building permit, other than for grading and shoring, for the project using the bonus development, unless completion of the affordable units has already been documented to the satisfaction of the Housing Director and the affordable units are subject to recorded restrictions satisfactory to the Housing Director. The letter of credit or other security shall be in an amount and on terms so that at the end of the period specified in subsection C1d(i) of this section, or on any earlier date thirty (30) days before the letter of credit or other security will expire, if the housing does not qualify or is not provided in a sufficient amount to satisfy the terms of this section, the City shall receive a cash payment for housing in the amount determined pursuant to subsection C2 of this section, after credit for any affordable units then provided and accepted by the Housing Director, plus an amount equal to interest on such payment, at the rate equal to the prime rate quoted by Bank of America or its successor at the time the letter of credit or other security is provided, plus three (3) percent per annum, from the date of issuance of the first building permit, other than for excavation and shoring, for the project using the bonus development. If and when the City becomes entitled to realize on any such security, the Housing Director shall take appropriate steps to do so, and the amounts realized, net of any costs to the City, shall be used in the same manner as cash payments for housing made under this section.

 e. No subsidies for bonused housing; Exception.

 (i) The Housing Director may require, as a condition of any bonus development under the performance option, that the owner of the lot upon which the affordable units are located agree not to seek or accept any subsidies, including without limitation those items referred to subsection C1e(ii) of this section, related to housing.

 (ii) In general, no bonus development may be earned by providing housing if:

 (a) Any person is receiving or will receive with respect to the housing any charitable contributions or public subsidies for housing development or operation, including, but not limited to, tax exempt bond financing, tax credits, federal loans or grants, City of Seattle housing loans or grants, county housing funds, or State of Washington housing funds; or

 (b) The housing is or would be, independent of the requirements for the bonus development, subject to any restrictions on the income of occupants, rents or sale prices.

 (iii) The Housing Director may provide, by rule promulgated after the effective date of this ordinance, for terms and conditions relating to exceptions to the restriction on subsidies in this subsection when allowing an exception would result in a more favorable outcome, in the opinion of the Housing Director.

 f. If the Housing Director certifies to the Director that either

 (i) the applicant has provided the City with a letter of credit or other sufficient security pursuant to subsection C1d(ii) of this section; or

 (ii) there have been recorded one or more agreements or instruments satisfactory to the Housing Director providing for occupancy and affordability restrictions on affordable units with the minimum floor area determined under this section, all affordable units have been completed, and the affordable units are on a different lot from the bonus development or are in one or more condominium units separate from the bonus development under condominium documents acceptable to the Housing Director,

 then any failure of the affordable units to satisfy the requirements of this subsection C shall not affect the right to maintain or occupy the bonus development. Unless and until the Housing Director shall certify as set forth in subsections C1f(i) or C1f(ii) of this section, it shall be a continuing permit condition, whether or not expressly stated, for each project obtaining bonus development based on the provision of housing under this subsection, that the affordable units shall be maintained in compliance with the terms of this section, as documented to the satisfaction of the Housing Director. The Housing Director may provide by rule for circumstances in which affordable units may be replaced if lost due to casualty or other causes, and for terms and conditions upon which a cash payment may be made in lieu of continuing to provide affordable units under the terms of this subsection C1.

 g. The Housing Director is authorized to accept and execute agreements and instruments to implement this section. Issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the project using the bonus development may be conditioned on such agreements and instruments.

 h. The housing owner, in the case of rental housing, shall provide annual reports and pay an annual monitoring fee to the Office of Housing of sixty-five (65) dollars for each affordable unit. In the case of affordable units for owner- occupancy, the recorded resale restrictions shall include a provision requiring payment to the City, on any sale or other transfer, of a fee of five hundred (500) dollars for the review and processing of documents to determine compliance with income and affordability restrictions.

 2. Payment option.

 a. In lieu of all or part of the performance option, an applicant may pay an amount determined as follows, subject to the minimum and maximum amounts determined under subsections C2b and C2c of this section:

 (1) Ten (10) dollars per gross square foot in each of the first four (4) stories wholly or in part above the base height limit;

 (2) Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per gross square foot in each of the next three (3) stories above those subject to subsection C2a(1) of this section;

 (3) Twenty dollars ($20.00) per gross square foot for the next four (4) stories above those subject to subsection C2a(2) of this section;

 (4) Twenty-five dollars($25.00) per gross square foot above those subject to subsection C2a(3) of this section.

 b. The maximum payment in lieu is an average of eighteen dollars and ninety-four cents($18.94) per gross square foot of bonus development; and

 c. The minimum payment in lieu is an average of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per gross square foot of bonus development.

 d. The Housing Director shall use cash payments and any earnings thereon to support the development of low-income housing in any manner now or hereafter permitted by RCW 36.70A.540, which may include support provided through loans or grants to public or private owners or developers of housing and through loans or grants to low- income households for home purchases.

 e. Cash payments shall be made prior to issuance, and as a condition to issuance, of any building permit after the first building permit for a project, and in any event before any permit for any construction activity other than excavation and shoring is issued, unless the applicant elects in writing to defer payment. If the applicant elects to defer payment, then the issuance of any certificate of occupancy for the project shall be conditioned upon payment of the full amount of the cash payment determined under this section, plus an interest factor equal to that amount multiplied by the increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers, West Region, All Items, 1962-64=100, as published monthly, from the last month prior to the date when payment would have been required if deferred payment had not been elected, to the last month for which data are available at the time of payment. If the index specified in this subsection is not available for any reason, the Director shall select a substitute cost of living index. In no case shall the interest factor be less than zero (0).

 f. Payments in lieu of affordable units shall be deposited in a special account established solely to support the development of low-income housing as defined in this section, including the City's costs to administer projects, not to exceed ten (10) percent of the payments. Earnings on balances in the special account shall accrue to that account.

 3. The Director and the Housing Director are authorized jointly to adopt rules to interpret and implement the provisions of this subsection C, in addition to rules that may be adopted by the Housing Director independently as authorized in this section.

 4. Nothing in this section shall be construed to confer on any owner or developer of housing any development rights or property interests. Because the availability and terms of the allowance of bonus development depend on the regulations in effect at the relevant time for the project proposing to use such bonus development, pursuant to SMC 23.76.026, any approvals or agreements by the Housing Director regarding the eligibility of actual or proposed housing as to satisfy conditions for bonus development do not grant any vested rights, nor guarantee that any bonus development will be permitted based on such housing.

 Section Section 23.48.016 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 122611, is amended to add a new subsection C as follows:

 23.48.016 Standards applicable to specific areas.

 * * *

 C. Seattle Mixed/D 40-85 and /D 40-65

 1. Height Limit for Nonresidential Uses. Structures in the SM/D 40-85 or the SM/D 40-65 zone are subject to a height limit of 40 feet, except as otherwise provided in this subsection C.

 2. Additional Height for Certain Structures with Only Residential Uses Above Forty (40) Feet. Structures in the SM/D 40-85 zone that have only residential uses above a height of forty (40) feet have a maximum height limit of eighty-five (85) feet and structures in the SM/D 40-65 zone that have only residential uses above a height of forty (40) feet have a maximum height limit of sixty-five (65) feet, in each case only if the applicant provides low-income housing, or a payment in lieu thereof, pursuant to section 23.48.011.

 3. Building Setbacks on W. Dravus Street. For any structure allowed additional height under subsection C2 of this section, the portion of the structure above forty-five (45) feet in height shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet from W. Dravus Street, except as provided in subsections C4 and C5 of this section.

 4. Projections Allowed in Setback. When a setback is required under subsection C3 of this section, the first four (4) feet of horizontal projection of decks, balconies with open railings, eaves, cornices, and gutters are permitted in the required setback.

 5. Exceptions and Rooftop Features. Height in addition to the limit applicable under subsection C1 or C2 of this section, and in addition to the limit applicable in a required setback area under subsection C3 of this section, is allowed for pitched roofs and certain rooftop features as set forth in subsections D and E of Section 23.48.010.

 Section Attached to this ordinance is a zoning map, identified as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference. The Official Land Use Map, as adopted by Section 23.32.016 and as previously amended, is amended to rezone certain land shown on pages 72-73 from C2-40 to SM/D 40-85 and SM/D 40-65, as shown on Exhibit A. This section shall not take effect until creation of a Local Improvement District formed for the purpose of financing the transportation improvements identified on Exhibit B to this ordinance, which is incorporated herein by this reference. For purposes of this section, a Local Improvement District will be considered created on expiration of the protest period specified in RCW 35.43.180, after the passage of an ordinance establishing such district and ordering such improvements, without the filing of a protest divesting the City of the authority to proceed.

 Section Effective Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ___________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachments: Exhibit A: Map of Rezones

 Exhibit B: Schedule of Improvements

 Jim Holmes/JH

 DPD - West Dravus - ORD

 May 19, 2008

 Version #2

 Form Last Revised on December 31, 2007 - 14 -

[Exhibit A: Map of Rezones](/~ordpics/116292_exa.gif)

 Exhibit B

 1. Install traffic signal at the W Dravus Street/17th Avenue W intersection. This intersection nearly meets signal warrant requirements today, and would certainly meet them with the additional traffic generated by new development. A signal at this location would also facilitate access control measures for vehicles and pedestrian crossings on W Dravus Street.

 2. Provide left turn lanes on 17th Avenue W approaching the intersection of W Dravus Street. Provide for dual-left-turn movement on the southbound approach to this intersection (one left-turn lane and one left-thru-right lane). This would require that the intersection have "split phasing" for the northbound and southbound movements. This configuration was evaluated and would result in LOS C operating conditions. The intersection would have the same level of service with single left turn lanes and conventional signal phasing, but the dual-left-turn movement would reduce queue lengths.

 3. Restrict left turn movements from 16th Avenue W onto W Dravus Street. This intersection is too close to the interchange at 15th Avenue W to be signalized. Without a signal, left-turn movements could experience long delays and queues. With the proposed signal at 17th Avenue W, these movements can be diverted to that location, which would improve operations and safety. The LOS C condition at W Dravus Street/17th Avenue W assumes the additional traffic associated with this restriction. Left turns from W Dravus Street to both directions of 16th Avenue W should be retained.

 4. Control access to W Dravus Street between 16th and 17th Avenues W. Restrict driveways on W Dravus Street to right-turn only for exiting movements. Depending on the separation from adjacent intersections, left-turn movements from W Dravus Street could be allowed. To the extent possible, all access should be directed to 17th Avenue W.

 5. Improve the intersection at W Bertona Street/15th Avenue W southbound ramp. This intersection is located at the diverge area for the 15th Avenue W off-ramp. Stripe and separate in-bound (westbound) movements to W Bertona Street from through movements and enlarge the corner radii to accommodate higher-speed maneuvers. Outbound (eastbound) movements should either be prohibited or restricted to right-turn-only onto the ramp. Extend the ramp gore area to prevent eastbound turns directly to the mainline of 15th Avenue W.

 6. Improve the W Dravus Street/15th Avenue W interchange. The intersection at the northbound ramps is projected to operate at a poor LOS F in the future if it continues to operate in the all-flash mode during the PM peak hour. The LOS F condition would occur with or without the proposed rezone. Upgrade the signal system at the W Dravus Street/15th Avenue W interchange. With the signal system upgrade, the intersection would operate at better than the no action conditions.

```
