

********

**Council Bill Number: 116274**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122749**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to additional regular property taxes; providing for the submission to the qualified electors of the City at a special election on November 4, 2008, of a proposition authorizing the City to levy regular property taxes for up to six (6) years in excess of the limitation on levies in Chapter 84.55 RCW for the purposes of acquiring, developing, or restoring parks, recreation facilities, cultural facilities, green spaces, playfields, trails, community gardens, and shoreline areas; providing for interim financing pending tax receipts; creating a citizens levy oversight committee; creating a new fund; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 21, 2008
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Clark, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 31, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 30, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Returned unsigned by Mayor 7/31/08. Parks and Green Spaces Levy

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 14, 2008
   
**Committee:** Committee of the Whole
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN, CO-SPONSOR: BURGESS, CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** ELECTIONS, TAXES, PROPERTY-TAXES, PARKS, OPEN-SPACE-LAND

**Fiscal Note:**116274

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122749](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122749.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to additional regular property taxes; providing for the submission to the qualified electors of the City at a special election on November 4, 2008, of a proposition authorizing the City to levy regular property taxes for up to six (6) years in excess of the limitation on levies in Chapter 84.55 RCW for the purposes of acquiring, developing, or restoring, existing or new, parks, recreation facilities, cultural facilities, green spaces, playfields, trails, community gardens, and shoreline areas; providing for interim financing pending tax receipts; creating a citizens levy oversight committee; creating a new fund; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation submitted, and the Seattle City Council (Council) approved by Resolution 30868, the Seattle Parks and Recreation 2006 Development Plan, which outlines acquisition and development efforts to be pursued over the subsequent six years; and

 WHEREAS, in 1995, the City of Seattle commenced its neighborhood planning process as part of an overall strategy to manage the City's growth through the Comprehensive Plan in response to the State's Growth Management Act and has been implementing those plans since 2000, with many park recommendations still not completed in 2008; and

 WHEREAS, the Council embraced the Goals and Principles of Open Space Seattle 2100 by proclamation in May 2006 and later endorsed Open Space Seattle 2100 concepts to integrate green infrastructure and urban sustainability efforts; and

 WHEREAS, in 2007 the Seattle Parks Foundation updated the 1990 Bands of Green report to guide collaborative efforts to improve Seattle's green connections, including recommendations pertaining to Seattle's Department of Transportation and Department of Parks and Recreation; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Green Partnership was created in 2004 by Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Seattle and the Cascade Land Conservancy to undertake a 20-year coordinated effort, including city and private funding and a large amount of volunteer support, to restore and maintain healthy urban forests; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 29370 adopted policies to guide the development of public access improvements to shoreline street ends, which has led to a 2008 draft of a Shoreline Street End Master Plan with identified implementation projects; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 30194 adopted a Five-Year Strategic Plan as guidance for the expansion of Seattle's community gardening program and actions to implement the plan; and

 WHEREAS, in Resolution 29681, the City Council endorsed the 1997 Joint Athletic Facilities Development Program identifying priority athletic field and gymnasium improvements on City and Seattle School District property consistent with applicable adopted plans and the public process conducted by the Department of Parks and Recreation's Sportsfield Review Committee; and

 WHEREAS, the Council adopted Resolution 31019 in April 2008 establishing goals, creating a policy framework and identifying actions for the purpose of strengthening Seattle's food system sustainability and security; and

 WHEREAS, in Resolution 31055 the Council created the Parks and Green Spaces Levy Citizens' Advisory Committee to ensure citizen participation in the development of a potential package of parks, open space, boulevards, trails, green infrastructure, and recreation projects and a proposed set of options to fund the package; and

 WHEREAS, the Parks and Green Spaces Levy Citizens' Advisory Committee, after being duly appointed and after spending many hours in open meetings, receiving public testimony and deliberating, has voted by a strong majority to recommended that the Council place before the voters of Seattle a $140 million six-year levy proposal; and

 WHEREAS, the City will seek to leverage funds through collaboration with County, State, and Federal sources and with private and non- profit organizations, including the Seattle Parks Foundation, through the development of partnerships for purposes of enhancing the projects funded through the levy lid lift; and

 WHEREAS, interim financing may be needed prior to the receipt of tax receipts from the levy lid lift proposed in this ordinance; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the following meanings:

 "Green spaces" includes but is not limited to open space, greenbelts, greenspaces as defined in Resolution 28653 (also known as the Greenspaces Policy Resolution), and other open areas.

 "Neighborhood parks" includes but is not limited to existing parks, new parks identified in neighborhood plans, new parks identified in the Seattle's Parks and Recreation 2006 Development Plan, boulevards, and other properties purchased by the City for open-space and recreational purposes.

 "Playfields" includes but is not limited to existing or new athletic fields, open play spaces, and similar areas, including spectator enhancements such as seating. Playfields does not include facilities designed for professional sports organizations.

 Section 2. Levy of Additional Regular Property Taxes - Submittal. The City hereby submits to the qualified electors of the City a proposition as authorized by RCW 84.55.050 to exceed the levy limitation on regular property taxes contained in RCW 84.55.010 for property taxes levied in 2008 through 2013 for collection in 2009 through 2014, respectively, raising up to One Hundred Forty-Five Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($145,500,000) in aggregate over a period of up to six (6) years. The proposition shall be limited so that the City shall not levy more than Twenty-Four Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($24,250,000) in additional taxes each year. All the Levy Proceeds shall be used to acquire, develop, or restore, existing or new, parks, recreation facilities, cultural facilities, green spaces, playfields, trails, community gardens, and shoreline areas.. The taxes authorized by this proposition will be in addition to the maximum amount of regular property taxes the City would have been limited to by RCW 84.55.010 in the absence of voter approval under this ordinance, plus other authorized lid lifts. Pursuant to RCW 84.55.050(5), the maximum regular property taxes that may be levied in 2014 for collection in 2015 and in later years shall be computed as if the limit on regular property taxes had not been increased under this ordinance.

 Section 3. Use of Funds. Proceeds and interest earnings from the additional taxes levied pursuant to this ordinance shall be applied as follows:

 A. Categories, subcategories and projects: There are four major categories for funding: 1) Acquisition; 2) Development; 3) Environment; and 4) Opportunity Fund. These categories are subdivided into subcategories, and projects, as shown in Attachment A to this ordinance, which is incorporated herein by reference. Each year as part of the annual budget process, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation (the "Superintendent") shall submit a proposed spending plan allocating expected additional taxes and interest earnings among the categories, subcategories, and projects for the coming year. Over the term of the levy, total funding from levy funds for each category and subcategory will be consistent with the amounts identified in Attachment A, unless the City Council by three- fourths (3/4) vote determines otherwise, after considering any recommendations that may have been made by the oversight committee established in Section 5.

 1. The scope for each project will be defined in the City of Seattle's Capital Improvement Program. Council anticipates that the proposed scopes of projects will be developed by the Department of Parks and Recreation through a community process, building upon already developed plans where they exist. Projects may be deleted only by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the City Council after considering any recommendations that may have been made by the oversight committee established in Section 5. If the City Council approves deletion of a project, the Council may also approve substitution of a different project.

 2. Subcategories in the Acquisition, Development and Environment categories shall be allocated from the 2008 Parks Levy Fund created by Section 4 up to the amounts shown as the respective subcategory allocations in Attachment A. The City may seek supplemental, matching or additional funds from other sources to pay all or part of the cost of a project and, if successful, may apply such funds to accomplishment thereof or to complement or enlarge a project. If all of the projects in an Acquisition, Development or Environment subcategory have been completed or deleted and additional taxes collected under this ordinance (and any interest earnings thereon) that were allocated to that subcategory remain unexpended, then those proceeds and earnings shall be added to the Opportunity Fund category.

 3. Funds allocated to the Opportunity Fund category shall be used only as provided in this subsection 3. Projects identified by neighborhood and community groups may be funded as part of the Opportunity Fund category by ordinance, after City Council consideration of any recommendations that may have been made by the oversight committee established in Section 5. Opportunity Fund resources can be used to pay for projects including, but not limited to, the acquisition and/or development of off-leash areas, community gardens, P-Patches, trails and neighborhood parks. In making its recommendations regarding the funding of Opportunity Fund projects, the oversight committee will consider the following criteria.

 a. Has the project been subject to a public review process or is it consistent with approved plans, such as a neighborhood plan or a watershed plan?

 b. Does the project address a park or open space deficiency or underserved community?

 c. Is the project in an area experiencing growth, particularly an urban village or urban center?

 d. Does the project address an immediate health or safety problem, or take advantage of an opportunity that will be lost unless action is taken?

 e. Does the project contribute to solving major challenges facing our community, such as climate change, the health of our waterways, or growth management?

 f. Does the project have the potential to leverage other resources through the actions of other public agencies, funding from public, private or philanthropic partners, and/or in-kind contributions of time and energy from citizen volunteers?

 g. Does the project result in significantly higher operating costs for the City?

 h. Does the project demonstrate new and creative methods to meet the community's needs for parks and green spaces? and/or

 i. Does the project demonstrate a high degree of neighborhood involvement and support?

 B. Funds and appropriations unexpended at the end of any budget year shall automatically be carried over to the next budget year.

 C. If the Council does not appropriate at least Twelve Million Dollars ($12,000,000) in the annual budget for park and recreation capital purposes from resources other than the levy proceeds, the Council may not levy any revenues for collection in that budget year unless the City Council by a three-fourths (3/4) vote determines that a natural disaster or exigent economic circumstances prevents the Council from appropriating the money from other resources.

 Section 4. Deposit of Proceeds. The additional taxes authorized under this ordinance shall be deposited into the 2008 Parks Levy Fund, which is hereby created in the City Treasury. Money in that Fund may be temporarily deposited or invested in such manner as may be lawful for the investment of City money and interest and other earnings shall be deposited in the Fund. The additional taxes and any interest or other earnings from their deposit or investment shall be applied solely for the projects authorized pursuant to this ordinance. The Finance Director is authorized to create other funds, subfunds, or accounts as may be needed to implement the purposes of this ordinance.

 Section 5. Oversight Committee. The 2008 Parks and Green Spaces Levy Oversight Committee ("Oversight Committee") is hereby established to review the expenditure of the additional tax proceeds and resultant interest earnings, to advise upon expenditures and allocations for the following year, and to make recommendations on the implementation of particular projects and on any reallocations. The Oversight Committee shall have immediate and direct access to the financial and accounting records of all levy funded projects for the life of the levy. The Oversight Committee may solicit public comments on the expenditures and the financial accounting of all levy projects. Unless changed by a majority of the Committee, the Committee will meet at least bi-monthly with the Superintendent or his/her designee, beginning in the calendar quarter following the successful passage of the levy lid lift.

 The oversight committee shall consist of sixteen members, and shall include representatives from the following categories: (a) six (6) committee members shall be Seattle residents representing diverse geographic areas; (b) one (1) committee member shall be a member of the Board of Parks Commissioners; and (c) the remaining nine (9) committee members shall be selected from among the diverse constituencies served by and interested in the projects to be funded by this measure. The mayor and city council each shall appoint eight oversight committee members. Four of the initial oversight committee appointees shall be chosen from among the Park and Green Spaces Levy Citizens' Advisory Committee; two of these members shall be chosen by the mayor, and two by the city council. Upon the resignation, retirement, death incapacity or removal of an oversight committee member, the appointing authority shall appoint a replacement to serve the balance of the term. All oversight committee members appointed or reappointed by the mayor, including replacements, are subject to confirmation by the City Council. Oversight committee members shall be appointed to three (3) year staggered terms subject to reappointment, except that five (5) members of the body shall be initially appointed for a single year term, five (5) members for a two (2) year term, and a the remainder for a three (3) year term. Members shall be subject to removal by their appointing authority. Members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed their expenses, including payments for child care while attending meetings. The Oversight Committee will adopt criteria, including but not necessarily limited to those listed in Section 3, for making its recommendations concerning the Opportunity Fund category and will make recommendations to the Superintendent, Mayor, and City Council. The Oversight Committee may adopt rules for its own procedures, including quorum requirements and the frequency of meetings. The Oversight Committee will make annual reports to the Mayor and City Council and will prepare a mid-point report to the citizens of Seattle. The Department of Parks and Recreation shall provide staff and logistical support for the Oversight Committee. The Oversight Committee shall continue in existence through December 31, 2014, and thereafter if so provided by ordinance.

 Section 6. Bond and Notes. To the extent permitted by applicable law the City may issue bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness payable wholly or in part from the proceeds of the additional taxes authorized under this ordinance, and apply such tax proceeds to the payment of principal of, interest on, and premium (if any) on such bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness and to the payment of costs associated with them.

 Section 7. Election - Ballot Title. The King County Director of Records and Elections, as ex officio supervisor of elections, is hereby requested to conduct a special election, which the City hereby calls pursuant to RCW 84.55.050, to be held in conjunction with the state-wide general election on November 4, 2008, and to submit to the qualified electors of the City the proposition set forth herein.

 The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed not less than eighty-four days prior to November 4, 2008, to certify the proposition to the King County Director of Records and Elections in the following form or as modified by the City Attorney pursuant to RCW 29A.26.071:

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 PROPOSITION NO. 2

 The City of Seattle's Proposition 2 concerns increased property taxes for six years for parks purposes.

 If approved, this proposition would fund acquiring, developing and restoring parks, recreation facilities, cultural facilities, green spaces, playfields, trails, community gardens, and shoreline areas as provided in Ordinance _____. It would authorize regular property taxes higher than RCW 84.55 limits, allowing collection of up to $24,250,000 in additional taxes in 2009 (up to $145,500,000 over six years). Taxes collected in 2009 would be limited to $3.67 per $1,000 of assessed value, including approximately $0.18 of additional taxes.

 Should this levy lid lift be approved?

 Should this levy lid lift be approved?

 Levy, Yes ? Levy, No ?

 Those in favor shall vote "Yes"; those opposed shall mark their ballots "No".

 Section 8. Severability. In the event any one or more of the provisions of this ordinance shall for any reason be held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision of this ordinance or the levy of the additional taxes authorized herein, but this ordinance and the authority to levy those taxes shall be construed and enforced as if such invalid provisions had not been contained herein; and any provision which shall for any reason be held by reason of its extent to be invalid shall be deemed to be in effect to the extent permitted by law.

 Section 9. Ratification. The City Clerk's certification to the King County Director of Records and Elections of the proposition referred to in section 7 and any other acts taken after the passage of this ordinance and consistent with its authority, are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 10. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its approval by the Mayor or, if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, then on the eleventh (11th) day after its presentation to the Mayor or, if vetoed by the Mayor, then immediately after its passage over his veto.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

[Attachment A: Allocations for Subcategories and Projects](/~ordpics/116274_ata.pdf) (64 KB)

 July 21, 2008 (Ver. K) ta

 ATTACHMENT A LEVY ALLOCATIONS FOR SUBCATEGORIES AND PROJECTS

 Levy Lid Lift Proceeds $145,500,000 Estimated Interest Earnings $ 498,000 TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS $145,998,000

 TOTAL USES OF FUNDS

 ACQUISITION

 The Acquisition category includes acquisition of two types of properties and is thus divided into two sub-categories: Neighborhood Park Acquisition and Green Space Acquisition. Final allocations among projects and budgetary appropriations for projects that do not show an allocation below will be made by the City Council after considering any recommendations that are made by the oversight committee established in Section 5 of Ordinance_________.

 Neighborhood Park Acquisition: This subcategory includes the acquisition of properties in areas that have been identified in the Parks and Recreation 2006 Development Plan and Gap Analysis as being deficient relative to the City's comprehensive plan goals. It is anticipated that the acquisition funding provided by the levy will be supplemented by funding from other sources. However, funding may still prove to be insufficient to complete acquisitions in all of the locations listed below.

 Allocation

 12th Avenue Urban Center Village

 Ballard Hub Urban Village

 Belltown Urban Center Village

 Bitter Lake Hub Urban Village

 Capitol Hill Urban Center Village

 Chinatown-International District Urban Center Village

 Commercial Core Urban Center Village

 Denny Triangle Urban Center Village

 First Hill Urban Center Village

 Fremont Hub Urban Village

 Greenwood-Phinney Ridge Residential Urban Village

 Lake City Urban Village

 Morgan Junction Residential Urban Village

 North Rainier Hub Urban Village

 Ravenna Urban Center Village

 University Urban Center Village

 West Seattle Junction Hub Urban Village

 Westwood-Highland Residential Urban Village

 Wedgwood Neighborhood northeast of Dahl Playfield

 Beach Drive area northwest of Morgan Junction

 Sub-Category Total $24,000,000

 Green Space Acquisition: This subcategory includes acquisition of properties to fill gaps in existing public ownership and preserve continuity within the City's designated green spaces. Acquisitions will target critical properties in the following locations and in other designated green spaces:

 Allocation

 Arroyos Natural Area

 East Duwamish Greenbelt

 Duwamish Head Greenbelt

 Northeast Queen Anne Greenbelt

 Ravenna Woods

 Thornton Creek Watershed

 West Duwamish Greenbelt

 Sub-Category Total $6,000,000

 INFLATION ADJUSTMENT FOR ACQUISITION CATEGORY $5,697,000

 TOTAL FOR ACQUISITION $35,697,000

 DEVELOPMENT

 The Development category includes five subcategories - development or restoration of 1) Neighborhood Parks and Playgrounds, 2) Cultural Facilities, 3) Playfields, 4) Major Neighborhood Parks, and 5) Trails.

 Neighborhood Parks and Playgrounds: This subcategory includes improvements to 23 neighborhood playgrounds to bring them up to safety standards, development of parks on top of 4 water reservoir lids, development of 4 skateparks and 3 spray parks, 2 off-leash areas, and development of 11 specific neighborhood parks.

 Allocation

 Playground Renovations: Improve and address safety issues at playgrounds throughout the city.

 Atlantic St. $350,000

 Bayview $250,000

 Beacon Hill $180,000

 Bhy Kracke $150,000

 Brighton $450,000

 Fairmount $170,000

 Gas Works $1,400,000

 Golden Gardens $500,000

 International District $500,000

 John C. Little $300,000

 Laurelhurst Playfield $400,000

 Lawton $300,000

 Maple Leaf $450,000

 Matthews Beach $450,000

 Montlake $550,000

 Northacres $550,000

 Rainier Playfield $600,000

 Ross Playground $450,000

 Roxhill Park $450,000

 Sandel Playground $350,000

 Seward Park $450,000

 Volunteer Park $800,000

 Woodland $350,000

 Reservoir Park Development: Develop parks on new reservoir lids and/or acquire land to extend the reservoir parks

 Maple Leaf Reservoir $5,000,000

 West Seattle Reservoir $3,000,000

 Myrtle Skatedot $250,000

 Skatepark Development: Develop new skateparks in accordance with the Citywide Skatepark Plan recommendations and priorities adopted by Resolution 30984.

 Judkins Skatespot $600,000

 Roxhill Skatespot $600,000

 Spray Parks

 Convert three wading pools to spray parks

 Georgetown Wading Pool $400,000

 Two additional wading pools $400,000

 Off-Leash Areas $140,000 Provides development funds for an off-leash area in each of the Magnolia and Queen Anne neighborhoods at locations determined through a Parks Department public involvement process.

 Northgate Urban Center Park $2,500,000 Development of first phase of new park north of Northgate Mall.

 Hing Hay Park $3,000,000 Renovation of existing park and development of park on land acquired with 2000 parks and open space levy funds.

 7th Elect Church Site $800,000 Development of park on land acquired with 2000 parks and open space levy funds.

 Crown Hill Elementary $1,200,000 Development of park on land that is expected to be acquired from the Seattle School District.

 Cedar Park $500,000 Renovation of Cedar Park in northeast Seattle on land acquired from the School District.

 Chinook Beach Park $100,000 Completion of Chinook Beach Park in the Rainier Beach area - a south Lake Washington site where juvenile Chinook salmon will rear.

 Marra-Desimone Park $1,100,000 Development of park, which includes the Marra Farm, Seattle's largest site for urban gardening, in accordance with long-range development plan.

 Camp Long $1,000,000 Renovation of kitchen and upgrade of other aspects of this environmental learning center facility.

 Othello Park $250,000 Safety and lighting improvement at Othello Park.

 Queen Anne Boulevard Improvements $250,000 Continue improvements to this Department of Parks and Recreation boulevard started with 2000 parks and open space levy funds.

 Victor Steinbrueck Park $1,600,000 Improvements to public safety including but not limited to improving sight lines into the park, renovating seating, renovating the former children's play area, improving and expanding lighting, and upgrading landscaping subject to the following: (1) The Council determines whether the project is needed after it has evaluated how well the removal of the automated public toilet, installation and operations of surveillance cameras, and increased policing address public safety issues in and around the Park. (2) If Council determines the project should proceed, the Department of Parks and Recreation will conduct a project design process with broad public outreach and submit a project design to the Council for its review and approval prior to appropriation of levy funds for construction.

 Sub-Category Total $33,090,000

 Citywide Parks Owned Cultural Facilities: This subcategory includes the following allocations to provide critical safety and operational improvements at city owned facilities.

 Allocation

 Seattle Asian Art Museum $9,000,000 Renovations to the Seattle Asian Art Museum including seismic and HVAC upgrades to allow continued use of the facility as a home for the Museum at Volunteer Park. This project will pay for approximately 40 percent of the total anticipated costs of the renovations.

 Langston Hughes Performing Arts Center $2,500,000 Seismic improvements to allow continued used as a performing arts and cultural center.

 Sub-Category Total $11,500,000

 Playfields: This subcategory includes restoration and renovation of existing playfields. Fields to be improved are part of a citywide system serving all of Seattle

 Allocation

 Lower Woodland Playfield #7 $2,800,000 Renovate this lit sand field to provide synthetic turf and more energy efficient lighting.

 Lower Woodland Playfield #2 $2,400,000 Renovate this lit sand field to provide synthetic turf.

 Delridge Playfield $3,200,000 Renovate this lit sand field to provide synthetic turf.

 Genesee Playfield #1 $2,100,000 Renovate this lit sand field to provide synthetic turf.

 Sub-Category Total $10,500,000

 Major Neighborhood Parks: This subcategory includes the following allocations to further develop major park sites and/or destination park facilities in accord with master plans. The funds, along with other leveraged funds, will accomplish the next phase of development at these sites.

 Allocation

 Jefferson Park Development

 Further implementation of Jefferson Park Master $5,000,000 Plan.

 Construct a district skate park facility at $1,000,000 Jefferson Park.

 Washington Park Arboretum Improvements $2,500,000 Further implementation of Arboretum Master Plan including projects such as the Pacific Connections Garden, trails, and other improvements.

 Magnuson Park Improvements $500,000 Improvements to shoreline access and development of a bicycle pathway to the 65th Street entrance.

 Children's Play Garden $950,000 Garden and play area being developed for severely handicapped children. This funding would create working garden portion of this facility.

 Discovery Park $1,000,000 Restore Capehart site to green space including slab and roadway demolition and removal, grading and seeding.

 Sub-Category Total $10,950,000

 Trails: This subcategory includes projects to develop and expand Seattle's urban trail system.

 Allocation

 Burke Gilman Trail $3,750,000 Complete Burke-Gilman Trail through Ballard. This funding could cover 50% of the cost, with the expectation that the remaining funding would come from SDOT or other sources.

 West Duwamish Trail Development $2,000,000 Create a linear park, including bicycle and trail improvements along the Duwamish River

 Lake to Bay Trail (formerly Potlatch Trail) $1,500,000 Construct Thomas Street Overpass between Myrtle Edwards Park and Queen Anne as first phase of bicycle/pedestrian trail from Myrtle Edwards Park to Lake Union.

 Sub-Category Total $7,250,000

 INFLATION ADJUSTMENT FOR DEVELOPMENT CATEGORY: $14,002,000 TOTAL FOR DEVELOPMENT: $87,292,000

 ENVIRONMENT

 The Environment category includes three sub-categories: Forest and Stream Restoration; Community Food Gardens and P-Patches; and Shoreline Access. Final allocations among projects and budgetary appropriations for projects that do not show an allocation below will be made by the City Council after considering any recommendations that are made by the oversight committee established in Section 5 of Ordinance_________.

 Allocation

 Forest and Stream Restoration - Green Seattle $3,500,000 Partnership Fund work of the Green Seattle Partnership, which allows the City to leverage the work of the Cascade Land Conservancy to re-establish healthy urban forests on city-owned property. Potential project locations include: West Duwamish Greenbelt; Longfellow Creek; Ravenna Park; Burke Gilman Trial; and Cheasty Greenspace.

 Forest and Stream Restoration - Kiwanis Ravine $600,000 Restore habitat in Kiwanis Ravine, which is the location of a major heron rookery.

 Community Gardens $2,000,000 Fund the acquisition and development of new Community Gardens or P-Patches and the development of Community Gardens or P-Patches on existing City-owned properties (an anticipated four or more sites). The project will focus on the following neighborhoods, but may include others as opportunities arise: Ballard, Queen Anne, Rainier Valley, and West Seattle.

 Shoreline Access $500,000 Develop existing City-owned street-ends to provide publicly accessible shoreline. Potential project locations include: NE 135th Street; NE 130th Street; 109/McGraw Street; 20th Avenue NW; 26/S. Fidalgo Street; 75th Avenue S.; 72nd Avenue S.; SW Bronson Way; Spokane Street; and S. Riverside Drive, but may include other sites as well. It is anticipated that the shoreline access funding provided by the levy will be supplemented by funding from other sources. However, funding may still prove to be insufficient to complete the number of projects listed here.

 Sub-Category Total $6,600,000

 INFLATION ADJUSTMENT FOR ENVIRONMENT CATEGORY: $1,410,000 TOTAL FOR ENVIRONMENT CATEGORY $8,010,000

 OPPORTUNITY FUND

 The Opportunity Fund category provides funding to acquisition and development projects identified by neighborhood and community groups.

 TOTAL FOR OPPORTUNITY FUND: $15,000,000

 TOTAL USES OF FUNDS $145,998,000

 ta

```
