

********

**Council Bill Number: 116237**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122711**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest; removing a budget proviso that restricted an appropriation in the 2008 Adopted Budget; authorizing the Director of the Office of Economic Development to execute an agreement for services with the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 9, 2008
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Conlin)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 19, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 16, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 2, 2008
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, BUSINESS-ENTERPRISES, BUSINESS-ASSOCIATIONS, BUSINESS-ORGANIZATION, COMMUNITY-DEVELOPMENT, FOREIGN-TRADE

**Fiscal Note:**116237

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122711](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122711.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest; removing a budget proviso that restricted an appropriation in the 2008 Adopted Budget; authorizing the Director of the Office of Economic Development to execute an agreement for services with the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, in adopting the 2008 Budget, the City Council approved Green Sheet 142-1-A-2, thereby imposing a budget proviso restricting the expenditure of General Funds appropriated to the Finance General budget, Support for the Community Development budget control level for the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council stated that it anticipated that the proviso would not be lifted until a contract for public benefits was prepared between the African Chamber of Commerce for the Pacific Northwest and the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the Office of Economic Development provided Council with a briefing that included a proposed contract including milestones and outcomes; and

 WHEREAS, the Office of Economic Development cannot execute this contract without appropriation authority; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The restriction imposed by the following budget proviso is removed and it is

 no longer a restriction for any purpose, including for Subsection 1(b) of Ordinance 122560:

 Department 2008 Green Sheet Proviso Description BCL Code

 Office of 142-1-A-2 "None of the money Economic appropriated for 2008 for the Support to Development Finance General Support to Community Community Development BCL may Development be spent for the African Chamber of Commerce of the (6XD10) Pacific Northwest until authorized by future ordinance. Council anticipates that such authority will not be granted until a contract for public benefits is executed between the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest and the City of  Seattle."

 Section 2. The Director of the Office of Economic Development is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, an agreement substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto as Attachment 1 and titled "Agency Service Agreement" with the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Agency Service Agreement between the City of Seattle and the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest

 May 2008 Version #4 t

 Attachment 1: Agency Service Agreement between the City of Seattle and the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest

 Office of Economic Development City of Seattle Susan C. Shannon, Director Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 AGENCY SERVICE AGREEMENT Contract No.: 1405/08 Program Title: Africa Trade, Investment, and Business Assistance Program Fund Source: 2008 General Fund

 THIS AGREEMENT is made effective in June 5, 2008 between The City of Seattle (called the "City") acting through its Director of the Office of Economic Development (called the "Director") and the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest (called the "Agency") to provide the services described in the attached Exhibits.

 In consideration of the covenants in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:

 I. PROGRAM AND SERVICES

 SECTION 101 - SCOPE OF SERVICES

 The Agency shall, in a satisfactory and proper manner as determined by the Director, provide the services described in the Exhibits attached to this Agreement during the specified Time of Performance to complete the work plan in Exhibit A-1 and in accordance with the performance standards in Exhibit A-2.

 SECTION 102 - TIME OF PERFORMANCE

 The Agency shall commence performance of this Agreement in June 5, 2008 and unless extended by written amendment, this Agreement shall expire on December 31. 2008. Except as otherwise specified in Section 409, either party may terminate this Agreement by giving 60 days advance written notice to the other. If either party in writing terminates this Agreement, compensation for services will be based upon work performed and reasonably approved by the City. All materials related to work performed must have been reasonably certified as acceptable by the Director before final payment is made.

 II. DISBURSEMENT; BUDGET; AND RECORDS

 SECTION 201 - BUDGET

 The City shall compensate the Agency for satisfactorily providing the services identified in Exhibit A-1, subject to a maximum compensation for all services performed of fifty thousand dollars and no cents ($50,000.00).

 SECTION 202 - PAYMENT

 To secure payment, the Agency shall submit invoices as shown in Exhibit B-2 and accompanying performance reports as required in Exhibit A-2 to the City of Seattle, Office of Economic Development, Attention: Lance Randall. Invoices and work statements shall bear the Agency's name, address and the agreement number. Invoices must be signed by an authorized representative of the Agency, who shall verify that the invoice is accurate, the services purchased have been performed and, the costs shown have been reasonably incurred in accordance with this Agreement. Payments will be made directly to the Agency, to the attention of the individual specified on the "Contract Payment Authorization Form" unless the Agency requests otherwise. All payment requests shall be in accordance with the Payment Structure as outlined in Exhibit A-2.

 The City shall be excused from payments if funds allocated by the Department cease to be available for any cause.

 The City reserves the right to withhold payments pending timely delivery of program reports or documents as may be required under this Agreement.

 SECTION 203 - REALLOCATION; REPAYMENT OF FUNDS

 The Agency shall inform the Director about any funds allocated to the Agency that it anticipates will not be expended during the term of this Agreement and permit the City to reallocate the same; and it shall inform and promptly pay to the City any funds in its possession that may be due to the City. The Agency shall repay to the City any sums received which the Agency does not expend for eligible purposes.

 SECTION 204 - DOCUMENTATION OF COSTS

 All contract related costs shall be supported by properly executed payrolls, time records, invoices, vouchers, records of service delivery, invoices marked paid or other official documentation evidencing in proper detail the nature and propriety of the Agency costs and consequential charges to the City. All disbursements by the Agency relating to the services to be provided under this Agreement shall be sequentially recorded in the Agency's accounting records by date, check or instrument number, amount, vendor description of the items or services procured, and budget item related to the disbursement. All payroll and financial records pertaining in whole or in part to this contract shall be clearly identified and readily accessible for audit. Such records and documents shall be retained for a period of three (3) years after receipt of final payment under this Agreement and all other pending matters are closed.

 SECTION 205 - RECORDS AND FISCAL CONTROL SYSTEMS

 The Agency shall maintain its financial records and fiscal control systems in a manner that meets the approval of the Director of the Department of Executive Administration and the Washington State Auditor. It shall maintain personnel and payroll records to identify adequately the source and application of funds; withhold all taxes; pay employment (social security), unemployment compensation, industrial insurance (worker's compensation) and other taxes as may be due; and, unless exempt, procure and maintain a City of Seattle Business License. The Agency shall maintain an effective system of internal control to assure that funds provided through the City are used solely for authorized purposes, including when requested by the City, fidelity bonding of personnel with fiscal responsibilities. All funds relating to the Agreement shall be deposited in an account with a commercial bank; and any disbursement shall be made by check or other document drawn on the account.

 SECTION 206 - ACCESS TO RECORDS; AUDITS

 The City, the United States or its agencies and the State Auditor or any designated agents of the above mentioned agencies shall have access at any time during normal business hours and as often as necessary to any bank account and Agency books, records, documents, accounts, files, reports, and other property and papers of the Agency relating to the services to be provided under this Agreement for the purpose of making an audit, survey, examination, excerpt or transcript. This requirement shall be included in all subcontracts entered into by the Agency.

 SECTION 207 - REPORTS AND INFORMATION

 The Agency shall furnish periodic reports in the manner and at the times contemplated by Exhibit A-2 and such other statements and data relating to the services provided under this Agreement as may be requested by the Director, including assessments of the effectiveness of the services provided in meeting the goals and objectives in Exhibit A-1. The City may withhold payment pending timely delivery of such reports and information.

 SECTION 208 - NOTICE AFFECTING PERFORMANCE

 The Agency shall notify the Director of any matters affecting the eligibility of the Agency to continue performance of this Agreement immediately after the Agency's discovery of the same.

 III. MANNER OF PERFORMANCE

 SECTION 301 - QUALITY OF PERFORMANCE

 The Agency shall be responsible for the quality of services provided through this Agreement. Its responsibilities shall not be reduced by recommendations or assistance received from the City or by any communications that vary from the terms and conditions of this Agreement unless a corresponding amendment is made to this Agreement.

 The City shall judge the adequacy and efficiency of the services provided, the sufficiency of records and the results produced in accordance with the performance standards in Exhibit A-2 and the other requirements of this Agreement. If during the course of the Agreement, the services rendered do not produce the desired results, the Agency shall take such corrective action as the City may require. Failure to make the necessary corrections shall be a material breach of this Agreement and cause for termination.

 SECTION 302 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 In providing services under this Agreement, the Agency, at its sole cost and expense, shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and Ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 SECTION 303 - EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AND OUTREACH

 A. The Agency shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Agency shall take affirmative efforts to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such efforts shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Agency shall post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices as provided by the City setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

 B. If the Agency will hire employees for this project, the Agency shall make affirmative efforts to recruit minority and women candidates. Affirmative efforts may include the use of advertisements in publications directed to minority communities and other targeted recruitment efforts, and using the services of available minority community and public organizations to perform outreach.

 C. Record-Keeping: The Agency shall maintain, for at least 24 months after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement and permit access to the Agency's records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms and other pertinent data and records requested by OED for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with the requirements of this section.

 D. The Agency, by executing this Agreement, is affirming that the Agency complies with all applicable federal, state, and local non- discrimination laws, particularly the requirements of SMC Ch. 20.42 as incorporated in this Agreement. Any violation of the requirements of the provisions of this section noted in paragraph A, B and C above shall be a material breach of Agreement for which the Agency may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by applicable law, including but not limited to debarment from City contracting activities in accordance with SMC Ch. 20.70.

 E. The foregoing provisions of this section shall be inserted in all subcontracts for the Work covered by this Agreement.

 SECTION 304 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

 A. Compliance with SMC Ch. 20.45: The Consultant shall comply with the requirements of SMC Ch.20.45 and Equal Benefits Program Rules implementing such requirements, under which the Consultant is obligated to provide the same or equivalent benefits ("equal benefits") to its employees with domestic partners as the Consultant provides to its employees with spouses. At the City's request, the Consultant shall provide complete information and verification of the Consultant's compliance with SMC Ch. 20.45. Failure to cooperate with such a request shall constitute a material breach of this Contract. (For further information about SMC Ch. 20.45 and the Equal Benefits Program Rules call (206) 684-0430 or review information at http://cityofseattle.net/contract/equalbenefits/.)

 B. Remedies for Violations of SMC Ch. 20.45: Any violation of this Section 9 shall be a material breach of Contract for which the City may:

 (1) Require the Consultant to pay liquidated damages for each day that the Consultant is in violation of SMC Ch. 20.45 during the term of the Contract; or

 (2) Terminate the Contract; or

 (3) Disqualify the Consultant from bidding on or being awarded a City contract for a period of up to five (5) years; or

 (4) Impose such other remedies as specifically provided for in SMC Ch. 20.45 and the Equal Benefits Program Rules promulgated thereunder, or as provided in this Agreement.

 SECTION 305 - NO PARTNERSHIP OR AGENCY RELATIONSHIP

 The sole relationship between the Agency and the City hereunder is that of an independent Agency. Nothing herein shall be construed to create any partnership or joint venture or to make either party the agent or employee of the other. Neither Agency nor any of its members, officers, or employees shall hold themselves out as the partner, employee or agent of the City or to bind the City in any matter.

 SECTION 306 - AFFIRMATIVE EFFORTS TO USE WOMEN AND MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISES

 A. If an Agency intends to subcontract out any part of a contract instead of performing the work itself, then the following requirement applies: Agency shall use affirmative efforts to promote and encourage participation by women and minority businesses on subcontracting opportunities within the contract scope of work. Agency agrees to make such efforts as a condition of the Agreement.

 B. Outreach efforts may include the use of solicitation lists, advertisements in publications directed to minority communities, breaking down total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities where economically feasible, making other useful schedule or requirements modifications that are likely to assist small or WMBE businesses to compete, targeted recruitment efforts, and using the services of available minority community and public organizations to perform outreach.

 C. Record-Keeping: The Agency shall maintain, for at least 24 months after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, relevant records and information necessary to document all Agency solicitations to subAgencys and suppliers, all subAgency and supplier proposals received, and all subAgencys and suppliers actually utilized under this Agreement. The City shall have the right to inspect and copy such records.

 D. Agency shall ensure that all employees, particularly supervisors, are aware of, and adhere to their obligation to maintain a working environment free from discriminatory conduct, including but not limited to harassment and intimidation of minorities, women, or WMBE businesses.

 E. Non-Discrimination: Agency shall not create barriers to open and fair opportunities for WMBEs to participate in any City contract and to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services.

 F. Sanctions for Violation: Any violation of paragraph A, B, C, D or E of this section, or a violation of SMC Ch. 14.04(Fair Employment), SMC Ch. 14.10 (Fair Contracting), SMC Ch. 20.42 (Equality in Contracting), SMC Ch. 20.45 (Nondiscrimination in Benefits), or other local, state or federal non-discrimination laws shall be a material breach of contract for which the Agency may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by applicable law. Agencys found to be in violation of the requirements may be subject to debarment from City contracting activities in accordance with SMC Ch. 20.70.

 SECTION 307 - FAIR CONTRACTING PRACTICES

 Each party is required to comply with the Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance of the City of Seattle (Ordinance 119601), as amended. The Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance prohibits discrimination in contracting between entities doing business in the City of Seattle. The ordinance applies to private and public contracting and establishes monetary penalties for violations. Conduct made unlawful by that ordinance constitutes a breach of contract. Engaging in an unfair contracting practice may also result in the imposition of a civil fine for forfeiture under the Seattle Criminal Code as well as various civil remedies.

 SECTION 308 - AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT

 The Agency shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) in performing its obligations under this Agreement. In particular, if the Agency is providing services, programs, or activities to City employees or members of the public as part of this Agreement, the Agency shall not deny participation or the benefits of such services, programs, or activities to people with disabilities on the basis of such disability. Failure to comply with the provisions of the ADA shall be a material breach of, and grounds for the immediate termination of this Agreement.

 IV. GENERAL CONDITIONS

 SECTION 401 - INDEMNIFICATION

 A. Indemnity: The Agency shall defend, protect, and save harmless the City, its officers, elected officials, agents and employees from and against all claims, suits, actions, liabilities, losses, damages, and expenses (including attorneys' fees) arising out of any acts, ommissions, work or services provided under this Agreement, or any breach thereof, by the Agency, its officers, agents, employees or subcontractors. The obligations of this section shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

 B. Commercial General Liability: The Agency shall at its own expense secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement a policy of commercial general liability insurance providing coverage of at least $1,000,000 in connection with the work to be performed by the Agency under this Agreement. The Agency shall furnish evidence of such insurance to the City in such forms and at such times as the City shall reasonably require. The City shall be named as an additional insured.

 SECTION 402 - IDENTITY OF PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS/BENEFITS RECIPIENTS

 Except as required by applicable law, the use or disclosure by the Agency of any identifying information concerning the identity of any participant in the program(s) or any of the services or benefits provided under this Agreement for any purpose not directly connected with the administration of the City's or Agency's responsibilities with respect to services provided under this Agreement is prohibited except on written consent of the participant or recipient or client, his or her attorney, or responsible parent or guardian.

 SECTION 403 - COPYRIGHTS AND PATENTS

 If this Agreement results in a book or other copyrightable material, the author is free to copyright the work, but the City reserves a royalty-free non-exclusive and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish or otherwise use, and to authorize others to use all such copyrighted material and all materials which can be copyrighted.

 Any discovery or invention arising out of or developed in the course of work pursuant to this Agreement shall be promptly and fully reported to the City for determination as to whether patent protection on such invention or discovery shall be sought and how the rights to the invention or discovery, including rights under any patent issued thereon, shall be disposed of and administered in order to protect the public interest. (If project funds are derived from the United States, federal agency regulations relating to inventions and materials generated under this Agreement apply.)

 SECTION 404 - CONFIDENTIALITY

 Any reports, information, and data given to or prepared or assembled by the Agency under this Agreement that the City requests to be kept as confidential shall not be made available to any individual or organization by the Agency without the prior written approval of the Office of Economic Development.

 SECTION 405 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST

 No member, officer, or employee of The City of Seattle or its designee or agents, and no member of the Seattle City Council or any other public official of the City, who exercises any function or responsibilities with respect to the program(s) affected by this Agreement, shall have any financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract or subcontract or the proceeds thereof, for work to be performed in connection with such program(s); nor shall they for one year after completion of this Agreement have any financial interest with the Agency or any sub-Agency under this Agreement.

 SECTION 406 - POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

 No funds paid or facilities provided by The City of Seattle shall be used directly or indirectly for, and the Agency shall not request or receive reimbursement for the direct or indirect costs of, assisting any campaign for election of any person to any office or for the promotion of or opposition to any ballot measure. If the Agency engages in any such assistance, promotion or opposition, the Agency shall maintain records clearly documenting that such activities are paid for solely from funds not provided by the City. No funds provided by the City shall be applied directly or indirectly to lobbying any legislative body or any member or staff thereof.

 SECTION 407 - SUBCONTRACTING

 This Agreement is personal to each of the parties hereto and neither party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations hereunder without first obtaining the written consent of the other party provided that the City may allocate functions among its departments. Any such approved assignment or subcontract shall be subject to each provision of this Agreement. All provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all subcontracts entered into by the Agency.

 SECTION 408 - CHANGES

 No change or amendment of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless such change is specified in a separate, written agreement signed by the parties to this Agreement.

 SECTION 410 - TERMINATION AND SUSPENSION

 1. For Cause: Either party may terminate this Agreement in the event that the other party materially or substantially fails to perform its obligations as described in this Agreement and such failure has not been corrected to the reasonable satisfaction of the dissatisfied party within twenty (20) days after notice of breach has been provided to such other party.

 2. Notice of Termination. Notice of termination pursuant to Subsection (1) above shall be given by the party terminating this Agreement to the other party in writing.

 SECTION 411 - FUTURE SUPPORT

 The City makes no commitment of future support and assumes no obligation for future support of the activity contracted herein except as set forth in this Agreement.

 SECTION 412 - RESERVATION OF RIGHTS

 Neither payment by the City nor performance by the Agency shall be construed as a waiver of either party's rights or remedies against the other. Failure to require full and timely performance of any provision at any time shall not waive or reduce the right to insist upon complete and timely performance of such provision thereafter.

 SECTION 413 - SEVERABILITY

 If any provisions of this Agreement are held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected, thereby, if such remainder would then continue to serve the purposes and objectives contemplated by the parties hereto.

 SECTION 414 - SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS

 This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and shall insure to the benefit of the parties hereto, any assignees expressly permitted pursuant to Section 407, the United States, and the State of Washington. This Agreement is not intended to confer any legal rights or remedies on any other persons.

 SECTION 415 - ADDRESSES

 Written notices, requests, grievances or adjustments to the Department shall be made to:

 Susan C. Shannon, Director City of Seattle, Office of Economic Developmen 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5752 PO Box 94708 Seattle, WA 98124-4708

 Written notices, requests, grievances or adjustments to the Agency shall be made to:

 Peter Gishuru, CEO/President African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest 2001 6th Avenue, Suite 2600 Seattle, WA 98121

 Notice shall be effective when hand-delivered during normal business hours or two (2) business days after mailing, postage prepaid, to the proper address. Either party may change its address for notices by written notice as specified above.

 SECTION 416 - INTEGRATED DOCUMENTS

 This Agreement, including documents incorporated by reference and the laws, regulations and OMB Circulars cited herein or therein, embodies the entire Agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, provided that nothing in this Agreement waives or supersedes obligations arising from any contract between the parties regarding the same or similar services for any prior years or periods. No verbal agreements or conversation with any officer, agent or employee of the City shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in any documents comprising this Agreement. Any such verbal agreement shall be considered as unofficial information and in no way binding upon either party.

 SECTION 417 - TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE

 Time is of the essence of all of the Agency's obligations hereunder.

 This Agreement consists of Articles I - IV above, plus Exhibits, which by this reference are incorporated herein.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE CITY AND THE AGENCY HAVE EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT.

 AGENCY THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By ______________________________ By __________________________________ Peter Gishuru, CEO/President Susan C. Shannon, Director

 African Chamber of Commerce of the Office of Economic Development Pacific Northwest

 Date: ___________________________ Date: _______________________________

 EXHIBIT A-1TO ATTACHMENT 1: WORK PLAN

 Background

 Since 1998, the African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest (ACCPNW) has been instrumental in forming trade alliances between Washington businesses, African governments and business organizations by providing individualized business assistance and education, planning for trade missions, trade shows and programs, hosting high- level African Delegations and promoting trade relations.

 2008 Project Scope of Work

 1. ACCPNW will provide on-going one-on-one business counseling and trade assistance to a minimum of twenty-four (24) local businesses.

 ACCPNW will set up meetings with local businesses to facilitate business linkages and trade opportunities in Africa. Success will be measured through follow-ups conducted by the ACCPNW to determine which businesses have established relationships that have resulted in actual business transactions.

 2. Africa Trade Seminar and Annual Africa Day Business Forum

 ACCPNW will organize an AfricaTrade Seminar and The Annual Africa Day Business Forum. The Africa Trade Seminar will provide an opportunity for a minimum of 5 businesses from Africa to visit Seattle, and establish business partnerships with local companies. The Annual Africa Day Business Forum is a yearly event that attracts Ambassadors or their representatives from various African Countries to Seattle. The purpose of the event is to provide a forum where local businesses can learn about exporting opportunities with Africa, and establish business partnerships for trading. In the past this yearly event has attracted envoys from the Countries of Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Namibia, Senegal, South Africa, Morocco, and Zambia. This event will include presentations by African Consul-Generals of the Seattle/Pacific Northwest and Western Regions of the U.S. as well as representatives from Sister-city organizations/partnerships. Both events will offer opportunities to connect a diverse group of professionals, government officials, and international business leaders with local entrepreneurs and businesses.

 3. Education Seminars on International Trade

 ACCPNW will organize two (2) education seminars on international trade to educate local business owners and the general public on the fundamentals of exports, emerging markets in Africa, international matchmaking, export compliance, financing and legal aspects of exporting. ACCPNW will develop educational materials for these seminars. Other participants that will be invited to participate in the seminars will include freight forwarders, World Bank representatives, and export assistance center representatives.

 4. Logistical and Program Support for Incoming Delegations from Africa

 ACCPNW will help arrange visits for African delegations by providing logistical support to include: transportation, hotel accommodations and welcome packages. There will be one delegation visit per quarter for a total of four (4) for 2008. In addition, ACCPNW will coordinate meetings with the following organizations for the delegations: World Affairs Council, Trade Development Alliance of Seattle, Washington State Office of Community, Trade and Economic development, Fulbright Scholars from Africa visiting the Pacific Northwest, Humphrey Fellows at University of Washington Evans School of Public Affairs, and others as requested. ACCPNW will develop a standardized visitation presentation to be used for incoming visiting delegates. ACCPNW will also hold a reception for incoming visiting delegations as part of support for incoming delegation.

 5. Outreach and Networking to Develop Partnerships in Africa, Washington D.C., and the Pacific Northwest.

 a. ACCPNW will continue correspondence with overseas Chambers of Commerce and other business development organizations and government agencies involved with international trade in Africa. ACCPNW will utilize incoming delegation contacts to build relationships and develop strategic alliances with African Agencies. ACCPNW also seek to form partnerships through Seattle's two Sister Cities in Africa: Mombasa, Kenya and Limbe, Cameroon. The purpose of developing these alliances is to generate leads and to establish direct contact liaisons (tangible outcomes) which hopefully will lead to visitations from African Ambassador's Attache's, Officials and trade officials.

 b. ACCPNW will outreach and work to develop partnerships with African Embassies, USAID National Summit on Africa, Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), Export-Import Bank, and other organizations headquartered in Washington DC. The purpose of the outreach is to enable ACCPNW to 1) generate leads, 2) establish direct liaison with the different agencies with the aim of attracting delegations into Seattle.

 c. ACCPNW will develop alliances and work with organizations such as World Affairs Council, Office of Trade and Economic Development, Trade Development Alliance of Seattle and local community collages and universities to promote trade between Africa and the Pacific Northwest.

 5. Education on Africa with Local Schools

 ACCPNW will conduct three (3) presentations at various Seattle schools, as follows: (1) high school, and (1) technical school; and (1) college or university. The outcome is to improve the image of Africa through introducing cultural awareness and education about Africa, encourage exchange programs, and to promote entrepreneurship among future business leaders.

 Budgeted Amount: $50,000 with monthly payments provided the ACCPNW submits a monthly report to OED detailing ACCPNW's progress in achieving key items outlined in the scope of work.

 Payment Schedule: $12,000.00 June $ 9,000.00 July $ 7,000.00 August $ 7,000.00 September $ 5,000.00 October $ 5,000.00 November $ 5,000.00 December $50,000.00 Total

 EXHIBIT A-2 TO ATTACHMENT 1 : PAYMENT STRUCTURE/ REPORTING/ PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

 The Agency shall carry out this Agreement and perform the Scope of Work in Exhibit A-1 in accordance with the following performance standards.

 I. PAYMENT STRUCTURE

 The City shall compensate the Agency for satisfactorily performing the services described in Exhibit A-1 in accordance with the performance standards contained therein, upon receipt of required reports and invoices for services. The Agency shall use the Agency's Invoice Form (Exhibit B-2) to invoice the City.

 The total contract amount for the period of this Agreement is fifty thousand dollars and zero cents ($50,000.00). Payments shall be made on a monthly basis according to the payment schedule outlined in the Scope of Work, Exhibit A-1.

 II. REPORT REQUIREMENTS & SUBMITTAL OF REPORTS

 The Agency shall provide monthly performance reports, summarizing activities performed during the reporting periods. This report shall accompany any invoice for payment and shall match the activities being invoiced.

 SUBMITTAL OF REPORTS

 Attention: Lance Randall City of Seattle Office of Economic Development 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5752 PO Box 94708 Seattle, WA 98124-4708

 III. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

 The Agency shall maintain a current City of Seattle Business License during the term of this Agreement as described in Section 205 - Records and Fiscal Control Systems

 The Agency shall maintain insurance coverage during the term of this Agreement as described in Section 401 - Indemnification.

 IV. CORRECTIVE ACTION

 If actual performance in any period is inadequate, the Agency shall submit a written narrative outlining barriers to performing at planned levels and a corrective action plan to bring performance into compliance with this Agreement. The corrective action plan shall include, at a minimum, specific actions and timeframes the Agency will implement to address the barriers. If the Agency fails to implement the stated corrective action and performance remains inadequate, the Agency shall be considered not in compliance with this Agreement.

 EXHIBIT B-1 TO ATTACHMENT 1

 In order for invoices to be processed, the following form must be completed and include the authorized signatures (Refer to Section 202.).

 CONTRACT PAYMENT AUTHORIZATION FORM

 To: City of Seattle, Office of Economic Development Agency Name: African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest Contract No: 1405/08

 PRINT NAME SIGNATURE POSITION

 Payments are to be made to the Agency and mailed to the following address:

 I hereby certify that the officers named above are duly authorized on behalf of the Agency to submit and verify requests for payment and all related materials under the above contract, and that the information on this form is true and correct.

 _____________________________ Signature ________________________________ Typed Name

 _________________________________

 Title

 __________________________________ Date

 EXHIBIT B-2 TO ATTACHMENT 1

 CITY OF SEATTLE OFFICE OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

 AGENCY'S INVOICE No. __________ Invoice Date: __________ Invoice Period: __________ to __________

 Agency Name: African Chamber of Commerce of the Pacific Northwest Address: 2001 Sixth Avenue, Suite 2600, Seattle, WA 98121 Contact Person: Peter Gishuru Tel no. 206.256.6139 Fax no: 206.256.6158 Contract No. 1405/08 Contract Title: Africa Trade, Investment, and Business Assistance Program Term of Contract: 06/05 - 12/31/08

 INVOICE CERTIFICATION

 I, the undersigned, do hereby certify under penalty of perjury, that this invoice represents eligible expenses incurred by the Agency to provide the services rendered or the labor performed in full compliance with the Agreement in the amounts stated. I also certify that I am authorized to authenticate and certify to said claim.

 ______________________________ Peter Gishuru, CEO/President

 _______________________________ Authorized Signature

 ________________________________ Date

 PAYMENT AUTHORIZATION

 Amount Authorized for Payment: $ ________________

 By _______________________________ Date: __________________________

 ____________________________________ Signature

 Payment Voucher No: __________

 Date: ___________ t

```
