

********

**Council Bill Number: 116220**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122729**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing a Master Lease Agreement with Bluefield Holdings, Inc. for development and enhancement of habitat on City property along the Duwamish River, including tax parcel numbers: 7666703295, 7666703000, 7666701030, 7666701160, 2136200666, 0423049130, 7327902355, 5367202410, 5367202510, 5367202518, 5624200992, 766670156, and 7666703051; and authorizing a term Street Use Permit for development and enhancement of habitat on portions of the following street ends and right-of-way areas: 2nd Ave. S., 8th Ave S. (Georgetown Side of Duwamish River), 10th Ave. S.W., S.W. Spokane Street, S.W. Klickitat Way, and S. Orchard St.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 30, 2008
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Rasmussen)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 7, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 7, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 19, 2008
   
**Committee:** Environment, Emergency Management and Utilities
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, THREATENED-AND-ENDANGERED-SPECIES, DUWAMISH-WATERWAY, ENVIRONMENTAL-CLEANUP, POLLUTION, NATURAL-RESOURCES, WATER-POLLUTION

**Fiscal Note:**116220

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122729](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122729.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE authorizing a Master Lease Agreement with Bluefield Holdings, Inc. for development and enhancement of habitat on City property along the Duwamish River, including tax parcel numbers: 7666703295, 7666703000, 7666701030, 7666701160, 2136200666, 0423049130, 7327902355, 5367202410, 5367202510, 5367202518, 5624200992, 766670156, and 7666703051; and authorizing a term Street Use Permit for development and enhancement of habitat on portions of the following street ends and right-of-way areas: 2nd Ave. S., 8th Ave S. (Georgetown Side of Duwamish River), 10th Ave. S.W., S.W. Spokane Street, S.W. Klickitat Way, and S. Orchard St.

 WHEREAS, the Duwamish River is a vital economic and natural resource to the City and its citizens; and

 WHEREAS, the Duwamish River is habitat for threatened and endangered species, including salmon, and other species of environmental, economic, and cultural importance; and

 WHEREAS, the Duwamish River is an important natural and cultural resource for Tribal Nations; and

 WHEREAS, the lower Duwamish River is a federal Superfund site and is being assessed by Tribal Nations and state and federal resource trustees for damages to natural resources; and

 WHEREAS, resolving claims for natural resource damages by creating and enhancing habitat will increase certainty for continued commerce and economic activity along the Duwamish, benefit species, and potentially enhance public access to the Lower Duwamish River; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor or his designee is authorized to execute a Master Lease Agreement, substantially in the form attached to this ordinance, with Bluefield Holdings, Inc. (hereafter "Bluefield") for the properties whose legal descriptions are listed in Exhibit A to the Master Lease.

 Section 2. The Mayor or his designee is also authorized to execute a Street Use Permit for a term of years, substantially in the form attached to this ordinance, with Bluefield for the right-of-way areas and street ends whose legal descriptions are listed in Exhibit A to the Master Lease.

 Section 3. Both the Master Lease and the Street Use Permit will allow Bluefield to propose conceptual designs for development or enhancement of habitat on the subject properties. If the City approves any of the conceptual designs, then, under the Master Lease and under the Street Use Permit, Bluefield will be allowed to implement the approved projects.

 Section 4. The Master Lease and the Street Use Permit shall each have a ten year term from completion of the implementation of an approved site plan. Bluefield will maintain the habitat during the applicable term and provide the City with funds for continued maintenance after the term expires.

 Section 5. Bluefield's restoration on City lands will be designed to provide habitat that helps liable parties meet their Superfund natural resources damage allocations. Businesses and entities that are liable under federal law for damaging natural resources in and along the Duwamish River will be able to purchase credits from Bluefield to compensate for such damages if approved by the Natural Resource Trustees.

 Section 6. Bluefield will pay the City rent for use of the properties subject to the Master Lease. The amount of rent will be determined by an appraiser jointly selected by Bluefield and the City.

 Section 7. Bluefield will pay a term permit fee in an amount determined by the Seattle Department of Transportation for the Street Use Permit.

 Section 8. The Street Use Permit authorized hereby is subject to primary and secondary use by the public of the street ends for shoreline public access and utility purposes, and, for the other right-of-way areas, for general travel and utility purposes. The City expressly reserves the right to require the Permittee to cease use and remove its materials and other property at the Permittee's sole cost and expense in the event that:

 a) The City Council determines, by ordinance, that the space occupied by the Permittee's use is necessary for any primary or secondary public use or benefit, or that the Permittee's use interferes with any primary or secondary public use or benefit; or

 b) The Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation determines that any term or condition of this ordinance has been violated, and such violation has not been corrected by the Permittee after Notice of Violation has been given by the City.

 A City Council determination that the space is necessary for a primary or secondary public use or benefit shall be conclusive and final.

 Section 9. The City Council directs that:

 A. Before approval of a conceptual design, the City department responsible for the land upon which the design is proposed will conduct public outreach to inform the community and take input on the design. The departments may use their established outreach procedures. If a department has no outreach procedures for this type of activity, they will establish and implement such procedures. Public input from the outreach will be incorporated into the project approval decision.

 B. At least ten (10) business days before approval of a conceptual design, the responsible City department will provide the City Council with a written summary of the design, the public comments received and how public comments were addressed in the approved project.

 Section 10. Bluefield is encouraged to pursue habitat restoration on private lands in the Duwamish Superfund site. A report regarding Bluefield's restoration progress on City lands and other lands in the Duwamish Superfund site will be submitted to the City Council on an annual basis.

 Section 11. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment - Duwamish River Corridor Master Agreement relating to a Lease and Permits for Habitat Construction and Maintenance

 6/20/08 (Ver. 7) t

 ATTACHMENT:

 Duwamish River Corridor Master Agreement relating to a Lease and Permits for Habitat Construction and Maintenance

 * This Master Lease for Habitat Construction and Maintenance for the construction and maintenance of habitat along the Duwamish River in Seattle, Washington (the "Master Lease"), is made and entered into as of the Effective Date below by and between a Washington LLC formed by Bluefield Holdings Inc. ("Bluefield") and the City of Seattle (the "City") (sometimes referred to collectively as the "Parties" and individually as a "Party").

 RECITALS

 The Duwamish River is a vital economic and natural resource to the City and its citizens.

 The Duwamish River has been the site of more than 150 years of

 industrial development.

 The Duwamish River is habitat for threatened and endangered species, including salmon, and other species of environmental, economic, and cultural importance.

 The Duwamish River is an important natural and cultural resource for Tribal nations and other public trustees in the south Seattle area.

 The Lower Duwamish River is a federal Superfund site and is being assessed by Tribal nations and other public trustees for damages to natural resources.

 Resolution of claims for natural resource damages will enhance habitat restoration, increase certainty for continued commerce and economic development along the Duwamish and enhance public access to the Lower Duwamish River.

 The City manages Street Right-of-way and owns Property along the Duwamish River in Seattle, Washington, that is operated by various City agencies including the Department of Parks and Recreation, Seattle City Light, and the Department of Transportation. Bluefield is in the business of designing, building, and maintaining natural resource damage restoration projects that generate Natural Resource Damage Restoration Credits (defined below). Bluefield is also in the business of selling Natural Resource Damage Restoration Credits to parties that desire to settle their potential liability to Trustee Agencies (defined below).

 The City wishes to lease certain properties to Bluefield for the purpose of design, construction and maintenance of natural resource habitat restoration projects.

 The City wishes to consider term permits issued by the City Council for the use of for certain street rights-of-way as described in the Attachments, subject to providing for transportation and utility needs, for the purpose of design, construction and maintenance of natural resource habitat restoration projects.

 The City wishes that Bluefield's restoration on City land serves as a starting point for further habitat restoration by Bluefield on private lands in the Duwamish Superfund site.

 Bluefield wishes to design, construct, and maintain natural resource habitat restoration projects on the City's properties in order to generate Natural Resource Damage Restoration Credits that it may sell to third parties.

 In consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set forth below, the adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

 1. DEFINITIONS.

 As used herein the following capitalized terms have the respective meanings ascribed to them below. Additional definitions are also contained within the text of this Master Lease.

 "Approved Project" means a Project for which the City, in its sole discretion, has approved the Conceptual Design or for which Bluefield, in its sole discretion, has accepted the Requested Modifications thereto.

 "Candidate Parcel" means parcels of real property owned and operated by the City, located along or near the Duwamish River, and listed on Exhibit A attached.

 "Conceptual Design" means a preliminary design that Bluefield may, in its sole discretion prepare for a project

 "Deductions" means any reductions in the Project Payment that Bluefield may, at its sole discretion, propose to cover costs not

 related to habitat restoration on a Candidate Parcel, including (without limitation) cleanup of environmental contamination, removal of structures, capital improvements, etc.

 "Effective Date" means the latest date this Master Lease has been executed by both Parties as set forth on the signature page hereto.

 "Independent Appraiser" means a licensed real estate appraiser agreed upon by both Parties. The Parties have agreed that Greenleaf shall be the initial Independent Appraiser.

 "Legal Requirements" means any and all covenants, conditions, restrictions, easements and rights-of way on, against or otherwise encumbering a Project Area and all applicable laws, orders, permits, ordinances, statutes, rules, requirements and regulations of federal, state, county and municipal authorities now or hereafter in effect and applicable to a Project Area.

 "Long Term Maintenance Payment" means the one-time payment Bluefield will make to the City for the post-Project Term long term maintenance of each Approved Project and will be calculated as follows: Bluefield, at its sole cost and expense, shall have an independent consultant prepare a scope of work and cost estimate for long term maintenance of each Project Area. A discount rate of five percent (5.00%) shall be applied to the cost estimate to determine the amount of the one-time payment.

 "NRD Restoration Credits" means the metric used by Trustee Agencies to measure the value of the Project in terms of restoration of natural resources. NRD Restoration Credits may consist of discounted service acre years using habitat equivalency analysis or resource equivalency analysis, or any other metric used by Trustee Agencies to value the natural resource damage restoration potential of an Approved Project.

 "Project" means the natural resource habitat restoration project designed to obtain NRD Restoration Credits that Bluefield may propose to construct at a Candidate Parcel.

 "Project Approval Date" means the date a Conceptual Design or Requested Modifications thereto is approved.

 "Project Area" means that certain portion of a Candidate Parcel where Bluefield may propose to locate a Project.

 "Project Payment" means the annual payments Bluefield will make to the City for a particular Approved Project and shall be calculated as follows: Bluefield, at its sole cost and expense, shall have the Independent Appraiser conduct an appraisal to determine the fair market value of the Project Area as defined in the legal description included with the Conceptual Design. An annual percentage rate of return of ten percent (10.00%) shall be applied to the appraised value of each Project Area that is located on a street end to determine the annual payment amount. An annual percentage rate of eight (8.00%) shall be applied to the appraised value of all other Project Areas to determine the annual payment amount.

 "Project Term" means the time period commencing on the Project Approval Date and continuing for twenty-four (24) months or completion of construction of each Approved Project, whichever is sooner, and then continuing for a period of ten (10) years after completion of construction of each Approved Project, unless sooner terminated as provided herein. Construction shall be deemed to be complete when the habitat improvements have been installed according to the Conceptual Design approved by the City, including any changes to that Conceptual Design that have been approved by the City.

 "Requested Modifications" means the modifications, if any, that the City, in its sole discretion, may request to a Conceptual Design, a Project Payment and/or proposed Deductions.

 "Trustee Agencies" means any one or more of federal, state, tribal and/or local agencies designated as trustees for natural resources pursuant to the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9622, the federal Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C. 2701, the Washington Model Toxics Control Act, RCW 70.105D, and/or other similar laws, and shall include without limitation agencies such as the U.S. Department of Interior, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Washington State Department of Ecology, the Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife, the Washington State Department of Natural Resources and federally recognized Tribal Nations.

 "Work" means all activities of Bluefield, its employees, agents and subcontractors to design, construct, operate, monitor, repair, maintain and otherwise complete a particular Approved Project.

 2. PROJECT REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENT.

 2.1 Candidate Parcel Review. No more than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, the City will make the Candidate Parcels available for inspection during normal business hours by Bluefield and its agents and subcontractors at Bluefield's sole risk and expense. Bluefield shall make such inspections and reviews as it deems appropriate to determine if any or all of the Candidate Parcels or portions thereof are suitable for natural resource habitat restoration. Bluefield may make requests of the City for documents and other information regarding the Candidate Parcels and the City shall not unreasonably refuse such requests and shall provide the documents and information promptly, provided that, Bluefield shall reimburse the City for the costs, if any, incurred by the City for identification, collection, reproduction, or provision of the documents and information. The City shall also make available City personnel familiar with the Candidate Parcels to assist with Bluefield's inspections and reviews as reasonably requested by Bluefield.

 2.2 Project Proposal. No more than one hundred and eighty (180) days after the Effective Date (or such longer period as may be agreed upon in writing by the Parties), Bluefield shall determine in its sole discretion whether or not natural resource habitat restoration sufficient to gain NRD Restoration Credit appears to be feasible on a Candidate Parcel or portion thereof. If Bluefield determines in its sole discretion that natural resource habitat restoration is not feasible on a particular Candidate Parcel, then Bluefield shall notify the City in writing of its determination and Bluefield shall have no further obligations under this Master Lease for such Candidate Parcel. If Bluefield determines that natural resource habitat restoration is feasible, then, no more than two hundred and ten (210) days after the Effective Date (or such longer period as may be agreed upon in writing by the Parties), Bluefield may in its sole discretion provide to the City for its review a Conceptual Design for a Project on the Candidate Parcel. The Conceptual Design shall include a legal description prepared by a licensed surveyor of the boundaries of the proposed Project Area, a statement of the amount of the calculated Project Payment and a statement of the amount of the Long Term Maintenance Payment.

 2.3 Project Approval.

 A. Upon receipt of a Conceptual Design including the legal description, the proposed amount of the Project Payment and the proposed amount of the Long Term Maintenance Payment, less any Proposed Deductions, the City shall have sixty (60) days (or such longer period as may be agreed upon in writing by the Parties) to approve in writing the Conceptual Design and the Project Payment less any Proposed Deductions or provide written Requested Modifications to Bluefield.

 B. Before approval of a conceptual design, the City department responsible for the Candidate Parcel will conduct public outreach to inform the community and take input on the design. Public input from that outreach will be incorporated into the project approval decision. At least ten (10) business days before approval of a conceptual design, the responsible City department will provide the City Council with a written summary of the design, the public comments received and how public comments were addressed in the approved project.

 C. If the City approves in writing the Conceptual Design, the amount of the Project Payment and the amount of the Long Term Maintenance Payment, less any proposed Deductions or Bluefield approves in writing the Requested Modifications, the Project shall become an Approved Project subject to the remaining terms of this Master Lease. If the City does not approve the Conceptual Design, the amount of the Project Payment and/or the amount of the Long Term Maintenance Payment, or if Bluefield does not approve any Requested Modifications, Bluefield shall have no further obligation under this Master Lease for such Candidate Parcel.

 3. BLUEFIELD'S OBLIGATIONS.

 3.1. Payment. Within thirty (30) days of each Project Approval Date, Bluefield shall make the first annual payment to the City of the Project Payment for the Approved Project less any proposed Deductions.

 3.2. Performance. No more than eighteen (18) months after the Project Approval Date, Bluefield shall design and complete construction of the Approved Project. Bluefield shall provide the City with written notice when construction is complete. Bluefield shall monitor and maintain the habitat on each Project Area for ten (10) years from the date construction is completed on each Approved Project.

 3.3. Long Term Maintenance Fund. At least six months prior to the expiration of the Project Term for each Approved Project, Bluefield shall make the Long term Maintenance Payment to the City. The City shall place the Longterm Maintenance Payment in a dedicated account to provide for the post-Project Term long term maintenance of each Approved Project.

 4. THE CITY'S OBLIGATIONS.

 4.1. Transfer of NRD Restoration Credits. The City hereby sells and assigns free and clear to Bluefield all rights, credits, and interests in the NRD Restoration Credits that are or may be generated by each Approved Project. The City acknowledges that Bluefield intends to attempt to sell these NRD Restoration Credits to third parties.

 4.2. Leases. The City hereby grants to Bluefield leases for the Project Term of each Approved Project for access, ingress, egress, construction staging and lay-down, construction, operation, monitoring, repair, maintenance, and all other activities reasonably necessary for Bluefield to complete the Work.

 5. LIMITATIONS ON LEASES.

 5.1. Leases Limited to Work. Bluefield's leases do not extend to any activities other than the Work.

 5.2. Compliance. In conducting the Work, Bluefield shall exercise due care and diligence, shall perform all aspects of the Work in a proper and workmanlike manner and shall comply with all Legal Requirements. Bluefield shall cause its employees, agents and subcontractors to comply with all Legal Requirements while performing the Work.

 6. COORDINATION.

 6.1 Non-Interference. The City and Bluefield hereby acknowledge the important purposes that the other Party will conduct at or from each Project Area. Each of the Parties agrees that its employees, agents and subcontractors shall coordinate with the management of the other Party to avoid, to the maximum extent feasible, interfering with the activities of the other Party at each Project Area.

 6.2. Cooperation. The City shall cooperate with Bluefield's efforts to obtain approval of each Approved Project from the Trustee Agencies, Bluefield's efforts to obtain the maximum NRD Restoration Credits from each Approved Project, Bluefield's efforts to market and sell NRD Restoration Credits to potential purchasers, and Bluefield efforts to obtain federal, state, or local permits necessary for each Approved Project. The City shall sign any reasonable applications or requests which are required to be signed or recorded by the land owner in order to obtain necessary approvals.

 6.3. Construction Timing. Bluefield shall give the City a minimum of five (5) business days notice prior to any activity on a Project Area that could cause temporary interruption of the City's business and business activities. Bluefield agrees to limit construction and maintenance of each Approved Project to times during normal business hours when it will least affect the activities and business at such Project Area.

 7. CONSTRUCTION.

 7.1. Construction Work Performed by Bluefield. All construction work conducted by Bluefield shall be performed by a licensed contractor in a proper and workmanlike manner. All construction work shall be performed in compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements. Bluefield shall pay, when due, all claims for labor or materials furnished or alleged to have been furnished to or for Bluefield for the Work at each Project Area, which claims are or may be secured by any mechanic's liens. Upon completion of the Work for a particular Approved Project, Bluefield shall immediately deliver to the City "as-built" plans and specifications for the Approved Project.

 7.2. Notice. Bluefield shall give the City notice of the date of commencement of the Work on each Project Area not less than ten (10) business days prior thereto.

 8. INSURANCE.

 8.1. Builder's Risk Insurance. Bluefield shall obtain and keep in force during the period of construction of each Approved Project, until completion of construction of each Approved Project, a policy of builder's completed value risk insurance against all risks of physical loss to any physical improvements on each Project Area in the amount of the guaranteed replacement cost of such physical improvements.

 8.2. Bluefield's Liability Insurance. Bluefield shall obtain prior to commencement of construction of each Approved Project and keep in force thereafter throughout the remainder of the Project Term a policy of commercial general liability insurance on an occurrence policy form covering liability for personal injury occurring in, on or about such Project Area, with limits in the amount of at least One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence combined single limit for injuries to or death of persons, and with a contractual liability endorsement insuring Bluefield's performance of Bluefield's obligation to indemnify the City contained in Paragraph ___. Bluefield also shall, at Bluefield's sole cost, obtain prior to commencement of construction of each Approved Project and keep in force thereafter throughout the remainder of each Project Term pollution legal liability and contractor's pollution legal liability insurance (as appropriate) on a claims made policy form covering Project Area damage and other pollution-related loss claims occurring in, on or about each Project Area, with limits in the amount of at least One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) on a claims made basis for a period of five to ten years (depending on availability) for Project Area damage and other pollution-related losses, and make commercially reasonable efforts to include a contractual liability endorsement insuring Bluefield's performance of Bluefield's obligation to indemnify the City contained in this Master Lease. Bluefield may provide such insurance coverage under blanket policies of insurance

 8.3. Project Area Insurance. Bluefield shall obtain prior to commencement of construction of each Approved Project and keep in force thereafter throughout the remainder of the Project Term a policy or policies of insurance for the benefit of The City and Bluefield covering loss or damage to such Approved Project, in the amount of the full replacement value thereof, providing protection against all perils included within the classification of fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief, special extended perils (all risk) and an inflation endorsement, but excluding earthquake coverage. Throughout the Project Term, Bluefield shall be responsible for paying any and all insurance deductibles and

 premiums. Bluefield may provide such insurance under blanket policies of insurance provided that such insurance is on an occurrence basis.

 8.4. Workers' Compensation, Employer's Liability and Automobile Liability Insurance. Bluefield shall obtain and keep in force during the Project Term policies of insurance as follows:

 A. Workers' Compensation Insurance in an amount not less than that prescribed by law and covering employees of Bluefield engaged in the performance of activities under this Master Lease;

 B. Employers' Liability Insurance protecting Bluefield against common law liability in the absence of statutory liability, for employee bodily injury arising out of the master-servant relationship with a limit of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000);

 C. Automobile Liability Insurance (owned, non-owned and hired), including personal injury and Project Area damage, with a limit of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) combined single limit.

 D. Statutory United States Longshore & Harbor Workers Insurance. In the event that the placement is subject to a deductible, the amount and terms of the program will be detailed to the City.

 8.5. Form, Additional Insureds and Certificates. Each policy of insurance required to be carried by Bluefield pursuant to this Master Lease shall be with a company rated A:IX or better in "Best's Insurance Guide" and shall name the City as an additional insured. Bluefield's insurance policies shall also be primary insurance, without right of contribution from any policy carried by the City, and shall contain a cross-liability and severability endorsement. A certificate of insurance (ACCORD form) and a copy of each policy shall be provided to the City, which indicates that the coverage required hereunder is in effect.

 8.6. Payment. Bluefield shall pay all of the premiums and deductibles for any insurance obtained pursuant to this Master Lease.

 8.7. Waiver of Subrogation. Bluefield and The City each hereby waives any and all rights of recovery against the other, and against the officers, employees, agents and representatives of the other, for loss of or damage to each Project Area of the waiving Party or each Project Area of others under its control, to the extent such loss or damage is covered by proceeds received under any insurance policy carried by the City or Bluefield and in force at the time of such loss or damage. Each of Bluefield and the City shall, upon obtaining the policies of insurance required hereunder or otherwise carried by such Party, give notice to the insurance carrier or carriers that the foregoing mutual waiver of subrogation is contained in this Master Lease.

 8.8. No Limitation of Liability. The City makes no representation that the limits of liability specified to be carried by Bluefield under the terms of this Master Lease are adequate to protect any Party. If Bluefield believes that the insurance coverage required under this Master Lease is insufficient to adequately protect Bluefield, Bluefield shall provide such additional insurance as Bluefield deems adequate.

 8.9. Liability for Contamination. The City acknowledges that Bluefield is in no way liable or responsible for environmental contamination that may be present or discovered on each Project Area, except and only to the extent such contamination is exacerbated by the misconduct or negligence of Bluefield. If, during the course of the Work, Bluefield discovers evidence of environmental contamination that threatens human health or the environment, Bluefield will promptly notify the City so that the City may comply with Legal Requirements applicable to the discovery of such contamination. The City waives any argument that Bluefield is a potentially responsible or potentially liable party under Legal Requirements as an owner or operator of a Project Area or Approved Project.

 9. UTILITIES. The City shall provide power and water to each Project Area as reasonably needed by Bluefield for completion of the Work. Bluefield shall pay the City for the cost of any such services it uses as reasonably determined by the City.

 10. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS.

 10.1. Bluefield's Obligations. Following Bluefield's construction of each Approved Project, Bluefield shall keep such Approved Project in good and safe condition, order and repair for the remaining Project Term.

 10.2. No Obligations or Liability for The City. The City shall not be obligated to make any repairs or replacements of any kind, nature or description whatsoever to each Approved Project or any portion thereof. The City shall not be liable for any loss, damage or injury of any kind, nature or character to any person or Project Area arising from Bluefield's Work, or caused by any defect in an Approved Project, or caused by or arising from any act or omission of Bluefield or any of its agents, employees, or subcontractors, or by or from any accident on each Project Area, or any fire or other casualty thereon, or occasioned by the failure of Bluefield to maintain each Approved Project in a safe condition, unless such loss, damage or injury is caused by the City's intentional misconduct, negligence or violation of law.

 11. INDEMNIFICATION.

 11.1. Indemnification by Bluefield. Bluefield shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City, its officers, directors, partners, employees, agents, representatives, affiliates, successors, assigns, and attorneys (collectively, "the City Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all claims, damages, demands, liens, claims of lien, losses, fines, penalties, judgments, actions, suits, injuries, costs, expenses or liability of any kind or nature which may be imposed on them, including, without limitation, reasonable attorney fees, expert fees and consultant fees, and other costs of legal defense actually incurred (collectively, "Liabilities"), whether direct or indirect, that the City Indemnified Parties, or any of them, may sustain or incur, or that may be imposed on or directed against any of them, arising out of or resulting from Bluefield's or its officers', directors', partners', employees', agents', representatives', affiliates', successors', assigns', and attorneys' negligence or violation of law during the Project Term.

 11.2. Indemnification by The City. The City shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Bluefield, its officers, directors, partners, employees, agents, representatives, affiliates, successors, assigns, and attorneys (collectively, the "Bluefield Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all claims, damages, demands, liens, claims of lien, losses, fines, penalties, judgments, actions, suits, injuries, costs, expenses or liability of any kind or nature which may be imposed on them , including, without limitation, reasonable attorney fees, expert fees and consultant fees, and other costs of legal defense actually incurred (collectively, "Liabilities"), whether direct or indirect, that the Bluefield Indemnified Parties, or any of them, may sustain or incur, or that may be imposed on or directed against any of them, to the extent arising out of or resulting from the city's or its officers', directors', partners', employees', agents', representatives', affiliates', successors', assigns', and attorneys' negligence or violation of law during the Project Term.

 11.3. Limitation. Neither the City nor Bluefield shall be liable to each other for any consequential, exemplary, or punitive damages of any kind.

 12. LIENS. Bluefield shall keep each Project Area free from any liens arising out of any work performed, materials furnished or obligations incurred by Bluefield. In the event that Bluefield shall not, within ten (10) days following notice of the imposition of any such lien, cause the same to be released of record, the City shall have, in addition to all other remedies provided herein and by law, the right, but not the obligation, to cause the same to be released by such means as it shall deem proper, including payment of the claim giving rise to such lien or the posting of a bond. All sums paid by the City for such purpose, and all expenses incurred by it in connection therewith, shall be payable to the City by Bluefield on demand.

 13. ASSIGNMENT. Bluefield may assign this Master Lease and its rights hereunder to an LLC or corporation formed to perform the obligations under this Master Lease without the prior consent of the City, but with notice to the City. Bluefield may not otherwise assign this Master Lease without the prior written consent of the City, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Any purported assignment not in accordance with the terms hereof shall at the City's option, to be exercised at any time after the City becomes aware of any such purported assignment, be void, and may at the City's option be treated as an Event of Default hereunder.

 14. TERMINATION AND DEFAULT. A Party shall not be in default unless it fails to perform obligations required of it within the time set forth in this agreement, unless such time is extended by mutual written agreement of the parties, or, if no time frame is specified in this agreement, within a reasonable time, but in no event earlier than (30) days after written notice by the other Party, specifying wherein the Party has failed to perform such obligations; provided, however, that if the nature of Party's obligations is such that more than thirty (30) days is required for performance, then the Party shall not be in default if it commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 15. CONDEMNATION. Should title to or possession of the whole of a Project Area be taken by a duly constituted authority in condemnation proceedings or should a partial taking render the remaining portions of a Project Area unfit for the Project, then either Party may at its election terminate such Approved Project by notice to the other Party given within sixty (60) days from the date of such taking. All damages for condemnation of all or part of each Project Area shall be equitably divided, pro rata, between the City and Bluefield in accordance with their respective interests at the time of such condemnation based upon the findings of the condemnation court.

 16. DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION. This Master Lease shall continue in full force and effect in the event of any damage to or destruction of a Project or a Project Area that is caused by an entity unrelated to

 Bluefield or an event unrelated to the Work, unless Bluefield elects, in its sole discretion, to terminate the Approved Project prior to completion of construction. If Bluefield does elect to terminate an Approved Project prior to completion of construction, Bluefield shall make commercially reasonable efforts to restore the Project Area, if possible, to a condition that is as good or better than it had before Project construction began. The insurance proceeds relating to any damage or destruction to such Project shall be equitably divided, pro rata, between the City and Bluefield in accordance with their respective interests at the time of damage or destruction to the Project based upon the findings of a consultant mutually agreed upon by the City and Bluefield.

 17. SALE OR CONVEYANCE BY THE CITY. In the event of a sale or conveyance of a Project Area or any interest therein by the City, upon written assumption by the successor in interest of the City's obligations and liabilities under this Master Lease, the City shall thereby be released from any then current and any further liability upon any of the terms, covenants or conditions (express or implied) herein contained in favor of Bluefield, and in such event, insofar as such transfer is concerned, Bluefield agrees to look solely to the responsibility of the successor in interest of the City in and to each Project Area and this Master Lease. This Master Lease shall not be affected by any such sale or conveyance, and Bluefield agrees to attorn to the successor in interest of such transferor.

 18. COSTS, ATTORNEYS' FEES. In the event that either the City or Bluefield should bring suit for the recovery of any sum due under this Master Lease, or because of the breach of any provision of this Master Lease, or for any other relief against the other Party hereunder, then all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the prevailing Party therein shall be paid by the other Party, which obligation on the part of the other Party shall be deemed to have accrued on the date of the commencement of such action and shall be enforceable whether or not the action is prosecuted to judgment.

 19. NOTICES. All notices herein required or permitted to be given or furnished under this Master Lease given by either Party to the other shall be in writing, and shall be deemed sufficiently given and served upon the other Party if sent by confirmed facsimile, hand delivery, reputable overnight courier or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices shall be deemed delivered upon actual receipt by the addressee (or upon failure of the addressee to accept delivery). Notices shall be sent to the following addresses:

 If to Bluefield: Scott Lockert Vice President Bluefield Holdings, Inc. 2505 Second Ave. Suite 602 Seattle, WA 98121 scottl@bluefieldholdings.com

 If to the City: Judith Noble Seattle Public Utilities 700 5th Ave. Suite 4900 PO Box 34018 Seattle WA 98124-4018 judith.noble@seattle.gov

 Each Party shall have the right, from time to time, to designate a different address by notice given in conformity with this Paragraph.

 20. INDEPENDENT ACTIVITIES OF THE CITY AND BLUEFIELD. The Parties anticipate that Bluefield may sell NRD Restoration Credits to the City. The City acknowledges and agrees that Bluefield may make all decisions relating to any such sales of NRD Restoration Credits in a manner to protect the best interests of Bluefield in its capacity as seller of NRD Restoration Credits, without regard to the impact such decisions may have on the City, including, without limitation, the exercise of any rights and remedies available to Bluefield, at law, in equity or under the documents evidencing any such sale of NRD Restoration Credits. The City further acknowledges and agrees that Bluefield would not have entered into the Master Lease, and would not sell any NRD Restoration Credits to the City, if this arrangement were not acceptable to the City.

 21. DATA PUBLICATION. All data and information in hard copy, electronic, or any other format, disclosed to the City by Bluefield, developed by Bluefield or obtained by Bluefield from a party other than the City during the length of this Master Lease ("Data"), shall be and remain the sole Property of Bluefield. The City shall not assert, or allow persons performing under the City's control to assert, any rights to the Data or establish any claim under design, patent or copyright laws. It is expressly agreed that all copyrightable or patentable Data produced by Bluefield under the Master Lease are solely owned by Bluefield and that all copyrightable and other proprietary rights therein shall vest solely in Bluefield. Bluefield has the right to inform the general public about the Projects and the Work in the form of press releases, article in journals and/or other media outlets. Prior to the release of any such information, Bluefield shall provide the City with the opportunity to review all material intended for publication. Bluefield will take the City's comments into consideration in the final publication of the material. The Parties recognize that this Master Lease is a public record that is subject to disclosure under state law and that it will be published when it is submitted to the City Council for approval. Except in response to a request for public records and in provision of this Master Lease to the City Council, the City shall not publish any material that falls under the terms of this Master Lease and shall not provide information about Bluefield and the Projects, without the prior written approval of Bluefield.

 22. TITLE AND AUTHORITY.

 22.1. The City's Covenant. The City covenants and warrants that (i) it has the authority to execute this Master Lease and has the power to grant the rights hereunder; (ii) the person signing this Master Lease in its behalf has the authority to bind the City; (iii) and, to its knowledge, the execution and performance of this Master Lease will not violate the provisions of any mortgage, easement, license or other agreement binding upon the City.

 22.2 Bluefield's Covenants. Bluefield covenants and warrants that (i) it has the authority to execute this Master Lease; (ii) the person signing this Master Lease in its behalf has the authority to bind Bluefield; and (iii) to its knowledge, the execution and performance of this Master Lease will not violate the provisions of any agreement binding on Bluefield.

 23. TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS. Nothing contained in this Master Lease requires Bluefield to pay any taxes, assessments, rates, charges, license fees, municipal liens, levies, excises, or imposts, whether general or specific, or ordinary or extraordinary, of every name, nature and kind whatsoever, including all governmental charges of whatsoever name, nature or kind, which may be levied, assessed, charged or imposed, or which may become a lien or charge on or against each Project Area.

 24. MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.

 24.1. Recording. Bluefield shall file for record with the County Recorder of the county or counties in which each Project Area is located either this Master Lease or a recordable notice or memorandum of this Master Lease. The parties shall take such actions and execute such additional documents, including copies of this Master Lease or a short form of this Master Lease as may be required to record evidence of this Master Lease for each Approved Project.

 24.2. Entire Agreement. This Master Lease, inclusive of all Exhibits, contains the entire agreement between the parties as to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all previous written and oral negotiations, commitments, proposals and writings. All Exhibits attached hereto are hereby incorporated into this Master Lease.

 24.3. Amendments. No amendments to this Master Lease may be made except by a writing signed by both Parties.

 24.4. Counterparts. This Master Lease may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. This Master Lease may also be executed in multiple duplicate originals, each of which shall be fully effective and enforceable.

 24.5. Successors and Assigns. This Master Lease shall be binding upon the successors, assigns, heirs, executors and administrators of each of the Parties hereto.

 24.6. Governing Law. This Master Lease shall be governed by the laws of, and all actions in connection with this Agreement shall be brought and heard in, the State of Washington.

 24.7. Interpretation. The terms and provisions of this Master Lease are not to be construed more liberally in favor of, or more strictly against, either Party. To the extent the mutual covenants of the Parties under this Master Lease create obligations that extend beyond the termination or expiration of this Master Lease, the applicable provisions of this Master Lease shall be deemed to survive such termination or expiration for the limited purpose of enforcing such covenants and obligations in accordance with the terms of this Master Lease. All article, paragraph or other headings appearing in this Master Lease are for convenience of reference only and shall be disregarded in construing this Master Lease.

 24.8. Severability. If any provision of this Master Lease is unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby but shall remain in full force and effect; provided, that the Parties shall attempt to amend this Master Lease to attempt to return the Parties to materially the same position had no such provision been found unenforceable.

 24.9. No Partnership. Nothing contained in this Master Lease shall be construed to create any association, trust, partnership, or joint venture or impose a trust or partnership, duty, obligation, or liability or an agency relationship on, or with regard to, either Party. Neither Party hereto shall have the right to bind or obligate the other in any way or manner unless otherwise provided for herein.

 24.10. Waiver. No failure or delay of any Party to exercise any power or right under this Master Lease shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power.

 24.11. Quitclaim. At the expiration or earlier termination of this Master Lease, Bluefield shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the City, within ten (10) days after written demand from the City to Bluefield, any quitclaim deed or other document that the City, in its sole discretion, deems necessary to remove the encumbrances created by this Master Lease from each Project Area. The provisions of this Paragraph shall survive the termination of this Master Lease.

 24.12. Confidential Information. The proposed Conceptual Designs and Project Payments shall be treated as confidential information until approved under this Master Lease. Either Party may designate any other data, information, reports, or documents provided to the other as "Confidential Information." Except as required by law, neither Party shall, without the prior written consent of the other Party, disclose any Confidential Information obtained from the other Party to any third parties other than to any lender, professional advisers, or to employees each of whom have agreed to keep such information confidential as contemplated by this Master Lease and who need the information to assist either Party with the rights and obligations contemplated herein.

 * IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and Bluefield have executed and delivered this Master Lease as of the latest date set forth below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE: BLUEFIELD, LLC: By:______________________________ By:______________________________ Name:____________________________ Name:____________________________ Title:_____________________________ Title:_____________________________ Date: _____________________________ Date: _____________________________

 _________________________ Notary

 v7 t

 EXHIBIT A

 Properties Subject to Master Lease or Street Use Permit

 West Side West Waterway: Spokane Street Bridge PID: 7666703295 Address: SW KLICKITAT WY & S SPOKANE ST Legal Description: POR OF SD LOTS DAF - BEG AT NXN OF S MGN OF SW SPOKANE ST WITH SWLY MGN OF DUWAMISH W WATERWAY TH S 41-06-02 E ALG SD SWLY MGN 83.93 FT TH S 01-08-43 W 27.80 FT TH N 88-51-17 W 53 FT TH N 59-03- 00 W 167.91 FT TH N 89-29-14 W 40 FT TH N 00-30-46 E 6.91 FT TO S MGN OF SW SPOKANE ST TH ELY ALG SD S MGN 182.35 FT TO TPOB

 Southwest Spokane Street: THAT PORTION OF SOUTHWEST SPOKANE STREET BETWEEN THE WEST MARGIN OF THE WEST DUWAMISH WATERWAY AND A LINE EXTENDING BETWEEN NORTHWEST CORNER OF KING COUNTY PARCEL 7666703290 AND NORTHWEST CORNER OF LOT 11, BLOCK 424 SEATTLE TIDELANDS EX 01 B 377-491.

 East Side West Waterway: Spokane St. Bridge PID: 7666703000 Address: W MARGINAL WY & S SPOKANE ST Legal Description: SEATTLE TIDE LDS EXT #1 POR SD LOTS DAF - BEG NXN OF S LN OF SW SPOKANE ST & NE MGN OF DUWAMISH WEST WW TH S41-06-02E ALG SD NELY MGN 270.08 FT TH S88-51-58E PLW SD S LN 168.92 FT TO NWLY MGN OF BN R/R R/W TH NELY ALG SD R/W MGN 25.74 FT TO SWLY MGN OF KLIKITAT AVE SW TH NLY ALG WLY MGN SD KLIKITAT AVE SW TO SLY LN SW SPOKANE ST TH W TO POB LESS ST PER REC #8007140324

 West Waterway north of Spokane, south of Fisher Mill PID: 7666703051 Address: 3441 KLICKITAT AVE SW Legal Description SEATTLE TIDE LDS EXT #1

 Southwest Spokane Street, Southwest Klickitat Way and Parcel 7666703000: THAT PORTION OF SOUTHWEST SPOKANE STREET ABUTTING LOT 15, BLOCK 408 SEATTLE TIDELANDS EX 01 B 377-491, KING COUNTY PARCEL 7666703000 AND THAT PORTION OF SOUTHWEST KLICKITAT WAY AS ESTABLISHED THROUGH ORDINANCES 95570, 99714, 114562 AND 115212; TOGETHER WITH THAT PORTION OF SOUTHWEST KLICKITAT WAY AS ESTABLISHED THROUGH ORDINANCES 95570, 99714, 114562 AND 115212; TOGETHER WITH KING COUNTY PARCEL 7666703000; AND TOGETHER WITH ANY PORTION OF LAND LYING BETWEEN THE WEST MARGIN OF SAID PARCEL AND THE EAST MARGIN OF THE WEST DUWAMISH WATERWAY.

 West Side East Waterway PID: 7666701030 Address: S SPOKANE ST Legal Description SEATTLE TIDE LDS EXT # 1 LESS R/W

 SW Klickitat Way PID: 7666701160 Address: SW Klickitat Way and 11th Ave SW Legal Description: SEATTLE TIDE LDS EXT #1 POR LOTS 1 THRU 3 NLY OF O W RR R/W LESS NP RR R/W & LESS ST

 SW Spokane Street PID: 7666701156 Legal Description: SEATTLE TIDE LDS EXT # 1 POR LOTS 1 THRU 3 LY W OF OW RR R/W LESS ST & LESS BN R/W

 Georgetown SteamplantSteam plant Pump Station PID: 2136200666 Address: 7551 8TH AV S Legal Description: DUWAMISH INDUSTRIAL ADD LESS BEG AT NE COR TH S ALG E LN 245 FT TH SWLY TO SW COR TH N ALG W LN 316.01 FT M/L TO NE COR TH E 70 FT TO BEG

 Duwamish-Delridge Transmission Line R/W No 1 PID: 0423049130 Address: 11100 E MARGINAL WY S Legal Description: C OF S TRANS LN R/W OVER GL 4 & 5 TGW SE 1/4 LESS ST HWY TGW 250 FT R/W OVER TRACT 55 OF MOORES FIVE- ACRE TRACTS & VAC G FRAIEGER RD LESS ST HWY

 Duwamish Waterway Park PID: 7327902355 Address 10TH AV S Legal Description RIVER PARK ADP LOTS 43-44-45 & 46 TGW POR VAC ST ADJ LESS CWW DIST NO 1

 North of 1st Ave South Bridge PID: 5367202410 Address: 6501 1ST AV S Legal Description MC LAUGHLINS WATER FRONT ADD LESS COML W WAY #1

 South of 1st Ave South Bridge PID: 5367202510 Address: Peninsula Place Legal Description MCLAUGHLINS WATER FRONT ADD PORTION OF BLKS 31 & 32 TGW VAC STREETS ADJ LY SW OF CWW #1 DAF - BAAP OPP HES 406+74.66 ON LS LINE SURVEY OF SR 99 - DUWAMISH WATERWAY VICINITY AND 40.00 FT NWLY THEREFROM TH NELY PLW SD LS LINE SURVEY TAP OPP HES LS 409+27.81 THEREON TH NWLY TAP OPP HES LS 409+73.72 ON SD LS LINE SURVEY AND 80.00 FT NWLY THEREFROM TH SWLY PLW SD LS LINE SURVEY TAP OPP HES LS 406+71.31 THEREON TH ELY TO THE POB - ACCORDING TO Q.C.D. FILED UNDER REC NO 20051129002581

 South of 1st Ave South Bridge PID: 5367202518 Address: Near Peninsula Place Legal Description MCLAUGHLINS WATER FRONT ADD TGW VAC FIRST AVE SOUTH AS PROVIDED BY C.O.S. ORD NO 94862 LESS POR ACQUIRED BY C.W.W. DIST NO 1 FOR DUWAMISH WATERWAY DAF - BAAP OPP HES LS 410+55.12 ON LS LINE SURVEY OF SR 99 DUWAMISH WATERWAY VICINITY AND 139.47 FT NWLY THEREFROM SD PT BEING ON SWLY MGN OF DUWAMISH WATERWAY TH SWLY TAP OPP HES LS 410+51.69 ON SD LS LINE SURVEY AND 141.51 FT NWLY THEREFROM TH SELY TAP OPP HES LS 410+20.98 ON SD LS LINE SURVEY AND 99.30 FT NWLY THEREFROM TH SWLY TAP OPP HES LS 410+03.93 ON SD LS LINE SURVEY AND 106.32 FT NWLY THEREFROM TH SELY TAP  OPP HES LS 409+73.72 ON SD LS LINE SURVEY AND 80.00 FT NWLY THEREFROM TH SELY TAP OPP HES LS 409+27.81 ON SD LS LINE SURVEY AND 40.00 FT NWLY THEREFROM TH NELY PLW SD LS LINE SURVEY TAP OPP HES LS 409+82.75 THEREON SD PT BEING ON SWLY MGN OF DUWAMISH WATERWAY TH NWLY ALG SD SWLY MGN TO POB AKA - SEAVIEW PARK

 Cambridge Corridor Transmission Line R/W PID: 5624200992 Address: 9401 E MARGINAL WY S Legal Description: MOORES FIVE-ACRE TRS POR & POR VAC ST ADJ DAF-BEG AT INTRSN OF NLY LN OF 64 & WLY MGN OF E MARGINAL WAY TH SELY 60.16 FT TH S 62 DEG 01 MIN 41 SEC W TO ELY MGN OF DUWAMISH WATERWY TH N 15 DEG 00 MIN 00 SEC W TO NLY LN OF 56 TH NELY ALG SD NLY LN & SD LN PROD TO C/L OF VAC FRANCIS AVE TH SLY ALG C/L TO NLY LN OF 64 PROD SWLY TH NELY ALG NLY LN SD 64 TO BEG

 2nd Ave S Legal Description THAT PORTION OF 2ND AVENUE SOUTH BETWEEN THE WEST MARGIN OF THE DUWAMISH WATERWAY AND A LINE EXTENDED BETWEEN THE SOUTH MARGINS OF LOT 13, BLOCK 6 PORTLAND AND PUGET SOUND RAILWAY ADDITION AND LOT 57, BLOCK 5 PORTLAND AND PUGET SOUND RAILWAY ADDITION.

 S. Orchard St Legal Description THAT PORTION OF SOUTH ORCHARD STREET BETWEEN THE WEST MARGIN OF THE DUWAMISH WATERWAY AND A LINE EXTENDED BETWEEN THE SOUTHWESTERLY MARGINS OF LOT 1, BLOCK 1 PORTLAND AND PUGET SOUND RAILWAY ADDITION AND LOT 1, BLOCK 7 PORTLAND AND PUGET SOUND RAILWAY ADDITION.

 8th Ave S Legal Description THAT PORTION OF 8TH AVENUE SOUTH BETWEEN THE EAST MARGIN OF THE DUWAMISH WATERWAY AND A LINE EXTENDING PERPENDICULAR BETWEEN THE MARGINS OF 8TH AVENUE SOUTH, ORIGINATING FROM THE POINT OF INTERSECTION OF THE EAST AND NORTHWEST MARGINS OF KING COUNTY PARCEL 2136200666.

 10th Ave S Legal Description: THAT PORTION OF 10TH AVENUE SOUTHWEST BETWEEN THE SOUTH MARGIN OF SOUTHWEST SPOKANE STREET AND A LINE EXTENDING BETWEEN THE SOUTH MARGINS OF KING COUNTY PARCEL 7666701046 AND KING COUNTY PARCEL 7666701221; TOGETHER WITH KING COUNTY PARCEL 7666701030; TOGETHER WITH ANY PORTION OF LAND LYING BETWEEN THE EASTERLY MARGIN OF KING COUNTY PARCEL 7666701030 AND THE WEST MARGIN OF THE EAST DUWAMISH WATERWAY.

 t

```
