

********

**Council Bill Number: 116365**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122850**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; establishing the 2009 and 2010 fee schedule for the use of park properties and other park and recreation facilities and services; superseding previous park and recreation fee schedules; and amending Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 24, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 4, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 2, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 13, 2008
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, FEES, PERMITS, BUDGET, AQUARIUM, COMMUNITY-CENTERS, SWIMMING-POOLS, RECREATIONAL-FACILITIES, SPORTS-FACILITIES, ARENAS-AND-STADIUMS, SPORTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, FOOTBALL, GOLF, RECREATIONAL-ACTIVITIES, SAILING

**Fiscal Note:**116365

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122850](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122850.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation, establishing the 2009 and 2010 fee schedule for the use of park properties and other park and recreation facilities and services; superseding previous park and recreation fee schedules; and amending Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 WHEREAS, on November 20, 2006, the Seattle City Council approved Ordinance 122283, which established the 2007 and 2008 fee schedule for the use of park properties and other park and recreation facilities and services; superseded previous park and recreation fee schedules; and amended Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to adopt a 2009 and 2010 Department of Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule effective January 1, 2009; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2009, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to charge the fees substantially in the form set forth in the 2009 and 2010 Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule ("2009 Fee Schedule") attached as Attachment 1. The Fee Schedule incorporates the changes to existing fees that are reflected in the "Changes from 2007 and 2008 Fees and Charges to the Proposed 2009 and 2010 Fees and Charges" document attached as Attachment 2.

 Section 2. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 18.28.010 of the

 Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 18.28.010 Fee Schedule Established.

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to charge the fees substantially in the form set forth in the fee schedule attached as Attachment~~Exhibit~~ 1 to the ordinance introduced as Council Bill 116365 ~~115752~~, and entitled "Seattle Department of

 Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule, 2009~~7~~ -2010~~08~~ Fees and Charges," for all uses of Department of Parks and Recreation facilities identified therein. The Superintendent is also authorized to waive or reduce such fees, establish experimental rates, and engage in special promotional and marketing activities described in ~~Exhibit~~Attachment 1 as conditioned in Sections 18.28.020 through 18.28.040 hereof. This 2009~~7~~ and 20 10~~08~~ fee schedule supersedes all prior fee schedules to the extent inconsistent therewith. All fees and charges shall remain in effect unless they are repealed or amended by ordinance.

 Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance and of Attachment 1 are declared to be separate and severable. If one or more of the provisions of this ordinance or of Attachment 1 shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, then such provision or provisions shall be null and void and severed from the rest of the ordinance or from Attachment 1, and all other provisions shall remain.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule, 2009-2010 Fees and Charges

 Attachment 2: Changes from 2008 Adopted Budget to Proposed 2009 and

 2010 Fees and Charges

 July 22, 2008 / updated October 8, 2009 version 9b t

 Attachment 1:

 SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEE SCHEDULE 2009-2010 Fees and Charges

 RATES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2009

 ORDINANCE___________

 NOTE: Call 684-4075 for additional information where phone numbers are not provided in this document. The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation website also provides complete fee information at http/www.seattle.gov/parks/.

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 TABLE OF CONTENTS I

 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEES AND CHARGES 1

 AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS 1

 * Authority 1

 * General Provisions 1

 ADMISSION FEES 2

 GOLF COURSES 2

 * Interbay, Jackson, Jefferson and West Seattle Golf Courses 2

 * Green Lake Pitch & Putt 2

 VOLUNTEER PARK CONSERVATORY 3

 * Voluntary Admissions Fee 3

 * Horticultural Classes 3

 * Weddings 3

 * Guided Tours 3

 * Photography Permits 3

 JAPANESE GARDEN (ARBORETUM) 3

 * Admission Fees 3

 * Public/Private School Group Rate for Grades K through 12 3

 * Annual Pass 4

 * Guided Tours 4

 SEATTLE AQUARIUM 5

 * Admissions Fees 5

 * School Groups 5

 * Aquarium Memberships 5

 * Aquarium Rentals 5

 * Education Program Fees 5

 * Discounts and Other Programs 5

 AMY YEE TENNIS CENTER (SEATTLE TENNIS CENTER) 6

 * Indoor Court Fees 6

 * Outdoor Court Fees 6

 * Special Fees for Tournaments 6

 * Tennis Lessons 6

 Private/Semi-Private Lessons 6

 Adult Group Lessons 6

 Adult Play - Instructional Classes 6

 Junior Group Lessons 7

 Junior Development Program 7

 Tiny Tots 7

 Competitive Flights 7

 Special Events & Equipment Rental 7

 Public Service Adult Indoor Tennis Court Time 7

 SWIMMING POOLS 8

 * Recreation Swimming - Indoor and Outdoor Pools 8

 * Fitness - Indoor and Outdoor Pools 8

 * Swimming Instruction - Indoor and Outdoor Pools 8

 * Special Aquatic Safety Courses - Indoor and Outdoor Pools 9

 * General Rental Fees - Swimming Pools 9

 * Competitive Training and Water Polo 9

 Timing System Rental 10

 * Special Use Fees 10

 * Special Provisions 10

 * Special Programs 11

 Birthday Party Package 11

 Wading Pool Rental 11

 * Aquatic Special Events 11

 ATHLETIC FACILITIES 12

 * West Seattle Stadium and Interbay Stadium Usage Fees 12

 * Department Sponsored Activities 12

 * Evening Recreation School Gym Rentals 13

 School Gymnasium Rentals 13

 * Outdoor Tennis Courts 13

 Tennis Reservations (4 or less players) 13

 * League Games and Practices 14

 * Sports Fees 14

 * Youth Sports Fees 14

 FACILITY RENTALS 15

 COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS AND GYMNASIUMS 15

 * Locations and Sizes 15

 Small Craft and Rowing & Sailing Centers 16

 * Specialized & Other Facilities 16

 * Hourly Room and Gymnasium Rental Fees 17

 Rooms 17

 Gymnasiums 17

 ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING CENTERS 18

 * Camp Long 18

 Group Day Use Booking Fee 18

 Cabin Rentals 18

 Lodge Rentals 18

 Picnic Shelters 18

 * Discovery Park 19

 Group-Guided Nature Walks 19

 SPECIAL AMENITY FACILITIES 19

 * Golden Gardens Bathhouse 19

 Room Fees 19

 Additional Fees 19

 * Langston Hughes Performing Arts Center 20

 Theatre 20

 Performance Rentals 20

 Marquee Rental 20

 Film/Video 20

 Conference, Meeting or Seminar 20

 Rehearsals 21

 Technician 21

 Meeting Rooms 21

 * Lake Union Park 22

 Great Hall 22

 Officers Club 22

 Gunnery 22

 Conference/Meeting Rooms 22

 Outdoor Sites - Picnic and Events* 22

 Armory Lawn 22

 Historic Ships Wharf 22

 Activity & Administration Fees 23

 Other Rentals 23

 * Warren G. Magnuson Park 24

 Application Fees 24

 Facility/Site Rentals 24

 Special Use Fees 24

 Staffing Fees 25

 * Washington Park Arboretum (Graham Visitor's Center) 25

 MOORAGE AND BOAT RAMP FEES 26

 MOORAGE FEES 26

 * Leschi and Lakewood Marinas 26

 BOAT RAMPS 26

 PARTICIPATION FEES 27

 RECREATION PARTICIPATION FEES 27

 * Community Center and Outdoor Recreation Class Fee 27

 * Teen Dance Participation Fee 27

 * Senior Adult Program Participation Fees 27

 * Small Craft Center Class Participation Fees 27

 RESERVATIONS 28

 * Park Area Reservation Fee 28

 * Picnic Reservation Fee 28

 * Day Camps Booking Fee 29

 PERMITS 30

 USE PERMITS 30

 * General Provisions 30

 * Youth Sports Organizations Use Permits 30

 * Use of Park Facilities for Photography 31

 * First Amendment Vending 31

 * Construction Contracts 31

 Construction Bidding Documents 31

 REVOCABLE USE PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE 31

 * General Provisions & Fees 31

 Waiver or reduction of the Permit Fee does not necessarily waive or reduce other fees, charges, requirements, or obligations in connection with issuance of a Revocable Use Permit including Application Fee, Inspection Fee, processing charges, insurance or indemnity requirements, or restoration requirements. 32

 Limited Term Permit Fee 32

 Continuing Use Permit Fee 33

 * View Tree Pruning Permit 34

 PROMOTIONAL & MARKETING FEE WAIVERS & REDUCTIONS 35

 EXAMPLES OF FEE WAIVERS & REDUCTIONS 35

 APPENDIX A

 FACILITY PHONE NUMBERS A

 PERMIT AND RESERVATION PHONE NUMBERS B

 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION

 FEES AND CHARGES

 AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

 * Authority

 Fees and charges are necessary to provide financial support to the Department of Parks and Recreation (the Department) for the operation and maintenance of programs, facilities, and park grounds. The revenue generated by these fees constitutes only a portion of funds required for operating and maintaining the Park System. All fees collected from park and recreation activities and concessions are used exclusively for the Park System, as these funds are deposited in the Park and Recreation Fund, not the City General Fund.

 Fees and charges are proposed each year by the Department as a part of the annual budget process. Both the Mayor and City Council review and, by ordinance, authorize the Department to collect these fees and charges.

 * General Provisions

 The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized to establish a fee for requested uses not included in this schedule, keeping the Mayor and the City Council advised thereof. The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized, as provided in Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Chapter 18.28, to waive or reduce any fees in this Schedule.

 The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized, as provided in SMC Chapter 18.28, to establish experimental rates, and to engage in special promotional and marketing activities to enhance Departmental programs. These include, but are not limited to, use of 2 for 1 coupons, 50% discount coupons and free admission days for children. Discounts for Senior Adults (age 65 and over) vary per program. These types of activities may occur at various Department facilities throughout the year.

 The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized, as provided in SMC Chapters 18.04 and 18.28, to approve the free use of Department facilities by the Associated Recreation Council, recognized recreation advisory councils, and other organizations that are open to the public, that further Department goals and programs, and that apply any proceeds to Park and Recreation services.

 In addition to the fees and charges identified herein, the user may be required to pay any additional Department costs resulting from such use, and to pay a reasonable portion of the City's costs for traffic control and police services when the user's event requires them.

 Fees contained in this Fee Schedule shall not apply to permits issued pursuant to SMC Chapter 15.35 "Filming."

 ADMISSION FEES

 GOLF COURSES

 * Interbay, Jackson, Jefferson and West Seattle Golf Courses

 All greens fees and all other golf facility or service fees (including, but not limited to, driving range, carts, cars, play cards, lessons, and room rentals) will be established by Premier Golf Centers, LLC (Premier), consistent with and subject to the contract between Premier and the Department as authorized by separate ordinance. Golf program fees will be prominently posted at all times in each clubhouse. Call the following for further information:

 Interbay (206) 285-2200

 Jackson (206) 363-4747

 Jefferson (206) 762-4513

 West Seattle (206) 935-5187

 * Green Lake Pitch & Putt

 Green Lake Pitch & Putt is operated through a concessions contract. Therefore, fees for participation at this facility are not governed by City Ordinance. You may contact Green Lake Pitch & Putt directly at (206) 632-2280, or the Business Resources Unit of the Department of Parks and Recreation at (206) 684-8008, to obtain specific information related to this facility.

 VOLUNTEER PARK CONSERVATORY * Voluntary Admissions Fee 2009 2010 $3.00 $3.00 Voluntary Admissions Fee

 * Horticultural Classes 2009 2010 $25.00 $25.00 Horticulture classes and workshops, limited to 25 person person participants

 * Weddings 2009 2010 $500.00 $500.00 Weddings, 20 persons or less, May through early September, from 5:30pm-8:30pm

 * Guided Tours 2009 2010 $25.00 $25.00 per Guided tours, limited to 20 persons per group per group group

 * Photography Permits 2009 2010 $15.00 $15.00 per Photography permit for individuals, from 9am-10am, per hour hour prior to public visitation.

 $100.00 $100.00 per Photography permit for groups of 2-10 persons from per hour hour 9am to 10am, prior to public visitation.

 JAPANESE GARDEN (Arboretum) * Admission Fees 2009 2010 $5.00 $5.00 Adult (18-64) $3.00 $3.00 Youth (6-17) College/University students (with valid ID) Senior Adult (65 & over) FREE FREE Children (0-5)

 * Public/Private School Group Rate for Grades K through 12

 School group rates are for students only and do not include adult fees. Group rates are not extended to colleges, universities, or day-care facilities. Organized groups of children attending an educational institution with grades K through 12 are entitled to this group fee during the regular school year, if advance reservations are made (a minimum of two weeks notice is required for advanced reservations).

 One responsible adult who has paid the admission fee is required for every group of students, as indicated in the following ratios:

 1:5 for grades K - 2 2:24 for grades 7 - 8 1:10 for grades 3 - 6 1:24 for grades 9 - 12

 2009 2010 $10.50 $10.50 Group size 1-24 students $5.50 $5.50

 Add for each additional group sized of 1 to 12 students

 * Annual Pass

 Annual family passes include unlimited admission, during regular operating hours, for all members of an immediate family living in the same household, defined as two adults (parents or guardians) and their children. Individual annual passes include unlimited admission, during regular operating hours, for the person whose name appears on the pass.

 2009 2010 Annual passes are valid for 12 months from date of purchase $15.00 $15.00 Annual Pass, Individual $25.00 $25.00 Annual Pass, Family

 * Guided Tours

 The Japanese Garden Advisory Council, in cooperation with Unit 86 of the Arboretum Foundation, provides sponsor-guided tours of the Garden. Fees are established by the Advisory Council and may be obtained by calling (206) 684-4725.

 SEATTLE AQUARIUM * Admissions Fees 2009 2010 $16.00 $ 17.00 Adults (13 & over) $10.50 $11.00 Youth (4-12) FREE FREE Child (0-3)

 * School Groups 2009 2010 $7.50 $8.00 Adult and Youth (4-12) FREE FREE Child (0-3)

 * Aquarium Memberships 2009 2010 Annual Memberships expire one year from date of issue $80.00 $85.00 Family

 The Aquarium will increase fees up to these amounts in 2009 and 2010. arious membership types are based on the family membership. As with other Aquarium and Zoo membership programs, members will be given options by which they can chose to increase their support.

 * Aquarium Rentals

 Aquarium exhibit areas and other rooms are available for group rentals and special programs. Rates are based on per person admission fees and rental requirements. Depending on the day of the week and time of year, minimum group sizes apply to these rentals, and discounts may be offered for low demand dates. A 10% surcharge may be added for peak periods.

 Special or additional services, staffing, or use of other rooms may require additional fees. Details are available from the Aquarium scheduling office.

 * Education Program Fees

 Per person fees and/or group fees are charged for Aquarium education programs. These are based on the cost of materials, associated administrative costs, and applicable admission fees.

 * Discounts and Other Programs

 Free admission is provided for low-income people through the distribution of admission tickets through social service agencies such as United Way per SMC 18.28.030. The Aquarium may also provide discounts for special promotional and marketing activities per SMC 18.28.020. Call the Aquarium at 386-4342 for further information.

 AMY YEE TENNIS CENTER (Seattle Tennis Center)

 * Indoor Court Fees

 NOTE: Singles and Doubles court fees may be made available at half price for special group clinics, tournaments, or lessons for low-income youth and senior adults during off-peak times. These programs are to be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation.

 2009 2010 Fees per each 1 1/4 hr court use $25.00 $25.00 Singles $30.00 $30.00 Doubles -$1.00 -$1.00 Senior Adult/Special Populations discount per court $45.00 $45.00 Telephone Reservation Card (annual) for indoor/outdoor courts

 * Outdoor Court Fees

 TE: Call (206)684-4764 to make Amy Yee Tennis Center court reservations.

 2009 2010 Fees per each 1 1/2 hour court use $10.00 $10.00 Reservation Fee $45.00 $45.00 Telephone Reservation Card (annual) for indoor/outdoor courts

 * Special Fees for Tournaments

 The fee per person for participation in tournaments is $5.00 per person. Special events fees can be obtained by contacting the Amy Yee Tennis Center Senior Recreation Specialist at (206)684-4764. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation determines these fees.

 * Tennis Lessons

 Private/Semi-Private Lessons

 2009 2010 $48.00 $48.00 One person $50.00 $50.00 Two people $60.00 $60.00 Three people $70.00 $70.00 Four people $10.00 $10.00 Surcharge for lessons on City holidays

 Adult Group Lessons 2009 2010 Maximum of 8 people per group/camp $70.00 $70.00 Groups, 6 sessions $95.00 $95.00 Camps, 10 hrs/4 days

 Adult Play - Instructional Classes 2009 2010 $83.00 $83.00 Per person fee at 5 students max, 6 weeks

 Junior Group Lessons 2009 2010 Ages 8-17 $52.00 $52.00 6 sessions, 1.25 hours per week $70.00 $70.00 Junior Camp, 2.5 hours per each of 4 days

 Junior Development Program 2009 2010 $52.00 $52.00 Future Stars/Tournament Team, 6 week session (1 time per wk)

 Tiny Tots 2009 2010 $20.00 $20.00 Beginning ages 4-5 (30 minutes for 6 weeks) $30.00 $30.00 Beginning ages 6-7 (45 minutes for 6 weeks) $40.00 $40.00 Advanced ages 6-7 (1 hour for 6 weeks) $50.00 $50.00 Advanced ages 6-7 (1-1/4 hour for 6 weeks)

 Competitive Flights 2009 2010 Adults (18 & older)& Senior Adults (65 and over) $60.00 $60.00 Doubles (6 weeks) $75.00 $75.00 Singles (6 weeks)

 Special Events & Equipment Rental 2009 2010 Double Double Public Group court fee court fee +10% + 10%

 Double Double Private Group court court fee fee +20% + 20%

 $16.00 $16.00 One day clinic fee, per person $12.00 $12.00 Ball machine rental: per court time $3.00 $3.00 Racket Rental, per use

 Public Service Adult Indoor Tennis Court Time 2009 2010 These promotional rates are limited to court times established by the Senior Recreation Program Specialist. $1.00 $1.00 Senior fee, per person, May 1st thru Sept. 30th $1.00 $1.00 Senior fee, per person, October 1st thru April 30th

 SWIMMING POOLS * Recreation Swimming - Indoor and Outdoor Pools 2009 2010 $2.75 $2.75 Youth (ages 1-17 years) $4.00 $4.00 Adult (ages 18 through 64 years) $2.75 $2.75 Senior Adult (65 years & older) and Special Populations $2.00 $2.00 Non-profit youth (ages 1-17 years) organizations (Advance approval through application required) $50.00 $50.00 Adult, monthly unlimited personal fitness "FAST" (Fitness Aerobic Swim Ticket) $35.00 $35.00 Senior Adult, monthly unlimited personal fitness "FAST" $37.50 $37.50 Discount Recreational Swim Card - 10 Pass Adult "Quick Card" $25.00 $25.00 Discount Recreational Swim Card - 10 Pass Senior/Yth/SP $2.00 $2.00 Promotional Swim Fee (All Ages) FREE FREE Children under one year of age (must be accompanied by adult)

 NOTE: Standard Fees apply for shower use. * Fitness - Indoor and Outdoor Pools 2009 2010 $5.00 $5.00 Fitness, ages 18-64 years - per lesson (Including Hydrofit, Masters, and Water Exercise) $3.00 $3.00 Fitness, ages 65 and over, Youth, and Special Populations - per class $45.00 $45.00 Discount Fitness Swim Card - Adult $27.50 $27.50 Discount Fitness Swim Card - Senior/Youth/Special Populations

 * Swimming Instruction - Indoor and Outdoor Pools 2009 2010 $5.50 $5.50 Group Lesson or "Guard Start" program- per 1/2 hr lesson with minimum of 4 students $2.75 $2.75 Group Lesson low income rate- per 1/2 hr lesson with minimum of 4 students (Income verification will be required.) $9.00 $9.00 3 yr old Group Lessons - one to three ratio (1/2 hr) $4.50 $4.50 3 yr old Group Lessons low income rate - per 1/2 hour lesson with 3 student class size (Income verification will be required.) $100.00 $100.00 Summer Swim League (Ages 7-18) includes a team T-shirt $55.00 $55.00 Summer Swim League (low income families) includes a team T-shirt $29.00 $30.00 Personal Instruction - one on one (30 minute lesson) $37.00 $37.00 Personal Instruction - one on two (30 minute lesson)

 * Special Aquatic Safety Courses - Indoor and Outdoor Pools 2009 2010 Minimum class size is 6 students $40.00 to $40.00 A variety of Red Cross water safety courses, including $200.00 to Lifeguard Training, First Aid, CPR, Water Safety $200.00 Instructor and others. Prices and course titles correspond to curriculum requirements and operating expenses to offer these programs. Prices include pool admission and instruction only.

 * General Rental Fees - Swimming Pools 2009 2010 $20.00 $20.00 Non-refundable booking fee required for all rentals in addition to hourly rates. $67.50 $67.50 Indoor pool rental cost per hour $35.00 $35.00 Hourly rate for shallow end only in bulkhead pools when deep end is in use. (Evers, Madison, and Rainier Beach Pools) $108.00 $108.00 Colman Pool, per hour (exclusive use, including pool & slide) $115.00 $115.00 Mounger Pool, per hour (exclusive use, including pool & slide) $200.00 $200.00 Damage deposit for all rentals where equipment is brought into the facility. $21.00 $21.00 Hourly lifeguard staff costs, in addition to pool rental fee.

 NOTE: Individuals and groups desiring to use swimming pools will be expected to pay the cost of staffing in addition to the rates established. Staffing costs will be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation. Staff rates will be billed at 150% on holidays.

 NOTE: Deck or lobby rentals are priced as small room under Class C room rentals

 * Competitive Training and Water Polo 2009 2010 2 hour minimum rental $20.00 $20.00 Non-refundable Booking Fee is required for all rentals in addition to hourly rates. $59.50 $59.50 Per hour, non-peak time * $67.50 $67.50 Per hour, peak time * $108.00 $108.00 Per hour, when indoor pool is scheduled to be open $108.00 $108.00 Per hour at Colman Pool (8 lanes/50 meters), open or closed $21.00 $21.00 Hourly lifeguard staff costs, in addition to pool rental fee.

 * Peak or Non-peak time is determined by pool size and programming opportunities.

 NOTE: Rates also apply to Metro or King County League swim meets for events that do not include a Seattle Public School. Events that include a team from a Seattle Public School are covered under the Joint Use Agreement and are not charged a swim meet fee.

 NOTE: There is an hourly flat-rate charge for competitive meets, with no additional percentage charges for the event (no percentage collected for entry fees and heat sheet sales).

 NOTE: Swim meet entry fees and sale of heat sheets is included in base fee for each event.

 NOTE: Permit Application Fee as established in Use Permits section of Fees and Charges ordinance will apply plus 10% of gross revenue for all Admissions and Swim Meet Concessions (food/drink, t-shirts, goggles, etc). Additional insurance/permits may be required.

 NOTE: Deck or lobby rentals priced as small room under Class C room rentals

 Timing System Rental 2009 2010 $400 $400 Minimum 4 hour use $100 $100 Each additional hour $21/hr $21/hr Additional staff charge for delivery, set up, operation and clean-up.

 Note: The timing system is available for rentals at most Seattle Parks and Recreation swimming pools. Some limitations may apply.

 * Special Use Fees 2009 2010 $0.50 $0.50 Swimming Pool Spa Use Fee (Southwest Pool) per person $1.00 $1.00 Water Slide Use Fee per person $0.25 $0.25 Swimming Pool Sauna Use Fee (Queen Anne Pool) per person $2.00 - $2.00 - Supplemental Special Event fee, depending on event, 20.00 20.00 such as open water swim, dive-in movies, jazz night, etc. $0.25 $0.25 Coin Operated Locker $0.50 $0.50 Towels, each $1.50 $1.50 Hydrofit Exercise Equipment

 * Special Provisions

 Colman and Mounger Pools: Admission fees to these facilities are charged to all persons entering pool area, even if not swimming (except parents watching children in lesson programs). Use of the pools, decks and picnic areas is part of the overall recreation opportunity; pool capacity is based on use of this area.

 * Special Programs

 Birthday Party Package

 A complete birthday party package at pools includes one-hour exclusive use in a section or portion of the pool, a 30-minute party in the lobby, water recreation leadership, one spill-proof pre-packaged juice, paper products and favors. (Food items not included.)

 2009 2010 $180.00 $180.00 Minimum package fee - for a party of 10 children $8.00 $8.00 Additional fee - per child

 Wading Pool Rental 2009 2010 $500 $500 Minimum 4 hours of operation $50 $50 Each additional hour

 All wading pool operating time under this rental rate is available for public use; no xclusive rental use is allowed.

 * Aquatic Special Events

 NOTE: This category is for special events that result in the cancellation of scheduled programs or closure of a small craft center, swimming beach, or other public program. This fee is in addition to other fees. 2009 2010 $300.00 $300.00 Special events, per day

 Athletic Facilities * West Seattle Stadium and Interbay Stadium Usage Fees

 2009 2010

 10% of 10% of Admissions/Sales. This includes admissions or gross gross donations, and excludes entry fees. revenues revenues

 $70/per $70/per Event Fees* hour hour

 $45/per $45/per Practice Fee** adult and youth practices hour hour

 $35/per $35/per Rental of the Field Event area only; fee includes 1 hour hour staff person.

 $20/per $20/per Light Fee - this fee is charged for all adult uses hour hour requiring lights.

 $20/per $20/per Staff Fee (also applies when using the scoreboard hour hour at Lower Woodland #1)

 *Event fees are charged for adult and youth special events, games and meets. This fee provides exclusive use of the facility and includes use of equipment, the press box and PA system, ticket booth, locker rooms and grandstands. This fee includes one staff person. This fee does not include Lights or 10% charge on all admissions/sales.

 ** Practice Fees provide use of the facility and includes use of equipment, the press box and PA system, ticket booth, locker rooms and grandstands. This fee includes one staff person. This fee does not include lights or the ten percent (10%) charge on all admissions/sales. Facility use may not be exclusive - multiple users activities will organized through the Seattle Parks and Recreation scheduling office.

 Most fees above include one staff person. If additional staff are required due to the nature of the event or the anticipated attendance, this fee will apply.

 * Department Sponsored Activities

 2009 2010

 $2.50/per $2.50/per Non-school youth practice sponsored by Seattle hour hour Parks and Recreation. This fee provides for use of the facility and use of equipment only.

 $5.00/per $5.00/per Youth games/meets sponsored by Seattle Parks and hour hour Recreation. This fee provides for use of the facility and includes use of equipment, the press box and PA system, ticket booth, locker rooms and grandstands.

 $50/per $50/per Adult games. This fee provides for use of the hour hour facility and includes use of equipment, the press box and PA system, ticket booth, locker rooms and grandstands.

 NOTES: o All rentals are a minimum of one hour.

 o Additional staff may be required due to nature of event and anticipated attendance.

 o A damage deposit may be charged depending on nature of event and anticipated attendance.

 o Parks is required to staff SPS Athletic Field Complexes (Nathan Hale, Sealth, Rainier Beach, Ingraham) during all rentals and will charge at a rate of $20 per hour for staff time that will be added to the SPS rental fee.

 * Evening Recreation School Gym Rentals

 The Department of Parks and Recreation utilizes the following Seattle Public School District High School gymnasiums for the Evening Recreation programs offered through the Parks Athletics Unit:

 Ballard High School Rainier Beach High School

 Cleveland High School Roosevelt High School

 Franklin High School Sealth High School

 Ingraham High School West Seattle High School

 (Garfield and Nathan Hale High Schools are covered under the Parks and Recreation/ Seattle Public Schools Joint Use Agreement and are not subject to this rental fee) School Gymnasium Rentals

 NOTE: Additional fees may be charged for weekend usage.

 2009 2010 $35.00 $35.00 Rate per hour (1 hour minimum) per gym floor

 * Outdoor Tennis Courts

 Where a participant entry fee for tournaments or a fee for lessons is charged, 10% of gross receipts is to be paid to the Department in addition to the charges noted below. All persons who instruct tennis for a fee on Department courts must schedule according to court availability with the Scheduling Office, obtain the appropriate permit and pay the required fees. They must also successfully complete the Department's Tennis Instructor's Certification program and show proof of certification before a permit will be issued.

 Tennis Reservations (4 or less players)

 2009 2010 Scheduled at Departmental discretion.

 $7.00 $7.00 1 hour, court rental, Adult play

 $11.00 $11.00 1 hour, court rental, Private School

 $3.00 $3.00 1 hour, court rental, Youth play

 * League Games and Practices

 NOTE: Youth Sports organizations' special events, such as jamborees and tournaments, shall be subject to regular Use Permit charges.

 2009 2010 $75.00 $75.00 Youth Sports Organizations Use Permits

 * Sports Fees 2009 2010

 $25.00 $25.00 Indoor Sports League Fee, per hour

 $30.00 $30.00 Adult Sports Team Administration fee/team

 $50.00 $50.00 Adult Outdoor Games, per hour - surfaces other than synthetic*

 $20.00 $20.00 Adult Outdoor Practices, per hour - surfaces other than synthetic and limitations apply

 $50.00 $50.00 Adult Outdoor Games and Practice, per hour - Synthetic*

 $20.00 $20.00 Private School Outdoor Games, per hour - all surfaces

 $11.00 $11.00 Private School Outdoor Practices, per hour - limitations apply

 $20.00 $20.00 Outdoor Field Lighting Fee, per hour (adult play only)

 $2.00 $2.00 Adults Gymnasium Drop-In Sports Activity Fee, per session

 $1.00 $1.00 Seniors Gymnasium Drop-In Sports Activity Fee, per session

 *Adult tournaments will be charged 50% of this fee per hour with a $200 non-refundable deposit at the time of reservation. A Use Permit will also be required for any use beyond the field.

 * Youth Sports Fees

 2009 2010

 $5.00 $5.00 Outdoor game fee, per hour. Assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees, during the regularly established season.

 $2.50 $2.50 Outdoor practice time, per hour Assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees, during the regularly established season.

 $12.00 $12.00 Outdoor game fee, per hour Assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees, for usage that occurs outside of the regularly established season.

 $6.00 $6.00 Outdoor practice time, per hour Assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees, for usage that occurs outside of the regularly established season.

 $55.00 $55.00 Outdoor youth sports camps, per hour - synthetic surfaces

 $25.00 $25.00 Outdoor sports camps, per hour - grass or all weather sand fields

 Facility Rentals

 COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS AND GYMNASIUMS

 * Locations and Sizes

 The Department charges rental fees (according to the classifications of usage) for the use of social/meeting rooms and/or kitchens and/or gymnasiums at:

 Community Centers, including: (see Appendix for telephone numbers)

 Meeting Room(s) Kitchen Gym

 Small Medium Large Small Large Small Large

 Alki x x x x

 Ballard x x x x x

 Bitter Lake x x x x x

 Bitter Lake Annex x

 Delridge x x x x

 Garfield x x x x x

 Garfield Teen Life x x x x x Center

 Green Lake x x x

 Hiawatha x x x x

 High Point x x x

 International x x x x x x District/Chinatown

 Jefferson x x x

 Laurelhurst x x

 Loyal Heights x x x x

 Magnolia x x x x

 Magnuson x x

 Meadowbrook x x x x x

 Meadowbrook Annex x

 Miller x x x x x

 Miller Annex x

 Montlake x x x x

 Queen Anne x x x x x

 Rainier x x x (2)

 Rainier Beach x x x

 Ravenna Eckstein x x x

 South Park x x x

 Southwest x x x x x

 Van Asselt x x x x

 Yesler x x x x x

 Meeting Room(s) Kitchen Gym

 Small Medium Large Small Large Small Large

 Camp Long x x

 Carkeek Park x

 Discovery Park x x

 Small Craft and Rowing & Sailing Centers

 (See Appendix for Meeting Room(s) Kitchen Gym telephone numbers)

 Small Medium Large Small Large Small Large

 Green Lake x

 Mt Baker x x *

 *An additional charge (surcharge not to exceed $100.00) may be assessed for Mount Baker's large room by the Advisory Council which funded the construction project to facilitate cost recovery.

 * Specialized & Other Facilities

 (See Appendix for Meeting Room(s) Kitchen Gym telephone numbers)

 Small Medium Large Small Large Small Large

 Shelterhouses, x x x Bathhouses, and Lawn Bowling Clubs.

 The Brig at Magnuson x x x Park

 Meeting room and gymnasium space is available only during times Department and Advisory Council programs are not scheduled. Uses are determined by classification A or C as defined below:

 Class A Use: Non-Commercial Use, for the general public, scheduled during operating hours. No admission fee, vendor fee and/or donation is requested or received.

 Class A use is reserved for advertised, non-commercial, public events/meetings that are for the general public and are scheduled during hours of operation. (If scheduled outside normal facility operating hours, see Class C use.)

 Class C Use: All other rentals and Class A rentals scheduled outside of regular operating hours

 NOTE: An event will be considered advertised if it has been announced in the local paper, through mass mailing, radio announcements, posters throughout

 the community, posted in or distributed through the community center.* Hourly Room and Gymnasium Rental Fees

 NOTE: A non-refundable $20.00 booking fee per site is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for staff and the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 Rooms

 Class A Class C

 * $30.00 Small Rooms (1-400 square feet), per hr

 * $40.00 Medium Rooms (401-1,500 square feet), per hr

 * $50.00 Large Rooms (1,500+ square feet), per hr

 Booking $20.00 Small KitchenA (minimum of 2 hours), per hr fee only

 * $40.00 Large KitchenA (minimum of 2 hours), per hr

 NA $20.00 Staff fee (charged for rental hours + one hour). For all rentals on weekends or outside City operating hours a staff fee will be charged. Number of staff will be determined based nature of event and anticipated attendance.

 N/A $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOL (insurance also required) B

 N/A $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no alcohol), for rentals outside of normal operating hours

 N/A $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOLB

 $25.00 $25.00 A non-refundable per hour maintenance fee may be charged as determined based on event size and type.

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $10.00 per hour.

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in

 conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park site.

 B Events with alcohol can not be held during regular facility operating hours. Alcohol at approved events must remain in the facility.

 Gymnasiums

 Class A Class C Staff costs are additional.

 * $30.00 Small gym, Athletic use, per hr

 * $85.00 Small gym, Non-Athletic use, per hr

 * $40.00 Large gym, Athletic use, per hr

 * $110.00 Large gym, Non-Athletic use, per hr

 * Class A usage is charged a booking fee + $10.00 per hour.ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING CENTERS

 * Camp Long

 Group Day Use Booking Fee NOTE: This reservation is for fire ring or rock/glacier reservations. Rock/glacier reservations require risk management review. Group Day Use is restricted to a maximum number of 250 participants.

 2009 2010

 $25.00 $25.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 1-50

 $35.00 $35.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 51-100

 $45.00 $45.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 101-150

 $55.00 $55.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 151-200

 $65.00 $65.00 Per 4 hrs, group size 201-250

 $50.00 $50.00 Refundable damage/cleaning deposit

 Cabin Rentals

 NOTE: Overnight use of Cabins is restricted to a maximum number of 120 participants (i.e., 10 cabins @ 12 per cabin). Cabin fees are non-refundable.

 2009 2010

 $40.00 $40.00 Per night, per cabin (maximum of 12 persons per cabin)

 $50.00 $50.00 Refundable damage deposit per cabin

 $15.00 $15.00 Per hour for "exclusive use" of kitchen A

 FREE FREE Kitchen A is available for "common use" with all cabins

 A Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on the park site.

 Lodge Rentals

 NOTE: See "Community Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" section for further explanation of classification determinations and room rental information.

 Picnic Shelters

 NOTE: Fees for picnic shelters can be found under section entitled "Picnic Reservation Fees."

 * Discovery Park

 Group-Guided Nature Walks

 2009 2010

 $60.00 $60.00 1-15 participants (1 staff)

 $120.00 $120.00 16-30 participants (2 staff)

 $180.00 $180.00 31-45 participants (3 staff)

 $240.00 $240.00 46-60 participants (4 staff)

 $4.00 $4.00 Drop-in program (or for groups over 60 people), per person, plus $4.00 per person supply fee as appropriate, for a total of $8.00 per person over 60 participants

 Visitor's Center Room Rentals: See "Community Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" section for further explanation of classification determinations and room rental information.

 SPECIAL AMENITY FACILITIES

 * Golden Gardens Bathhouse

 A non-refundable $20 booking fee is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. A staffing fee of $20.00 per hour is required. (Staff rates increase on holidays.) No Class A rentals.

 Room Fees

 Minimum rental time for Golden Gardens Bathhouse:

 4 hour minimum Monday through Thursday.

 8 hour minimum Friday, Saturday, or Sunday

 2009 2010

 $150/hour $150/hour Building Rental - includes Main Hall, kitchen, & meeting room

 Additional Fees 2009 2010

 $20.00 $20.00 Booking fee

 $60.00 $60.00 Alcohol fee (insurance also required)

 $150.00 $150.00 Maintenance fee (may be increased for very large events)

 $500.00 $500.00 Damage deposit

 * * Langston Hughes Performing Arts Center

 Theatre

 The 278 seat theatre use fees vary by length and type of use. Fees for the theatre include the theatre, the green room, 2 dressing rooms, foyer and box office. Heating and ventilation, basic house lights, podium lights and public address system, are also included in the fees.

 Please NOTE the following:

 o Theatre rentals may require additional labor charges for the house manager/ facility supervisor and a technical director, with holidays charged at the overtime rate of pay.

 o An extra hourly custodial charge may be required for excessive litter (e.g. confetti).

 o The City provides insurance, but each use requires an application for a rider, paid by the client, based upon estimated attendance and type of event.

 o An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 Performance Rentals

 2009 2010

 $75.00 $75.00 Theater, per hour

 $450.00 $450.00 Theater, per day

 50 % 50 % rate rate reduction Move In/Move Out Days reduction

 Marquee Rental 2009 2010

 $110.00 $110.00 Marquee rental for up to 7 days (one side only)

 Film/Video

 2009 2010

 $60.00 $60.00 Theatre, per hour

 $30.00 $30.00 Additional hours over 5 on the same day

 Conference, Meeting or Seminar 2009 2010

 $60.00 $60.00 Theatre, per hour

 $30.00 $30.00 Additional hours over 5 on the same day

 Rehearsals

 2009 2010

 $10.00 $10.00 Theatre, per hour, Multi-purpose, or West Room

 Technician

 2009 2010

 $35.00 $35.00 Per hour

 Meeting Rooms

 2009 2010 Staff costs are additional

 $40.00 $40.00 West Room (750 square feet), per hr (Capacity approximately 45 people sitting)

 $50.00 $50.00 Multi-purpose Room (4,400 square feet) per hr (Capacity approximately 150 people sitting, 290 people standing)

 $40.00 $40.00 Kitchen (minimum 2 hours), per hr

 $60.00 $60.00 Additional fee for events with ALCOHOL (insurance also required)

 $250.00 $250.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit (no alcohol) for rental outside of normal working hours

 $500.00 $500.00 Refundable damage deposit for events with ALCOHOL

 $20.00 $20.00 A non-refundable $20 booking fee is required for ALL meeting room rentals in addition to the hourly rates.

 ** Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on the site.

 * * Lake Union Park

 A non-refundable $20.00 booking fee is required for ALL rentals in addition to the hourly rates. An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility. A staffing fee @ $20.00 per hour is required (staff rates increase on holidays).

 Great Hall

 (100' x 135' = 13,500 sq. ft.) 400-1000 people

 2009 2010

 $100/hour $110/hour 4 hours minimum

 Officers Club (30' x 40' = 1,200 sq. ft.) 75-100 people

 2009 2010

 $60/hour $65/hour 4 hours minimum

 Gunnery

 2009 2010

 $35/hour $45/hour 2 hours minimum

 Conference/Meeting Rooms

 Room 122 (18' x 21' = 378 sq. ft.) 25 people

 2009 2010

 $25/hour $25/hour 2 hours minimum

 Room 127C (18' x 25' = 450 sq. ft.) 25-30 people

 2009 2010

 $45/hour $50/hour 2 hours minimum

 Outdoor Sites - Picnic and Events*

 Armory Lawn

 2009 2010

 $100/hour $100/hour 4 hours minimum

 $75/hour $75/hour When rented in conjunction with Great Hall

 Historic Ships Wharf

 2009 2010

 $25/day $25/day load/unload; short term moorage slip use

 $100/hour $100/hour 4 hours minimum rental of wharf area

 $75/hour $75/hour When wharf area rented in conjunction with Great Hall

 *For outdoor weddings and ceremonies, see Reservations - Park Reservation Fee

 Activity & Administration Fees

 2009 2010

 $20.00 $20.00 Booking Fee (all rentals)

 $75.00 $75.00 Special Event Application Fee

 10% of 10% of If, in the course of the activity/event, charges gross gross are levied for admission, sales, or entry fees, income income the user will be subject to a minimum charge of 10% of the gross income.

 $500.00 $500.00 Damage Deposit (refundable)

 $60.00 $60.00 Alcohol Fee (insurance also required)

 $250.00 $250.00 Floor Maintenance Fee, non-refundable, up to 5 hrs of follow-up maintenance. (Great Hall and Officers Club)

 $50.00 $50.00 Additional Floor Maintenance Fee per hour for each hour over 5 hours.

 Other Rentals

 2009 2010

 Sat-$170 Sat-$170 Great Hall-Exclusive Use. Four hours minimum. per hour, per hour, Sun-Fri: Sun-Fri: $140 per $140 per hour hour

 Sat-$200 Sat-$200 Great Hall, Officers Club, Auditorium - Exclusive per hour, per hour, Use. Four hours minimum. Sun-Fri: Sun-Fri: $170 per $170 per hour hour

 Sat-$230 Sat-$230 Great Hall, Officers Club, Auditorium, Downstairs per hour per hour Conference rooms. Four hours minimum. Sun-Fri: Sun-Fri: $200 per $200 per hour hour

 * Warren G. Magnuson Park Application Fees

 2009 2010

 $20.00 $20.00 Booking Fee, non-refundable per contract rental

 $75.00 $75.00 Application Fee/Use Permit Fee

 $25.00 $25.00 Per location per day film shoots

 $60.00 $60.00 Late fee per contract (film shoot with 6 days or less notice)

 $50.00 $50.00 First Amendment use permit fee

 Facility/Site Rentals 2009 2010

 $75.00 $75.00 Auditorium, per hour

 $10.00 $10.00 Class A room rate per hour ( plus booking fee)

 $500.00 $500.00 Auditorium, per day

 $75.00 $75.00 Performance contract/per performance plus 10% of revenue

 $250.00 $250.00 Rehearsal rate for performance contract/per week

 $50.00 $50.00 Gym, athletic use, per hour

 $110.00 $110.00 Gym, non-athletic use, per hour

 $30.00 $30.00 Small room rate, per hour

 $200.00 $200.00 Small room rate, per day

 $40.00 $40.00 Medium room rate, per hour

 $280.00 $280.00 Medium room rate, per day

 $50.00 $50.00 Large room rate, per hour

 $400.00 $400.00 Large room rate, per day

 $15.00 $15.00 Kitchen rate, per hour

 $30.00 $30.00 Workshop 30, hourly rate, classes only

 $300.00 $300.00 Workshop 30, per diem

 $1000.00 $1000.00 Hangar 30, per diem

 $300.00 $300.00 West 30, per diem

 $1500.00 $1500.00 Hangar 27, per diem

 $100/hr $100/hr Outdoor site fee (2 hr (2 hr min) min)

 Special Use Fees 2009 2010

 10% of 10% of Admissions, booths, and sales revenue gross + gross + (includes all performance revenue) rental rental charges charges

 $60.00 $60.00 Alcohol use fee (insurance also required)

 $6.00 $6.00 Tables, each

 $1.00 $1.00 Chairs, each

 $500.00 $500.00 Refundable Damage deposit for events with alcohol

 *Alcohol must remain in facility. Alcohol is not permitted during operating hours.Staffing Fees 2009 2010

 $20.00 $20.00 Event attendant, per hour

 $35.00 $35.00 Skilled staff/tradesperson, per hour, 2 minimum

 * Washington Park Arboretum (Graham Visitor's Center)

 Please refer to the Arboretum's website for current fee schedule. http://depts.washington.edu/wpa/facility.htm

 MOORAGE AND BOAT RAMP FEES

 MOORAGE FEES

 * Leschi and Lakewood Marinas

 Moorage fees and all other marina facility or service fees will be established by Schober & Associates, Inc., consistent with and subject to the contract between Schober & Associates, Inc. and the Department as authorized by separate ordinance. Moorage hours will be prominently posted at all times at each marina entrance. Contact the following for fees or any other information regarding Marinas:

 Leschi Marina: (206) 325-3730

 Lakewood Marina: (206) 722-3887

 BOAT RAMPS 2009 2010

 $6.00 $7.00 Daily Permit

 $96.00 $96.00 Annual Permit

 $8.00 $8.00 Overnight parking privileges*

 $132.00 $132.00 Annual Permit w/overnight parking privileges*

 *Overnight parking privileges not to exceed four consecutive days.

 PARTICIPATION FEES

 RECREATION PARTICIPATION FEES

 As a service to the public, the Department of Parks and Recreation may contract with Advisory Councils, or the Associated Recreation Council to collect fee payments. The contract shall require the Advisory Council or Associated Recreation Council to remit the participation fee to the City.

 * Community Center and Outdoor Recreation Class Fee 2009 2010

 3.25% 3.25% Percent of fee for all Advisory Council sponsored classes, programs, and sessions at community centers and for outdoor recreation programs.

 * Teen Dance Participation Fee 2009 2010

 $3.00 $3.00 Admission to Department sponsored teen dances, per person

 * Senior Adult Program Participation Fees

 NOTE: These fees only apply to programs offered through the Department's Senior Adult Section. Senior adult fees for participation in other programs are listed elsewhere in this Fees and Charges Schedule. Where there is no senior adult fee listed for the activity, the adult fee will apply. 2009 2010

 10% 10% Percent of Senior Adult Advisory Council class fee paid by registrants for all advisory council sponsored classes, programs and field trips.

 * Small Craft Center Class Participation Fees 2009 2010

 $32,000 $32,000 Rowing Advisory Council fee (paid quarterly)

 $8,500 $8,500 Seattle Canoe Club (paid quarterly)

 $40,000 $40,000 Mt Baker Boating Advisory Council (paid quarterly)

 RESERVATIONS

 * Park Area Reservation Fee

 NOTE: Areas are available in many parks for various special uses. See "USE PERMITS - General Provisions" for standard application Use Permits. 2009 2010

 $150.00 $150.00 Hourly fee, with 3-hour minimum for garden weddings or ceremonies at Kubota Gardens and Parsons Gardens. (Additional staff fee will be charged.)

 $100.00 $100.00 Hourly fee, with 2-hour minimum to use parks for weddings or other ceremonies (Additional staff fee will be charged when wedding or ceremony is large and/or complex)

 $10.00 $10.00 Hourly Special Event park space reservation fee for all events except those constitutionally protected, commercial filming, or Independence Day Fireworks, and those events covered under separate agreements. No charge applied to the first four hours of setup and first four hours of take down, the remaining event hours will be charged.

 * Picnic Reservation Fee

 NOTE: Tables at shelters are not included in shelter price and are charged separately. Shelter rental must include shelter price plus $10.00 for each table. 2009 2010

 $35.00 $40.00 Each Regular Shelter per HALF-day (excluding Golden Gardens, Carkeek, Alki, Lincoln Park and Magnuson Park); additional fees will apply for tables under shelter. Half-day rates are 8:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. OR 3:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m.

 $45.00 $50.00 Each Shelter at Golden Gardens, Carkeek, Alki, Lincoln Park and Magnuson Park per HALF-day; additional fees will apply for tables under shelter. Half-day rates are 8:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. OR 3:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m.

 $70.00 $80.00 Each Regular Shelter per DAY (excluding Golden Gardens, Carkeek, Alki, Lincoln Park and Magnuson Park); additional fees will apply for tables under shelter. Full day rates are 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m.

 $80.00 $90.00 Each Shelter at Golden Gardens, Carkeek, Alki, Lincoln Park and Magnuson Park per DAY; additional fees will apply for tables under shelter. Full day rates are 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m.

 $10.00 $10.00 Each Table, per day

 $10.00 $10.00 Reschedule fee (14-day notice required to reschedule)

 * Day Camps Booking Fee 2009 2010

 25% 25% Discount of "Picnic Reservation Fee" of $10.00 as found in Fees and Charges, plus permit application fee per table and shelter per day.

 PERMITS

 USE PERMITS

 Use Permits authorize non-department groups to utilize Department of Parks and Recreation property for special events (i.e., runs, boating, concerts, day camps, community festivals, rallies, commercials, etc.).

 * General Provisions

 NOTE: Insurance and/or a performance bond may be required except as limited by the First Amendment for political or religious activities as provided by SMC 18.12.045 or by applicable rules. An application fee will be collected upon formal written application. This fee is non-refundable, except when the Department denies a request. 2009 2010

 $50.00 $50.00 Application fee - First Amendment Events, including political and religious activities.

 $75.00 $75.00 Standard Application fee - Use Permits (i.e., runs, boating, concerts, day camps, community festivals, rallies, commercials, etc.)

 $10.00 $10.00 Booth fee - As part of a special event, a charge of $10.00 per booth or 10% of gross sales, whichever is greater.

 10% of 10% of If, in the course of the activity/event, charges are gross gross levied for admission, sales, or entry fees, the user income income will be subject to a minimum charge of 10% of the gross receipts.

 $10.00 $10.00 Load/Unload fee, per vehicle - for short-term access into non-parking areas or those areas accessed through a locked gate or bollard.

 $55.00 $55.00 Utility hook-up fee - for any utility hook-up performed by Department personnel.

 $75.00 $75.00 Supplemental Late Application Fee - for requests submitted less than 6 working days before event. (Fee does not apply to First Amendment events)

 $100.00 $100.00 Minimum, per surface (advertising banner, canopy/tent wall, sign, vehicle surface, inflatables, other) per day - for posting commercial signage in a park in conjunction with a special event. (Maximum fees are subject to negotiations.)

 * Youth Sports Organizations Use Permits

 All Department review and approval requirements shall apply for all Youth Sports organizations' requests to sell food, beverage, or other items on park property. Qualifying community-based outdoor Youth Sports organizations are exempt from percentage payment requirements for Concession Permits only when selling approved f ood, drink or other items during scheduled regular season league games and practices.

 * Use of Park Facilities for Photography

 NOTE: Regular permit fees apply to below charges, including late permit fee. 2009 2010

 $15.00 $15.00 Hourly fee for commercial photography (wedding photos, graduation photos, etc.) plus standard application fee of $75.00 (see reference under "Permits.")

 Note: Commercial filming and photography for advertising within the City of Seattle is covered under the Seattle Filming Ordinance.

 * First Amendment Vending

 Eligible registered non-profit, tax-exempt organizations may apply for a permit to vend merchandise in which a political, religious, philosophical or ideological message is inextricably intertwined. Such "First Amendment Vending" is governed by regulations adopted by the Department of Parks and Recreation. When conducted on a park drive or boulevard, First Amendment Vending is subject to a base permit fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for a monthly site permit. When conducted within a park, First Amendment Vending is subject to a monthly base permit fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) plus a fee of ten percent (10%) of gross receipts. Copies of the First Amendment Vending Regulations are available upon request.

 * Construction Contracts

 Construction Bidding Documents

 There is a non-refundable $35.00 fee for contractors to acquire a copy of the construction contract bidding documents. Requests should be made through the Planning and Development Division (Engineering and Design section) of the Department of Parks and Recreation 206/233-7920.

 REVOCABLE USE PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE

 * General Provisions & Fees

 Revocable Permits to Use or Occupy Park Property, commonly called Revocable Use Permits, are issued by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, under authority of Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) 18.12.042, 18.12.045, and 18.12.275, for various short-term or on-going (i.e., Limited Term or Continuing Use, respectively) non-park uses of public land under the control of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Permits are revocable upon thirty (30) days notice or immediately upon failure of the Permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of the Permit. Unauthorized use of park property, including failure to apply for and obtain a Revocable Use Permit, is unlawful and subject to enforcement actions or other remedies as specified in SMC 18.30 or other applicable law.

 In accordance with the Policy on Non-Park Uses of Park Lands, as endorsed by City Council Resolution 29475, it is the policy of the Department of Parks and Recreation to limit authorized non-park uses of park land to the fullest extent practicable. Fees and conditions set for Revocable Use Permits are intended to discourage private, non-park uses of park lands; encourage the elimination of encroachments; and promote private and public cooperation in maintenance of park lands in a manner consistent with a public park-like character.

 Consideration of any permit application requires payment of an Application Fee, unless City action to a public right-of-way resulted in inaccessibility from other than park property. The Application Fee is non-refundable. Issuance of a permit requires payment of a Permit Fee which is:

 o a fixed daily fee (i.e., Limited Term permit fee); and/or

 o calculated in accordance with a formula (Continuing Use permit fee); or

 o a minimum Permit Fee.

 Application Fees and Permit Fees are set periodically by ordinance. Under exceptional circumstances, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation may waive or reduce the Revocable Use Permit Fee, in accordance with criteria established by SMC 18.28.030 or SMC 18.28.040. Creek restoration projects proposed by other City departments are specifically exempted from permit fees of any kind as the City recognizes these projects as valuable enhancements to its parks and recreation assets. In determining whether the Permit Fee should be waived or reduced, the Superintendent shall be guided by:

 o The benefit to the public and the direct benefit to the park system;

 o The frequency and/or amount of usage requested;

 o The effect on and fairness to other park users;

 o Consistency with policies underlying the fee schedule and SMC Chapter 18; and

 o The consequences of denying the request.

 The Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, authorize the acceptance of permanent physical improvements, such as constructed improvements or landscaping, as compensation in lieu of the Permit Fee in those circumstances where the proposed in lieu compensation can be shown to be equal to, or greater, in value than the calculated or set amount of the Permit Fee.

 Waiver or reduction of the Permit Fee does not necessarily waive or reduce other fees, charges, requirements, or obligations in connection with issuance of a Revocable Use Permit including Application Fee, Inspection Fee, processing charges, insurance or indemnity requirements, or restoration requirements.

 Limited Term Permit Fee

 Limited Term permits may be issued for necessary uses of park property for brief periods of time, generally expected to be limited to ninety (90) days or less; however, Limited Term permits may be issued for uses expected to continue beyond ninety (90) days at the discretion of the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation. Examples of activities for which Limited Term permits may be issued include, but are not limited to, construction staging, temporary access, and utility installation.

 The Limited Term permit fee will be charged at a daily rate from the date the permit is issued or the date the use or occupancy of park property began, whichever is earlier, until the activity is completed and all conditions of the permit, including restoration of any damage to park land, have been satisfied. If seasonal factors, such as planting conditions or construction prohibitions, warrant a delay between the time the use or occupancy of park property is completed and the time the restoration is completed, no Permit Fee shall be charged for the interim period, unless the park land is unavailable for the use or enjoyment of the public.

 If a Revocable Use Permit is issued for a use of park land that is expected to continue for a limited period of time, such as a Limited Term permit, but for a period exceeding ninety (90) days, the fee shall be the daily rate set for Limited Term permits for the first ninety (90) days; the fee for the period exceeding ninety (90) days shall be calculated in accordance with the Continuing Use permit fee.

 Under no circumstances shall a Limited Term permit fee be converted to a lesser fee due to extension of the anticipated completion date of the permitted activity. If upon inspection it is determined that the permit conditions have not been satisfied, charges for additional daily fees at the same rate shall accrue until conditions have been satisfied.

 Continuing Use Permit Fee

 Continuing Use permit fees shall be charged for uses expected to continue for an extended period of time, generally beyond ninety (90) days (e.g., encroachments or other non-park uses that will not be corrected or eliminated within a ninety (90) day period). Continuing Use permit fees shall be calculated using a formula based on land Value, Area of use, a Barrier factor, and a Rate of return (V x A x B x R).

 The Value of the park land used shall be determined by calculating the average of the assessed value per square foot of the benefited property and the assessed values per square foot of comparable (i.e., similarly zoned, having similar amenities such as waterfront or view), nearby (within a distance not to exceed 1,000 feet) non-park properties.

 The Area shall be the total of the square footage of park land actually used or occupied for non-park purposes and/or the square footage of park land that is subject to a barrier to public use and/or enjoyment.

 The Barrier Factor is a multiplier of 1 or less than 1, representing the extent of barrier to public use and enjoyment, as set by the following scale. If two or more Barrier Factors may apply, the greater factor shall apply.

 Factor: 1.00 Full use and/or occupancy of area, preventing public use or occupancy of the area (e.g., a private structure); or creation of a physical barrier denying public use or access to the area (e.g., a fence or hedge);

 .70 Creation of a perceptual barrier by improvements or actions that capture the public space for private use (e.g., paving, shrubbery, other plantings);

 .35 Private landscaping or other improvements on park land that violate, exceed, or are inconsistent with established design guidelines or reasonable standards intended to preserve the public park-like character of park lands (e.g., private access drive or walkway in excess of standard; private lighting or safety railings that exceed a security function).

 The Rate of return (i.e., land capitalization rate) is set at 10%.

 Continuing Use permit fees for permit periods of less than twelve (12) months are payable in full prior to permit issuance. Continuing use permit fees for permit periods anticipated to continue for twelve (12) months or more may be pro-rated and annualized and payable in advance for such annualized date as the Department shall establish. If the permit period is shorter than anticipated, the permit fees paid in advance shall be prorated for the time used and over-payment shall be refunded, except in the case of revocation due to Permittee's failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, in which case no refund shall be given. Permits for utility installations, such as electrical, natural gas, or telephone service, shall be charged as Limited Term permits, based on the permit period necessary for installation.There is no Permit Fee charged for Limited Term permits of ninety (90) days or less issued expressly to allow the removal or elimination of an encroachment onto park land.

 There is no Permit Fee charged for certain non-park uses of park land which may be allowable by property right, such as driveway access from the roadway portion of a park boulevard if access is not available from any other right-of-way, or pedestrian walkway from a public sidewalk to the abutting private property, if such uses comply with established design guidelines or reasonable standards intended to preserve the public park-like character of park lands.

 2009 2010

 $150.00 $150.00 Application Fee (non-refundable; includes one (1) on-site inspection and four (4) hours of staff time for reviewing and processing application)

 $100.00 $100.00 Inspection and/or Monitoring , per hour (Application fee includes one on-site inspection. Additional on-site charges at $100.00 per hour may be assessed, for on-site inspections and/or monitoring, if specified in the Permit or if necessary in the Department's judgment, due to Applicant's or Permittee's action(s), or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.)

 $100.00 $100.00 Limited Term Permit, per day, OR $200 minimum, whichever is greater

 Formula Formula Continuing Use Permit, determined by formula (V x A x B x R) OR $200 minimum, whichever is greater

 $100.00 $100.00 Processing Charges, per hour (costs of staff time in excess of four (4) hours to review and process permit applications; payable prior to permit issuance.)

 * View Tree Pruning Permit

 Private citizens may apply for a permit if they wish to hire a qualified, bonded tree service firm to perform view tree pruning which is not normally done as part of the Department tree maintenance program along its designated viewpoints and scenic drives. The request for this permit must be submitted in writing to the Manager of our Citywide Horticulture Unit. Three site inspections by a Department Landscape Supervisor will be performed: the first inspection to review the request and make a determination of allowed pruning, the second (if the request is approved) during the proposed work to ensure compliance with the permit, and a final inspection for satisfaction of all permit specifications.

 2009 2010

 $50.00 $50.00 Application fee, non-refundable. Must be submitted with the written request for a View Tree Pruning Permit.

 $100.00 $100.00 Permit fee, due upon issuance of the View Tree Pruning Permit

 $100.00 $100.00 Bond from tree service firm must be submitted prior to work. The tree service firm is also required to submit proof of insurance in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 bodily injury liability and $5,000 property damage.

 PROMOTIONAL & MARKETING FEE WAIVERS & REDUCTIONS

 The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized, as provided in SMC 18.28.020, to waive or reduce entry or use fees from those contained in an approved fee schedule in conjunction with the promotion and marketing of Park and Recreation programs.

 EXAMPLES OF FEE WAIVERS & REDUCTIONS

 Authorized activities include, but are not limited to, the following arrangements:

 1. Sponsored days: A sponsored day or activity for which a sponsor pays the Department a fixed fee, a matching amount, or supplies advertising, service, or other benefit. In exchange, the Department provides free public entry use of the facility, or free or reduced entry for a certain segment of the public (e.g., children under 12, senior citizens, anyone donating clothing or food for a drive for those in need); for a special group of the public (e.g., participants in a community parade); or to the first entrants up to a specified number.

 2. Bonus and prizes: The Department may distribute to users or entrants an item supplied by the sponsor (e.g., a button, a balloon, literature, an item of apparel, or a donated prize for an achievement).

 3. Combination tickets: The Superintendent may issue a combination ticket for use of multiple City facilities or participation in multiple City events. A combination ticket may also take the form of a reciprocal discount or credit. For example, presentation of a ticket stub or coupon from an aquarium in another city may entitle the holder to a credit on admission to the Seattle Aquarium when a receipt for paid entry to Seattle's Aquarium entitles the holder to like privileges in the facility of the other city. In those cases where a combination ticket is authorized, combining multiple events and facilities:

 o The combined ticket price may be less than the amount that would be paid for each entry or event singly;

 o The combined ticket shall expire within a time period after the ticket's sale or first usage, with said period to be determined by the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation or his or her designee; and

 o The City and any other participant organizations shall apportion the revenue from the combined sale by a ratio or formula.

 4. Discount Coupons: A coupon allowing two people to enter for the price of one person, or the coupon holder to enter at a reduced rate. Coupons may be offered through a sponsor who makes a payment to the City or who provides special advertising in return. For example, the coupon may accompany an advertisement in a widely distributed publication for tourists, which contains similar coupons for other attractions. The Department may also use coupons as a way of reaching out to a group or segment of the citizenry, who would not attend or use the facility at the established fee.

 5. Prepaid Passes: During special hours or otherwise, admission may be sold to a tour company, the organizer of a convention, or an association at an aggregate fee for all members and the participants may be granted entry, either as a group or individually, at the hours or on the days authorized by presenting a ticket or other indication of pre-payment.

 6. Departmental Free or Half-Price Days: "Senior citizens' days" may be offered during which time people over a minimum age are admitted free; a free day may be provided for the public to see and enjoy an exhibit financed through a bond issue or by a public fund-raising drive; on a "Kids' Day" or "Neighborhood Day," admission may be free for children and low income adults; a free golf lesson day for kids may be provided; or free swimming day at our pools may be provided.

 7. Promotional Purposes: The Department may offer extended evening hours or special discounts during specific periods in the year to encourage high attendance at our park facilities. Some examples include, but are not limited to, the following:

 Extended Aquarium hours and special discounts during the summer.

 Extended special discount for swimming fees during the summer.

 APPENDIX

 FACILITY PHONE NUMBERS(Area Code 206)

 AQUARIUM Administrative Office 386-4300 Member/Group Sales/Registrar 386-4353

 AQUATICS FACILITIES

 ROWING & SAILING CENTERS Green Lake Small Craft Cntr 684-4074 Mt. Baker Rowing & Sailing 386-1913

 SWIMMING POOLS Ballard Pool 684-4094 Colman Pool (summer only) 684-7494 Evans Pool 684-4961 Madison Pool 684-4979 Meadowbrook Pool 684-4989 Medgar Evers Pool 684-4766 Mounger Pool (summer only) 684-4708 Queen Anne Pool 386-4282 Rainier Beach Pool 386-1944 Southwest Pool 684-7440

 ARBORETUM/GARDENS WA Arboretum Visitor Center 543-8800 Japanese Gardens 684-4725

 GOLF DRIVING RANGES DRIVING RANGES Interbay 285-2200 Jefferson 763-8989 GOLF COURSES Green Lake (Pitch & Putt) 632-2280 Interbay 285-2200 Jackson Park 363-4747 Jefferson Park 762-4513 West Seattle 935-5187 West Seattle Clubhouse Restaurant (Banquets) 932-7577

 MOORAGES AND BOAT RENTALS Aqua Marina 722-3887 Green Lake Boat Rentals 527-0171 Lakewood Moorage 722-3887 Leschi Moorage 325-3730

 RENTAL FACILITIES

 COMMUNITY CENTERS Alki 684-7430 Ballard 684-4093 Bitter Lake 684-7524 Delridge 684-7423 Garfield 684-4788 Green Lake 684-0780 IDC CC 233-0042 Hiawatha 684-7441 High Point 684-7422 Jefferson 684-7481 Laurelhurst 684-7529 Loyal Heights 684-4052 Magnolia 386-4235 Meadowbrook 684-7522 Miller 684-4753 Montlake 684-4736 Northgate 386-4283 Queen Anne 386-4240 Rainier 386-1919 Rainier Beach 386-1925 Ravenna-Eckstein 684-7534 South Park 684-7451 Southwest 684-7438 Van Asselt 386-1921 Yesler 386-1245

 ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING CENTERS Camp Long 684-7434 Carkeek Park 684-0877 Discovery Park 386-4236 Seward Park 684-4396

 OTHER FACILITIES Langston Hughes Performing Arts Center 684-4757

 SAND POINT/MAGNUSON PARK Community Center 684-7026

 SEATTLE (Amy Yee) TENNIS CENTER Indoor & Outdoor courts 684-4764

 PERMIT AND RESERVATION PHONE NUMBERS(Area Code 206)Athletic Field/Court Scheduling Field Scheduling - Individual 684-4077 Field Scheduling - League 684-4082 Tennis Indoor courts 684-4764 Outdoor courts 684-4082 Outdoor courts(Tennis Center) 684-4764 General & Group Reservations Day Camp Reservations 684-4081 Picnic Area Reservations 684-4081 Weddings Camp Long (outdoor) 684-7434 Facility (indoor) (call specific facility) Park areas 684-4081 Specialized Permits & Contracts Commercial Use Permits 684-4080 Concession Contracts 684-8002 Events & Filming (held on Park property) Commercial events 684-4080 Film Permits 684-4080 @ Sand Point 684-4946 Special Events 684-4080 Revocable Use Permits 684-4860 Special Events Permits 684-4080 Tree Trimming 684-4713

 t

 ATTACHMENT 2:

 Changes from 2008 Adopted Fees and Charges to Proposed 2009 and 2010 Fees and Charges

 The table below identifies all Department of Parks and Recreation proposed fees included in Attachment 1 that are changed from Adopted 2008 fees. Changes are noted for Proposed 2009 and 2010 when compared to Adopted 2008.

 Facility/Are Service Page # Description Adopted Proposed Proposed Comments a in 2009 2008 Fee 2009 Fee 2010 Fee and 2010 Schedule

 Seattle Admissions 5 Adults $15.00 $16.00 $17.00 The Aquarium will increase Aquarium fees up to these amounts in 2009 and 2010. Depending on visitor trends and market conditions, fee increases may be delayed until peak seasons rather than implemented at the beginning  of each year.

 Seattle Admissions 5 Youth $10.00 $10.50 $11.00 See Adult Comments above. Aquarium

 Seattle School Groups 5 Adult and Youth $7.00 $7.50 $8.00 School group fee changes. Aquarium

 Seattle Memberships 5 Family $75.00 $80.00 $85.00 Various membership types Aquarium based on the Family membership.

 Amy Yee Indoor Court 6 Singles $20.00 $25.00 $25.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Fees market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Amy Yee Indoor Court 6 Doubles $28.00 $30.00 $30.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Fees market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2007.

 Amy Yee Indoor/Outdoor 6 Telephone $35.00 $45.00 $45.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Court Fees Reservation Card market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Amy Yee Outdoor Court 6 Reservation Fee $8.00 $10.00 $10.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Fees market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Amy Yee Private 6 2 people $48 $50 $50 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2007.

 Amy Yee Private 6 3 people $54.00 $60.00 $60.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2007.

 Amy Yee Private 6 4 people $60.00 $70.00 $70.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2007.

 Amy Yee Adult Group 6 8 people $65.00 $70.00 $70.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Lessons max/group, market conditions for demand Center 6 sessions and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2004.

 Amy Yee Adult Group 6 Camps; $85.00 $95.00 $95.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Lessons 10 hrs/4 days market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Amy Yee Adult Play 6 Per person $78.00 $83.00 $83.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Instructional (5 people max) market conditions for demand Center Classes 6 weeks and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2004.

 Amy Yee Competitive 7 Doubles, 6 weeks $55.00 $60.00 $60.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Flights market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Amy Yee Competitive 7 Singles, 6 weeks $70.00 $75.00 $75.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Flights market conditions for demand Center and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Amy Yee Special 7 Ball Machine $10.00 $12.00 $12.00 Increase in rate to reflect Tennis Events Rental, per court market conditions for demand Center time and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Swimming Recreation 8 Adult $3.75 $4.00 $4.00 Increase in rate to reflect Pools Swimming market conditions for demand and to be comparable with regional rate structure.

 Swimming Recreation 8 Adult monthly $45.00 $50.00 $50.00 Increase in rate to reflect Pools Swimming unlimited market conditions for demand personal fitness and to be comparable with regional rate structure.

 Swimming Recreation 8 Adult $35.00 $37.50 $37.50 Increase in rate to reflect Pools Swimming Recreational swim market conditions for demand "Quick Card" and to be comparable with regional rate structure.

 Swimming Fitness 8 Adult Fitness $4.75 $5.00 $5.00 Increase in rate to reflect Pools per lesson market conditions for demand and to be comparable with regional rate structure.

 Swimming Fitness 8 Adult Fitness $42.50 $45.00 $45.00 Increase in rate to reflect Pools swim "Quick Card" market conditions for demand and to be comparable with regional rate structure.

 Swimming Indoor and 8 Personal $27.00 $29.00 $30.00 Increase in rate to reflect Pools Outdoor Instruction-1 on market conditions for demand 1 and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Swimming General 9 Non-refundable $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Pools Rental Fees booking fee market conditions for demand and to be comparable with regional rate structure.

 Swimming General 9 Indoor pool $65.00 $67.50 $67.50 Increase in rate to reflect Pools Rental Fees rental, market conditions for demand cost per hour and to be comparable with regional rate structure.

 Swimming Competitive 9 Per hour, $54.00 $59.50 $59.50 Restructuring of fee Pools Training and non-peak time category; peak or non-peak Water Polo time is determined by pool size and programming opportunities.

 Swimming Competitive 9 Per hour, n/a $67.50 $67.50 New fee category; higher Pools Training and peak time rental fee for "peak time" Water Polo due to eliminating revenue potential for additional regular classes during these timeframes.

 Athletic West Seattle 12 Light Fee - $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Facilities & Interbay for all adult market conditions for demand Stadium uses requiring and to be comparable with Usage Fees lights regional rate structure.

 Athletic West Seattle 12 Staff Fee - $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Facilities & Interbay also applies when market conditions for demand Stadium using scoreboard and to be comparable with Usage Fees at Lower Woodland regional rate structure. #1

 Athletic Tennis 13 1 hour, court n/a $7.00 $7.00 Restructure fee to 1 hour Facilities Reservation rental, Adult increments. 1 1/2 hour fee was $10.00.

 Athletic Tennis 13 1 hour, court n/a $11.00 $11.00 Corrects an error in the Facilities Reservation rental, Private last fees and charges School schedule, which listed $11 as a 1 1/2 hour fee when it is actually the hourly fee.

 Athletic Tennis 13 1 hour, court n/a $3.00 $3.00 Restructure fee to 1 hour Facilities Reservation rental, Youth increments. 1 1/2 hour fee was $4.00.

 Athletic Sports Fees 14 Adult Outdoor n/a $50.00 $50.00 Amended by green sheet Facilities Games and 115-1-C. Reduces synthetic Practice, per fee from $60.00 per hour to hour - Synthetic $50.00 per hour.

 Athletic Sports Fees 14 Adult Outdoor $40.00 $50.00 $50.00 New fee; previously charged Facilities Games per hour - same adult rate regardless Non-Synthetic of field surface.

 Athletic Sports Fees 14 Light Fee - $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Facilities for all adult market conditions for demand uses requiring and to be comparable with lights regional rate structure.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Rooms $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Non-refundable market conditions for demand Rental Fees booking fee and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Rooms $5.00 $10.00 $10.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Class A market conditions for demand Rental Fees hourly rate and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Rooms $25.00 $30.00 $30.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Class C market conditions for demand Rental Fees Small Rooms and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Rooms $35.00 $40.00 $40.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Class C market conditions for demand Rental Fees Medium Rooms and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Rooms $45.00 $50.00 $50.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Class C market conditions for demand Rental Fees Large Rooms and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Rooms $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Class C market conditions for demand Rental Fees Small Kitchen and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Rooms $35.00 $40.00 $40.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Class C market conditions for demand Rental Fees Large Kitchen and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Rooms $17.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Class C market conditions for demand Rental Fees Staff fee and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2007.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Gymnasiums $5.00 $10.00 $10.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Class A market conditions for demand Rental Fees hourly rate and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Gymnasiums $25.00 $30.00 $30.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Small gym, market conditions for demand Rental Fees Athletic use and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Gymnasiums $80.00 $85.00 $85.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Small gym, market conditions for demand Rental Fees Non-Athletic use and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Gymnasiums $35.00 $40.00 $40.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Large gym, market conditions for demand Rental Fees Athletic use and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Facility Hourly Room 17 Gymnasiums $100.00 $110.00 $110.00 Increase in rate to reflect Rentals and Gymnasium Large gym, market conditions for demand Rental Fees Non-Athletic use and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Golden 19 Booking Fee $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Gardens market conditions for demand Facilities Bathhouse and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Golden 19 Room Fees - NA $150.00 $150.00 New fee structure - fee Amenity Gardens Building Rental includes Main Hall, kitchen, Facilities Bathhouse and meeting room. 4 hour minimum Mon thru Thursday; 8 hour minimum Fri, Sat & Sun.

 Special Golden 19 Additional Fees - $100.00 $150.00 $150.00 High volume of rentals Amenity Gardens requires increased Facilities Bathhouse Maintenance fee maintenance and intended to be cost recoverable.

 Special Langston 20 Performance $60.00 $75.00 $75.00 Increase in fee to reflect Amenity Hughes Rentals market conditions. Facilities Performing Theater, per hour Arts Center

 Special Langston 20 Performance $400.00 $450.00 $450.00 Increase in fee to reflect Amenity Hughes Rentals market conditions. Facilities Performing Theater, per day Arts Center

 Special Langston 20 Marquee Rental $100.00 $110.00 $110.00 Increase in fee to reflect Amenity Hughes up to 7 days market conditions. Facilities Performing Arts Center

 Special Langston 20 Film/Video - $50.00 $60.00 $60.00 Increase in fee to reflect Amenity Hughes Theater, per hour market conditions. Facilities Performing Arts Center

 Special Langston 20 Film/Video - $25.00 $30.00 $30.00 Increase in fee to reflect Amenity Hughes Theater, market conditions. Facilities Performing additional hours Arts Center over 5 on the same day

 Special Langston 20 Conference, $50.00 $60.00 $60.00 Increase in fee to reflect Amenity Hughes Meeting or market conditions. Facilities Performing Seminar - Arts Center Theater, per hour

 Special Langston 20 Conference, $25.00 $30.00 $30.00 Increase in fee to reflect Amenity Hughes Meeting or market conditions. Facilities Performing Seminar - Arts Center Theater, additional hours over 5 on same day

 Special Langston 21 Technician, $27.00 $35.00 $35.00 Increase in fee to reflect Amenity Hughes Per hour market conditions. Facilities Performing Arts Center

 Special Langston 21 Meeting Rooms - $35.00 $40.00 $40.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Hughes West Room market conditions for demand Facilities Performing and to be comparable with Arts Center regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Langston 21 Meeting Rooms - $45.00 $50.00 $50.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Hughes Multi-Purpose market conditions for demand Facilities Performing Room and to be comparable with Arts Center regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Langston 21 Meeting Rooms - $35.00 $40.00 $40.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Hughes Kitchen market conditions for demand Facilities Performing and to be comparable with Arts Center regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Langston 21 Meeting Rooms - $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Hughes Booking fee market conditions for demand Facilities Performing and to be comparable with Arts Center regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Lake Union 22 All Rentals - $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Park Booking fee market conditions for demand Facilities and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Lake Union 22 Great Hall $80.00 $100.00 $110.00 Increase in fee to address Amenity Park event and activity level, Facilities per hour; last increase in 2007.

 Special Lake Union 22 Great Hall - $40.00 n/a n/a This site is not appropriate Amenity Park Athletic Events and not used for Athletic Facilities Events, and there have been no requests for this usage.

 Special Lake Union 22 Auditorium Rental $55.00 n/a n/a Space is leased to Center Amenity Park for Wooden Boats and not Facilities available for rentals.

 Special Lake Union 22 Officers Club $55.00 $60.00 $65.00 Increase in fee to address Amenity Park event and activity level, Facilities per hour; last increase in 2007.

 Special Lake Union 22 Gunnery n/a $35.00 $45.00 New fee; increase in Amenity Park requests to rent this area. Facilities

 Special Lake Union 22 Room 106 $35.00 n/a n/a No longer available for Amenity Park rental. Facilities

 Special Lake Union 22 Room 111 $35.00 n/a n/a No longer available for Amenity Park rental. Facilities

 Special Lake Union 22 Conference/Mtg $35.00 $45.00 $50.00 Increase in fee to address Amenity Park Rooms - event and activity level, Facilities Room 127C per hour; last increase in 2007.

 Special Lake Union 22 Outdoor Sites - $75.00 $100.00 $100.00 Increase in fee to address Amenity Park Armory Lawn event and activity level, Facilities 4 hours minimum per hour; last increase in 2007.

 Special Lake Union 22 Outdoor Sites - $50.00 $75.00 $75.00 Increase in fee to address Amenity Park Armory Lawn event and activity level, Facilities when rented with per hour; last increase in Great Hall 2007.

 Special Lake Union 22 Historic Ships $75.00 $100.00 $100.00 Increase in fee to address Amenity Park Wharf 4 hours event and activity level, Facilities minimum per hour; last increase in 2007.

 Special Lake Union 22-23 Historic Ships $50.00 $75.00 $75.00 Increase in fee to address Amenity Park Wharf when wharf event and activity level, Facilities area rented with per hour; last increase in Great Hall 2007.

 Special Lake Union 23 Activity & $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Park Administration market conditions for demand Facilities Fees - Booking and to be comparable with fee regional rate structure; (all rentals) last increased in 2003.

 Special Lake Union 23 When Charges are 10% of 10% of 10% of Fee had not previously been Amenity Park levied - gross gross gross published in Fees & Charges. Facilities 10% of gross income income income income

 Special Warren G. 24 Application Fees $15.00 $20.00 $20.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park - Booking fee market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Class A room rate $5.00 $10.00 $10.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park per hour market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site booking fee) and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.  Special Warren G. 24 Gym - ` $100.00 $110.00 $110.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park Non-Athletic use market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Small room rate $25.00 $30.00 $30.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park per hour market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Small room rate $175.00 $200.00 $200.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park per day market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Medium room rate $35.00 $40.00 $40.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park per hour market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Medium room rate $245.00 $280.00 $280.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park per day market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Large room rate $350.00 $400.00 $400.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park per day market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Workshop 30 $25.00 $30.00 $30.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park hourly rate market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site (classes only) and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Workshop 30 $250.00 $300.00 $300.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park per diem market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Hangar 30 $750.00 $1000.00 $1000.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park per diem market conditions for demand Facilities Facility/Site and to be comparable with Rentals regional rate structure; last increased in 2003.

 Special Warren G. 24 Tables, each $5.75 $6.00 $6.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park market conditions for demand Facilities Special Use and to be comparable with Fees regional rate structure; last increased in 2007.

 Special Warren G. 24 Chairs, each $0.75 $1.00 $1.00 Increase in rate to reflect Amenity Magnuson Park market conditions for demand Facilities Special Use and to be comparable with Fees regional rate structure; last increased in 2007.

 Boat Ramps Daily Permit 26 Daily Boat Ramp $6.00 $6.00 $7.00 Increase in fee to reflect Permit market conditions.

 Reservations Park Area 28 Load/Unload fee $10.00 n/a n/a Vehicles are no longer Reservation allowed through bollards. Fee

 Reservations Park Area 28 Refundable key $50.00 n/a n/a Keys are no longer issued Reservation deposit for bollards due to security Fee control.

 Reservations Picnic 28 Regular Shelters $30.00 $35.00 $40.00 Restructuring fees for half Reservation per Half Day day and full day usage Fee requests. Increase in rate to reflect market conditions for demand and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Reservations Picnic 28 Golden Gardens, $30.00 $45.00 $50.00 Increase in fees at these Reservation Carkeek, Alki, sites to cover high use Fee Lincoln Park and shelter areas. Magnuson Park Restructuring fees for half shelters per Half day and full day usage Day requests. Increase in rate to reflect market conditions for demand and to be  comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Reservations Picnic 28 Regular Shelters $60.00 $70.00 $80.00 Restructuring fees for half Reservation per FULL Day day and full day usage Fee requests. Increase in rate to reflect market conditions for demand and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Reservations Picnic 28 Golden Gardens, $60.00 $80.00 $90.00 Increasing fees at these Reservation Carkeek, Alki, sites to cover high use Fee Lincoln Park and shelter areas. Magnuson Park Restructuring fees for half shelters per FULL day and full day usage Day requests. Increase in rate to reflect market conditions for demand and to be  comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2005.

 Reservations Picnic 28 Load/Unload fee $10.00 n/a n/a Vehicles no longer allowed Reservation access through bollards. Fee

 Reservations Picnic 28 Refundable key $50.00 n/a n/a Keys are no longer issued Reservation deposit for bollards due to security Fee control.

 Use Permits General 30 Refundable key $50.00 n/a n/a Keys are no longer issued Provisions deposit for bollards due to security control.

 Permits Revocable Use 34 Inspection or $75.00 $100.00 $100.00 Increase in rate to reflect Permits Monitoring fee staff cost to perform function.

 Permits Revocable Use 34 Limited Term $75.00 $100.00 $100.00 Increase in rate to reflect Permits Permit market conditions for demand and to be comparable with regional rate structure; last increased in 2006.

 Permits Revocable Use 34 Processing $75.00 $100.00 $100.00 Increase in rate to reflect Permits Charges staff cost to perform function..

 Department of Parks and Recreation 2009 and 2010 Fees and Charges Version 8 t

```
