

********

**Council Bill Number: 116323**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122817**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Surplus Allen School/Phinney Neighborhood Center; authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with the Phinney Neighborhood Association; and removing a budget proviso that restricted an appropriation in the 2008 Adopted Budget contingent upon execution of such contract.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 29, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 8, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 8, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 8, 2008
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, BUDGET, SCHOOLS, LAND-ACQUISITION, COMMUNITY-CENTERS, PHINNEY-RIDGE, SCHOOL-DISTRICT-1, SALES

**Fiscal Note:**116323

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122817](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122817.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Surplus Allen School/Phinney Neighborhood Center; authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with the Phinney Neighborhood Association; and removing a budget proviso that restricted an appropriation in the 2008 Adopted Budget contingent upon execution of such contract.

 WHEREAS, in adopting the 2008 Budget, the City Council approved Green Sheet 139-1-A-1, thereby imposing a budget proviso restricting the expenditure of General Funds appropriated to the Finance General budget, Support for the Community Development budget control level for the Phinney Neighborhood Association (PNA); and

 WHEREAS, the City Council stated that it anticipated that the proviso would not be lifted until contracts for public benefits were prepared between the PNA and the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, City staff at the Office of Policy Management and the PNA have negotiated and agreed to the terms and conditions for a contract between the City and PNA, and

 WHEREAS, if the City Council approves the terms and conditions identified in Attachment 1 to this ordinance, the Mayor intends to execute a contract between the City and the PNA consistent with those terms and conditions; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor or his designee is authorized for and on behalf of the City to execute a contract with the Phinney Neighborhood Association that is consistent with the terms and conditions contained in the Term Sheet Between The City of Seattle and Phinney Neighborhood Association, Attachment 1 to this ordinance.

 Section 2. The restriction imposed by the following budget proviso shall be removed and no longer be a restriction for any purpose, including for Subsection 1(b) of Ordinance 122560 only at such time as the contract referred to in Section 1 is executed and filed with the City Clerk :

 Department 2008 Green Sheet Proviso Description BCL Code Finance General 139-1-A-1 "None of the money appropriated Support for 2008 for Finance General to Support to Community Development Community BCL may be spent for the Phinney Development Neighborhood Association until (6XD10) authorized by a future ordinance. The Council anticipates that such authority will not be granted until a contract for public benefits is executed."

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1 - Term Sheet between City of Seattle and Phinney Neighborhood Association Exhibit A to Attachment 1 - Property and Facility Description Exhibit B to Attachment 1 - Phinney Neighborhood Association - Level of Service

 September 23, 2008 Version #8 t

 ATTACHMENT 1

 Term Sheet

 Between City of Seattle and Phinney Neighborhood Association

 Parties: The City of Seattle (the "City") acting through its Director of the Office of Policy and Management (the "Director") unless specified otherwise in the Agreement and the Phinney Neighborhood Association (the "Agency").

 Agency Service Agreement: The Parties hereby agree to enter into an Agency Service Agreement (the "Agreement") substantially conforming to the Terms contained herein upon approval of the Seattle City Council and upon completion of said Agreement.

 Service Location: The Phinney Neighborhood Center is comprised of two buildings known as the former John B. Allen Elementary School (the "Facility"), located on an approximately 2.5 acre site at 6532 Phinney Avenue N. Seattle, Washington 98103 (the "Property"). The Legal Description and map of the property is contained in Exhibit A. The Facility is 45,940 gross square feet.

 Contract Amount: The Contract Amount shall be $2,500,000.

 Term of the Agreement: From the date of execution until the date 15 years from the date of execution.

 General Description of Services: Agency agrees to operate and maintain the Property as a Community Center on a non-discriminatory basis that is open to the public. Exhibit B sets forth the definition of "Community Center" consistent with the 27-year history of the Agency's operations at the Property.

 Level of Service: Agency agrees to provide Services consistent with the Type of Services outlined in Exhibit B at a level similar to or above the current Level of Service provided by the Agency in the Facility and at the Property. Exhibit B establishes benchmarks that describe the current Level of Service.

 Services Provided by Subcontractors: Any and all Services contemplated by the Agreement and provided by subcontractors shall be subject to the Terms of the Agreement as if they were provided by the Agency.

 Changes in Types of Services or in Level of Service provided: If the Agency wishes to 1) Eliminate Types of Services outlined in Exhibit B or reduce the Level of Service provided at the Property or in the Facility by 10% or more below the Benchmarks outlined in Exhibit B, or, 2) if the Agency wishes to convert some portion greater than 10% of the gross area of the Property or the gross area of the Facility to an alternative use that is not within the Community Center description, the Agency shall request, in writing to the City, to make such change. Such written request shall include, as applicable, A) a list of eliminated Services, B) a description of any new Types of Services, C) the square footage of the Property and of the Facility that the new Service will occupy, D) the square footage of the Property and of the Facility being removed from Community Center Use, E) proposed new and reduced Level of Service benchmark(s) for Level of Service, and F) an explanation of why permission to change from Community Center use or Level of Service is being sought.

 The City, acting through the Director of the Office of Policy and Management, shall review and recommend approval or rejection of the proposed change in writing within 45 days of receipt of said request. Final approval shall require an Ordinance passed by the City Council.

 Condition of the Facility: Agency agrees to maintain the Facility in good repair and at a minimum, consistent with the Agency's current building maintenance standards. In addition, Agency agrees to create a separate replacement reserve account (the "Replacement Reserve") with an initial minimum capitalization of $10,000 and minimum annual deposits of $1,000. Funds in the Replacement Reserve shall be used solely for the replacement and/or significant repair of building systems and structural components of the Facility as they may be necessary from time-to-time during the Term of the Agreement.

 Security: To provide security to the City that the Agency will provide the agreed upon Services for the Term of the Agreement, the Agency will execute a Deed of Trust recorded against the Property for the full amount of the Contract and a Restrictive Covenant in which the Agency covenants that the use of the Property and the Facility will be restricted to Community Center uses as described in Exhibit B.

 Termination: The Agreement can be terminated for cause only. If the Agency breaches the Agreement and does not cure the breach after being given a reasonable cure period, the City has the right to terminate the Agreement. Upon termination, liquidated damages will be due to the City on a straight line prorata basis ($2,500,000/180 months x the number of months remaining in the Term of the Agreement). The City shall have the right to foreclose on the Deed of Trust to ensure payment of liquidated damages.

 Payment: The City shall make one disbursement. $2,500,000 is to be disbursed into escrow at closing of the Agency's purchase of the Property.

 Alternatively, Agency may choose to use up to $332,000 of the $2,500,000 toward building renovation. Under that scenario the City shall make one initial disbursement of approximately $2,168,000. The balance of $332,000 will be disbursed based on invoices demonstrating the required scope of renovation work has been completed. A scope of work for the building renovation will be attached to the Agreement. Funds will be disbursed no more frequently than monthly as approved invoices are received by the City for work completed to the satisfaction of the Agency and the City.

 Conditions precedent to payment: Funds will be made available by the City to the Agency only after the following conditions are met:

 * City is satisfied after reviewing Agency's organizational structure and operating procedures that Agency is prepared to own and manage the facility and provide the Services contemplated in the Agreement (first disbursement);

 * City is satisfied after reviewing project plans, building condition reports and surveys and financial plans, that Agency is prepared to undertake and pay for the acquisition and renovation of the building such that the City can be reasonably assured of a 15-year life of the Facility and its major building systems (first disbursement);

 * City and Agency execute the Agreement conforming to the terms outlined herein (first disbursement);

 * Agency delivery to City of a signed Purchase & Sale Agreement for the Property, an estimated settlement statement and escrow instructions prepared by an escrow officer licensed and registered in the State of Washington (first disbursement);

 * Agency executes and records a Deed of Trust and Restrictive Covenant against the Property both in form and content acceptable to the City and that secures the Agency's obligations to the City consistent with the Agreement. The Deed of Trust shall be senior to any other encumbrances (first disbursement);

 * If the Agency chooses to use a portion of the funding for renovation work, Agency must provide invoice(s) for renovation work and certification that work covered by the invoice(s) has been completed to Agency's satisfaction (subsequent disbursements, if any).

 Reporting and Record Keeping: The Agency agrees to keep the following records for each calendar year during the term of the Agreement:

 * All building repairs that exceed $5,000;

 * An accounting of deposits to and expenditures from the Replacement Reserve;

 * Any notices of building code violations;

 * Square footage of space in the Facility used as a Community Center and square footage of space not used as a Community Center;

 * A list of programs offered at the Property in each of the following categories: 1) Youth Enrichment and Family support, 2) Arts and Education, 3) Community Service, and 4) Community Gathering and Meeting Space,

 * List of space provided at no or reduced cost to community groups, and the value of that space provided at no or reduced cost; and

 * Total number and total amount of scholarships and/or subsidies provided to low income program participants within the Facility.

 The Agency will provide the City with a report summarizing the records described above upon request by the City but no more frequently than annually.

 The parties have reviewed and agree to the terms outlined herein and understand that these terms shall provide the basis for an Agency Service Agreement to be prepared by the City for execution by the Agency and the City.

 John Smith, Board President Mary Jean Ryan, Director Phinney Neighborhood Association City of Seattle, Office of Policy and Management Date: _______________________ Date: ____________________________

 Exhibit A to Attachment 1: Property and Facility Description Exhibit B to Attachment 1: Phinney Neighborhood Association - Level of Service

 t

 EXHIBIT A TO ATTACHMENT 1

 PROPERTY AND FACILITY DESCRIPTION

[The Property](/~ordpics/116323ExAtoAt1map.gif)

 John B. Allen School property is located at 6532 Phinney Avenue North and 6615 Dayton Avenue North, Seattle, King County, Washington. According to the King County Assessor's office, the subject property is located at 6532 Phinney Avenue North. For tax purposes, the property is listed as one parcel of land encompassing 110,448 square feet (2.536 acres). The tax identification number of this parcel is 062504-9063.

 Legal Description:

 THAT PORTION OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 25 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W.M., KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

 BEGINNING AT A POINT WHICH BEARS NORTH 660 FEET AND EAST 200 FEET FROM THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SAID SECTION;

 THENCE EAST 460 FEET, MORE OR LESS, TO THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION; THEN SOUTH 316 FEET;

 THENCE WEST 460 FEET TO A POINT SOUTH OF THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 THENCE NORTH 316 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 AND EXCEPT PORTION CONDEMNED FOR PHINNEY AVENUE IN KING COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT CAUSE NO. 75070 AND AS PROVIDED FOR BY CITY OF SEATTLE ORDINANCE NO. 21629 AND AS AMENDED BY ORDINANCE NO. 34104;

 AND EXCEPT ANY PORTION CONDEMNED FOR NORTH 67TH STREET IN KING COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT CAUSE NO. 91704 AND AS PROVIDED FOR BY CITY OF SEATTLE ORDINANCE NO. 28830;

 AND ALSO EXCEPT PORTION CONDEMNED FOR DAYTON AVENUE IN KING COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT CAUSE NO. 173928 AND AS PROVIDED BY CITY OF SEATTLE ORDINANCE NO. 46316.

 The Facility:

 The facility consists of 2 buildings. The first building, located along the southwest portion of the property at an address of 6532 Phinney Avenue North, is a 3-story structure with a brick foundation, wood exterior siding, metal- and wood-framed windows, and pitched roof covered with composite asphalt shingles. This building was completed in 1904 and is comprised of 17,868 gross square feet.

 The second building, located along the eastern portion of the property at an address of 6615 Dayton Avenue North, is a 3-story structure with a concrete foundation, brick exterior walls, wood- and metal-framed windows, and pitched roof covered with slate and composite asphalt shingles. This building was completed in 1918 and is comprised of 28,072 Gross square feet.

 t

 EXHIBIT B TO ATTACHMENT 1

 PHINNEY NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION - LEVEL OF SERVICE

 The Phinney Neighborhood Center (PNC), operated by the Phinney Neighborhood Association, is a multi-purpose community center, located at the former John B. Allen Elementary School. It is a focus for the Phinney/Greenwood community and provides a wide variety of services to over 20,000 persons/year that come from throughout the Seattle area.

 Community Center Defined: For the purposes of the Agency Service Agreement (the "Agreement") by and between the City of Seattle and the Phinney Neighborhood Association, the term "Community Center" shall refer to the following description of Services ("Type of Services") offered without discrimination to all members of the community seeking to participate in the Services offered. Reasonable fees in accordance with the tables below may be charged for participation.

 Services to be Provided: The Agency shall, for the Term of the Agreement, continuously provide Services in all four of the following categories at the Levels described below. It is recognized by the Parties that the Type and Level of Service will vary to some extent over the Term of the Agreement.

 Type of Service Level of Service Benchmarks

 Youth Enrichment - Before and After 45 children/day; 10% receive financial School child care aid.

 Youth Enrichment - Summer Program 40-50 Children/day; 10% receive financial aid.

 Independent Preschool Childcare 60-80 children/day.

 Preschool Cooperative - early 80-85 children/week. childhood development and parent support

 Classes & workshops for Youth & 15-25% of hourly classroom use at the families Center is for youth and family classes.

 2. Arts and Education

 Type of Service Level of Service Benchmarks

 Cultural Activities including theater, 25-30 concerts per year; 45-50 dance and music dances/year; each serving 100 people/event. Below market rent enables low cost entry fees.

 Visual Arts - Gallery Free monthly shows for 10 months/year Support given to 10-20 emerging area artists/year.

 Arts and Crafts Classes Varies.

 Continuing Education Classes 60-80 classes offered/month. Catalog of classes and events published quarterly and distributed free to over 14,000 households.

 3. Community Service

 Type of Service Level of Service Benchmarks

 Community-building Events/Activities Monthly outreach and fundraising designed to bring people together to events such as potlucks, Halloween form connections and develop carnival, Dia de los Muertos relationships and/or to raise funds celebration, crafts festival, home for non-profit agencies remodeling fair, etc. Numbers of people attending vary from 75 to 4,000.

 Public Access Computers and WIFI Hundreds of people use the free internet connections provided at the center each year.

 Administrative Offices for Community 15-20% of Facilities leased to Social Services. Types of services not-for-profit social service administered monthly include: Soup agencies. Kitchens; Senior Center; Childcare programs; collaborations with nearby shelters; Neighbors In Action, a volunteer core providing a variety of services to low income community residents.

 4. Community Gathering and Meeting SpacesUse of space at the PNC is open to anyone regardless of race, religion, sexual orientation or special abilities.

 Type of Service Level of Service Benchmarks

 Rooms at the PNC are available for 15,000 hourly rentals/year. lease, hourly rental, in-kind $800/month in room rental subsidies exchanges and free use to qualified are provided. community groups. Spaces are available for educational purposes, events, meetings, seminars and retreats

 Spaces may also be used for other The PNC is used to support local purposes such as public or private agriculture by being a drop site for schools, religious activities, a CSA's (community supported polling location, artist's studios, agriculture); hosting a weekly farmer's markets, food distribution farmer's market for 5 months/year; and exchanges and non-profit agencies acting as the weekly drop-off site for providing community service. Outdoor Food Life Line to area food banks. spaces are also available for similar uses where appropriate.

 v8 t

 Page 2 of 2

```
