

********

**Council Bill Number: 116319**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122799**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to reviewing the status of Neighborhood Plans and updating Neighborhood Plans where transit stations are or will be located and removing a budget proviso that restricted spending of a 2008 budget appropriation.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 22, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 2, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 29, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 8, 2008
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** STATING-POLICY, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, COMMUNITY-PLANS, LAND-USE-PLANNING , TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, MASS-TRANSIT, BUDGET

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 29867, 30165

**Fiscal Note:**116319

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122799](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122799.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to reviewing the status of Neighborhood Plans and updating Neighborhood Plans where transit stations are or will be located and removing a budget proviso that restricted spending of a 2008 budget appropriation.

 WHEREAS, the City recognizes the need to review the status of Seattle's existing Neighborhood Plans, and review and update Neighborhood Plans where transit stations are proposed in advance of light rail commencing service in Seattle in 2009; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle's neighborhood planning program of the 1990's, widely hailed as a model for citizen engagement and participatory community planning, resulted in 38 Neighborhood Plans; and

 WHEREAS, since the completion of Neighborhood Plans, new growth, development, public investments, and other changes have occurred within neighborhoods; and

 WHEREAS, the population of Seattle has greatly diversified and requires new strategies for inclusive civic engagement; and

 WHEREAS, the Executive requested, and the Council approved, resources in the 2008 budget to begin updating the City's existing neighborhood plans; and

 WHEREAS, to ensure that the Council had an opportunity to review the Executive's proposed process to update Neighborhood Plans, Council imposed a proviso on appropriations in the 2008 Adopted Budget for activities related to updating the City's existing Neighborhood Plans; and

 WHEREAS, community input recommended that the current status of Neighborhood Plans be reviewed prior to conducting updates to the Neighborhood Plans; and

 WHEREAS, a regional light rail line that will provide service in several Southeast Seattle neighborhoods is currently under construction and is scheduled to begin service in 2009; and

 WHEREAS, on December 7, 1998, the City Council adopted Resolution 29867, establishing Framework goals and strategies for station area planning and transit-oriented development; and

 WHEREAS, on September 5, 2000, the City Council adopted Resolution 30165, approving concept-level station area planning recommendations for the areas around transit stations; and

 WHEREAS, the arrival of light rail in Seattle provides an opportunity to strengthen communities, support state, regional and City growth management objectives, enhance system ridership, and address the climate impacts of urban development through continued planning for transit oriented development around light rail stations; and

 WHEREAS, updating neighborhood plans for those neighborhoods where transit stations are located will require significant staff and community resources to ensure an effective planning and community engagement process and attract a broad range of neighborhood interests and traditionally underrepresented populations; and

 WHEREAS, the Mayor and Council have determined that limited resources are best expended towards reviewing the status of existing Neighborhood Plans throughout the city, while beginning work to update plans in those neighborhoods where transit stations are proposed and rail service is scheduled to begin service in 2009; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes the need to dedicate additional and on-going resources towards updating neighborhood plans in the coming years; and

 WHEREAS, while City resources are limited, the City Council has identified funding for neighborhood planning updates as one of the Council's top five priorities for the 2009-10 budget; and

 WHEREAS, the Mayor and Council share a commitment to smart neighborhood planning that harnesses the creativity, passion and intelligence of community and government; NOW THEREFORE

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The restriction imposed by the following budget proviso is removed and is no longer a restriction for any purpose, including for Subsection 1(b) of Ordinance 122560.

 Dept Green Proviso Description BCL Sheet # Code

 All City "None of the money Departments 127-1-B-1 appropriated for 2008 in any All department and in any BCL BCLs may be spent to pay for activities related to updating specific neighborhood plans or specific neighborhood "sector" work until authorized by a future ordinance. Council anticipates that such authority will not be granted until it has reviewed the Mayor's proposed process to update the neighborhood plans, made changes as appropriate, and approved the process, as well as the criteria that will be used to select the first neighborhood plans to be updated. 'Pre-planning' activities that need to be completed prior to commencing updates of the neighborhood plans are an allowable use of appropriation authority."

 Section 2. Consistent with Attachment A, it is the intent of the Council that the appropriate City Departments work with neighborhoods to review the status of the City's existing Neighborhood Plans as well as begin updating neighborhood plans in neighborhoods where transit stations have been or will be developed, beginning with those neighborhood plans that include station areas along Martin Luther King, Jr. Way South and on Beacon Hill. Council anticipates that available appropriations will be used as follows:

 Table 1: 2008 Resources: Neighborhood Plans Status Reports

 Department FTE Staff Consultant Total

 DPD 1.0 $110,000 $50,000 $160,000

 DON 0.50 $44,975 0 $44,975

 Total 1.50 $154,975 $50,000 $204,975

 Table 2: 2008 Resources: Neighborhood Plan Updates for Station Areas

 Dept FTE Staff Consultant Total

 DPD 2.00 $224,000 $200,000 $424,000

 DON .50 $44,975 $0 $44,975

 SDOT 1.00 $120,000 $55,000 $175,000

 DPR 1.00 $95,000 $0 $95,000

 OH .50 $70,000 $0 $70,000

 Total 5.0 $553,975 $255,000 $808,975

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Updating Neighborhood Plans July 29, 2008 version #8

 Attachment A: Updating Neighborhood Plans

 I. Introduction

 The City recognizes the need to review the status of Seattle's existing neighborhood plans and, given that light rail will begin service in Seattle in 2009, update neighborhood plans where transit stations are located.

 The earliest plans are now ten years old; the planning process started several years before that. Since that time, many neighborhoods throughout the city have experienced significant growth. The City also adopted new growth targets for all neighborhoods when the Comprehensive Plan was updated in 2004. A number of neighborhoods have benefited from major public investments during that time from the Pro- Parks levy, Libraries for All, Bridging the Gap and other programs while some neighborhoods have experienced less investment.

 The reality of climate change is also upon us. As a city and as individuals, we need to significantly reduce our carbon footprint for the sake of future generations. In Seattle, one of the most significant ways to achieve this is by reducing vehicle miles traveled - creating compact, walkable and livable neighborhoods where people do not need to rely on the car.

 Seattle's population has also increased in diversity, with quickly- growing populations of immigrants and refugees. More than 120 languages are represented in the Seattle Public Schools' student population and approximately one in five households in Seattle speaks a language other than English in the home. Southeast Seattle is the most ethnically diverse area in Washington State. The need for inclusive strategies to increase civic participation among these Seattle residents and help ensure their representation is an over- arching principle. Those strategies also involve consideration for appropriate timing for effective outreach and engagement.

 Adopted Council Resolutions

 In 1998, Resolution 29867 was adopted, establishing goals and strategies to promote transit-oriented development (TOD) in light rail station areas. After two years of planning and related public involvement activities, the City adopted Resolution 30165 in 2000. This resolution approved a "City-Wide Vision for Light Rail in Seattle" as well as concept-level station area recommendations for eleven stations. These recommendations resulted in the establishment of a Station Area Overlay District that implemented new regulations in the vicinity of proposed light rail stations. These regulations prohibited uses and activities that were inconsistent with City and neighborhood goals for station areas, and preserved development opportunities that would support transit ridership, and growth management objectives.

 In 2000, the City Council adopted Resolution 30238 that established a process for amending existing neighborhood plans or developing new ones. The principles embodied in this resolution remain as an effective guide to justifying a plan update. In the resolution Council encouraged that plan updates be developed infrequently and that they only be undertaken to address the following situations:

 * To address gaps in the original neighborhood plan, or

 * To address circumstances that have significantly changed (defined as a major change to a community) in the area.

 II. Next Steps in Updating Neighborhood Plans

 In 2008- 2009, the neighborhood plan update process entails two-parts: 1) creating status reports for existing Neighborhood Plans; and 2) updating three neighborhood plans in neighborhoods that contain LINK Light Rail stations that are scheduled to open in 2009.

 After 2009, it is expected that resources for the 2008-2009 efforts will carry over into 2010 and 2011 so that three additional neighborhood plan updates can be undertaken. The three neighborhood plans to be updated during this timeframe have not yet been selected, but the emphasis would be on neighborhoods containing transit stations (not necessarily LINK Light Rail stations).

 After 2011, when the City's new growth targets have been established, other factors, in addition to transit stations, may need to be considered in determining how to prioritize neighborhood plan updates.

 A. General Principles for Public Outreach and Engagement

 The public outreach and engagement program will lay the foundation for engaging a broad and diverse cross-section of neighborhood stakeholders during the neighborhood plan update process. The following principles and lessons learned from previous planning processes will guide public engagement for both the neighborhood plan status reports and for updating individual neighborhood plans:

 1. Focus on strengthening and renewing relationships with neighborhood organizations, neighborhood councils, business groups, stewardship groups, immigrant and refugee groups and other underrepresented groups, interested individuals, etc.

 2. Make extensive use of the City's website to post information in advance of, and after, public meetings or project milestones.

 3. Produce materials in languages reflective of the community, and use communication venues and means appropriate to those communities to spur the interest and participation of communities that have not participated in past city-sponsored planning activities.

 4. Use extensive mailing to establish broad interest; thereafter rely on participation at public and organization meetings and via website to gauge interest.

 5. Use innovative outreach and engagement activities that allow and encourage the diverse participation of the community while respecting cultural customs and traditions.

 6. Bring meetings and events to people and make use of already established meetings in the community. Convene City meetings when necessary, particularly to engage hard to reach or underrepresented communities.

 7. Set reasonable expectations for each round of meetings, clarify timelines and opportunities for input, and be clear about City's role vs. community's role to minimize the need to "revisit" issues in subsequent meetings.

 8. Provide summaries of comments received at each meeting.

 9. Compile and report on the "themes" heard during the public comment process.

 10. Organize reporting for both the neighborhood-specific interests as well as those interested in broader issues.

 11. Make best use of and respect the extensive community knowledge, expertise, and passion for Seattle that exists in all our neighborhoods.

 B. Neighborhood Planning Advisory Committee

 The Neighborhood Planning Advisory Committee (NPAC) will make recommendations and provide on-going guidance to the Executive and Council regarding gathering background data, engaging the community and the process for updating and implementing the City's Neighborhood Plans. Work on the updates of the Neighborhood Plans will be performed by the community and by the City, as described in Section D. NPAC's membership and role in the neighborhood plan update process is described in Resolution 31085.

 C. Neighborhood Plan Status Report

 Simultaneous with the work to update neighborhood plans in three southeast Seattle locations that contain light rail stations, the City will begin a citywide review of neighborhood plans and their communities - primarily a collection of data describing a point in time - for the other neighborhood plan areas. The review will result in a "State of the Neighborhoods" report, as well as a specific report for each neighborhood plan area. This work will be completed by the end of 2009.

 The following neighborhoods that have been the subject of recent extensive planning initiatives will not be included in this review or update process:

 * Duwamish Manufacturing and Industrial Center and Ballard Interbay Manufacturing and Industrial Center, due to the ongoing Industrial Jobs Initiative work program;

 * Denny Triangle and Commercial Core, due to 2006 Downtown zoning work;

 * Pioneer Square and Chinatown-International District, due to current South Downtown planning efforts;

 * South Lake Union, due to ongoing planning efforts;

 * Roosevelt due to neighborhood's recent revisions to its neighborhood plan;

 * Northgate, due to ongoing planning efforts; and

 * South Park, due to recent development of the Neighborhood Action Agenda.

 1. Intent of Neighborhood Plan Status Reports

 The primary objective of the status reports is to provide an opportunity for the City and neighbors to discuss the current status of their neighborhood plans and changes in neighborhoods since the plans were adopted. The status reports are intended to:

 * present a useful review of what is in neighborhood plans for residents who may not have been involved in the first process;

 * provide accountability, by reviewing the status of neighborhood plan implementation and the actions to be completed in the approval and adoption matrixes;

 * contain statistical information about how neighborhoods have changed or not changed since the plans were initially adopted;

 * provide an opportunity for neighbors to identify gaps and key or emergent issues for their neighborhoods; and

 * provide information about public investments, such as Light Rail, and policies, such as the Transportation Master Plan, that have significance for the neighborhoods.

 2. Scope of Neighborhood Plan Status Reports

 City staff will work with the NPAC to determine the type of information to include in the neighborhood plan status reports, given available resources. Working with neighborhoods, the City staff will compile information, identify gaps in services or infrastructure, describe new or emergent issues, and confirm changed circumstances in each neighborhood plan area.

 The status reports will focus on the following factors:

 * Housing and employment growth;

 * Qualitative description of growth - location in relationship to and availability of services, types of projects (e.g., mixed-use v. townhouses), etc., and quality-of-life issues, such as walkability, crime, open space, noise, and transit service;

 * Demographics;

 * Recent or planned public investments, including transportation infrastructure;

 * Zoning and development capacity;

 * Consistency of city services and facilities with anticipated and unanticipated growth;

 * Status of neighborhood plan implementation;

 * Development activity (number, type, location) since adoption of neighborhood plans;

 * Applicable policies and plans adopted since neighborhood plans were adopted;

 * Implementation status of items listed in each neighborhood plan's approval and adoption matrix; and

 * Relationship to adjacent neighborhoods with regard to transportation, open space, environment, etc. and to transportation corridors connecting many neighborhoods.

 3. Neighborhood Outreach for the Status Report Process

 The outreach process will be based on the Public Outreach and Engagement Principles outlined in Section A above and will include the following steps:

 Broad Public Open Houses: These will be conducted in approximately six areas of the city, covering several neighborhood plan areas per open house. NPAC and the Planning Commission will host these workshops. A discussion "table" that provides an opportunity for neighborhoods to share information with Planning Commissioners, NPAC members and City staff will be set up for each neighborhood plan area.

 * At the initial open houses City staff will report back to neighborhoods on the preliminary gathering of data. The City will also seek input on the key issues and informational gaps for individual neighborhoods.

 * A second set of open houses will be scheduled when drafts of the citywide State of the Neighborhood Report and specific neighborhood plan status reports are available, for the purpose of reviewing the information, discussing gaps in information, and again identifying key neighborhood issues.

 Outreach to Under-represented Communities: The Department of Neighborhoods will coordinate additional outreach sessions for under- served communities to help ensure that a broad cross-section of the city has an opportunity to participate. The purpose of these meetings is similar to that of the open houses, but they would be tailored to the needs of the community.

 4. Council Review of Neighborhood Plans Status Reports

 Once the city-wide neighborhood plan status report is complete, and as status reports are completed for each neighborhood plan, the Executive shall brief the City Council's Planning, Land Use, and Neighborhood Committee (PLUNC), or its successor committee, on the results.

 5. Use of the Neighborhood Plan Status Reports

 The City and NPAC will establish criteria to be used in prioritizing the order in which neighborhood plans will be updated. The status reports will include a collection of data to help determine whether there are neighborhoods that meet the criteria for plan updates and how possible plan updates should be prioritized upon completion of the Comprehensive Plan update in 2011. The status reports will also help to identify key issues to be considered in the neighborhood plan updates - gaps that should be addressed or changed circumstances that were unanticipated or did not factor into a plan significantly when it was first prepared.

 D. The Neighborhood Plan Update Process: 2008- 2011

 The regional light rail line from Sea-Tac Airport to downtown is scheduled to open in 2009. The arrival of light rail trains represents a major change in the neighborhoods hosting stations, possibly the most significant of many changes that have occurred in the past eight years. It brings a tremendous opportunity for building communities and providing public benefits, as envisioned in the station area concept plans. For these reasons, beginning in 2008 and anticipated to continue into 2011, the City will focus its neighborhood planning efforts on updating the neighborhood plans for urban centers and urban villages that contain light rail or other transit stations either planned or scheduled to open soon. In 2008- 2009, three neighborhood plans in southeast Seattle that contain light rail stations will be updated- Othello, Mt. Baker and Beacon Hill.

 1. Goals and Strategies for Neighborhood Plan Updates

 In addition to the Goals and Strategies adopted in Resolution 29867, the 2008-2011 neighborhood plan update process will address the following goals:

 a. Create an inclusive neighborhood plan update process to include the variety of neighborhood interests of those living and working within a neighborhood.

 b. Create a place that meets our social, economic, environmental and cultural needs:

 * A place where all people can feel comfortable - a mix of ages, incomes, interests and lifestyles;

 * A convenient place to live, work, shop and recreate, building on the value of a transit-oriented environment with a range of active spaces and recreational facilities, entertainment and cultural venues, community services, and businesses that celebrate the neighborhoods' rich cultural heritage;

 * A place that is green, clean, safe, affordable, and healthy, where daily needs can be met without a car;

 * A vibrant, creative and active place that reflects the diversity of the community; and

 * A community in which local investment and character is supported, protected and enhanced

 c. Encourage high density, well designed mixed-use development in each urban village containing a light rail or other transit station with a range of housing types and affordability.

 d. Make each station area a model of urban sustainability that is climate-neutral, pedestrian-friendly, sustainably designed, and that helps to meet the City's and State's goals for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and vehicle miles traveled.

 2. Prioritizing Neighborhood Plan Updates.

 Resources available in the 2008 budget are adequate to begin updating plans for three neighborhoods containing light rail stations: MLK @ Holly Street (which includes the Othello station), North Beacon Hill (which includes the Beacon Hill Station) and North Rainier (which includes the Mt. Baker station); of the stations scheduled to open in fall of 2009, these three provide the greatest opportunity to maximize the positive impact of the new light rail line.

 The Executive expects to begin working with the neighborhoods to update these three neighborhood plans in 2008 and complete its work at the end of 2009. Both the Council and the Executive are interested in providing continued funding to update neighborhood plans where transit stations are located through 2011 (see Section E for post-2011 updates). The Executive will consult with Council on which neighborhood plans should be updated during this time period.

 3. Managing the Neighborhood Plan Update Process:

 * The Department of Planning and Development (DPD) will manage the process for updating neighborhood plans around station areas.

 * The Department of Neighborhoods (DON) will be primarily responsible for development and coordination of community outreach and engagement of affected communities in the process. DON will pay particular attention to strategies for reaching under-represented populations.

 DPD and DON staff will develop a public process that engages a broad and diverse cross-section of neighborhood participants, has clear objectives, and a defined beginning and end according to the Public Outreach and Engagement Principles in Section A above.

 4. Steps in the Development of the Neighborhood Plan Updates:

 * Prepare and publish an overview of the adopted neighborhood plans for each area, and Concept-level Station Area Planning Recommendations if applicable, plus data describing current conditions, including a review of infrastructure capacity. The latter will be similar to the citywide neighborhood review process described in Section C that will be used for other neighborhood plan areas.

 * For each planning area, the community will guide the plan update process. NPAC is expected to make recommendations to the Council and Executive on the scope of the planning process, community outreach, and what an updated plan will entail.

 * Prior to updating neighborhood plans, beyond the initial three in Southeast Seattle, NPAC will advise on options for carrying out future planning work; whether the work will rest with City staff or if communities should have the option to hire their own plan consultant.

 * Whether to form neighborhood specific advisory groups, have broader periodic meetings, or meet with existing community organizations, will be determined for each update area. The size, composition and role of any neighborhood specific advisory group will likely vary according to the needs of the community populations. Before a final decision is made on the type of engagement process that will be used for each neighborhood plan that is being updated in 2008-2009, the Executive will consult the Planning, Land Use, and Neighborhood Planning Committee, or its successor committee.

 * DON staff will coordinate the public meetings. The planning update process will begin with an event(s) at which community members will be invited to describe their ideas and establish a vision for achieving City and neighborhood goals.

 * The initial meetings will rely upon workshops and/or small group discussions to identify issues and opportunities for the broad neighborhood plan area, and help layout design concepts for each station area.

 * DON will work with community groups representing under-served populations that are not engaged in the initial event to obtain their input.

 * Based on the community's ideas and suggestions for meeting the neighborhood's planning objectives, draft concepts will be produced with recommendations for both the station area and broader neighborhood plan.

 * After the first round of public meetings, the Executive will provide a progress report to the City Council at a meeting of the Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods Committee, or its successor Committee.

 * Each draft neighborhood plan update will address the neighborhood's ideas and suggestions, and will contain recommended public and private investments, zoning and urban design recommendations, and a range of implementation strategies.

 * Another round of public meetings will focus on obtaining feedback on specific recommendations in the draft neighborhood plans.

 * DPD will conduct an environmental review for the recommendations for each proposed plan update.

 * After the meetings, revisions will be made to the neighborhood plan updates to reflect public comments.

 * The Executive will work with NPAC to develop a "validation" process to ensure that the updated neighborhood plans reflect the broad interests of the communities within each planning area. After the validation process, the Executive will submit each updated neighborhood plan to Council for its review. The Executive recommendation will include legislation to amend the Comprehensive Plan's Neighborhood Planning element.

 5. Coordination of Neighborhood Plan Update Efforts

 During the planning process, DPD and DON will partner with:

 * Community members - residential and business neighbors, developers, and property owners.

 * Staff from the Office of Economic Development, to address financial incentives and impacts from different development scenarios and concepts, particularly upon local business communities.

 * Other City staff from the Department of Transportation, Parks and Recreation Department, Office of Housing, Human Services Department, Seattle Public Utilities and City Light to identify key public investments and how to finance them.

 * The City's Green Team, to encourage sustainable community principles and goals.

 * Seattle Office of Civil Rights to assist in reviewing the Plan alignment with the Race and Social Justice Initiative

 E. Neighborhood Plan Updates After 2011

 The State Growth Management Act requires that the City review and update its Comprehensive Plan and incorporate new citywide 20-year growth targets by December 2011. The new growth targets are not yet known, but early indications are that they will be higher than current targets. The update of the Comprehensive Plan could include methods for distributing the new growth throughout the city, probably by revising the growth targets for each urban center and village. Once new growth targets are established in 2011, it may be necessary to consider other factors in determining where to focus neighborhood planning efforts. The City may choose to make those new targets one factor to include when it prioritizes neighborhoods for possible plan updates after 2011. Other factors that could be included are the presence of Rapid Ride stations or newly approved light rail stations, recent growth, or the deficiency of key public or private services.

 t

```
