

********

**Council Bill Number: 116348**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing a contract for power management and risk management services with ACES Power Marketing, LLC, and appropriating supplemental funds in 2008.

**Status:** Retired March 29, 2010 (by Resolution No. 31195)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2008
   
**Committee:** Energy and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, MANAGEMENT-TOOLS-AND-TECHNIQUES, ENERGY-RESOURCES, ELECTRICITY, INSURANCE, PROGRAM-EVALUATION, CONTRACTS

**Fiscal Note:**116348

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing a contract for power management and risk management services with ACES Power Marketing, LLC, and appropriating supplemental funds in 2008.

 WHEREAS, the City Light Department's ("City Light's") Power Management Division engages in wholesale sales of energy and transmission in the Northwest electric markets; and

 WHEREAS, certain risks in Power Management operations have been identified through internal and external reviews, assessments, and audits; and

 WHEREAS, these operational risks pose a risk to City Light's net wholesale revenues, upon which City Light relies to maintain affordable rates for its ratepayers; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle desires to internally develop the capacity and capabilities needed to bring its power management and risk management functions up to industry best practices; and

 WHEREAS, a strategic partnership with an external vendor will help to decrease City Light's overall risk profile and improve its operating performance, while City Light develops internal capacity and expertise to meet its own power marketing risk management needs over the term of the contract; and

 WHEREAS, to mitigate its operational risks in the short-term City Light issued a Request for Proposals for power management support services on November 13, 2007; and

 WHEREAS, City Light has evaluated the written submissions of the eight proposers, interviewed four of the proposers, and negotiated a contract with one of the interviewed proposers, ACES Power Marketing, LLC ("APM") for energy scheduling, trading, settlements, and risk management services; and

 WHEREAS, the contract with APM provides for an implementation and transition period in 2008, with full commercial operations anticipated to commence on January 1, 2009; and

 WHERAS, costs associated with the contract are included in City Light's 2009 proposed budget; and

 WHEREAS, City Light requires additional appropriations in 2008 to provide for the implementation, transition, and training prior to commencing commercial operations under the contract with APM; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of City Light, or his designee, is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, the Contract for Power Management and Risk Management Services between City Light and APM (the "Contract"), substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1, with any changes that the Superintendent of City Light deems to be in the best interest of the utility and its ratepayers and are consistent with this ordinance. The Contract is for a term of five years, with a City Light option to extend for two additional terms of two years each. Accordingly, the Superintendent of City Light, or his designee, is also authorized to execute these extensions if he deems it prudent to do so. Further, the Superintendent of City Light, or his designee, is authorized to execute any future amendments to the Contract or ancillary agreements that are necessary to comply with any federal or state regulatory changes.

 Section 2. Contingent upon the execution of the agreement authorized in Section 1 above, and in order to pay for necessary costs and expenses for which insufficient appropriations were made, the following appropriation amount is added to the 2008 Budget:

 Department Fund Budget Control Amount Level/CIP Program

 Seattle City Light Light Power Supply - $360,000 Fund (41000) Environmental Affairs O&M (SCL 210)

 Any amounts unspent and unencumbered shall automatically carry forward from year to year until spent or abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance that is taken after its passage but prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Contract for Power Management and Risk Management Services

 Robert W. Cromwell, Jr./kds

 SCL PM Partnership ORD

 04/29/2008

 Version # 2a

 Form Last Revised on December 31, 2007 2

 Attachment 1

 City of Seattle

 CONTRACT FOR

 POWER MANAGEMENT AND RISK MANAGEMENT SERVICES

 This Contract is made effective _________ (expected - July 1st, 2008) and entered into by and between the City of Seattle ("Seattle" "City" or "Buyer"), a Washington municipal corporation; and ACES Power Marketing ("APM" or "Contractor"), a corporation of the State of Delaware, and authorized to do business in the State of Washington.

 Contractor Business ACES Power Marketing, LLC

 Name of David Claspell, Senior Vice President Representative and Chief Financial Officer

 Contractor Address 4140 W. 99th St., Carmel, IN 46032

 Contractor Phone 317-344-7000

 Contractor Fax 317-344-7001

 Contractor E-mail DaceC@acespower.com

 WHEREAS, the purpose of this contract is to provide services in accordance to RFP-SCL-2288; and

 WHEREAS, Contractor was selected as a result of a Request for Proposal ("RFP") process initiated November 12th, 2007; and

 WHEREAS, funds for this purpose are authorized through City of Seattle annual budget and Ordinance No. _____________;

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants, and performance of the scope of work contained herein, as attached and made a part hereof, Seattle and Contractor mutually agree as follows:

 1. Entire Agreement: This Contract, including all attachments, amendments and subsequently issued change notices, comprises the entire agreement between Seattle and the Contractor. The RFP, Addenda, and Contractor's Proposal are explicitly included as Attachments. Where there are conflicts between these documents, the controlling document will first be this Contract as amended, then the Contractor's proposal, the RFP and Addenda. Additional attachments such as those identified below or which the Contractor and Seattle may agree to modify or add to the contract from time to time shall also be deemed part of the entire agreement. All Services provided by APM, whether herein enumerated or performed on a gratuitous basis, shall be deemed performed under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 See:

 Attachment A - RFP

 Attachment B - RFP Addenda

 Attachment C - APM Proposal

 Attachment D - Scope of Work

 Attachment E - Pricing

 Attachment F - Implementation

 Attachment G - APM Reports

 Attachment H - Certificates

 2. Term of Contract.

 This contract shall be for five years, with two extensions allowed, at two-years each. Such extensions shall be automatic, and shall go into effect with or without written confirmation from the City to the Contractor, unless the City provides the Contractor advance notice of the intention to not renew. Such notice shall be given prior to the otherwise automatic renewal date.

 3. Time of Beginning and Completion

 Contractor shall begin the work stated in the "Scope of Work" ("work") section upon receipt of written notice to proceed from Seattle. Seattle will acknowledge in writing when work is complete. Time limits established pursuant to this Contract shall not be extended because of delays for which Contractor is responsible, but may be extended by Seattle, in writing, for its convenience or for conditions beyond Contractor's control. Time is of the essence.

 4. Scope of Work.

 Contractor shall provide the services specified in "Attachment D - Scope of Work" and "Attachment F - Implementation Plan". These services shall be termed "work" herein.

 5. Payment/Payment Procedures.

 Seattle agrees to compensate as specified herein or attached, in consideration of acceptable Contractor performance. Payment shall only be made for services performed, after receipt, review and authorization by the City. Such payment shall be paid twenty (20) days after the City's receipt and acceptance of the invoice for services provided. Payment periods will be computed from either the acceptance by the City of completion of all services, or the date of receipt of a correct invoice, whichever date is later. This section is not intended to restrict partial payments that are specified in the contract. All dollars referenced in this Contract and attachments are US Dollars.

 All payments by Seattle to APM shall be made by electronic wire transfer in immediately available funds to APM's account in a financial institution or other entity designated by APM in writing. All payments to APM shall be wire transferred to:

 Bank: Fifth Third Bank, Cincinnati

 ABA Routing #: 042000314

 Further Credit to: Fifth Third Bank, Indiana

 Account Name: ACES Power Marketing LLC

 Account Number: 7651716800

 ACH Instructions

 Bank Name: Fifth Third Bank, Cincinnati

 Routing #: 074908594

 Account Name: ACES Power Marketing LLC

 Account Number: 7651716800

 Seattle's failure to make payments due hereunder shall be not be considered a default. Any payment that is not received by APM within fifteen (15) days following notice by APM, shall incur a monthly late fee calculated on the total outstanding balance due at an interest rate equal to the prime rate (as published in the Wall Street Journal) plus two percentage points (2%) beginning the fifth day following the due date.

 6. Invoices.

 Invoices must show a breakdown of services or products provided and price for each. Invoices shall be sent to:

 Power Management Executive

 Seattle City Light - Power Management

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 (206) 386-4555 fax

 Invoices may be sent by the Contractor to Seattle electronically, in Adobe .pdf format only, to sclpoweraccounts@seattle.gov .

 7. Taxes, Fees and Licenses.

 A. Fees and Licenses: Contractor shall pay for and maintain in a current status, any license fees, assessments, permit charges, etc., which are necessary for contract performance. It is the Contractor's sole responsibility to monitor and determine any changes or the enactment of any subsequent requirements for said fees, assessments, or charges and to immediately comply with said changes during the entire term of this Contract.

 B. Taxes: Where required by state statute, ordinance or regulation, Contractor shall pay for and maintain in current status all taxes that are necessary for contract performance. Unless otherwise indicated, Seattle agrees to pay State of Washington sales or use taxes on all applicable consumer services and materials purchased. No charge by the Contractor shall be made for federal excise taxes and Seattle agrees to furnish Contractor with an exemption certificate where appropriate.

 C. Withholding payment for taxes/business license fees due the City of Seattle: Seattle Municipal Code 5.45.060 specifies that the Contractor will have taxes or fees paid in full for Seattle Business License requirements, before receiving any warrant or payment for performing within any contract for the City. The Director of the Department of Executive Administration may withhold payment due a City contractor pending satisfactory resolution of unpaid taxes and fees due the City under title 5.45.060.

 D. Supplier is to calculate and enter the appropriate Washington State and local sales tax on the invoice. Tax is to be computed on new items after deduction of any trade-in, in accordance with WAC 458-20-247.

 8. Pricing.

 Pricing for services under this contract are set forth in "Attachment E - Pricing." Any adjustments in pricing shall be consistent with the RFP specifications. For solicitations that include and provide instructions for annual Prevailing Wage adjustments, pricing adjustments shall additionally be consistent with such instructions.

 9. Travel and Direct Charges.

 If the specifications and scope of work indicated specific travel that is to be compensated by the City, the following limitations on such compensation shall apply. If no travel or direct charges are specifically identified and allowed for in the specifications and scope of work, then the City shall provide no such reimbursement.

 * City will reimburse the Contractor at actual cost for expenditures that are pre-approved by the City in writing and are necessary and directly applicable to the work required by this Contract provided that similar direct project costs related to the contracts of other clients are consistently accounted for in a like manner. Such direct project costs may not be charged as part of overhead expenses. Direct charges may include, but are not limited to the following items: travel, printing, long distance telephone, supplies, computer charges, and fees of subconsultants or subcontractors.

 * The billing for direct expenses specifically identifiable with this project shall be an itemized listing of the charges supported by copies of the original bills, invoices, expense accounts, subconsultant/subcontractor paid invoices, and other supporting documents used by the Contractor to generate invoice(s) to the City. The original supporting documents shall be available to the City for inspection upon request. All charges must be necessary for the services provided under this Contract.

 * The City will reimburse the actual cost for travel expenses incurred as evidenced by copies of receipts supporting such travel expenses, and in accordance with the City of Seattle Travel Policy, details of which can be provided upon request.

 * Airfare: Airfare will be reimbursed at the actual cost of the airline ticket. The City will reimburse for Economy or Coach Fare only. Receipts detailing each airfare are required.

 * Meals: Meals will be reimbursed at the Federal Per Diem daily rate for the city in which the work is performed and do not require receipts or additional documentation. The City will not reimburse for alcohol at any time.

 * Lodging: Lodging will be reimbursed at actual cost incurred up to a maximum of the published Runzheimer Cost Index for the city in which the work was performed. Receipts detailing each day / night lodging are required. The City will reimburse at the single occupancy rate. As an alternative, lodging billed at the published Federal Per Diem daily rate for the city in which the work is performed does not require receipts or additional documentation. In this case, the invoice needs to state that "the lodging is being billed at the Federal Per Diem daily rate."

 * Vehicle mileage: Vehicle mileage will be reimbursed at the Federal Internal Revenue Service Standard Business Mileage Rate in affect at the time the mileage expense is incurred (currently that rate is 48.5 cents per mile.)

 * Rental Car: Rental car expenses will be reimbursed at the actual cost of the rental. Rental car receipts are required for all rental car expenses (the City will only pay for the rental of "Compact" vehicles unless three or more persons are sharing one vehicle in which case a "Mid-sized" vehicle rental is acceptable).

 * Miscellaneous Travel (e.g. parking, gas, taxi, shuttle, tolls, ferry fees, etc.): Miscellaneous travel expenses will be reimbursed at the actual cost incurred. Receipts are required for each expense of $10.00 or more.

 * Miscellaneous other business expenses (e.g. printing, photo development, binding): Other miscellaneous business expenses will be reimbursed at the actual cost incurred. Receipts are required for all miscellaneous expenses that are billed.

 * Subcontractor: Subcontractor expenses will be reimbursed at the actual cost incurred. Copies of all subcontractor invoices that are rebilled to the City are required.

 10. Contract Notices, Deliverable Materials and Invoices Delivery

 The City of Seattle agent for Contract changes shall be Seattle City Light's Power Management Executive named below, or his designee. Project work, invoices, communications, and contract notices such as change requests, shall be delivered to the Power Management Executive at the following addresses (or such other person or address as Seattle may designate in writing):

 If delivered by the U.S. Postal Service, it must be addressed to:

 Ray C. Camacho, Power Management Executive

 Seattle City Light - Power Management

 P.O. Box 34023

 Seattle, WA 98124-4023

 If delivered by other than the U.S. Postal Service, it must be addressed to:

 Ray C. Camacho, Power Management Executive

 Seattle City Light - Power Management

 Seattle Municipal Tower

 700 5th Ave., #3200

 Seattle, WA 98104-5042

 Phone: 206-233-7889

 Fax: 206-386-4555

 E-Mail: ray.camacho@seattle.gov

 The Contractor's agent for Contract changes shall be the APM Director for Member-Client Service named below. All communications, and contract notices such as change requests, shall be delivered to the APM Director for Member-Client Service at the following addresses (or such other person or address as the Contractor may designate in writing):

 Brian Azman, Director Member-Client Services

 ACES Power Marketing, LLC

 4140 W. 99th St.

 Carmel, IN 46032

 Phone: 317-344-7029

 Fax: 317-344-7001

 Email: briana@acespower.com

 11. Representations.

 Contractor represents and warrants that it has the requisite training, skill and experience necessary to provide Work and is appropriately accredited and licensed by all applicable agencies and governmental entities.

 12. Warranties.

 Contractor warrants that all services provided under this Contract shall be fit for the purpose(s) for which they are intended, and that the services conform to the requirements and specifications herein. Acceptance of any service by Seattle shall not alter or affect the obligations of the Contractor or the rights of Seattle.

 13. Independent Contractor.

 It is the intention and understanding of the Parties that Contractor shall be an independent contractor and that Seattle shall be neither liable for nor obligated to pay sick leave, vacation pay or any other benefit of employment, nor to pay any social security or other tax that may arise as an incident of employment. The Contractor shall pay all income and other taxes as due. Industrial or other insurance that is purchased for the benefit of the Contractor shall not be deemed to convert this Contract to an employment contract. It is recognized that Contractor may or will be performing work during the term for other parties and that Seattle is not the exclusive user of the services that Contractor provides.

 14. Inspection.

 The Work shall be subject, at all times, to inspection by and with approval of Seattle, but the making (or failure or delay in making) such inspection or approval shall not relieve Contractor of responsibility for performance of the Work in accordance with this Contract, notwithstanding Seattle's knowledge of defective or noncomplying performance, its substantiality or the ease of its discovery. Contractor shall provide sufficient, safe, and proper facilities and equipment for such inspection and free access to such facilities as are used in providing the services contracted for under this Contract.

 15. Performance.

 Acceptance by Seattle of unsatisfactory performance with or without objection or reservation shall not waive the right to claim damage for breach, or terminate the contract, nor constitute a waiver of requirements for satisfactory performance of any obligation remaining to be performed by Contractor.

 16. Affirmative Efforts for Utilization of Women and Minority Subcontracting and Employment, Non discrimination in providing services

 A. Employment Actions: Contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, creed, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. Contractor shall take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to employment, upgrading, promotion, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation and selection for training.

 B. In accordance with Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 20.42, Contractor shall actively solicit the employment and subcontracting of women and minority group members when necessary and commercially useful for purposes of fulfilling the scope of work required for this Contract. Contractors shall actively solicit subcontracting bids from subcontractors as needed to perform the work of this contract, from qualified, available and capable women and minority businesses. Contractors shall consider the grant of subcontracts to women and minority bidders on the basis of substantially equal proposes in the light most favorable to women and minority businesses. At the request of Seattle, Contractor shall promptly furnish evidence of the Contractor's compliance with these requirements.

 C. If upon investigation, the Director of Executive Administration finds probable cause to believe that the Contractor has failed to comply with the requirements of this Section, the Contractor shall notified in writing. The Director of Executive Administration shall give Contractor an opportunity to be heard, after ten calendar days' notice. If, after the Contractor's opportunity to be heard, the Director of Executive Administration still finds probable cause, s/he may suspend the Contract and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to the Contractor, pending compliance by the Contractor with the requirements of this Section.

 D. Any violation of the mandatory requirements of this Section, or a violation of Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 14.04 (Fair Employment Practices), Chapter 14.10 (Fair Contracting Practices), Chapter 20.45 (City Contracts - Non-Discrimination in Benefits), or other local, state, or federal non-discrimination laws, shall be a material of contract for which the Contractor may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Vendor Contract and by applicable law. In the event the Contractor is in violation of this Section shall be subject to debarment from City contracting activities in accordance with Seattle Municipal Code Section 20.70 (Debarment).

 17. Equal Benefits.

 Compliance with SMC Ch. 20.45: The Contractor shall comply with the requirements of SMC Ch. 20.45 and Equal Benefits Program Rules implementing such requirements, under which the Contractor is obligated to provide the same or equivalent benefits ("equal benefits") to its employees with domestic partners as the Contractor provides to its employees with spouses. At Seattle's request, the Contractor shall provide complete information and verification of the Contractor's compliance with SMC Ch. 20.45. Failure to cooperate with such a request shall constitute a material breach of this Contract. (For further information about SMC Ch. 20.45 and the Equal Benefits Program Rules call (206) 684-0430 or review information at http://cityofseattle.net/contract/equalbenefits/.)

 Remedies for Violations of SMC Ch. 20.45: Any violation of this Section shall be a material breach of Contract for which the City may:

 A. Require Contractor to pay actual damages for each day that the Contractor is in violation of SMC Ch. 20.45 during the term of the Contract; or

 B. Terminate the Contract; or

 C. Disqualify Contractor from bidding on or being awarded a City contract for a period of up to five (5) years; or

 D. Impose such other remedies as specifically provided for in SMC Ch. 20.45 and the Equal Benefits Program Rules promulgated there under.

 18. Publicity.

 No news release, advertisement, promotional material, tour, or demonstration related to Seattle's purchase or use of the Contractor's product or services performed pursuant to this Contract shall be produced, distributed, or take place, without the prior, specific written approval of the Power Management Executive or his/her designee.

 19. General Legal Requirements.

 A. General Requirement: Contractor, at no expense to Seattle, shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and ordinances of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof. Without limiting the generality of this paragraph, the Contractor shall specifically comply with the following requirements of this section.

 B. Licenses and Similar Authorizations: Contractor, at no expense to Seattle, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Contract all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 C. Taxes: The Contractor shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, import duties, levies, and assessments arising from its activities and undertakings under this Contract; taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements; and taxes on the Contractor's interest in this Contract.

 D. FERC Reporting: Contractor consents and hereby authorizes APM to disclose information required for APM to comply with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") Policy Statement in Docket No. PL03-3-000, Price Discovery in Natural Gas and Electric Markets, 104 FERC 61, 121, ("FERC Safe Harbor Policy"). Pursuant to such consent, APM, may report to market price index developers with whom APM has a confidentiality agreement, each APM executed bilateral, arm's-length transaction in the physical (cash) markets that APM executes as agent for Contractor, if any, in accordance with policies established by APM from time to time, except as restricted in this Section. Physical (cash) market reporting shall not include financial hedges, financial transactions, or swaps or exchanges of gas or electricity. Data will be provided for each transaction separately. APM agrees that it will not report:

 a. Transactions between the Contractor and an ISO/RTO;

 b. Transactions between the Contractor and another APM Member or another trade execution customer of APM;

 c. Financial hedges, financial transactions, or swaps or exchanges of gas or electricity;

 d. Transactions not executed by APM; and

 e. The name of Contractor's counterparty to the transaction.

 E. Electric Reliability Standard Delegation: Within thirty (30) days after the execution of this Agreement, the City shall execute a NERC Delegation Agreement substantially in the form of Attachment I, which shall identify and address the parties' respective reliability responsibilities pursuant to the North American Energy Reliability Corporation's ("NERC") Electric Reliability Standards. Alternatively, if the parties agree that APM is not fulfilling any reliability requirements, then the City shall advise and confirm to APM in writing that APM is not fulfilling any reliability requirements for the City.

 20. American with Disabilities Act.

 Contractor shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) in performing its obligations under this Contract. In particular, if the Contractor is providing services, programs or activities to Seattle employees or members of the public as part of this Contract, the Contractor shall not deny participation or the benefits of such services, programs, or activities, to people with disabilities on the basis of such disability. Failure to comply with the provisions of the ADA shall be a material breach of, and grounds for the immediate termination of, this Contract.

 21. OSHA/WISHA

 Contractor agrees to comply with conditions of the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Acts of 1970 (OSHA), as may be amended, and, if it has a workplace within the State of Washington, the Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act of 1973 (WISHA), as may be amended, and the standards and regulations issued there under and certifies that all items furnished and purchased under this order will conform to and comply with said standards and regulations. Contractor further agrees to indemnify and hold harmless purchaser from all damages assessed against purchaser as a result of Contractor's failure to comply with the acts and standards there under and for the failure of the items furnished under this order to so comply.

 22. Prevailing Wage Requirements.

 a. This contract is subject to prevailing wages, as required by RCW 39.12 (Prevailing Wages on Public Works) and RCW 49.28 (Hours of Labor) as amended or supplemented.

 b. Contractor and any subcontractors shall be responsible for compliance with all provisions herein.

 c. Filing Your Intent: The awarded Contractor and all subcontractors shall file an Intent to Pay Prevailing Wage Form concurrent with the execution of the contract.

 * You will need a Contract Number and a Start Date. The Power Management Executive will tell you your Contract Number; the start date is the your contract is signed.

 * The Contractor and their subcontractor(s) shall then promptly submit the Intent to the Department of Labor & Industries for approval.

 * This must be done online at the L&I website: http://www.lni.wa.gov/TradesLicensing/PrevWage/default.asp.

 * If the Contractor is unable to file on-line, a paper copy of the approved Intent shall instead be promptly provided to the Power Management Executive.

 d. Contractor and any subcontractor shall not pay any laborer, worker or mechanic less than the current prevailing hourly wage rates for the worker classifications that are provided for under Prevailing Wages as issued by the State of Washington for the County in which the work shall be performed.

 e. Vocationally handicapped workers, i.e. those individuals whose earning capacity is impaired by physical or mental deficiency or injury, may be employed at wages lower than the established prevailing wage. The Fair Labor Standards Act requires that wages based on individual productivity be paid to handicapped workers employed under certificates issued by the Secretary of Labor. These certificates are acceptable to the Department of Labor and Industries. Sheltered workshops for the handicapped may submit a request to the Department of Labor and Industries for a special certificate, which would, if approved, entitle them to pay their employees at wages, lower than the established prevailing wage.

 f. In certain situations, an Intent to Pay Prevailing wages shall be filed with the Department of Labor & Industries and with the Power Management Executive, but the Vendor may indicate an exception on the Intent Form which exempts the requirement to pay at least prevailing wages rates for the following:

 * Sole owners and their spouse.

 * Any partner who owns at least 30% of a partnership.

 * The president, vice-president, and treasurer of a corporation if each one owns at least 30% of the corporation.

 * Workers regularly employed on monthly or per diem salary by state or any political subdivision created by its laws.

 g. Prevailing Wage rates in effect at the time of bid opening are attached. These wages remain in effect for the duration of this contract, except for annual adjustments provided in this agreement when contracts are multi-year (where contract is longer than one year) or for building service maintenance (janitorial, waxers, shampooers, and window cleaners).

 h. It is the sole responsibility of the Contractor to assign the appropriate classification and associate wage rates to all laborers, workers or mechanics that perform any work under this contract, in conformance with the scope of work descriptions of the Industrial Statistician of the Washington State Department of Labor and Industries.

 i. With each invoice, Contractor will attach or write a statement that wages paid were compliant to applicable Prevailing Wage rates.

 j. Upon contract completion, Contractor and each subcontractor shall then file the Affidavit of Wages Paid (form L700-007-000) approved by the Industrial Statistician of Washington State L&I. This may be performed on-line if the Contractor has initiated the original Intent to Pay Prevailing Wage process on line. The receipt of the approved affidavit is required before Seattle can pay the final invoice.

 k. For jobs above $10,000, Contractor is required to post for employees' inspection, the Intent form including the list of the labor classifications and wages used on the project. This may be postured in the nearest local office, for road construction, sewer line, pipeline, transmission line, street or alley improvement projects as long as the employer provides a copy of the Intent form to the employee upon request.

 l. In the event any dispute arises as to what the prevailing wages are for this Contract, and the dispute cannot be solved by the parties involved, the matter shall be referred to the Director of the Department of Labor and Industries of the State of Washington. In such case, the Director's decision shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties. If the dispute involves a federal prevailing wage rate, the matter shall be referred to the U.S. Secretary of Labor for a decision. In such case, the Secretary's decision shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties.

 Prevailing Wage rate changes for Service Contracts greater than one year in duration:

 a. This provision only applies to service contracts that continue beyond a single year in duration, including building service maintenance contracts (janitorial service contractors and work performed by janitors, waxers, shampooers, and window cleaners) and to multi-year service contracts.

 b. Contractor and any subcontractor must pay at least the prevailing wage rates that were in effect at time of bid throughout the duration of the contract.

 c. Each contract anniversary thereafter, Contractor and any subcontractors shall review the then current Prevailing Wage Rates. The Contractor shall increase wages paid if required to meet no less then the current wage rates in effect at the time of the contract anniversary.

 d. Any price or rate increases made as a result of a change in the prevailing wages will be compensated by the City on a pass through basis. The Contractor will follow the contract instructions for pricing increases, notifying the Power Management Executive at least 45 days prior to the contract anniversary date of any resulting price increase and documenting the increase.

 23. Indemnification.

 Seattle preferred language

 The Contractor does hereby release and shall defend, indemnify, and hold the City and its employees and agents harmless from all losses, liabilities, claims (including claims arising under federal, state or local environmental laws), costs (including attorneys' fees), actions or damages of any sort whatsoever arising out of the Contractor's performance of the services contemplated by this contract to the extent attributable to the negligent acts or omissions, willful misconduct or breach of this Agreement by the Contractor, its servants, agents, and employees. In furtherance of these obligations, and only with respect to the City, its employees and agents, the Contractor waives any immunity it may have or limitation on the amount or type of damages imposed under any industrial insurance, worker's compensation, disability, employee benefit or similar laws. The Contractor acknowledges that the foregoing waiver of immunity was mutually negotiated and agrees that the indemnification provided for in this section shall survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 APM preferred language

 The Contractor does hereby release and shall indemnify, and hold the City and its employees and agents harmless from all losses, liabilities, claims (including claims arising under federal or state laws), actions or damages (collectively "Claims") of any sort whatsoever arising out of the Contractor's performance of the services contemplated by this contract to the extent attributable to the gross negligence or willful misconduct by the Contractor, its servants, agents, and employees.

 Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall Contractor be responsible for any actions taken by any of City's suppliers or by any security coordinators, including, but not limited to, curtailment of supply, curtailment of delivery, replacement pricing, and energy or power imbalance.

 City shall release, indemnify, and hold harmless Contractor from and against any and all liability, loss, damage, and expense to City and any third party claims arising or alleged to arise from, or incident to, any losses or damages occasioned by, or in connection with, Contractor's provision of services under this Contract, including, but not limited to, advice regarding credit and contract development, and the scheduling of transmission and/or respective energy and/or capacity and the related flow of associated electric energy unless such liability, loss, damage and expense is a result of the sole negligence of the Contractor.

 No party hereto shall be liable to the other party under this Contract for any damages other than "direct actual damages," from Claims and such damages shall in all instances be limited in the aggregate to One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00). Such direct actual damages shall be the sole and exclusive remedy hereunder, and all other remedies or damages at law or in equity are waived. Neither party shall be liable for any consequential, incidental, punitive, exemplary or indirect damages, lost profits, lost opportunity costs, or other business interruption damages, by statute, in tort or contract, under any indemnity provision or otherwise.

 All claims relating to, or arising out of this Contract shall be brought within one year of the completion of the service or such claims shall be waived.

 24. Insurance.

 A. Coverages and Minimum Limits of Liability. Contractor shall at all times during the term of this Contract, at its own expense, maintain at all times the insurance and/or self-insurance coverages in force as specified below:

 1. Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance, including premises/operations, products/completed operations, personal/advertising injury, contractual liability, fire legal/tenant liability, stop gap/employer's liability and independent contractors liability with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence;

 2. Automobile Liability insurance, including coverage for owned, non- owned, leased or hired vehicles with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence;

 3. Worker's Compensation ("Industrial Insurance") as required by Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington.

 4. Errors and Omissions (Professional Liability) insurance with a minimum limit of liability of $3,000,000 per year. In the event that APM is unable to obtain Errors and Omissions insurance at some future time they will so notify Seattle.

 Or

 C. Errors and Omissions (Professional Liability). As of the effective date, APM maintains Errors and Omissions (Professional Liability) insurance with an aggregate limit of liability of $3,000,000. APM shall give written notice to the City in the event this policy is canceled, terminated or not renewed.

 B. General Conditions.

 1. The insurance as provided under CGL and Automobile Liability shall include the City of Seattle as an additional insured (as respects CGL, per ISO form CG 20 10 or CG 20 26 or equivalent designated blanket additional insured policy wording). Such additional insured status for the City shall (i) apply as respects the full limits of all valid and collectible CGL and Automobile Liability insurance, whether primary, excess, contingent, or otherwise, and (ii) shall be primary insurance as respects the City, and any other insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City shall be excess and non- contributory with the Contractor's insurance.

 2. Contractor and Seattle agree that the risk of Insured Loss required to be covered by insurance or self-insurance under this Section shall not be subject to any limitation of liability or similar provision.

 3. "Insured Loss" shall mean ""bodily injury and property damage, including loss of income or additional expenses arising out of the rendering or failure to render any professional electric utility services, that are ordinarily covered under Contractor's CGL, Automobile Liability and Errors and Omissions (Professional Liability) insurance policies."

 4. Coverage shall be placed with insurers with not less than an A- VII A.M. Best's rating unless insurance has been procured under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW (Unauthorized "Surplus Lines" Insurers).

 5. Contractor shall send an electronic a copy of the certification (excluding Workers Compensation) to:

 City of Seattle

 Risk Management Division

 P.O. Box 94669

 Seattle, WA 98124-4669

 Email: riskmanagement@seattle.gov

 Fax: (206) 470-1270

 6. The Certification sent to the City shall:

 a. Include either an additional insured endorsement or a copy of blanket additional insured policy wording that documents Seattle's status as an additional insured for primary and non-contributory limits of liability under CGL insurance, and

 b. State that coverage shall not be cancelable without forty-five (45) days prior written notice of cancellation, except ten (10) days notice with respect to non-payment of premium.

 25. Audit.

 Upon request, Contractor shall permit Seattle, its third-party auditors, other Seattle City Department's, the Washington State Auditor, and any other governmental agency involved in the funding of the Work ("Agency"), to inspect and audit all pertinent books and records of Contractor, any subcontractor, or any other person or entity that performed work in connection with or related to the Work, at any and all times deemed necessary by Seattle or Agency, including up to six years after the final payment or release of withheld amounts has been made under this Contract. Such inspection and audit shall occur in King County, Washington or other such reasonable location as Seattle or Agency selects; provided, however, the City shall reimburse Contractor for any travel expenses in connection with such inspection and audit pursuant to the guidelines set forth in Section 9. The Contractor shall supply Seattle with, or shall permit Seattle to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof and shall make available and electronically transmit upon request, those records commonly kept in an electronic format. The Contractor shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of Seattle and Agency is a condition of any subcontract, agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to perform work under this Contract.

 26. Contractual Relationship

 The relationship of Contractor to Seattle by reason of this Contract shall be that of an independent contractor. This Contract does not authorize Contractor to act as the agent or legal representative of Seattle for any purpose whatsoever, except as specifically granted to Contractor in writing either in Attachment D - Scope of Work or as subsequently authorized in writing by the Power Management Executive. Contractor is not otherwise granted any express or implied right or authority to assume or create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of or in the name of Seattle or to bind Seattle in any manner or thing whatsoever.

 Seattle and Contractor contemplate that Seattle may designates APM as its exclusive agent and representative to perform certain services identified in Attachment D - Scope of Work, pursuant to the trading controls, processes, and procedures established by Seattle and the Contractor during the course of performance of this contract. When designated as Seattle's agent, APM shall act in conformity with the instructions established and agreed upon with Seattle. Seattle will notify APM in writing when rescinding any agency authorization granted under this contract.

 27. Assignment and Subcontracting

 Contractor shall not assign or subcontract any of its obligations under this Contract without Seattle's written consent, which may be granted or withheld in Seattle's sole discretion. Any subcontract made by Contractor shall incorporate by reference all the terms of this Contract except for Equal Benefit provisions. Contractor shall ensure that all subcontractors comply with the obligations and requirements of the subcontract, except for Equal Benefit provisions. Seattle's consent to any assignment or subcontract shall not release the Contractor from liability under this Contract, or from any obligation to be performed under this Contract, whether occurring before or after such consent, assignment, or subcontract.

 28. Supervision and Coordination.

 Contractor shall:

 * Competently and efficiently, supervise and direct the implementation and completion of all contract requirements specified herein.

 * Designate in its bid or proposal to Seattle, a representative(s) with the authority to legally commit Contractor's firm. All communications given or received from the Contractor's representative shall be binding on the Contractor.

 * Promote and offer to Purchasers only those materials, equipment and/or services as stated herein and allowed for by contractual requirements. Violation of this condition will be grounds for contract termination.

 29. Involvement of Former City Employees

 Contractor shall promptly notify Seattle in writing of any person who is expected to perform any of the Work and who, during the twelve (12) months immediately prior to the expected commencement date of such work or subcontract, was a City officer or employee. Contractor shall ensure that no Work or matter related to the Work is performed by any person (employee, subcontractor, or otherwise) who was a City officer or employee within the past twelve (12) months; and as such was officially involved in, participated in, or acted upon any matter related to the Work, or is otherwise prohibited from such performance by SMC 4.16.075.

 30. Anti-Trust.

 Seattle maintains that, in actual practice, overcharges resulting from antitrust violations are borne by the purchaser. Therefore the Contractor hereby assigns to Seattle any and all claims for such overcharges except overcharges which result from antitrust violations commencing after the price is established under this contract and which are not passed on to Seattle under an escalation clause.

 31. No Conflict of Interest.

 Contractor confirms that Contractor does not have a business interest or a close family relationship with any City officer or employee who was, is, or will be involved in the Contractor selection, negotiation, drafting, signing, administration, or evaluating the Contractor's performance.

 Contractor will fully disclose to Seattle any potential or actual conflicts of interest, including the appearance of a conflict or interest, that may arise between its interests or the interests of its owner/members or another customer and Seattle during the course of its performance under this contract. In all cases such conflicts shall be disclosed prior to or contemporaneous to Contractor's performance under this contract. For example, Contractor will disclose prior to execution of an agreement between Seattle and a counter-party if APM has or has had a relationship with that counter- party.

 32. No Gifts or Gratuities.

 Contractor shall not directly or indirectly offer gifts and resources to any person employed by the City that is intended, or may be reasonably intended, to benefit the Vendor by way of award, administration, or in any other way to influence purchasing decisions of the City. This includes but is not limited to, City Purchasing office employees and City employees that do business with, order, purchase or are part of decision-making for business, contract or purchase decisions. The Vendor shall not offer meals, gifts, gratuities, loans, trips, favors, bonuses, donations, special discounts, work, or anything of economic value to any such City employees. This does not prohibit distribution of promotional items that are less than $25 when provided as part of routine business activity such as trade shows. Any violation of this provision may result in termination of this Contract. Nothing in this Contract prohibits donations to campaigns for election to City office, so long as the donation is disclosed as required by the election campaign disclosure laws of the City and of the State.

 33. Errors & Omissions:

 Contractor shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy, and the coordination of all designs, drawings, specifications, and other services furnished by or on the behalf of the Contractor under this Contract. The Contractor, without additional compensation, shall correct or revise any errors or omissions in the designs, drawings, specifications, and/or other Contractor services immediately upon notification by Seattle. The obligation provided for in this section with respect to any acts or omissions during the term of this Contract shall survive any termination or expiration of this Contract and shall be in addition to all other obligations and liabilities of the Contractor for a period of two years following termination or expiration.

 34. Intellectual Property Rights.

 Patents: Contractor does not convey to Seattle, nor does Seattle obtain, any right to any document or material utilized by Contractor that was created or produced separate from this Contract or was preexisting material (not already owned by Seattle). To the extent that Contractor's preexisting materials are incorporated into the Work, the Contractor grants Seattle an irrevocable, non-exclusive, fully paid, royalty-free right and/or license to use, execute, reproduce, display, and transfer the preexisting material, but only as an inseparable part of the Work.

 Copyrights: For materials and documents prepared by Contractor in connection with the Work, Contractor shall retain the copyright (including the right of reuse) whether or not the Work is completed. Contractor grants to Seattle a non-exclusive, irrevocable, unlimited, royalty-free license to use every document and all other materials prepared by the Contractor for Seattle under this Contract. If requested by Seattle, a copy of all drawing, prints, plans, field notes, reports, documents, files, input materials, output materials, the media upon which they are located (including cards, tapes, discs and other storage facilities), software programs or packages (including source code or codes, object codes, upgrades, revisions, modifications, and any related materials) and/or any other related documents or materials which are developed solely for, and paid for by, Seattle in connection with the performance of the Work, shall be promptly delivered to Seattle.

 Seattle may make and retain copies of such documents for its information and reference in connection with their use on the project. The Contractor does not represent or warrant that such documents are suitable for reuse by Seattle, or others, on extensions of the project, or on any other project. Contractor represents and warrants that it has all necessary legal authority to make the assignments and grant the licenses required by this Section.

 35. Proprietary and Confidential Information.

 The parties agree that they will not permit the duplication or disclosure of any information designated in advance by the other party as "Confidential and Proprietary" to any person (other than its own employee, agent, or representative who must have such information for the performance of that party's obligations hereunder) unless such duplication, use or disclosure is specifically authorized in writing by the other party or is required by law. "Confidential and Proprietary" information does not include ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques related to information that, at the time of disclosure, is in the public domain unless the entry of that information into the public domain is a result of any breach of this Contract. Likewise, "Confidential and Proprietary" information does not apply to information that is independently developed, already possessed without obligation of confidentiality, or rightfully obtained from a third party without an obligation of confidentiality.

 Contractor's Understanding and Obligations

 1. Contractor understands that any records (including but not limited to bid or proposal submittals, the Contract, and any other contract materials) it submits to Seattle, or that are used by Seattle even if the Contractor possesses the records, are public records under Washington State law, RCW Chapter 42.56. Public records must be promptly disclosed upon request unless a statute exempts them from disclosure. Contractor also understands that even if part of a record is exempt from disclosure, the rest of that record generally must be disclosed.

 2. Contractor must separate and clearly mark as "proprietary" information all records related to this Contract or the performance of this Contract that the Contractor believes are exempt from disclosure. Contractor is to be familiar with potentially-applicable public-disclosure exemptions and the limits of those exemptions, and will mark as "proprietary" only information that the Contractor believes legitimately fits within an exemption and will state the statutory exception upon which it is relying.

 3. If Seattle notifies the Contractor of a public disclosure request, and the Contractor believes records are exempt from disclosure, it is the Contractor responsibility to make its own determination and pursue a lawsuit under RCW 42.56 to enjoin disclosure. The Contractor must obtain the injunction and serve it on Seattle before the close of business on the tenth business day after Seattle sent notification to the Contractor. It is the Contractor's discretionary decision whether to file the lawsuit.

 4. If Contractor does not timely obtain and serve an injunction, the Contractor is deemed to have authorized releasing the record.

 5. Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor must not take any action that would affect (a) Seattle's ability to use goods and services provided under this Contract or (b) the Contractor's obligations under this Contract.

 6. Contractor will fully cooperate with Seattle in identifying and assembling records in case of any public disclosure request.

 Seattle's Obligations

 1. Seattle will disclose those parts of records the Contractor has marked as "proprietary information" only to authorized persons unless:

 (a) the City receives a public disclosure request, in which case steps 2 and 3 below will be exercised before release of the information; or

 (b) The Contractor has given Seattle express advance written permission to disclose the records. "Authorized persons" means those City officers, employees, contractors and consultants for whom the proprietary information is necessary to perform their duties or obligations to Seattle. The term "proprietary information" does not include ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques related to any information that, at the time of disclosure, is in the public domain, unless the entry of that information into the public domain is a result of a breach of this Contract.

 2. If Seattle receives a public disclosure request for records that Contractor has marked as "proprietary information", Seattle may promptly notify the Contractor of the request. Seattle may postpone disclosing these records for ten business days after it has sent notification to the Contractor, in order to allow the Contractor to file a lawsuit under RCW 42.56 to enjoin disclosure. It is the Contractor's discretionary decision whether to file the lawsuit.

 3. If Seattle has notified Contractor of a public disclosure request, and the Contractor has not obtained an injunction and served Seattle with that injunction by the close of business on the tenth business day after Seattle sent notice, Seattle may disclose the record.

 4. Seattle has no other obligations concerning records the Contractor has marked as "proprietary information" under this Contract. Seattle has no obligation to claim any exemption from disclosure. Seattle is not obligated or liable to the Contractor for any records that Seattle releases in compliance with this Section or in compliance with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.

 36. Interlocal Cooperation Act.

 RCW 39.34 allows cooperative purchasing between public agencies, and other political subdivisions. SMC 20.60.100 also allows non profits to use these agreements. If a public agency files or has filed an Intergovernmental Cooperative Purchasing Agreement with the City of Seattle, those agencies are eligible to purchase from Contracts established by the City. Such agencies may ask City of Seattle Contractors to accept orders from the agency, citing the City of Seattle contract as the basis for the order. The Vendor may accept or decline such orders. If the Vendor accepts an order from another public agency using the City of Seattle contract as the basis, the Vendor agrees to sell additional items at the contract prices, terms and conditions. The City of Seattle accepts no responsibility for the payment of the purchase price by other governmental agencies.

 37. Additional Services.

 Additional Services shall be defined to include additional products or services ordered in connection with this project including those expressly identified as "Additional Services" in the "Scope of Work" section of this Contract and Attachment D and products and services other than those expressly provided for in Attachment D.. Contractor shall not proceed with Additional Services unless authorized by a written amendment issued by the Power Management Executive. Such Additional Services may be authorized by a Contractor proposal and a written acceptance from the City through a Change Order issued to the Contractor, or may be authorized by a Change Order signed by both parties, whichever the Power Management Executive requires. Any costs incurred due to the performance of Additional Services prior to execution of an amendment will not be reimbursed under this Contract or an amendment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Power Management Executive may make reasonable and immaterial changes to this Contract, extension of the contract, and ancillary matters that Contractor may accommodate without substantial additional expense to Seattle.

 38. Key Persons.

 Contractor shall not transfer or reassign any individual designated in this Contract as essential to the Work, without the express written consent of Seattle, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. If, during the term of this Contract, any such individual leaves the Contractor's employment, the Contractor shall present to Seattle one or more individual(s) with greater or equal qualifications as a replacement, subject to Seattle's approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. Seattle's approval or disapproval shall not be construed to release the Contractor from its obligations under this Contract.

 39. Disputes.

 The parties shall endeavor to resolve any dispute or misunderstanding that may arise under this Contract concerning Contractor's performance, if mutually agreed to be appropriate, through negotiations between the Contractor's Project Manager and the Power Management Executive, or if mutually agreed, referred to the Seattle City Light Superintendent and the Contractor's Chief Executive Officer. Either party may decline or discontinue such discussions and may then pursue other means to resolve such disputes including termination as allowed for within the contract, or may by mutual agreement pursue other dispute alternatives such as alternate dispute resolution processes. Nothing in this dispute process shall in any way mitigate the rights, if any, of either party to terminate the contract for cause or convenience.

 40. Termination.

 A. For Cause: Seattle may terminate this Contract if the Contractor is in material breach of any of the terms of this Contract, and such breach has not been corrected to Seattle's reasonable satisfaction in a timely manner.

 B. For City's Convenience: Seattle may terminate this Contract at any time, without cause and for any reason including Seattle's convenience, upon written notice to the Contractor at least ninety days prior to the effective date of said termination ("Early Termination"). In the event that Seattle exercises Early Termination, then Seattle shall be required to pay APM an "Early Termination Fee" in an amount equal to the lesser of (i) Fifty percent (50%) of one years' Annual Service Fees; or, (ii) Seventy percent (70%) of any Annual Service Fees that would have been due APM under this contract for the remainder of the calendar year. Such Early Termination Fee shall be APM's sole remedy for such Early Termination by Seattle. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Early Termination Fee shall be zero dollars in the event of default by APM, or if Commercial Operations never commenced.

 However, if Seattle has added the Additional Services of "Same Day Portfolio Optimization" and "Day-Ahead/Forward Portfolio Optimization" at the time that Seattle terminates for convenience that written notice to the Contractor shall be no less than six months prior to the effective date of said termination. In this circumstance no Early Termination Fee shall apply.

 C. Non-appropriation of Funds: Seattle may terminate this Contract at any time without notice due to nonappropriation of funds, whether such funds are local, state or federal grants, and no such notice shall be required notwithstanding any notice requirements that may be agreed upon for other causes of termination.

 D. Acts of Insolvency: Seattle may terminate this Contract by written notice to Contractor if the Contractor becomes insolvent, makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, suffers or permits the appointment of a receiver for its business or assets, becomes subject to any proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law whether domestic or foreign, or is wound up or liquidated, voluntarily or otherwise.

 E. Termination for Gratuities: Seattle may terminate this Contract by written notice to Contractor if Seattle finds that any gratuity in the form of entertainment, a gift, or otherwise, was offered to or given by the Contractor or any agent therefore to any City official, officer or employee.

 F. Notice: Seattle is not required to provide advance notice of termination. Notwithstanding, the Power Management Executive may issue a termination notice with an effective date later than the termination notice itself. Such "Transition Period" may last up to one year. In the event Seattle terminates the contract for convenience pursuant to section B above, the Transition Period is defined by the termination date communicated by the Power Management Executive in the notice of termination. In such case, the Contractor shall continue to provide products and services as required by the Power Management Executive until the effective date provided in the termination notice. During that period the Contractor shall provide its best efforts and exercise its skill and knowledge to assist Seattle in transitioning from the Contractor's business systems and procedures to Seattle's own or to-be-acquired systems, including but not limited to data formatting and transfers.

 G. Actions Upon Termination: In the event of termination not the fault of the Contractor, Contractor shall be paid for the services properly performed prior to the effective termination date that has been specified by the Power Management Executive, together with any reimbursable expenses then due, but in no event shall such compensation exceed the maximum compensation to be paid under the Contract. Only in the event Seattle terminates for convenience within the five year term of the contract, Seattle shall reimburse APM its actual relocation costs incurred, if any, for placement of an APM employee on-site at Seattle City Light up to a maximum of $17,000 per on-site position. Contractor agrees that this payment shall fully and adequately compensate Contractor and all subcontractors for all profits, costs, expenses, losses, liabilities, damages, taxes, and charges of any kind whatsoever (whether foreseen or unforeseen) attributable to the termination of this Contract. Upon termination for any reason, Contractor shall provide Seattle with the most current design documents, contract documents, writings and other product it has completed to the date of termination, along with copies of all project-related correspondence and similar items. Seattle shall have the same rights to use these materials as if termination had not occurred.

 H. Termination by APM: APM may terminate this contract, provided that APM shall provide written notice to Seattle at least one year prior to the termination date and exercise best efforts during that one year Transition Period to assist Seattle in internally establishing the functionality provided by APM pursuant to this contract. Late payment is not cause for termination under the contract unless such late payment occurs for any three months within a calendar year.

 41. Force Majeure - Suspension and Termination.

 This section applies in the event that either party is unable to perform the obligations of this contract because of a Force Majeure event as defined herein, to the extent that the Contract obligations must be suspended in full. A Force Majeure event is an event that prohibits performance and is beyond the control of the party. Such events may include natural or man-made disasters, or an action or decree of a superior governmental body, which prevents performance.

 Force Majeure under this Section shall only apply in the event that performance is rendered not possible by either party or its agents. Should it be possible to provide partial performance that is acceptable to the City under Section 42 (Emergencies or Disasters), Section 42 below shall instead be in force.

 Should either party suffer from a Force Majeure event and is unable to provide performance, such party shall give notice to the remaining party as soon as practical and shall do everything possible to resume performance.

 Upon receipt of such notice, the party shall be excused from such performance as is affected by the Force Majeure Event for the period of such Event. If such Event affects the delivery date or warranty provisions of this Agreement, such date or warranty period shall automatically be extended for a period equal to the duration of such Event.

 42. Major Emergencies or Disasters:

 The City may undergo an emergency or disaster that may require the Contractor to either increase or decrease services, or that may disrupt the Contractor's ability to provide normal performance. Such events may include, but are not limited to, a storm, high wind, earthquake, flood, hazardous material release, and transportation mishap, loss of any utility service, fire, terrorist activity or any combination of the above. In such events, the following shall apply.

 (a) The City shall notify the Contractor that the City is experiencing an emergency or disaster, and will request emergency and priority services from the Contractor.

 (b) The City may request that the Contractor provide either increased or decreased services, or may request Contractor provide additional products or services.

 (c) Upon such notice by the City, the Contractor shall make reasonable efforts to provide the City the materials in the quantities requested and within the schedule specified by the City, adhering to the conditions in this Section.

 (d) The City of Seattle shall be the customer of first priority for the Contractor, except where preceded by State or Federal government mandates. The Contractor shall provide its best and priority efforts to provide the requested goods and/or services to the City of Seattle in as complete and timely manner as possible. Such efforts by the Contractor are not to be diminished as a result of Contractor providing service to other customers, except as mandated by State or Federal governments.

 (e) If the Contractor is unable to respond in the time and/or quantities requested by the City, the Contractor shall promptly assist the City to the extent practicable, to gain access to alternative materials and/or services. This may include:

 a. Coordinating with other distributors or subsidiaries beyond those in the local region to fulfill order requests;

 b. Offering the City substitutions provided the Contractor obtains prior approval from the City for such substitution.

 The Contractor shall charge the City the price determined in this Contract for the goods and services provided, and if no price has been determined, it shall charge the City a price that is normally charged for such goods and/or services (such as listed prices for items in stock). However, in the event that the City's request results in the Contractor incurring unavoidable additional costs and causes the Contractor to increase prices in order to obtain a fair rate of return, the Contractor shall charge the City a price not to exceed the cost/profit formula found in this Contract.

 The Power Management Executive may trigger the provisions relating to Force Majeure services identified in Attachment D and such pricing shall apply in that instance.

 43. Debarment.

 In accordance with SMC Ch. 20.70, the Director of Executive Administration or designee may debar a Vendor from entering into a Contract with the City or from acting as a subcontractor on any Contract with the City for up to five years after determining that any of the following reasons exist:

 a. Contractor has received overall performance evaluations of deficient, inadequate, or substandard performance on three or more City Contracts.

 b. Contractor failed to comply with City ordinances or Contract terms, including but not limited to, ordinance or Contract terms relating to small business utilization, discrimination, prevailing wage requirements, equal benefits, or apprentice utilization.

 c. Contractor abandoned, surrendered, or failed to complete or to perform work on or in connection with a City Contract.

 d. Contractor failed to comply with Contract provisions, including but not limited to quality of workmanship, timeliness of performance, and safety standards.

 e. Contractor submitted false or intentionally misleading documents, reports, invoices, or other statements to the City in connection with a Contract.

 f. Contractor colluded with another contractor to restrain competition.

 g. Contractor committed fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Contract for the City or any other government entity.

 h. Contractor failed to cooperate in a City debarment investigation.

 i. Contractor failed to comply with SMC 14.04, SMC Ch. 14.10, SMC Ch. 20.42, or SMC Ch. 20.45, or other local, State, or federal non- discrimination laws.

 The Director may issue an Order of Debarment following the procedures specified in SMC 20.70.050. The rights and remedies of the City under these provisions are in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or under the Contract.

 44. Recycle Products Requirements.

 Whenever practicable, Contractor shall use reusable products, recyclable products and recycled-content products including recycled content paper on all documents submitted to the City.

 Contractors are to duplex all materials that are prepared for the City under this Contract, whether such materials are printed or copied, except when impracticable to do so due to the nature of the product being produced. Contractors are to use 100% post consumer recycled content, chlorine-free paper in such products that are produced for the City, whenever practicable, and to use other paper- saving and recycling measures in business they conduct with and for the City. This directive is executed under the Mayor's Executive Order, issued February 13, 2005.

 45. Workers Right to Know.

 "Right to Know" legislation required the Department of Labor and Industries to establish a program to make employers and employees more aware of the hazardous substances in their work environment. WAC 296-62-054 requires among other things that all manufacturers/distributors of hazardous substances, including any of the items listed on this ITB, RFP or contract bid and subsequent award, must include with each delivery completed Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for each hazardous material. Additionally, each container of hazardous material must be appropriately labeled with: the identity of the hazardous material, appropriate hazardous warnings, and the Name and Address of the chemical manufacturer, improper, or other responsible party.

 Labor and Industries may levy appropriate fines against employers for noncompliance and agencies may withhold payment pending receipt of a legible copy of the MSDS. OSHA Form 20 is not acceptable in lieu of this requirement unless it is modified to include appropriate information relative to "carcinogenic ingredients: and "routes of entry" of the product(s) in question.

 46. Miscellaneous Provisions.

 A. Amendments: No modification of this Contract shall be effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative of the City, except as otherwise authorized herein. The City shall issue change notices to Contractor, and such notices shall take effect under the signature of the City unless written objection of the notice is received by the Contractor upon Contractor receipt of the change notice.

 B. Conflict: In the event of conflict between contract documents and applicable laws, codes, ordinances or regulations, the most stringent or legally binding requirement shall govern and be considered a part of this contract to afford Seattle the maximum benefits.

 C. Liens, Claims and Encumbrances: All materials, equipment, or services shall be free of all liens, claims or encumbrances of any kind and if Seattle requests a formal release of same shall be delivered to Seattle.

 D. Binding Contract: This Contract shall not be binding until signed by both parties. The provisions, covenants and conditions in this Contract shall bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 E. Applicable Law/Venue: This Contract shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought hereunder shall be in the US District Court for the Western District of Washington.

 F. Remedies Cumulative: Rights under this Contract are cumulative and nonexclusive of any other remedy at law or in equity.

 G. Captions: All titles, including sections or subsections, are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 H. Severability: Any term or provision of this Contract found to be prohibited by law shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition without invalidating the remainder of the Contract.

 I. Waiver: No covenant, term or condition or the breach thereof shall be deemed waived, except by written consent of the party against whom the waiver is claimed, and any waiver of the breach of any covenant, term or condition shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other covenant, term or condition. Neither the acceptance by Seattle of any performance by the Contractor after the time the same shall have become due nor payment to the Contractor for any portion of the Work shall constitute a waiver by Seattle of the breach or default of any covenant, term or condition unless otherwise this is expressly agreed to by Seattle, in writing. The City's failure to insist on performance of any of the terms or conditions herein or to exercise any right or privilege or the City's waiver of any breach hereunder shall not thereafter waive any other term, condition, or privilege, whether of the same or similar type.

 J. Entire Contract: This document, along with any attachments and work orders, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the Work. No verbal agreement or conversation between any officer, agent, associate or employee of Seattle and any officer, agency, employee or associate of the Contractor prior to the execution of this Contract shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Contract.

 K. Negotiated Contract: The parties acknowledge that this is a negotiated Contract, that they have had the opportunity to have this Contract reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Contract are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 L. No personal liability: No officer, agent or authorized employee of either Seattle or APM shall be personally responsible for any liability arising under this Contract, whether expressed or implied, nor for any statement or representation made herein or in any connection with this Contract.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, in consideration of the terms, conditions, and covenants contained herein, or attached and incorporated and made a part hereof, the parties have executed this Contract by having their authorized representatives affix their signatures below.

 ACES Power Marketing, LLC

 By

 City of Seattle, Light Department, dba

 Seattle City Light

 By

 Signature Date

 Signature Date

 David Tudor, President and CEO

 Jorge Carrasco, Superintendent

 Washington State Unified Business Identifier Number (UBI):

 Federal Tax ID Number:

 Attachment A - RFP

 [Hard copy inserted]

 Attachment B - RFP Addenda

 [Hard copy inserted]

 Attachment C - APM Proposal

 [Hard copy inserted]

 Attachment D - Scope of Work

 The scope of work of this contract at the time "Commercial Operation" commences at the end of the "Implementation" period will consist of "Subset 4" identified in Section 6 of APM's proposal in response to the RFP, as modified by this contract. This was generally described by APM in its RFP proposal as consisting of the following:

 1. Portfolio Modeling/Analysis/Hedge Development/Origination

 2. Trading Control Services

 3. Credit Services

 4. Contract Monitoring Services

 5. Bilateral Electric Settlements

 The Contractor and Seattle agree to the specific descriptions of the scope of work consisting of each of these five elements, as set forth below.

 The Contractor and Seattle agree that Seattle may require Additional Services, either in an expansion of the services received pursuant to this contract, or as part of Seattle's continuity of operations planning. These additional services are generally described as follows:

 6. Same Day Portfolio Optimization - Real-Time Trading & Scheduling

 7. Day-Ahead/Forward Portfolio Optimization - Forward Trading & Scheduling

 8. Continuity of Operations Services

 9. Consulting Services

 10. Renewable Commodities Services

 The Contractor and Seattle agree that additional specificity will be required in the event Seattle chooses to exercise its contractual right to avail itself of Additional Services pursuant to this contract.

 The Contractor and Seattle agree that Seattle may, at its sole discretion, expand or contract the scope of work performed under this contract during its term to best meet Seattle's needs as they change over time. Any such change shall be made by the Power Management Executive in writing and be effective thirty days thereafter, or following a predefined implementation period for those Additional Services as specified below.

 This scope of work shall be performed by the Contractor in strict conformity with Seattle City Light's Risk Management Policy, Risk Management Procedures, and Risk Metric, as changed from time to time, at Seattle's sole discretion. Seattle shall provide the Contractor a copy of the Risk Management Policy, Risk Procedures and Risk Metric at the time of execution and when they are modified from time to time.

 This scope of work includes as part of the Implementation period, customization by the Contractor as required by Seattle to enable it to execute the functions supported by the scope of work.

 The scope of work includes establishing a performance baseline and measuring the Contractor's performance against that baseline.

 The Contractor and Seattle agree that work performed outside the scope of the contract which has not been the subject of a written amendment by the Power Management Executive shall not be the financial responsibility of Seattle.

 APM and Seattle recognize that during the term of this contract Seattle's load and resources will change and that operational duties, procedures and tasks to participate in the wholesale market will change. APM and Seattle further recognize that Seattle may acquire additional generation resources where Seattle has direct physical and operational control of the generating asset. In the event of such occurrence, APM agrees that it will perform the services described in this contract for such additional generation resources, provided that, Seattle and APM reach an agreement upon additional compensation to APM for any meaningful increases in time or resources expended by APM due to these additional generation resources.

 Services within the Scope of Work

 Implementation

 The Contractor and Seattle agree that the scope of work includes a six month implementation period, which is reasonable and prudent and will conform in substantial measure to Attachment F - Implementation Plan. The maximum fee for implementation is set forth in Attachment E - Pricing, and payment of invoices shall be contingent upon Contractor reaching established milestones reflected in Attachment F, incorporating specific milestones coinciding with fixed payment amounts.

 APM shall submit a Certification of Milestone Completion to Seattle's Power Management Executive at such time as APM believes a milestone has been reached. Within one week of receiving the certificate from APM Seattle's Power Management Executive, or his designee, shall either sign and return the certificate or communicate in writing to APM the reason why Seattle believes the milestone has not been achieved. If Seattle does not communicate in writing within one week the reason(s) the milestone was not achieved, it will be deemed complete.

 APM shall submit invoices to Seattle for completed milestones upon receiving a Certification of Milestone Completion signed by Seattle's Power Management Executive in accordance with Attachment H, or after the expiration of the one week review period,.

 Performance Measurement

 The Contractor and Seattle agree that the scope of work includes Seattle's evaluation of the Contractor's performance of the work under this contract. Contractor will assist Seattle in establishing baselines for performance measurement and will provide all information necessary for Seattle's evaluation of the Contractor's performance.

 Contractor will also assist Seattle in its internal performance measurements and in evaluating the cost-effectiveness of the contract. The metrics to be used in meeting the requirements of this section are to be determined by Seattle and Contractor during the course of the Implementation period and thereafter improved on an on- going basis during the term of the contract.

 For example, APM's short-term optimization model provides the ability to back-cast performance XXX.

 Front Office Services for Seattle City Light's Power Management Division

 APM shall provide the following Front Office Services for Seattle:

 Marketing Strategy Development:

 APM and Seattle shall jointly develop portfolio management strategies and procedures that will aid Seattle in economically optimizing the utilization of its physical power generation and contract resources to meet native load, including offsetting revenues from sales of excess resources and position optimization, within the guidelines of Seattle's risk management policy and hedging policies.

 APM shall use its Short-Term Optimization Model for Short-Term portfolio optimization covering Real-Time through Balance of the Month Risk Management and generate recommendations for balance of the month transactions, next-day transactions, exposure to real-time markets (both purchase and sales exposure), generation commitment and generation dispatch.

 Utilizing the Short-Term Optimization Model, APM's Term Trader will provide Seattle with two (2) model runs per day. These model runs will include discussions via phone calls and emails between Seattle and APM's Front Office to discuss model outputs, the general NW and WECC marketplace and Seattle's strategy decisions.

 Seattle will be required to provide critical data to APM on a daily basis for input into the Short-Term Optimization Model. APM utilizes automated interfaces to import and load external customer data into APM's models. Seattle will be required to provide data to APM in the format consistent with APM's specifications. The following are examples of input data typically required for the Short-Term Optimization model:

 * Load Forecast

 * Resource availability, scheduling limitations and interdependencies and "target" usage limits

 * Market limitations (transmission constraints and/or import/export limitations)

 * Ancillary requirements (if vary daily - otherwise "rules" for daily requirements)

 * Other data that may vary daily (fuel costs if any, other system/resource parameters)

 Portfolio Modeling/Analysis/Hedge Development/Origination

 a. Portfolio Modeling and Analysis:

 APM shall use its Model for Short-Term portfolio optimization covering Real-Time through Balance of the Month Risk Management and generate recommendations for balance of the month transactions, next- day transactions, exposure to real-time markets (both purchase and sales exposure), generation commitment and generation dispatch.

 APM will assist Seattle with decisions longer than Balance of the Month utilizing the APM Portfolio Model which is a decision support tool used in APM's energy risk management process. APM will use the Portfolio Model to identify risk, calculate the impact of various hedging strategies, and monitor costs versus risk tolerance consistent with Seattle's Risk Policy, Procedures and Metric. APM will assist Seattle in determining Seattle's portfolio structure commensurate with its risk tolerance. The APM Portfolio Model will provide Seattle with a detailed probability distribution of possible results for use in understanding the variability of likely outcomes to key components of its resource portfolio. The APM Portfolio Model will also be used to quantify Seattle's applicable exposure to various inputs.

 The APM Portfolio Model will cover 3 years. The deliverables for this service are as follows:

 1. Base Case Reporting: Outlines all of major model input assumptions and serves as a communication tool to ensure that APM and Seattle have a common understanding of the energy portfolio.

 2. Recommendation Strategy Reports: Seattle, the APM Portfolio Director, or Term Trader, and structuring personnel will determine the appropriate frequency and scope of evaluating various hedging strategies over the 3-year horizon.

 3. Monthly Reports: These reports are intended to support the monitoring of established hedging strategies versus Seattle's risk tolerance and provide a snapshot of the portfolio given updated market price inputs, and to support Long-term Strategy Development outlined herein. These reports will provide data in support of Seattle's annual budget. These reports are based on the 3-year Portfolio Model.

 APM shall provide Seattle with access to Seattle's confidential and proprietary historical data, in standard format, and raw format upon Seattle's request, that is used as inputs to the Portfolio Model for use and population into Seattle's data store. This historical data shall be treated and maintained as a trade secret.

 APM will verify price forecasts against actual prices periodically (weekly, monthly, and quarterly) to check for errors in forecast methods or assumptions and communicate the results to Seattle.

 b. Hedge Development

 The APM Portfolio Model will deliver Base Case Reports. These reports will outline all major model input assumptions and serve as a communication tool to ensure that APM and Seattle have a common understanding of the risk in the Seattle energy portfolio.

 Monthly Reports will also be generated to support the monitoring of established hedging strategies versus Seattle's risk tolerance, provide a snapshot of the portfolio given updated market price inputs, and to support Long-Term Strategy Development. The monthly reports will also include participatory conference calls with Seattle, the APM Origination Team and the APM Structuring Team. Additionally, these reports will provide data that may support Seattle's annual budget and are based on the 3-5-year Portfolio Model.

 c. Origination

 APM will assist Seattle in the origination of structured and longer- term deals (2 months to 5 years) for specified energy products by one or more of the following activities:

 * Initiate and maintain counterparty contacts and negotiate deal terms

 * Price and value potential product opportunities

 * Report forward price trends and developments [specify frequency]

 * Recommend products through use of the Seattle Portfolio Model and counterparty contact [requires Portfolio Modeling service above]

 * Execute transactions with counterparties subject to Seattle's Power Management Executive delegation

 Products:

 * Power: forward energy and capacity

 * Structured energy products: including heat rate options, shaped energy, bilateral capacity, load following energy, slice of system deals etc

 * Insurance products: operating risk products

 * Other: [specify, e.g. financing structures, OTC fuel hedges, generation asset PPAs]

 APM will utilize Seattle's Portfolio Model to determine potential originated products (based on fit with the portfolio) and apply an origination strategy, pre-approved by Seattle for counterparty and product selection. Utilizing APM's Pricing Desk to value potential and traded product(s) APM's structuring desk will integrate traded product(s) into Seattle's Portfolio Model and ensure product(s) are consistent with Seattle's risk management policies, procedures and risk metric. APM will coordinate Contract Services priorities for contract forms required for Origination Services; and coordinate commercial priorities for Credit Services for potential counterparties. APM will then propose the product to Seattle's Power Management Executive for consideration.

 If authorized by the Power Management Executive in writing, APM may at some future time contact and negotiate with counterparties for short-term structured or long-term over-the-counter power and transmission products intended to enhance Seattle's hedging strategies (2 month to 5 years)consistent with the above process for origination.

 Transmission Basis Trading Services

 APM will support Seattle in maximizing the value of its transmission assets. An APM transmission specialist will analyze Seattle's long and short term transmission portfolio and provide a WECC-wide analysis. APM will make recommendations and provide reports for the optimization of Seattle's assets, basis hedges and strategy recommendations for various time-frames. APM will closely coordinate with Seattle's Transmission Lead on the development of optimization strategies.

 Weather Forecasting:

 APM shall provide ten-day weather forecast narratives showing the temperature and precipitation trends for the next 10 days. Normal temperatures will be provided as reference, and forecasted temperature deviations will be stated. These weather forecasts shall be provided every Monday morning.

 Trading Control Services

 APM will provide one dedicated APM Trading Control employee to provide on-site support to Seattle to establish a trading control environment around its trading operations. This APM employee will be hired and trained by APM to provide services specifically to Seattle. APM's Trading Control Department will provide the following services on behalf of Seattle at APM's National Service Center in Carmel, Indiana or at Seattle's office in Seattle, Washington:

 1. Risk Policy Development

 2. Deal Capture Review

 3. Risk Policy Compliance Monitoring

 4. Trade Confirmations

 5. Voice Capture

 6. Mark-to-Market Valuations

 7. Website Reporting

 8. Data Submission to Price Index Developers

 A detailed description of each of these services is provided below.

 Risk Policy Development

 The APM Trading Control team will, upon request, assist Seattle in modifying its Risk Management Policy and Procedures from time to time. Seattle's Risk Policy covers the commodities and products traded by Seattle. Seattle's policy defines acceptable trading, set forth clarity and empowerment, encourage communication and instills a disciplined environment. Any authority delegated to APM in the future would be incorporated into both Seattle's Risk Policy and APM's own internal trading authority document.

 Deal Capture Review

 The on-site APM Trading Control employee is responsible for ensuring all trades executed by Seattle are captured/imported completely and accurately into APM's energy transaction & risk management system. Trading Control is responsible for verifying the completeness and accuracy of the transactions within this system. The on-site APM Trading Control employee will also track the trade capture accuracy of Seattle's traders and provide a weekly accuracy report.

 Risk Policy Compliance Monitoring

 The on-site APM Trading Control employee is responsible for monitoring transactions executed against Seattle's trading authority policy to ensure compliance. The on-site APM Trading Control employee is also responsible for monitoring compliance with Seattle's hedge policy, if applicable. The on-site APM Trading Control employee is responsible for reporting any exceptions to the authority policy or hedge policy to Seattle's Risk Oversight Director and Power Management Executive.

 Trade Confirmations

 Written confirmation letters are generated and submitted by the on- site APM Trading Control employee to external counterparties for all trades executed with a term of one day or longer. These confirmation letters are generated from the risk management system. The on-site APM Trading Control employee is responsible for sending out confirmations for both purchases and sales transactions as well as verifying all confirmation letters received from external counterparties.

 Voice Capture

 The on-site APM Trading Control employee may be responsible for maintaining the voice recording system at Seattle if so desired. Seattle records the telephones of traders and schedulers currently. The on-site APM Trading Control employee may be responsible for capturing and retrieving all trading conversations to support and validate executed trades.

 Mark-to-Market Valuations

 The APM Trading Control department at APM's National Service Center in Carmel, Indiana is responsible for marking to market all of Seattle's forward transactions for purposes of determining the mark to market credit exposure Seattle has to its external counterparties and making that information available to Seattle through the APM password protected website.

 Website Reporting

 APM is responsible for providing various reports to Seattle each day on its secure Member and Customer Only Website, at http://www.acespower.net. The on-site APM Trading Control employee ensures that the transaction data reported from the risk systems and released on the site is accurate and complete.

 Data Submission to Price Index Developers

 The on-site APM Trading Control employee may assist Seattle with providing transaction data to price index developers each afternoon Monday through Friday if so desired, and if Seattle complies with applicable FERC Safe Harbor guidelines, which among other requirements, includes an independent annual audit of such reporting practices. Transaction data provided to index developers would include next day and longer power and natural gas standard physical transactions.

 Middle Office Services for Seattle City Light's Finance Division

 While it is the intent of Seattle to maintain control of its portfolio, credit risk management and forward hedging activities, APM shall provide the following Middle Office Services to support Seattle's efforts in these areas:

 Middle Office Reporting:

 APM shall provide reports and information, as detailed in Attachment G to this contract, to enable Seattle to monitor its forward positions and exposures in support of Seattle's internal risk management processes. Such reports shall include details of all of Seattle's resources, contracts and transactions, regardless of whether executed by Seattle or APM.

 In addition to those reports identified in Attachment G APM shall provide reports via APM's FTP site upon Seattle's request, whether due to the size of the file or document or to facilitate an automated import process for Seattle. From time to time APM will also mail a hard-copy of certain reports which are not maintained in an electronic format or which are deemed confidential or proprietary.

 APM shall also deliver via email the following reports and related documents:

 1. Trader Credit Report - emailed daily to all authorized traders.

 2. Sales and Purchase Report - emailed monthly to settlements personnel.

 3. Report on Controls Placed in Operation and Test of Operating Effectiveness - emailed annually (the report from our auditors on the SAS 70 Review).

 4. Custom studies/analyses from our Origination, Structuring and Transmission departments.

 5. Ad hoc or one-time reports requested by Seattle.

 Mark to Market Reporting for Credit Exposure & Regulatory Reporting Requirements:

 APM trading control shall mark to market Seattle's forward trades using APM's risk management system for purposes of determining the mark to market credit exposure Seattle has to each of its external counterparties and publish that data to the APM website for Seattle's review and use, including underlying data as well as resulting reports. Mark-to-Market shall be calculated for the entire time horizon of all forward transactions. APM trading control prepares mark-to-market reports at the end of each month for assistance in meeting FAS 133 requirements. APM shall provide Seattle with the results of any SAS 70 Examinations APM has performed during the Term of this Service Schedule.

 On-Site Services

 In order to facilitate Seattle's risk management environment, the following additional services may be provided by the on-site APM Trading Control employee:

 1. Prepare monthly reports of Seattle traders' performance, or other reports requested by Seattle;

 2. Attend internal power supply, risk management committee or City Counsel meetings as requested by Seattle;

 3. Provide trading control and risk management presentations as requested by Seattle;

 4. Develop and maintain a working knowledge of Seattle's contracts and power supply;

 5. Work closely with the APM Credit, Contract, Structuring and Settlements Departments;

 6. Maintain a working knowledge of APM's services and how those services bring value to Seattle;

 7. Work closely with Seattle's management team;

 8. Provide insight on the APM Portfolio Model and Seattle Portfolio Model Reports prepared by the APM Structuring Department;

 9. Become an active participant in Seattle's decision-making process;

 10. Act as a liaison between Seattle and APM;

 11. Any additional responsibilities as defined by APM management;

 Credit Services

 APM will provide reports that show Seattle's credit exposure. These reports show the current credit limit assigned to each counterparty, the current exposure with each counterparty, the current credit available with each counterparty and the current collateralization requirements, if any. APM has credit files for over 450 counterparties that will provide significant assistance in the management of Seattle's credit needs.

 In addition to credit exposure reporting, APM's Credit Department will perform the following Credit Monitoring services on behalf of Seattle:

 1. Create customized credit policies

 2. Analyze rates and score each counterparty that is not rated by either S&P or Moody's

 3. Maintain credit files for each counterparty

 4. Establish credit limits for each counterparty

 5. Create daily credit exposure reports, which are website accessible

 6. Monitor credit exposures

 7. Manage credit limit exceptions

 8. Obtain and renew credit enhancements

 9. Monitor default probabilities

 10. Monitor bond markets to assist in the counterparty credit analysis

 11. Create "watch lists" which are distributed via email

 12. Maintain daily contact with key industry participants to stay on top of issues

 13. Distribute a daily, or periodical news brief email

 14. Periodically send out pertinent industry news items

 Contract Monitoring Services

 APM shall perform the following Contract Monitoring Services for Seattle:

 1. Inventory existing contracts, identify duplication and provide Seattle with recommendations to terminate, revise, etc.

 2. Implement contractual controls; enter agreements into risk management system and establish term monitoring, reporting queries, and other necessary provisions;

 3. Identify key contractual issues and analyze and summarize contract provisions including, triggers, and settlement processes;

 4. Ensure contracts are in place with qualified counterparties, entered into the APM risk system and validated, to facilitate effective trading and trading controls;

 5. Ensure trades are executed with proper legal entity and within available products;

 6. Ensure existing contracts contain current credit provisions and adequate Force Majeure language;

 7. Ensure assignments have been maintained for mergers and acquisitions;

 8. Generate reports, including contractual products and provisions list;

 9. Monitor trade execution to ensure trades are consistent with contract provisions and requirements;

 10. Draft damage claim notice letters, if necessary;

 11. Coordinate with Seattle Risk Oversight Group and APM Credit Department to ensure adequate credit provisions within agreements; and,

 12. Monitor, track, and provide notice of contract renewal and expiration dates;

 13. APM shall provide contract and credit negotiation services that shall be limited to twenty (20) hours per contract, and five (5) total contracts per year, of which only one (1) may be ISDA contracts. Time spent in excess of twenty (20) hours per contract shall be charged at APM's current consulting rates.

 Back Office Services for Seattle City Light's Finance Division

 APM shall provide Seattle with timely information on transactions and actual volumes to enable Seattle to perform settlement estimates as set forth below.

 APM shall provide reporting at the transaction level. Such transactional data specificity would include, but may not be limited to:

 1. Counter Party;

 2. Hourly price and volume data;

 3. Type of transaction

 4. Mid-C or COB indexed transaction cost data; and

 5. Penalty, losses or other unique charges as required under contact settlement terms that apply.

 Reporting and Information Technology Services:

 APM shall provide Seattle with APM's standard suite of reports as currently found on the APM website and shown in Attachment G. While APM may modify its standard reports, APM shall continue to make available to Seattle any information contained therein to support the services specified in this contract. In addition to standard reports, APM will create customized reports for Seattle at APM's standard hourly rate upon the written request of the Power Management Executive.

 APM shall provide reports and information to enable Seattle to monitor its forward positions and exposures in support of Seattle's internal risk management processes. The reports shall include the following types of information at a minimum: transmission and electric energy positions; mark-to-market, and counterparty exposure based on latest available trade data; load forecasts; resource availability and projected dispatch or utilization; market price forecasts; and, counterparty exposure and credit information. These reports shall be updated regularly and made available to Seattle on a timely basis as appropriate to facilitate their intended use.

 APM shall provide Seattle with timely information on transactions and actual volumes to enable Seattle to perform settlement estimates. The data includes the following types of information at a minimum: price and volume(s) for any electric energy and transmission transactions; and, actual volumes for transactions. These data shall be in electronic format and made available to Seattle on a "following business day" basis. APM IT can build an interface from APM's systems consistent with Seattle's specifications to provide transaction data for import into Seattle's systems. APM would provide this work at an hourly consulting rate.

 SCL would be responsible for building the mechanism to load the transaction data into Seattle's proprietary systems.

 SCL will be responsible for providing transaction data from Seattle's trade capture systems to APM in the format consistent with APM's specifications. Seattle's transaction data will be imported into APM's systems and utilized for providing trading control, settlements and reporting services to Seattle.

 APM's IT Team will provide Seattle with customized reports at APM's hourly rate, if APM's suite of standard reports is not sufficient to meet Seattle's needs. All business systems necessary to support the services will need to be fully operational and tested prior to beginning commercial operation under any final agreement, APM's IT Team will be instrumental in this effort.

 APM will not provide accessible systems (due to licensing agreements) to Seattle, but will provide accessible data (interfaces/reports). Seattle will need to either perform that work internally or contract with a local consultant for such work.

 Bilateral Electric Settlements Reporting

 APM's Back Office and Information Technology (IT) Teams will provide the following settlement reporting services from APM's Headquarters in Carmel, Indiana:

 1. Daily, weekly and monthly reporting,

 2. Sales and Purchase Report - emailed to settlements personnel as appropriate, and

 3. Customized reports and templates relating to marked to market and accrual accounting.

 Seattle will continue to perform the counter party verification/ checkout, invoicing, and posting of payments and receipts (for their internal systems), relying upon APM's reporting referenced above.

 On a monthly basis, by 6:00 A.M. PST on the 1st business day of any month, an email will be sent by APM to each of Seattle's counter parties including transmission of the monthly amount of purchase and/or sale transactions that are to be settled for the prior month. This email notification will be in a secure format. Counter parties will respond to APM's settlement team who will upon receipt will forward the email to Seattle's Back Office. This will be the "hand off" between APM's settlement team and Seattle's Back Office.

 At this point Seattle's Back Office contact will resolve any discrepancies which are identified in the email correspondence. Seattle's Back Office will be responsible for ensuring any corrections are entered into their on-site system(s) which would then be interfaced to APM's risk system. Seattle's Back Office will also notify APM's settlement team of the agreed upon checkout amounts for the counterparties which discrepancies had been identified. This process may be able to be automated with the interface between Seattle's system and APM's risk system.

 On a daily basis APM's settlement team will update Seattle's Checkout Sheet (or other agreed upon format) and at the end of each business day (until all monthly check out has been completed) APM's settlement team will forward a current version to Seattle's Back Office.

 APM's settlement team will not be responsible for performing any tasks related to mid-month check out. Seattle's Back Office will perform this function.

 Seattle's Accounting department will notify APM's settlement team when actual payments/receipts have been made so that APM's settlement team can input this information into APM's risk system.

 In the event that a Continuity of Operations event occurs whether due to staffing, an emergency, or another event and Seattle wishes to utilize APM for complete bilateral electric settlement services it may do so as an Additional Service below. Seattle will provide a minimum of two weeks notice to commence full APM settlement services at the rate specified in Attachment E - Pricing.

 Additional Services

 Upon written notice from Seattle's Power Management Executive, APM shall perform the Additional Services described below. The following are pre-priced "Additional Services" that Seattle may authorize APM to perform:

 Same Day Portfolio Optimization - Real-Time Trading & Scheduling

 APM will set up and execute real-time trading and operating strategies designed to optimize Seattle's portfolio within the authority and responsibility delegations given to APM by Seattle through Seattle's risk policies and procedures. This Service includes the optimization of contracts, unit dispatch, and power purchases and sales in the real time wholesale market.

 By selecting this Service, Seattle hereby grants APM authority to act and make decisions on behalf of Seattle. APM shall act according to Seattle's Risk Management Policy, the Risk Controls established between APM and Seattle, and consistent with the underlying contracts between Seattle and its counterparties, as its agent, to sell electric power, surplus transmission, and ancillary services into the real time market made available by Seattle pursuant to this contract and to purchase electric power, transmission, and ancillary services in the real time market on behalf of Seattle.

 Seattle will provide to APM its "Schedule of Available Resources" affecting the real-time market, which will include, at minimum, existing executed power purchase and sale agreements, unit capacities, known transmission constraints and scheduled electric power and energy transaction details. Such Schedule of Available Resources shall be delivered in advance by Seattle, by facsimile transmission or other electronic means to APM on the normal day-ahead scheduling day before such electric power will be purchased or sold and at such other times as Seattle may deem appropriate.

 For any hour or hours, if the Schedule of Available Resources previously delivered by Seattle changes, due to unscheduled or previously unknown conditions, to less than the level that Seattle has scheduled, then APM shall attempt, on Seattle's behalf, to purchase from the market, for those hours, replacement power to cover the shortfall caused by the revision to the extent that such shortfall would prevent the performance of any firm transaction or impair reliable service to load. For any hour or hours, if the Schedule of Available Resources previously delivered by Seattle changes, due to unscheduled or previously unknown conditions, to more than the level that Seattle has scheduled, then APM shall attempt, on Seattle's behalf, to sell to the market, for such hour or hours, such excess electric power. Before execution of any real time trade, APM shall first optimize SCL's generation and contractual resources for the next 24-48 hours to optimizing purchases and sales. SCL's resources shall be shaped to the higher valued time periods of the day and minimized during the lower-valued periods of the night while meeting all Seattle fisheries management requirements, above and beyond existing FERC hydroelectric licensing conditions and related commitments and any other regulatory requirements.

 APM and Seattle shall participate in brief daily operational calls and communications as needed for the purposes of:

 1. Seattle providing APM information on Seattle's day-ahead strategy,

 2. Seattle's operational position, including transmission positions, and system constraints

 3. Seattle's instructions for APM's real-time position optimization, and

 4. APM providing Seattle with pertinent market information regarding the real-time markets, real-time trades and scheduling.

 Note: Changes in system conditions may require modifications by the APM real-time trader. Calls shall typically take place prior to the start of day-ahead trading for Seattle, preceding the transfer of Day-Ahead Schedules, and as needed during the day for the purposes outlined above.

 SCL Generating Resources:

 APM shall optimize all of Seattle's resources to meet load and satisfy reserve requirements in the real time market. APM shall schedule all electric output from Seattle's dispatchable generation resources through direct interaction and/or through appropriate software with Seattle's System Control Center and/or power plant operators. APM shall be responsible for scheduling and tagging and/or actively approving these resources in accordance with Seattle protocols. Accordingly, APM shall provide the following services, as applicable, for Seattle generation:

 1. Scheduling and dispatching plant operation within plant constraints, including all operational constraints (examples - fish mitigation and flood controls), and agreed to strategies, dispatch schedule, applicable Seattle protocols and BPA tariffs, WECC and NERC Minimum Operating Reliability Criteria, and any other operating constraints communicated by Seattle to APM;

 2. Monitoring Seattle's real time generator output;

 3. Monitoring plant capability, constraints and curtailments, and communicating such constraints and planned and unplanned outages to Seattle; and

 4. Perform other services reasonably necessary to enable Seattle to optimally operate Seattle generation which may include transmission redirects and scheduling.

 Wholesale Marketing Real-Time

 APM shall make reasonable efforts to optimize Seattle's surplus resources including: transmission capacity, generation and generation capacity, through wholesale transactions with approved counterparties, including bilateral purchases and sales at the same or different Point of Receipt/Point of Delivery (POR/POD).

 Real Time System Monitoring and Logging:

 APM shall monitor generation and transmission system curtailments, emergencies, and maintain a written log of significant or noteworthy real time events. APM shall monitor current contract status, schedules, constraints and electric options available to Seattle. APM shall reconcile any transaction discrepancy at the end of each real time shift. APM shall conduct all transactions in compliance with all then applicable standards and procedures including auditing requirements. Any curtailed e-tags and schedules shall be promptly settled within the shift in accordance with all then applicable standards and procedures, to include, but not limited to: book-outs, declaring an uncontrollable force (force majeure), or re-directing, re-sourcing, or re-sinking to keep the curtailed schedule whole.

 Communication and Coordination With Other Agencies:

 APM shall provide operational coordination and interface with other entities (i.e. utilities, power marketers, control areas, etc.). Real Time desks and Day Ahead scheduling and tagging, and serve as the "operational and market voice" of Seattle in the Real Time realm. In addition, APM shall provide schedule data for various Seattle resources in the format required by BPA pursuant to Seattle's current communication and coordination efforts. Additionally, other resources may be identified within the course of the contract, and those resources will be included in communication and coordination.

 The implementation period for Same Day Portfolio Optimization - Real- Time Trading & Scheduling shall be XXX months.

 Day-Ahead/Forward Portfolio Optimization - Forward Trading & Scheduling

 Forward Trading

 APM shall identify and recommend transactions in forward power markets to cover open positions and optimize costs and revenues. Upon request or approval by Seattle and in accordance with Seattle Risk Policies, APM shall execute day-ahead, balance of the week, balance of the month, transmission basis trades, and forward transactions within approved parameters.

 APM shall work with Seattle to develop procedures for approval by Seattle staff for participating efficiently and effectively in bilateral power markets in the following tenors or timeframes:

 1. Day Ahead ("DA");

 2. Balance of week ("BOW") markets; and,

 3. Balance of month ("BOM") markets.

 4. Prompt month markets.

 APM shall recommend, or execute within the limits of Seattle's Risk Management Policy and an APM specific and approved Transaction Authority Policy, transactions in the DA and BOW/BOM markets following the approved strategies and procedures. As part of transaction execution, APM shall also gather market information (e.g. prices, generation and transmission conditions, curtailments, constraints, etc.) and will share information with Seattle.

 APM shall use its "Short-Term Optimization Model", or successor program, that utilizes native load usage, forecasted weather data, and load growth to predict Seattle's day-ahead native load requirements and develop recommended dispatch, transaction strategies, and associated net costs. APM shall update the model based upon constraints, limitations, or updated parameters provided Seattle.

 APM shall apply least cost dispatch methodologies to economically match the resources necessary to meet the energy requirements of Seattle's native load and to optimize economic opportunities that are consistent with the approved strategies, once the DA forecast is available. The process will include transmission reservations and transmission scheduling as needed to secure a path from generation source to Seattle's load.

 APM shall provide planned dispatch schedules to Seattle based upon predetermined protocols established by APM and Seattle to Seattle's generation fleet operators and/or contractually controlled assets to achieve balance between RT load and assets consistent with reliability considerations and economic alternatives. APM shall communicate and work with SCL's Senior Power Dispatchers at the System Control Center (SCC) on any plant dispatch, NERC e-tag, and WECC/NERC Reliability issues that come up during real-time operations. This will act as a feedback mechanism to APM on any needed adjustments that have to be made on any DA, BOW, and BOM operations planning to fine tune resource optimization on a daily basis.

 Forward Scheduling

 APM shall provide energy transaction and scheduling services following the approved strategies, procedures, and authorizations established in Seattle's Risk Management Policy. APM shall be responsible for ensuring that resulting resource and load schedules are compliant with any applicable Bonneville Power Administration ("BPA")/SCL protocols, supply or transmission contract, and any import or generation constraints communicated by Seattle to APM. APM shall be responsible for meeting scheduling, tracking, and data submission requirements of BPA protocols, including hourly intertie checkouts, and the California Independent System Operator ("CAISO") Tariff Amendment 72 (or successor tariff section) and any applicable Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"), NERC and WECC requirements.

 Transaction Energy-Profile Tags:

 APM shall submit transaction energy-profile tags to the BPA, and/or WECC Transmission Service Providers, identifying each resource, location, path, and quantity in accordance with the current NERC E- Tag 1.8 or most current version. APM is responsible for monitoring, adjusting and approving real-time tags, including entering new transactions and will provide Seattle with the final scheduled quantities at day's end. In Real Time, APM will actively approve modifications or adjustments to all Seattle tags. APM will be available at all hours of the day and night to communicate with the Senior Power Dispatchers at the System Control Center (SCC) on any NERC E-tagging issues, NERC/WECC Reliability issues, any fisheries licensing issues, and any unit operational issues.

 The implementation period for Day-Ahead/Forward Portfolio Optimization - Forward Trading & Scheduling shall be XXX months.

 Modeling Consulting Services

 APM will make available resources to Seattle to review and analyze Seattle's existing Hydro Estimation and Risk Analysis ("HERA") and Short Term Operating and Marketing Program ("STOMP") models and make improvement recommendations. APM's recommendations shall include whether either or both the models should be incrementally improved or rebuilt. Any work developing the improvements or re-build may be done by Seattle IT or by APM IT. If by APM IT then at rates in Attachment E - Pricing.

 The implementation period for Modeling Consulting Services shall be XXX months.

 Renewable Commodity Services

 ACES Power Marketing (APM) offers Seattle Renewable Energy Services to meet the state law requirements for renewable energy credit ("REC") as defined in RCW 19.285.030(17) and any subsequent, similar federal legislation. APM will provide Seattle City Light with expert analysis of Renewable Energy market dynamics. APM can provide the following services:

 A. REC Analytical Services include the development and implementation of customized renewable energy management/procurement strategies. APM will identify a range of potential markets where RECs can be bought and sold, as needed. APM will work with Seattle to propose a REC Management Structure for any RECs it is required to purchase.

 B. REC Execution Services adds execution of transactions to the above analytical services upon the written authorization of the Power Marketing Executive.

 The implementation period for Renewable Commodity Services shall be XXX months.

 APM Front Office On-site Support Services

 In order to facilitate Seattle's Front Office environment, the following additional services may be provided by an on-site APM Front Office employee:

 1. Assist the Power Management Executive in prioritizing and addressing the operational gaps he has identified in Seattle's Front Office operations as set forth in the most current Gaps Analysis to be provided to APM by the Power Management Executive;

 2. Liaison with APM and provide project management services to Seattle during the implementation period;

 3. Assist in development and documentation of Seattle's Front Office Procedures;

 4. Develop and maintain a working knowledge of Seattle's Front Office operations;

 5. Assist in deployment and integration of Seattle IT services into Seattle's Front Office operations;

 6. Any additional responsibilities as defined by APM management and Seattle's Power Management Executive;

 The implementation period for APM Front Office On-site Support Services shall be XXX months.

 Bilateral Electric Settlements

 APM's Back Office and Information Technology (IT) Teams will provide the following services from APM's Headquarters in Carmel, Indiana.

 APM's Back Office and IT Teams will provide the services described as Energy Accounting and Reporting and Energy Trading and Risk Management Business Systems. These will include:

 1. Verification of units and dollars of energy transactions that have occurred during the month

 2. Invoice preparation

 3. Daily, weekly and monthly reporting, Sales and Purchase Report - emailed monthly to settlements personnel as appropriate

 4. Access to settlements data at a degree of granularity equivalent to billing or cost determinants.

 APM will have access to resources such as the Open Access Technology International (OATI) tagging system, the Open Access Same Time Information System (OASIS) system and the phone recording system, to assist when discrepancies are found during the data verification process.

 APM is knowledgeable of accounting requirements relating to FAS and EITF issues, Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 requirements, required Quarterly FERC sales reporting, and others as required. Upon Seattle's request, APM can assist with providing the necessary data for these accounting requirements at APM's hourly fees.

 The implementation period for Bilateral Electric Settlements Services shall be XXX months.

 Ad Hoc Consulting Services

 Upon request, and subject to its expertise, APM may perform consulting services for Seattle. All consulting services provided by APM, whether on a fixed fee, monthly, hourly, or gratuitous basis, that are not specifically designated in this contract shall nevertheless be performed under the terms and conditions of the contract. All consulting services will be charged at APM's current consulting rates or as otherwise agreed upon between APM and Seattle. Billing and payment for Ad Hoc Consulting Services approved by Seattle shall be in accordance with this contract's invoicing provisions. With respect to continuity of operations services, Seattle and APM shall discuss and plan the provision of such services at a later date.

 Post-Termination Transition Services

 In the event the Contract between Seattle and APM has been terminated for Seattle's convenience but Seattle continues to express a need for some or all services after the Transition Period and the effective date of the termination, APM will provide "Post-Termination Transition Services". Such services will be provided by APM for up to one year after the effective date of the termination at a rate of then existing fees plus ten percent.

 Attachment E - Pricing

 NOTE - PRICING TERMS STILL TO BE NEGOTIATED

 The specific scope of work of this contract is identified in Attachment D - Scope of Work. The following pricing is identified for each element within the scope of work. The parties agree that the scope of work performed under this contract may expand or contract during its term to best meet Seattle's needs as they change over time.

 Services: Monthly Fee: Annual Max. Fee:

 Implementation (2008) Per $288,000 milestones achieved

 Annual Services (2009)

 Portfolio Modeling, Analysis, Hedge Development, and $35,500 $425,000 Origination

 Strategy Development $ $51,000

 Trading Controls $17,900 $215,000

 On-Site APM Staff $12,000 $144,000

 Credit Services $7,500 $90,000

 Settlements Reporting (8% of RFP quote) $464 $5,600

 Contract Monitoring) $2,100 $25,000

 Subtotal [need to update at final] $80,800 $1,020,000

 Additional Services:

 Real-Time Trading and Scheduling (execution) $101,250 $1,215,000

 Day-Ahead and Forward Trading and Scheduling $81,250 $975,000 (execution)

 REC Analytical Services

 REC Execution Services

 Full Settlements Services $5,800 $70,000

 Post-Termination Transition Services = 110% of fees

 Hourly rates for undefined Additional Services

 Company Officer $500.00 per hour

 All Other Professional Staff $250.00 per hour

 Except for pre-priced options described herein, or as otherwise may be mutually agreed by APM and Seattle, the above fee schedule shall apply for Additional Services:

 Where the pricing above is expressed as an annual rate the monthly rate for such services shall be one-twelfth the rate and pro-rated for period of less than a calendar year.

 Annual Escalation Rate - 5%

 Attachment F - Implementation

 Implementation Services and the Associated Milestone Fees

 "Implementation Services", as defined herein, shall commence immediately upon the contract's Effective Date. Implementation Services shall be performed as necessary to prepare Seattle and APM staff, information technology systems, policies and procedures to implement the services under this contract. The Implementation Fees are paid by Seattle to APM as provided herein. Implementation Services shall generally include, without limitation, any services as necessary to complete or implement all Milestones identified in the following table. Implementation Services may also include, without limitation, any services as necessary to complete or implement any of Additional Services upon written request by Seattle's Power Management Executive.

 Milestones and Milestone Fees

 Upon the completion by APM of any Milestone designated below, APM shall submit to Seattle a Certification of Milestone Completion, as shown in Attachment H, for execution by Seattle's Power Management Executive.

 Additional Services Fees shall apply upon completion of the Additional Services Milestones identified below.

 When the Parties agree that Implementation Services are sufficiently complete for APM to commence providing the Services as described in this Service Schedule, the Parties shall execute the Certification of Commencement of Operations, as shown in Attachment H, and designate therein the Commencement of Operations Date. Neither Party shall unreasonably withhold either the Certificate of Milestone Completion or the Certification of Commencement of Operations.

 Key:

 Milestone = major or subsidiary milestone % of a major milestone and compensation value

 Owner = APM, Seattle or Joint

 Deadline is goal for closing out the milestone

 Fee is the compensation for achieving a major milestone or the % of a major milestone that a minor milestone is worth.

 Milestone Owner General Category/Description Deadline Fee or %

 Attachment G - APM Standard Reports

 I. Transaction Data and Risk Reports:

 Trade Data

 The Trade Data Report contains the primary data elements of every transaction in Excel format. All data for the current month is updated through hour 24 of the previous day. All data for the prior month is reported on the Prior Month Trade Data Report.

 Mark to Market

 This report details the Mark-to-Market, unrealized gains and losses, and credit exposure of each forward trade for power, gas, and oil. This report will be updated on a daily basis. The mark to market with each external counterparty corresponds to the mark to market exposure with that counterparty on your Counterparty Credit Exposure Report.

 All forward trades are marked using market prices where possible and supply-demand model generated forecasts beyond the liquid quotes.

 The MtM Profit/Loss values are reported in Net Present Value. That is, the value of forward trades are discounted to represent their value as of today. The rates used to discount the forward values are the risk-free yields of zero coupon constant maturity U.S. Treasury Securities.

 The reported credit exposure is likewise Net Present Value, with the same discounting practice as the MtM.

 Volatilities used to value forward option trades for all commodities are the implied volatilities of "at-the-money" options. Volatility for the month following the liquid quote period is based on a time- to-expiration weighted average of historical volatility. Beyond that month, vols are held constant for 5 years after the liquid period, then decline at 1% per year.

 For power options in the off-peak period, off-peak volatilities are calculated as a percentage of peak volatilities based on the ratio of off-peak prices to peak prices.

 Counterparty Credit Exposure

 Counterparty Credit Exposure Report:

 Report shows counterparty credit limits, available credit to the counterparty, and current total exposure to the counterparty.

 Threshold Report:

 Report shows the potential for margin calls to be made upon member/customer.

 Trading Restrictions

 Report listing currently restricted counterparties.

 Transaction Request Tracking Log

 The transaction request tracking log tracks transaction requests received by APM requesting APM to execute transactions on behalf of a member or customer. The log details the status of each request, along with the trade activity associated with each request.

 II. Pricing Data and Market Outlooks:

 Power Prices

 Forward Curves: report shows forward price curves for on-peak and off-peak power for several different pricing locations.

 Forward Price Graphs: This report shows a graph of on-peak forward curves and a graph of off-peak forward curves for several different pricing locations.

 Historical Forward Price Curves. This report shows historical summer and winter forward price curves for AEP Dayton, ERCOT, Entergy, CinHub, COB, Palo Verde and PJMWest.

 PJM Electricity Futures: The most recent NYMEX settle price for the PJM Western Hub electricity futures - financially settled monthly futures contract (40 MWh) and forward prices for PJM Unforced Capacity derived from the PJM Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) base residual auction; these prices are updated quarterly.

 Forward Market Implied Volatility: This report contains the option- implied forward volatility for several regional pricing locations.

 Power Forward Curves History

 This report shows daily forward price curves for on-peak and off-peak power for several different pricing locations for the past 30 days.

 The current day's forward price curves can be found under Forward Pricing, Forward curves.

 Power Price Outlook

 Each report is a Weekly Power Price Outlook for the week ending in the date reflected in the report title.

 Natural Gas Prices

 NYMEX Futures Contracts: This report shows the NYMEX closing prices on Futures for the current year and the next five years.

 NYMEX Options Contracts: This document shows the NYMEX closing prices on Options Contracts each day out 18 Months. The document also shows forward monthly volatilities.

 Calendar Strips: This document shows pricing on natural gas calendar strips through 2011.

 Gas Basis Forwards: This file reflects forward gas prices for various basis locations in addition to Henry Hub.

 Historical NYMEX Quote: This report shows the NYMEX closing prices on Futures Contracts for the last 30 days out 72 months.

 Natural Gas Outlook

 Each report is a Weekly Natural Gas Update for the week ending in the date reflected in the report title.

 Heating Oil Prices

 This report shows the NYMEX closing prices of Futures Contracts for Heating Oil each day out 18 months. Prices are quoted in US dollars and cents per gallon. Each contract represents 42,000 gallons (1,000 barrels) of heating oil.

 Coal Prices

 This report shows NYMEX closing prices of Central Appalachian Coal Futures Contacts each day out 24 to 26 consecutive months. Prices are quoted in US dollars and cents per ton. Each contract represents 1,550 tons of coal.

 Coal and Emissions Outlook

 This Outlook will be issued every two weeks and provide assessments of prices from a few key coal markets across the country for near term (spot/prompt quarter) and next calendar year. SO2 and NOX price assessments are also included for the current year and next 2 years. A brief narrative will provide some of the latest coal market activity, important news in the energy industry and an outlook of future trends. This week's chart will indicate the levels of Electric Power Sector Coal Stocks and in future issues a chart indicating US Coal Production will be substituted on an every other issue basis.

 The intention of this outlook is to provide ACES Power Marketing clients with a brief snapshot of the coal and emission allowance markets.

 IV. Weather:

 Weather Reports

 These reports are generated by ACES Power Marketing meteorologist Bill Morris.

 The ten-day forecast narrates the temperature and precipitation trends for the next 10 days. Normal temperatures will be provided as reference, and forecasted temperature deviations from these normals will be stated. These forecasts will be produced every Monday morning. The Daily Weather Discussions are a condensed version of these reports that are submitted daily Tuesday through Friday.

 Seasonal climate forecasts are often referred to as outlooks due to the long-lead, statistical nature of the forecast. A Seasonal Outlook for the summer will be generated in the previous spring, and an outlook for winter will be made in the fall. Current atmospheric and oceanic conditions that will play a part in the outlook are described, then the outlook is given. The outlook will be a "best" probability of whether the temperatures for the upcoming season will be above-normal, below-normal, or near-normal. Normal temperatures for various cities are listed for reference.

 Daily Weather Discussions

 Daily weather discussions.

 V. Policies:

 Energy Risk Management Policy

 The energy risk management policy for your company can be found in this section.

 Trading Authority

 The trading authority policy(ies) for your company can be found in this section. They may include authority for transacting power, gas, coal, emission credits, and oil. Authority for each commodity may be contained in a single document or multiple documents.

 Credit Policy

 The credit policy for your company can be found in this section.

 Hedging Policies, Plans or Strategies

 If your company has adopted any formal energy hedging policies, plans, or strategies for any commodities it is contained in this section.

 VI. SAS 70:

 SAS 70 Report

 SAS 70 Report issued by auditors.

 VII. Directories:

 Current APM Web Users

 This report is updated at the beginning of each month and includes the name and email address of each person who has been assigned access to your ACES Power Marketing client website. If you see someone on this list who should not have access, please email APM at helpdesk@acespower.com.

 Employee Directory

 APM Employee Directory

 Attachment H - Certificates

 [page intentionally blank]

 Certification of Milestone Completion

 Seattle hereby certifies that it agrees with APM that as of the day of _____________________ 2007, APM has satisfactorily completed the following Implementation Service Milestone(s) listed below:

 (1)

 (2)

 (3)

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seattle, by its respective duly Authorized Representative, has executed and delivered to APM this Certification Milestone Completion as of the date first written above.

 Seattle City Light

 By: ________________________________

 Ray Camacho, Power Management Executive

 Date: ______________________________

 Certification of Commencement of Operations

 The Parties hereby agree as of the day of _____________________ 2007, Implementation Services are sufficiently complete to commence operations. The Initial Term, as defined in the Service Schedule, shall commence as of the ___________ day of ____________________________ 2007 ("the Commencement of Operations Date ").

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Appendix __ to the Service Schedule to be executed and delivered by their respective duly authorized officers or Authorized Representative as of the date first written above.

 ALLIANCE FOR COOPERATIVE ENERGY SERVICES POWER MARKETING LLC

 By: __________________________________

 David J. Tudor

 Title: President and CEO

 Date: _________________________________ CITY OF SEATTLE, Light Department

 dba Seattle City Light

 By: ________________________________

 Ray Camacho, Power Management Executive

 Date: ______________________________

 Attachment I - NERC Delegation Agreement

 [page intentionally left blank]

 AGREEMENT ON COORDINATION AND DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE WITH ELECTRIC RELIABILITY STANDARDS

 This Agreement on Coordination and Delegation of Responsibility for Compliance with Electric Reliability Standards ("Amendment") is entered into as of [Month] [date], 2008, by and between ______________________ ("City") and Alliance For Cooperative Energy Services Power Marketing LLC ("APM") and is an addendum to Exhibit __ to the Service Agreement between the Parties dated [Month] [date], 2008. APM and City are herein referred to as "Parties."

 Recitals:

 WHEREAS, City is directly responsible for complying with certain Reliability Standards established, administered and enforced by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation ("NERC") or its delegate, the Western Electric Coordinating Counsel ("WECC"), the regional reliability entities in City's regions, subject to the approval and/or oversight of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") pursuant to Section 215 of the Federal Power Act, as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the "Reliability Standards"); and

 WHEREAS, APM as City's agent, assists City from time to time with engaging in capacity and/or energy purchase and sale transactions; and

 WHEREAS, City and APM desire to clearly delineate those responsibilities for compliance with the Reliability Standards that City has delegated, in whole or in part, to APM.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements made herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:

 1. APM will, for and on behalf of City, comply with all aspects of the Reliability Standards applicable to the functions performed by APM on behalf of City that are or become from time to time applicable to Purchasing-Selling Entities ("PSEs") and Generator Operators ("GOPs") (as defined in the Reliability Standards) in connection with each capacity and/or energy purchase or sale transaction APM arranges or executes as agent for City, including, without limitation, all requirements for tagging, voice recording, electronic communications, data capture and retention, Reliability Coordinator directives compliance, reactive resource procurement and information sharing applicable to such transactions.

 2. APM shall satisfy these reliability functions in accordance with the Reliability Standards, as promulgated and amended from time to time, and protocols established and agreed upon by the Parties. The Reliability Standards applicable as of the date of this Agreement to PSEs and GOPs are listed on the Reliability Appendix attached hereto. APM and City shall monitor any additions and amendments to the Reliability Standards and shall inform each other promptly upon becoming aware of any changes to such Reliability Standards or additional Reliability Standards applicable to PSEs and GOPs. APM shall work with City to develop protocols for APM's compliance with all Reliability Standards applicable to PSEs and GOPs, as promulgated and amended from time to time.

 3. City and APM agree that APM is fulfilling certain aspects of City's compliance with the Electric Reliability Standards and that APM may be required to cooperate and assist City in demonstrating to NERC or its delegate, whether by audit or otherwise, City's compliance with the Reliability Standards.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment to be executed and delivered by their respective duly authorized officers as of the date first written above.

 ALLIANCE FOR COOPERATIVE ENERGY SERVICES POWER MARKETING LLC

 By: __________________________________

 David J. Tudor

 Title: President and CEO

 Date: _________________________________ CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: ________________________________

 Title: ______________________________

 Date: ______________________________

 RELIABILITY APPENDIX

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 Standard Number Requirement Number Title or Standard

 07/01/06 57 of 63

 NOT APPROVED BY ANY PARTY / SUBJECT TO LEGAL REVIEW

 v.8 - June 12, 2008 - post-meeting redraft

 Attachment 1

```
