

********

**Council Bill Number: 116397**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122863**
********

 AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital improvement program and position modifications, for the City of Seattle for 2009.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 24, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 4, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 2, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 10, 2008
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, CAPITAL-IMPROVEMENT-PROGRAM

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 31115, CF 309612

**Fiscal Note:**116397

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122863](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122863.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital improvement program and position modifications, for the City of Seattle for 2009.

 WHEREAS, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.030, the Mayor submitted the proposed budget for 2009 to the City Council; and

 WHEREAS, the Mayor submitted a list of proposed position modifications as part of the 2009 Proposed Budget; and

 WHEREAS, by Resolution 24964, the City Council adopted the concept of implementing the City's Capital Improvement Program through appropriations in budgets adopted annually to the greatest extent feasible; and

 WHEREAS, the proposed budget for 2009 includes certain appropriations for capital programs that are described in the 2009-2014 Proposed Capital Improvement Program; and

 WHEREAS, the City's 2009-2014 Capital Improvement Program, in conjunction with the Capital Facilities, Utility and Transportation Elements of the Comprehensive Plan, is in accordance with the State Growth Management Act; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. (a) In accordance with RCW 35.32A.050, the City Council has modified the proposed budget submitted by the Mayor.

 (b) The expenditure allowances for the budget control levels in Attachment A to this ordinance, as restricted by the budget provisos included in Clerk File (C.F.) 309612, are adopted and shall constitute the appropriations for the City's annual budget for 2009.

 (c) The expenditure allowance for each budget control level in Attachment A may be used only for the purpose listed in Attachment A for that budget control level, unless transferred pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Chapter 5.08. Each budget control level listed in Attachment A is a "budget item" as that term is used in SMC Chapter 5.08. Use of any amount of any appropriation restricted by one or more of the provisos in C.F. 309612 for any other purpose than that stated, or for any purpose expressly excluded, or in violation of any condition specified by proviso, whether by transfer pursuant to SMC Chapter 5.08 or by any other means, is prohibited.

 (d) Unspent funds for the Executive Department Office of Housing's Low-Income Housing Fund 16400 Budget Control Level appropriated by Section 1(b) shall carry forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by ordinance.

 (e) Unspent funds for the Pike Place Market Renovation Budget Control Level appropriated by Section 1(b) shall carry forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by ordinance.

 (f) The revenue estimates for 2009 contained in the Mayor's 2009-2010 Proposed Budget, filed in C.F. 309610, as modified by the changes of the City Council in C.F. 309612, are adopted.

 Section 2. The 2009-2014 Proposed Capital Improvement Program submitted by the Mayor, filed in C.F. 309611, as modified by the changes of the City Council in C.F. 309612, is adopted as the City's six-year Capital Improvement Program ("CIP").

 Section 3. (a) The officer and employee position modifications in Attachment B, as modified by the City Council changes in Attachment C, are adopted effective January 1, 2009, or thereafter if otherwise provided.

 (b) The City by enacting Ordinance 122715 established a position list that became effective as of January 1, 2008. Subsection 3(a) of this ordinance modifies that list. It is anticipated that the Personnel Department will submit a proposed list of the City's regular positions for each department or office as of January 1, 2009, to the City Council for possible action in early 2009. The proposed list should reflect (i) the modifications made in Subsection 3(a) of this ordinance, (ii) the reclassifications of regular positions made by the Personnel Director from January 1, 2008, through December 31, 2008, and (iii) the creation, modification, or abrogation of regular positions by ordinances effective from January 1, 2008, through December 31, 2008.

 Section 4. (a) Subject to the conditions in Section 1 above, the appropriation of money in the budget adopted by this ordinance, for a budget control level that includes a program or project assigned a project identification number in the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP, constitutes authority for the designated City department, commission, or office (after compliance with the State Environmental Policy Act) to acquire personal property; obtain options to acquire real property; negotiate to acquire right-of-way and other real property interests; prepare plans and designs; demolish, construct, make improvements; and obtain any ancillary services, including, without limitation, planning, engineering, design, appraisal, escrow, title insurance, construction, inspection, environmental audits, and remediation appraisals or other reviews; all in order to carry out the project or program substantially as described in the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP. Each department may obtain the authorized services or property using City staff or by contract as authorized in Section 6 below. Where projects or programs are identified in the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP to be carried out by other entities wholly or in part with City funds, the appropriation constitutes authority to provide such funds to such other entities for such purposes, subject to applicable laws and ordinances.

 (b) None of the appropriations in the 2009 Adopted Budget may be spent on capital projects or programs unless the projects or programs are specifically identified and assigned a project identification number in the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP or are added to the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP by a future amending ordinance. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, spending on the planning, acquisition, construction, reconstruction, repair, replacement, rehabilitation, or improvement of streets, roads, highways, sidewalks, street and road lighting systems, traffic signals, bridges, domestic water systems, storm and sanitary sewer systems, parks, recreational facilities, law enforcement facilities, fire protection facilities, trails, libraries, administrative or judicial facilities, river or waterway flood control projects, or power transmission or generation facilities.

 (c) Without future Council authorization by ordinance, expenditure on any project or program identified and assigned a project identification number in the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP for Seattle City Light, Seattle Public Utilities, or the Seattle Department of Transportation shall not exceed by more than $1,000,000 the larger of the following in the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP, as amended: (a) the amount shown as the Appropriations Total in the 2009 column for that project or program, or (b) the amount shown as the Spending Plan in the 2009 column for that project or program.

 (d) Moneys appropriated from funds, subfunds, accounts, and subaccounts in which are deposited the proceeds derived from the issuance of bonded obligations shall be expended only in accordance with the terms, conditions, and restrictions of ordinances authorizing such obligations and establishing the respective funds.

 (e) The 2009-2014 Adopted CIP is part of the 2009 Adopted Budget and identifies, among other projects, those capital projects funded wholly or in part from the proceeds of the taxes authorized in RCW 82.46.010 and/or RCW 82.46.035, and/or from the proceeds of bonds, for the repayment of which tax revenues under RCW 82.46.010 have been pledged. Such taxes are intended to be in addition to other funds that may be reasonably available for such capital projects.

 (f) The portions of the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP pertaining to Seattle City Light and Seattle Public Utilities, as those portions of the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP may be amended from time to time, are adopted as systems or plans of additions to, and betterments and extensions of, the facilities, physical plants, or systems of Seattle City Light and Seattle Public Utilities, respectively.

 (g) The City's Director of Finance and Director of Executive Administration are authorized to draw and pay the necessary warrants or checks and to make any necessary transfers among funds and accounts.

 (h) Except as limited by this Section or by Section 1 above or by any other ordinance, the funds appropriated in the 2009 Adopted Budget shall be subject to transfer for use with other projects as provided in SMC Chapter 5.08.

 Section 5. The Mayor or, at the Mayor's request, the head of the department that is designated to carry out a project for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, is authorized to submit applications as may be deemed appropriate to the United States of America, or any of its departments, and the State of Washington, or any of its departments, for financial assistance in carrying out the authorized projects included in the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP; to make for and on behalf of the City all assurances, promises, representations, and consent to suit, and/or covenants to comply with any applicable regulations of the United States relating to implementation of the projects; to act in connection with the applications as the authorized representative of the City; to provide additional information as may be required; and to prepare plans for implementation of terms and conditions as may accompany financial assistance, provided that the submission of an application shall not result in the making of a contract, in incurring of any indebtedness, or in the acceptance of moneys imposing any duties or obligations upon the City except as shall be authorized by this or other ordinance.

 Section 6. (a) The Director of Transportation, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, the Director of the Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs, the Director of Finance, the Superintendent of City Light, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department, the Director of Executive Administration, the Librarian, the Chief Technology Officer, and the Director of the Seattle Center Department are authorized to negotiate for and enter into non-public works contracts, within their appropriation authority, to obtain property and services authorized in Section 4 to carry out those capital projects and programs included in the 2009-2014 Adopted CIP and assigned to their respective departments or offices.

 (b) The Board of Trustees of the Seattle Public Library is authorized, within its appropriation authority and consistent with Ordinances 119019, 119020, 119185, 119378, and 119778, to carry out the projects of the "Libraries for All" component of the Seattle Public Library 2009-2014 Adopted CIP. In so doing, the Board of Trustees is authorized to lease real property and enter into contracts in connection with those projects.

 Section 7. Preparation of plans and specifications, the execution of other contracts, and expenditures made or authorized, consistent with the authority, and after the passage and prior to the effective date, of this ordinance are ratified and confirmed.

 Section 8. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If one or more of the provisions of this ordinance shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, the provision shall be severed from the rest of the ordinance and all other provisions shall remain valid.

 Section 9. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ________________, 2008. _____________________________________ President _____________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ________________, 2008. _____________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2008. _____________________________________ City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Expenditure Allowances By Budget Control Level

 Attachment B: Position Modifications in the 2009 Proposed Budget (Excluding Changes Reflected in the "Budget Errata" Submitted by the Department of Finance to the City Council)

 Attachment C: City Council Changes to Position Modification List in the 2009 Proposed Budget (Including Changes Reflected in the "Budget Errata" Submitted by the Department of Finance to the City Council)

 November 21, 2009 Version 19 t

 Attachment A to Budget Adoption Ordinance (11/21/08) Expenditure Allowances By Budget Control Level

 Fund Department BCL Code BCL Name BCL Purpose Adopted 2009 Expenditure Allowance

 Arts Account Executive VA140 Arts Account The purpose of the Arts Account Budget Control Level 1,186,394 (BCL) is to invest in Seattle's arts and cultural community to keep artists living and working in Seattle, to build community through arts and culture events, and to increase arts opportunities for youth. The BCL appropriates the Office's admission tax set-aside, which is 20 percent of Admission Tax revenues.

 Cumulative Executive V2ACGM Artwork The purpose of the Artwork Conservation - OACA - 179,000 Reserve Conservation CRS-UR Budget Control Level is to support the Arts Subfund, - OACA - Conservation Program, which is administered by the Unrestricted CRS-UR Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs. This program Subaccount provides professional assessment, conservation, repair, routine and major maintenance, and relocation of artwork for both the City's approximately 400-piece, permanently sited art collection and the approximately 2,700-piece portable artwork collection. The entire collection is an asset to the City, and while major maintenance is generally not required for the new artwork entering the collection, professional routine care and responses to vandalism are necessary to protect this investment.

 General Executive VA400 General The purpose of the General Subfund Budget Control 2,941,814 Subfund Subfund Level is to provide administrative services for the Office, invest in Seattle's arts and cultural community, and build community through arts and culture awards, events, and exhibits.

 Municipal Executive 2VMAO Municipal The purpose of the Municipal Arts Fund Budget Control 2,807,904 Arts Fund Arts Fund Level is to develop engaging art pieces and programs for City facilities, and to maintain the City's existing art collection. The BCL appropriates revenues from the Municipal Arts Fund (MAF), which mostly come from the City's One Percent for Art program, a program that invests one percent of eligible capital funds in public art.

 Library Fund Seattle B1ADM Administrative The purpose of Administrative Services is to support 7,712,252 Public Services the delivery of library services to the public. Library

 Library Fund Seattle B2CTL City The purpose of the City Librarian's Office is to 2,541,725 Public Librarian's provide leadership for the Library in the Library Office implementation of policies and strategic directions set by the Library Board of Trustees.

 Library Fund Seattle B4PUB Public The purpose of Public Services is to provide library 28,748,718 Public Services services and programs that benefit and are valued by Library patrons.

 Library Fund Seattle B3TCS Technology The purpose of Technology and Collection Services is 11,816,771 Public and to provide technology services and maintain the Library Collection Library's data processing infrastructure in order to Services provide information access and library materials to all patrons.

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-B30111 Preliminary The purpose of the Preliminary Engineering and 194,000 Reserve Public 1 Engineering Planning Budget Control Level (BCL) is to fund the Subfund, Library and Planning development of design, engineering, cost estimates, Unrestricted (00164-CIP) and long-term capital planning for major maintenance Subaccount and improvement of Library facilities. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-B30110 Building The purpose of the Building Systems Budget Control 457,000 Reserve Public 6 Systems Level (BCL) is to fund major maintenance and repair Subfund, Library (00163-CIP) of HVAC and other building systems serving the Real Estate facilities of The Seattle Public Library. This BCL Excise Tax I is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163). Subaccount

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-B30111 Landscape and The purpose of the Landscape and Hardscape 52,000 Reserve Public 0 Hardscape Restoration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to preserve Subfund, Library Restoration hardscape elements such as walkways, entryways, and Real Estate (00163-CIP) parking lots, as well as development and replacement Excise Tax I of basic landscaping elements throughout the Library Subaccount system. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-B30110 Minor Capital The purpose of the Minor Capital Improvements Budget 56,000 Reserve Public 9 Improvements Control Level (BCL) is to provide the ability to Subfund, Library (00163-CIP) address the emerging, minor capital issues at any of Real Estate the 26 branch libraries, the Central Library, and at Excise Tax I storage/shops facilities. This BCL is funded by REET Subaccount I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-B30110 Operational The purpose of the Operational Efficiency 184,000 Reserve Public 7 Efficiency Improvements Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide Subfund, Library Improvements capital improvements to library facilities designed Real Estate (00163-CIP) to improve staff efficiency and respond to identified Excise Tax I public service needs. This BCL is funded by REET I Subaccount dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-B30110 Roof and The purpose of the Roof and Structural Systems Budget 489,000 Reserve Public 5 Structural Control Level (BCL) is to address roof repair and Subfund, Library Systems replacement, as well as other structural repairs, to Real Estate (00163-CIP) Library Facilities. This BCL is funded by REET I Excise Tax I dollars (Fund 00163). Subaccount

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-B30110 Safety, The purpose of the Safety, Security and Access 214,000 Reserve Public 8 Security and Improvements Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide Subfund, Library Access improvements and repairs with the goal of making Real Estate Improvements Seattle's public libraries safe and secure. This BCL Excise Tax I (00163-CIP) is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163). Subaccount

 1998 Seattle DEBTUTGO UTGO Debt The purpose of the UTGO Debt Service Budget Control 20,247,325 Libraries Public Service Level is to create the legal appropriations to pay For All Fund Library debt service on outstanding Unlimited Tax General Obligation (UTGO) Bonds.

 Park and Department of 10200-K72127 Puget Park The purpose of the Puget Park Budget Control Level 451,000 Recreation Parks and (10200-CIP) (BCL) is to provide for the cleanup of a portion of Fund Recreation Puget Park previously contaminated by the City of Seattle and three contributing parties. This BCL is funded by Park and Recreation Fund dollars (Fund 10200).

 Park and Department of 10200-K72440 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 466,000 Recreation Parks and and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Fund Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on funds (10200-CIP) borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated City services. This BCL is funded by Park and Recreation Fund dollars (Fund 10200).

 Park and Department of 10200-K72448 Seattle The purpose of the Seattle Aquarium Projects Budget 400,000 Recreation Parks and Aquarium Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Fund Recreation Projects rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Seattle (10200-CIP) Aquarium buildings, exhibits and other structures. This BCL is funded by Park and Recreation Fund dollars (Fund 10200).

 Park and Department of K310C Swimming, The purpose of the Swimming, Boating, and Aquatics 7,942,674 Recreation Parks and Boating, and Budget Control Level is to provide a variety of Fund Recreation Aquatics structured and unstructured water-related programs and classes so participants can enjoy and develop skills in a range of aquatic activities.

 Park and Department of K310D Recreation The purpose of the Recreation Facilities and Programs 22,626,679 Recreation Parks and Facilities Budget Control Level is to manage and staff the Fund Recreation and Programs City's neighborhood community centers and citywide recreation facilities and programs, which allow Seattle residents to enjoy a variety of social, athletic, cultural, and recreational activities.

 Park and Department of K320A Facility and The purpose of the Facility and Structure Maintenance 12,603,467 Recreation Parks and Structure Budget Control Level is to repair and maintain park Fund Recreation Maintenance buildings and infrastructure so that park users can have structurally sound and attractive parks and recreational facilities.

 Park and Department of K320B Park The purpose of the Park Cleaning, Landscaping, and 27,516,579 Recreation Parks and Cleaning, Restoration Budget Control Level is to provide Fund Recreation Landscaping, custodial, landscape, and forest maintenance and and restoration services in an environmentally sound Restoration fashion to provide park users with safe, useable, and attractive park areas.

 Park and Department of K320C Seattle The purpose of the Seattle Conservation Corps Budget 4,094,895 Recreation Parks and Conservation Control Level is to provide training, counseling, and Fund Recreation Corps employment to homeless and unemployed people so that they acquire skills and experience leading to long-term employment and stability.

 Park and Department of K350A Seattle The purpose of the Seattle Aquarium Budget Control 10,723,025 Recreation Parks and Aquarium Level is to provide exhibits and environmental Fund Recreation educational opportunities that expand knowledge of, inspire interest in, and encourage stewardship of the aquatic wildlife and habitats of Puget Sound and the Pacific Northwest.

 Park and Department of K350B Woodland Park In December 2001, the City of Seattle, by Ordinance 6,206,154 Recreation Parks and Zoo 120697, established an agreement with the non-profit Fund Recreation Woodland Park Zoological Society to operate and manage the Woodland Park Zoo beginning in March 2002. The Department's budget includes the City's support for Zoo operations. The purpose of the Zoo is to provide care for animals and offer exhibits, educational programs, and appealing visitor amenities so Seattle residents and visitors have the  opportunity to enjoy and learn about animals and wildlife conservation.

 Park and Department of K370C Planning, The purpose of the Planning, Development and 7,049,208 Recreation Parks and Development, Acquisition Budget Control Level is to acquire, plan, Fund Recreation and design, develop and coordinate the construction of Acquisition new, and the improvement of existing, parks and related facilities to benefit the citizens of Seattle and the City's guests. This includes providing engineering and technical services to solve maintenance and operational problems, and preserving open spaces through a combination of direct  purchases, transfers and consolidations of City-owned lands, voluntary conservation measures, and developing resolutions to property encroachment issues.

 Park and Department of K380A Judgment and The Judgment and Claims Budget Control Level pays for 1,641,680 Recreation Parks and Claims judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible Fund Recreation expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.

 Park and Department of K390A Finance and The purpose of the Finance and Administration Budget 5,623,958 Recreation Parks and Administration Control Level is to provide the financial, Fund Recreation technological, and business development support necessary to provide effective delivery of the Department's services.

 Park and Department of K390B Policy The purpose of the Policy Direction and Leadership 7,964,952 Recreation Parks and Direction and Budget Control Level is to provide guidance within Fund Recreation Leadership the Department and outreach to the community on policies that enable the Department to offer outstanding parks and recreation opportunities to Seattle residents and our guests.

 Park and Department of K400A Golf The purpose of the Golf Budget Control Level is to 8,392,612 Recreation Parks and efficiently manage the City's four golf courses at Fund Recreation Jackson, Jefferson, West Seattle, and Interbay to provide top-quality public golf courses and maximize earned revenues.

 Park and Department of K410A Golf Capital The purpose of the Golf Capital Reserve Budget 768,001 Recreation Parks and Reserve Control Level is to transfer resources from the Parks Fund Recreation and Recreation Fund to the Cumulative Reserve Subfund to provide for previously identified Golf Program capital projects. There are no staff and no program services delivered through this program.

 Park and Department of K430A Environmental The purpose of the Environmental Learning and 2,094,320 Recreation Parks and Learning and Programs Budget Control Level is to deliver and Fund Recreation Programs manage environmental stewardship programs and the City's environmental education centers at Discovery Park, Carkeek Park, Seward Park, and Camp Long. The programs are designed to encourage Seattle residents to take actions that respect the rights of all living things and environments, and to contribute to healthy and livable communities.

 Park and Department of K430B Natural The purpose of the Natural Resources Management 5,928,223 Recreation Parks and Resources Budget Control Level is to provide cost efficient and Fund Recreation Management centralized management for the "living inventories" of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Direct management responsibilities include greenhouses, nurseries, the Volunteer Park Conservatory, landscape and urban forest restoration programs, sport field turf management, water conservation programs, pesticide reduction and wildlife management, and  heavy equipment support for departmental operations and capital projects.

 General Department of 00100-K72444 Building The purpose of the Building Component Renovations 200,000 Subfund Parks and Component Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and Recreation Renovations replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their (00100-CIP) components. This BCL is funded by General Subfund resources (Fund 00100).

 Cumulative Department of 00164-K72253 Golf Projects The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control Level 882,000 Reserve Parks and (00164-CIP) (BCL) is to provide for Golf related capital Subfund, Recreation Projects. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164). Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00164-K72440 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 332,000 Reserve Parks and and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Subfund, Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on funds Unrestricted (00164-CIP) borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital Subaccount expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated City services. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Department of 00164-K72441 Parks The purpose of the Parks Infrastructure Budget 840,000 Reserve Parks and Infrastructure Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Subfund, Recreation (00164-CIP) rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Parks Unrestricted infrastructure. This BCL is funded by CRS Subaccount Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Department of 00164-K72442 Forest The purpose of the Forest Restoration Budget Control 108,000 Reserve Parks and Restoration Level (BCL) is to protect and restore Parks and Subfund, Recreation (00164-CIP) Recreation's forest habitat and to mitigate future Unrestricted environmental impacts. This BCL is funded by CRS Subaccount Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Department of 00164-K72444 Building The purpose of the Building Component Renovations 748,000 Reserve Parks and Component Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and Subfund, Recreation Renovations replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their Unrestricted (00164-CIP) components. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted Subaccount dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72440 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 1,648,000 Reserve Parks and and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Subfund, Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on funds Real Estate (00161-CIP) borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital Excise Tax expenditure requirements and to provide funds for II centrally allocated City services. This BCL is Subaccount supported by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72441 Parks The purpose of the Parks Infrastructure Budget 734,000 Reserve Parks and Infrastructure Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Subfund, Recreation (00161-CIP) rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Parks Real Estate infrastructure. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars Excise Tax (Fund 00161). II Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72442 Forest The purpose of the Forest Restoration Budget Control 2,351,000 Reserve Parks and Restoration Level (BCL) is to protect and restore Parks and Subfund, Recreation (00161-CIP) Recreation's forest habitat and to mitigate future Real Estate environmental impacts. This BCL is funded by REET II Excise Tax dollars (Fund 00161). II Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72444 Building The purpose of the Building Component Renovations 635,000 Reserve Parks and Component Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and Subfund, Recreation Renovations replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their Real Estate (00161-CIP) components. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars Excise Tax (Fund 00161). II Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72445 Ballfields/ The purpose of the Ballfields/Athletic Courts/Play 2,355,000 Reserve Parks and Athletic Areas Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Subfund, Recreation Courts/Play the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Real Estate Areas Recreation's ballfields, athletic courts, and play Excise Tax (00161-CIP) areas. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund II 00161). Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72446 Pools/ The purpose of the Pools/Natatorium Renovations 180,000 Reserve Parks and Natatorium Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Subfund, Recreation Renovations rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Real Estate (00161-CIP) Recreation's pools. This BCL is funded by REET II Excise Tax dollars (Fund 00161). II Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72447 Docks/Piers/ The purpose of the 200,000 Reserve Parks and Floats/Seawall Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Control Subfund, Recreation s/Shorelines Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and Real Estate (00161-CIP) replacement of Parks and Recreation's docks, piers, Excise Tax floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is funded II by REET II dollars (Fund 00161). Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72449 Citywide and The purpose of the Citywide and Neighborhood Projects 674,000 Reserve Parks and Neighborhood Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide funds for Subfund, Recreation Projects the acquisition, development, and rehabilitation of Real Estate (00161-CIP) neighborhood parks and green spaces. This BCL is Excise Tax funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161). II Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00161-K72861 Parks Upgrade The purpose of the Parks Upgrade Program Budget 508,000 Reserve Parks and Program - Control Level (BCL) is to provide minor capital Subfund, Recreation CDBG improvements to low income area parks throughout the Real Estate (00161-CIP) City. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund Excise Tax 00161). II Subaccount

 Cumulative Department of 00163-K72440 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 841,000 Reserve Parks and and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Subfund, Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on funds Real Estate (00163-CIP) borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital Excise Tax I expenditure requirements and to provide funds for Subaccount centrally allocated City services. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Department of 00163-K72449 Citywide and The purpose of the Citywide and Neighborhood Projects 325,000 Reserve Parks and Neighborhood Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide funds for Subfund, Recreation Projects the acquisition, development, and rehabilitation of Real Estate (00163-CIP) neighborhood parks and green spaces. This BCL is Excise Tax I funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163). Subaccount

 Beach Department of 61500-K72447 Docks/Piers/ The purpose of the 25,000 Maintenance Parks and Floats/Seawall Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Control Trust Fund Recreation s/Shorelines Level (BCL) is to provide for the rehabilitation and (61500-CIP) replacement of Parks and Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is funded by Beach Maintenance Trust Fund dollars (Fund 61500).

 2009 Department of 35300-K72444 Building The purpose of the Building Component Renovations 4,500,000 Multipurpose Parks and Component Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and LTGO Bond Recreation Renovations replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their Fund (35300-CIP) components. This BCL is funded by 2009 Multipurpose LTGO Bond dollars (Fund 35300).

 2009 Department of 35300-K72449 Citywide and The purpose of the Citywide and Neighborhood Projects 9,790,000 Multipurpose Parks and Neighborhood Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide funds for LTGO Bond Recreation Projects the acquisition, development, and rehabilitation of Fund (35300-CIP) neighborhood parks and green spaces. This BCL is funded by 2009 Multipurpose LTGO Bond dollars (Fund 35300).

 Shoreline Department of 33110-K72982 West Point The purpose of the West Point Settlement Projects 500,000 Park Parks and Settlement Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Improvement Recreation Projects acquisition and restoration of property in Discovery Fund (33110-CIP) Park. This BCL is funded by Shoreline Park Improvement Fund dollars (Fund 33110).

 Seattle Seattle SC600 Campus The purpose of the Campus Grounds Budget Control 12,398,928 Center Fund Center Grounds Level is to provide gathering spaces and open-air venues in the City's urban core. The grounds knit together the whole of the campus and are Seattle Center's biggest asset. Program services include landscape maintenance, security patrols and lighting, litter and garbage removal, recycling operations, hard surface and site amenities maintenance, and management of revenues associated with leasing  outdoor spaces.

 Seattle Seattle SC610 Festivals The purpose of the Festivals Budget Control Level is 741,955 Center Fund Center to provide a place for the community to hold major festival celebrations. This program includes the revenue and expenses related to the Seattle International Children's Festival, Northwest Folklife Festival, Bite of Seattle, and Bumbershoot events.

 Seattle Seattle SC620 Community The purpose of the Community Programs Budget Control 2,448,232 Center Fund Center Programs Level is to produce free and low cost programs that connect diverse cultures, create learning opportunities, honor community traditions, and nurture artistry and creativity.

 Seattle Seattle SC630 Cultural The purpose of the Cultural Facilities Budget Control 264,454 Center Fund Center Facilities Level is to provide spaces for performing arts and cultural organizations to exhibit, perform, entertain, and create learning opportunities for diverse local, national, and international audiences.

 Seattle Seattle SC640 Commercial The purpose of the Commercial Events Budget Control 933,406 Center Fund Center Events Level is to provide the spaces and services needed to host a wide variety of commercial events, both for profit and not for profit, sponsored and produced by private and community promoters.

 Seattle Seattle SC650 McCaw Hall The McCaw Hall Budget Control Level includes funds 3,712,038 Center Fund Center for the operation and maintenance of the McCaw Hall. In cooperation with Seattle Opera and Pacific Northwest Ballet, Seattle Center manages and operates McCaw Hall as the home of the Opera and Ballet. The Seattle International Film Festival also holds its annual festival and premier film screenings in this facility.

 Seattle Seattle SC660 KeyArena The purpose of the KeyArena Budget Control Level is 5,437,964 Center Fund Center to manage and operate the KeyArena. Included in this category are all operations related to teams playing in the arena along with concerts, family shows, and private meetings.

 Seattle Seattle SC670 Access The purpose of the Access Budget Control Level is to 1,327,617 Center Fund Center provide the services needed to assist visitors in coming to and traveling from the campus while reducing congestion in adjoining neighborhoods. Program services include operating parking services, maintaining parking garages, managing the Seattle Center Monorail, and encouraging use of alternate modes of transportation.

 Seattle Seattle SC680 Debt The purpose of the Debt Budget Control Level is to 134,150 Center Fund Center provide payments and collect associated revenues related to the debt service for McCaw Hall.

 Seattle Seattle SC690 Administration The purpose of the Administration Budget Control 7,517,691 Center Fund Center -SC Level is to provide the financial, human resource, technological, and business support necessary to provide effective delivery of the department's services. Program services include administrative oversight and support to all other department programs, and management of the department's Capital Improvement Program.

 Seattle Seattle SC710 Judgment and The Judgment/Claims Budget Control Level pays for 607,968 Center Fund Center Claims judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years. This is a new BCL added in the 2009 Proposed Budget.

 Seattle Seattle 34060-S0103 Theatre The purpose of the Theatre District Improvements 2,000,000 Center Center District Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for planning Capital Improvements and improvements to the area from Roy Street to Reserve (34060-CIP) Republican Street at the north end of the campus, Subfund known as the "theatre district." This BCL is funded by Seattle Center Capital Reserve Subfund dollars (Fund 34060).

 Seattle Seattle 34060-S03P01 Campuswide The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and 306,000 Center Center Improvements Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Capital and Repairs improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, Reserve (34060-CIP) including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, Subfund open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded by Seattle Center Capital Reserve Subfund dollars (Fund 34060).

 McCaw Hall Seattle 11434-S0303 McCaw Hall The purpose of the McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund Budget 200,000 Capital Center Maintenance Control Level (BCL) is to develop an Asset Reserve Fund Preservation Plan for McCaw Hall and fund capital (11434-CIP) investments in the facility. This BCL is supported by resources from the McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund (Fund 11434).

 KeyArena Seattle 00138-S0103 Theatre The purpose of the Theatre District Improvements 1,500,000 Settlement Center District Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for planning Proceeds Improvements and improvements to the area from Roy Street to Fund (00138-CIP) Republican Street at the north end of the campus, known as the "theatre district." This BCL is supported by resources from the City's settlement with the Sonics (Fund 00138).

 KeyArena Seattle 00138-S03P01 Campuswide The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and 175,000 Settlement Center Improvements Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Proceeds and Repairs improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, Fund (00138-CIP) including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is supported by resources from the City's settlement with the Sonics (Fund 00138).

 KeyArena Seattle 00138-S03P04 KeyArena The purpose of this Budget Control Level is to 500,000 Settlement Center (00138-CIP) maintain and enhance the KeyArena facility. This BCL Proceeds is supported by resources from the City's settlement Fund with the Sonics (Fund 00138).

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-S03P01 Campuswide The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and 75,000 Reserve Center Improvements Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Subfund, and Repairs improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, Unrestricted (00164-CIP) including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, Subaccount open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-S9403 Monorail The purpose of the Monorail Improvements Budget 1,366,000 Reserve Center Improvements Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the renovation Subfund, (00164-CIP) of the Seattle Center Monorail, including the two Unrestricted trains, the two stations and the guideways that run Subaccount in between. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-S9606 Bagley Wright The purpose of the Bagley Wright Theatre Maintenance 112,000 Reserve Center Theatre Fund Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Subfund, Maintenance interior major maintenance needs at the Bagley Wright Unrestricted Fund Theatre at Seattle Center, including the planned Subaccount (00164-CIP) replacement of theatrical equipment and certain carpeting, seating, and mechanical improvements. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-S9902 Public The purpose of the Public Gathering Space 50,000 Reserve Center Gathering Improvements Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide Subfund, Space for major maintenance and improvements to meeting Unrestricted Improvements rooms, exhibition spaces, and public gathering spaces Subaccount (00164-CIP) at Seattle Center. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S0301 Parking The purpose of the Parking Repairs and Improvements 230,000 Reserve Center Repairs and Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Subfund, Improvements improvements and repairs to Seattle Center's parking Real Estate (00163-CIP) facilities, including the First Avenue North Garage, Excise Tax I the Mercer Garage, and the Fifth Avenue North Garage. Subaccount This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S0303 McCaw Hall The purpose of the McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund Budget 200,000 Reserve Center Maintenance Control Level (BCL) is to develop an Asset Subfund, Fund Preservation Plan for McCaw Hall and fund capital Real Estate (00163-CIP) investments in the facility. This BCL is funded by Excise Tax I REET I dollars (Fund 00163). Subaccount

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S03P01 Campuswide The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and 304,000 Reserve Center Improvements Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Subfund, and Repairs improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, Real Estate (00163-CIP) including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, Excise Tax I open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility Subaccount improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S03P02 Facility The purpose of the Facility Infrastructure Renovation 779,000 Reserve Center Infrastructure and Repair Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide Subfund, Renovation for seismic improvements, roof repair and Real Estate and Repair replacement, and other infrastructure improvements to Excise Tax I (00163-CIP) facilities on the Seattle Center campus. This BCL is Subaccount funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S03P03 Utility The purpose of the Utility Infrastructure Budget 180,000 Reserve Center Infrastructure Control Level (BCL) is to provide for repair, Subfund, (00163-CIP) replacement and renovation of utilities at Seattle Real Estate Center, including chilled water and steam lines, Excise Tax I electrical equipment, and communication lines. This Subaccount BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S9705 Fisher The purpose of the Fisher Pavilion Budget Control 35,000 Reserve Center Pavilion Level (BCL) is to provide for capital repairs and Subfund, (00163-CIP) improvements to the Fisher Pavilion at Seattle Real Estate Center. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund Excise Tax I 00163). Subaccount

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S9801 Waste/Recycle The purpose of the Waste/Recycle Center, Warehouse 30,000 Reserve Center Center, and Shops Improvements Budget Control Level (BCL) is Subfund, Warehouse and to provide for renovation, repairs and improvements Real Estate Shops to Seattle Center's shops and warehouse areas, waste Excise Tax I Improvements disposal and recycling infrastructure, and staff Subaccount (00163-CIP) working areas. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 2007 Seattle 35100-S9403 Monorail The purpose of the Monorail Improvements Budget 200,000 Multipurpose Center Improvements Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the renovation LTGO Bond (35100-CIP) of the Seattle Center Monorail, including the two Fund trains, the two stations and the guideways that run in between. This BCL is funded by LTGO bond dollars (Fund 35100).

 Human Human H20YD Youth The purpose of the Youth Development and Achievement 11,150,610 Services Services Development Budget Control Level is to provide services to youth Operating Department and to support their developmental needs, and facilitate Fund Achievement their ability to gain the skills and assets necessary to grow into healthy, successful adults and contributing members of the community.

 Human Human H30CF Community The purpose of the Community Facilities Budget 729,842 Services Services Facilities Control Level is to provide technical assistance and Operating Department capital funding to community-based human service Fund organizations to help the organizations plan and develop facility projects to improve the quality, capacity, and efficiency of service delivery. (Note: This function is primarily funded by Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) revenues, which are appropriated in the CDBG budget, not in the HSD  budget.)

 Human Human H30ET Emergency and The purpose of the Emergency and Transitional 27,461,398 Services Services Transitional Services Budget Control Level is to provide emergency Operating Department Services and transitional services and permanent housing to Fund homeless and low-income people in Seattle so they have a safe place to rest, nutritious food, and a path to stable, permanent housing.

 Human Human H40DV Domestic and The purpose of the Domestic and Sexual Violence 4,271,515 Services Services Sexual Prevention Budget Control Level is to provide Operating Department Violence leadership and coordination of City and community Fund Prevention strategies, education, and training to improve response to, and prevention of, violence against women and children.

 Human Human H50LA Leadership The purpose of the Leadership and Administration 7,724,548 Services Services and Budget Control Level is to provide leadership and Operating Department Administration support to the Human Services Department, the City of Fund Seattle, and the community with the goal of seeing that human services are responsive to community needs, are delivered through effective and accountable systems, economic disparity is decreased, and racism and other oppressions are dismantled.

 Human Human H60AD Area Agency The purpose of the Area Agency on Aging Budget 53,991,794 Services Services on Aging Control Level is to provide a network of community Operating Department support that improves choice, promotes independence, Fund and enhances quality of life for older people and adults with disabilities.

 Human Human H60SS Self-Sufficien The purpose of the Self-Sufficiency Budget Control 2,078,832 Services Services cy Level is to provide utility and other discount Operating Department programs and employment opportunities for seniors and Fund adults with disabilities to improve their ability to remain economically independent.

 Human Human H70PH Public Health Beginning in 2005, all funding previously directed to 11,206,109 Services Services Services Public Health - Seattle and King County was moved to Operating Department the Human Services Department (HSD). To reduce Fund administrative costs and see that its public health investments are consistent with City policy direction, the City enters into outcome-based contracts with community-based agencies, Public Health, and the King County Department of Community and Human Services for services. HSD advises the  City on public health policy, manage health-related contracts, and serves as a regional liaison to Public Health - Seattle and King County. Public health services currently supported by City funds are: - Primary care medical, dental, and specialty services, and access to health insurance for at-risk and vulnerable populations; - Health care for teens in Seattle's public schools; - Health care for homeless individuals and families; - HIV/AIDS prevention and  care programs; - Programs to provide access to chemical and dependency services; - Programs to reduce the disparities in health among the Seattle population; and - Public health nursing care home visits to give mothers and babies a healthy start in life.

 Human Human H80EL Early The purpose of the Early Learning and Family Support 15,336,067 Services Services Learning and Budget Control Level is to provide children and Operating Department Family families access to affordable, culturally relevant, Fund Support high-quality care and education, out-of-school time activities, citizenship assistance, advocacy, leadership development, and other family support resources so that parents can maintain or achieve economic self-sufficiency and children will gain the necessary skills and assets to be healthy, successful  in school, and contributing members of the community. This replaces the Childhood Development and Early Development Budget Control Level.

 Federal Human 6HSD10 Human The purpose of the Human Services Department Budget 5,787,584 Shared Services Services Control Level is to find and fund solutions for human Revenue Fund Department Department needs so low-income, vulnerable residents in greater Seattle can live and thrive. HSD contracts with community-based human service providers and administers programs to see that residents of Seattle and King County have access to homeless shelters, transitional housing, and other emergency services.

 Neighborhood Department of 2IN00 Neighborhood The purpose of the Neighborhood Matching Fund Budget 3,829,693 Matching Neighborhoods Matching Fund Control Level is to support local grassroots actions Subfund within neighborhoods. The Neighborhood Matching Fund provides funding to match community contributions of volunteer labor, donated professional services or materials, or cash, to implement neighborhood-based self-help projects.

 General Department of I3300 Community The purpose of the Community Building Budget Control 3,228,546 Subfund Neighborhoods Building Level is to deliver technical assistance, support services, and programs in neighborhoods to strengthen local communities, engage residents in neighborhood improvement, leverage resources, and complete neighborhood-initiated projects.

 General Department of I3200 Customer The purpose of the Customer Service and Operations 3,410,337 Subfund Neighborhoods Service and Budget Control Level is to provide information, Operations referral services, and coordination of City services to community members, and to provide financial, human resources, facilities, office management, and information technology services to the Department's employees to serve customers efficiently and effectively.

 General Department of I3800 Customer The purpose of the Customer Service Bureau is to 698,450 Subfund Neighborhoods Service assist Seattle residents in accessing services, to Bureau resolve complaints, and to provide appropriate and timely responses from City government.

 General Department of I3100 Director's The purpose of the Director's Office Budget Control 1,416,421 Subfund Neighborhoods Office Level is to provide executive leadership, communications, and operational support for the entire department. The Director's Office also includes Historic Preservation, which provides technical assistance, outreach, and education to the general public, owners of historic properties, government agencies, and elected officials to identify, protect, rehabilitate, and re-use historic  properties.

 General Department of I3700 Office for The purpose of the Office for Education (OFE) Budget 237,857 Subfund Neighborhoods Education Control Level is to build linkages and a strong relationship between the City of Seattle and the Seattle Public School District, administer the Families and Education Levy, provide policy direction to help children succeed in school, strengthen school-community connections, and help achieve the vision of every Seattle child having access to high-quality early care and out-of-school-time  programs.

 2004 Department of IL700 Administration The purpose of the Administration and Evaluation 730,680 Families and Neighborhoods and Budget Control Level is to see that Levy funds are Education Evaluation used effectively and achieve their intended goals. Subfund of the Educational and Developmental Services Fund

 2004 Department of IL600 Crossing The purpose of the Crossing Guards Budget Control 248,000 Families and Neighborhoods Guards Level is to provide safe transit corridors for Education students. Subfund of the Educational and Developmental Services Fund

 2004 Department of IL100 Early The purpose of the Early Learning Budget Control 4,085,937 Families and Neighborhoods Learning Level is to increase access for low-income families Education to higher quality and more extensive educational Subfund of child care, and to expand the number of current early the childhood education programs to allow children to Educational enter Seattle's schools ready to learn. and Developmental Services Fund

 2004 Department of IL200 Family The purpose of the Family Support and Family 2,992,407 Families and Neighborhoods Support and Involvement Budget Control Level is to provide Education Family culturally relevant family support services and Subfund of Involvement community resources in schools, and to create the authentic partnerships among schools, parents, and Educational communities. and Developmental Services Fund

 2004 Department of IL800 Middle School The purpose of the Middle School Support Budget 1,321,577 Families and Neighborhoods Support Control Level is to provide early intervention Education services to middle school students to improve their Subfund of ability to achieve academically and to complete the school. Educational and Developmental Services Fund

 2004 Department of IL400 Out-of-School The purpose of the Out-of-School Time Budget Control 2,933,485 Families and Neighborhoods Time Level is to provide safe and academically focused Education after-school programs for middle and elementary Subfund of school students. the Educational and Developmental Services Fund

 2004 Department of IL500 Student The purpose of the Student Health Budget Control 3,962,735 Families and Neighborhoods Health Level is to maintain the existing infrastructure of Education school-based health services to reduce health-related Subfund of barriers to learning and academic achievement. the Educational and Developmental Services Fund

 2004 Department of IL300 Support for The purpose of the Support for High-Risk Middle and 1,288,109 Families and Neighborhoods High-Risk High School Age Youth Budget Control Level is to Education Middle and provide intensive services to middle and high school Subfund of High School age youth to reduce risk factors that affect their the Age Youth ability to achieve academically and complete school. Educational and Developmental Services Fund

 Planning and Department of U24A0 Annual The purpose of the Annual Certification and 3,784,804 Development Planning and Certification Inspection Budget Control Level is to provide Fund Development and inspections of mechanical equipment at installation Inspection and on an annual or biennial cycle in a fair, reasonable, efficient, and predictable manner. These services are provided so mechanical equipment is substantially maintained to applicable codes, legal requirements, and policies, and operated safely. The program also certifies that installers and mechanics  are qualified, by validation of work experience and testing of code knowledge, to operate and maintain mechanical equipment. In addition, this budget control level includes a proportionate share of associated departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning and Department of U2400 Code The purpose of the Code Compliance Budget Control 5,010,498 Development Planning and Compliance Level is to see that properties and buildings are Fund Development used and maintained in conformance with code standards, and deterioration of structures and properties is reduced. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning and Department of U23A0 Construction The purpose of the Construction Inspections Budget 16,657,489 Development Planning and Inspections Control Level is to provide timely on-site Fund Development inspections of property under development to support substantial compliance with applicable City codes, ordinances, and approved plans. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning and Department of U2300 Construction The purpose of the Construction Permit Services 24,411,167 Development Planning and Permit Budget Control Level is to facilitate the review of Fund Development Services development plans and processing of permits so that applicants can plan, alter, construct, occupy and maintain Seattle's buildings and property. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning and Department of U2200 Land Use The purpose of the Land Use Services Budget Control 7,330,469 Development Planning and Services Level is to provide land use permitting services to Fund Development project applicants, City of Seattle departments, public agencies, and residents. These services are intended to allow development proposals are reviewed in a fair, reasonable, efficient, and predictable manner, and substantially comply with applicable codes, legal requirements, policies, and community design standards. Additionally, this budget control  level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning and Department of U2900 Planning The purpose of the Planning Budget Control Level is 7,254,397 Development Planning and to manage growth and development consistent with the Fund Development Comprehensive Plan, and to inform and guide decisions for shaping and preserving Seattle so that it is a vital urban environment. Planning staff does this work by stewarding the Comprehensive Plan and supporting its core values of community, environmental stewardship, social equity and economic opportunity. Staff conduct research and make use of  the best urban design strategies when preparing plans for areas of the City that are impacted by growth or major public investments. Additionally, the Planning Budget Control Level includes the staff of the Design Commission and Planning Commission. Lastly, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning and Department of U2800 Process The purpose of the Process Improvements and 2,965,448 Development Planning and Improvements Technology Budget Control Level is to allow the Fund Development and department to plan and implement continuous Technology improvements to its business processes, including related staff training and equipment purchases; and to see that the Department's major technology investments are maintained, upgraded, or replaced when necessary.

 Cumulative Department of 2UU50-DC Design The purpose of the Design Commission is to advise the 361,000 Reserve Planning and Commission - Mayor, City Council and City departments on the Subfund, Development CRS-UR design of capital improvements and other projects Unrestricted that shape Seattle's public realm. The goals of the Subaccount Commission are to see that public facilities and projects within the City's right-of-way incorporate design excellence, that City projects achieve their goals in an economical manner and fit the City's design goals.

 Cumulative Department of 2UU50-TA Tenant The purpose of the Tenant Relocation Assistance 83,000 Reserve Planning and Relocation Program - CRS-UR Budget Control Level is to allow the Subfund, Development Assistance City to pay for relocation assistance to low-income Unrestricted Program - tenants displaced by development activity, as Subaccount CRS-UR authorized by SMC 22.210 and RCW 59.18.440.

 Cumulative Department of 2UU51 Tenant The purpose of the Tenant Relocation Assistance 250,000 Reserve Planning and Relocation Program REET I Budget Control Level is to allow the Subfund, Development Assistance City to pay for relocation assistance to low income Real Estate Program REET tenants displaced by development activity, as Excise Tax I I authorized by SMC 22.210 and RCW 59.18.440. Subaccount

 General Seattle Fire F1000 Administration The purpose of the Administration Budget Control 14,228,463 Subfund Department Level is to allocate and manage available resources, provide management information, and provide dispatch and communication services needed to achieve the Department's mission.

 General Seattle Fire F5000 Fire The purpose of the Fire Prevention Budget Control 7,279,336 Subfund Department Prevention Level is to provide Fire Code enforcement to help prevent injury and loss from fire and other hazards.

 General Seattle Fire F3000 Operations The purpose of the Operations Budget Control Level is 126,889,540 Subfund Department to provide emergency and disaster response capabilities for fire suppression, emergency medical needs, hazardous materials, weapons of mass destruction, and search and rescue.

 General Seattle Fire F2000 Risk The purpose of the Risk Management Budget Control 2,541,150 Subfund Department Management Level is to recruit and train uniformed staff, manage collective bargaining agreements, hire civilian staff, and administer personnel services.

 Firemen's Firefighters R2F01 Firefighters The purpose of the Firefighters Pension Budget 21,196,999 Pension Fund Pension Pension Control Level is to provide benefit services to eligible active and retired firefighters.

 General Law J1100 Administration The purpose of the Administration Budget Control 1,308,655 Subfund Department Level is to collectively recruit, train, evaluate, and retain qualified personnel who reflect the community and can effectively complete their assigned tasks, operate and maintain computer systems that enable department personnel to effectively use work-enhancing technology, and promote the financial integrity of the Department.

 General Law J1300 Civil Law The purpose of the Civil Law Division Budget Control 9,816,077 Subfund Department Level is to provide legal advice to the City's policy-makers, and to defend and represent the City, its employees, and officials before a variety of county, state, and federal courts and administrative bodies.

 General Law J1500 Public and The purpose of the Public and Community Safety (PCS) 7,102,318 Subfund Department Community Division Budget Control Level includes prosecuting Safety ordinance violations and misdemeanor crimes, maintaining case information and preparing effective case files for the court appearances of prosecuting attorneys, and assisting and advocating for victims of domestic violence throughout the court process.

 General Seattle M3000 Court The purpose of the Court Administration Budget 6,108,972 Subfund Municipal Administration Control Level is to provide administrative controls, Court develop and provide strategic direction, and provide policy and program development.

 General Seattle M4000 Court The purpose of the Court Compliance Budget Control 6,265,861 Subfund Municipal Compliance Level is to help defendants understand the Court's Court expectations and to assist them in successfully complying with court orders.

 General Seattle M2000 Court The purpose of the Court Operations Budget Control 14,671,192 Subfund Municipal Operations Level is to hold hearings and address legal Court requirements for defendants and others who come before the Court. Some proceedings are held in formal courtrooms and others in magistrate offices, with the goal of providing timely resolution of alleged violations of City ordinances and misdemeanor crimes committed within the Seattle city limits.

 General Seattle P1000 Chief of The purpose of the Chief of Police Budget Control 3,775,525 Subfund Police Police Level is to lead and direct department employees, and Department to provide policy guidance with the goal that the Department can provide the city with professional, dependable, and respectful public safety services. The Chief of Police Budget Control Level includes the Chief of Police and Emergency Management Operations Programs, which had been its own Budget Control Level in prior budgets.

 General Seattle P7000 Criminal The purpose of the Criminal Investigations 6,804,198 Subfund Police Investigations Administration Budget Control Level is to direct and Department support the work of employees in the Criminal Administration Investigations Bureau by providing oversight and policy guidance, and technical support so these employees can execute their job duties effectively and efficiently. The program also includes the Internet Crimes against Children and Human Trafficking section and the Crime Gun Initiative  analyst.

 General Seattle P1600 Deputy Chief The purpose of the Deputy Chief Administration Budget 31,778,662 Subfund Police Administration Control Level is to oversee the organizational Department support functions of the department to help achieve its mission. The Deputy Chief of Administration Budget Control Level now includes the Records and Files, Data Center and Public Request Programs, which had been their own Budget Control Levels in prior budgets.

 General Seattle P1800 Deputy Chief The purpose of the Deputy Chief Operations Budget 8,038,449 Subfund Police Operations Control Level is to oversee the operational functions Department of the Department so the public receives public safety services that are dependable, professional, and respectful. The Deputy Chief Operations Budget Control Level now includes the Metro Special Response Program, which has been its own Budget Control Level in prior budgets.

 General Seattle P6600 East Precinct The purpose of the East Precinct Budget Control Level 20,457,445 Subfund Police is to provide the full range of public safety and Department order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the East Precinct, so they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P8000 Field Support The purpose of the Field Support Administration 26,618,932 Subfund Police Administration Budget Control Level is to provide policy direction Department and guidance to the employees and programs in the department, so they can execute their responsibilities effectively and efficiently. The Field Support Administration Budget Control Level now includes the Communications, Information Technology and Human Resources Programs; which were separate Budget Control Levels in prior budgets.

 General Seattle P3400 Homeland The purpose of the Homeland Security Administration 12,448,013 Subfund Police Security Budget Control Level is to enhance the City's Department Administration readiness to deal with disasters, both natural and manmade, and to provide oversight and policy direction for the Emergency Preparedness Bureau, including the City's Emergency Management and Homeland Security programs and the Mayor's Security Detail, with the goal that all personnel are properly trained and equipped to accomplish the Bureau's  mission.

 General Seattle P7700 Narcotics The purpose of the Narcotics Investigations Budget 4,559,804 Subfund Police Investigations Control Level is to apply a broad range of Department professional investigative skills to interdict narcotics activities affecting the community and region to hold offenders involved in these activities accountable and to promote public safety.

 General Seattle P6200 North The purpose of the North Precinct Patrol Budget 27,269,617 Subfund Police Precinct Control Level is to provide the full range of public Department Patrol safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the North Precinct, so that they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P1300 Office of The purpose of the Office of Professional 1,705,980 Subfund Police Professional Accountability Budget Control Level is to help Department Accountability provide oversight so that complaints involving department employees are handled in a thorough, professional, and expeditious manner, to retain the trust and confidence of employees and the public.

 General Seattle P6000 Patrol The purpose of the Patrol Operations Administration 665,861 Subfund Police Operations Budget Control Level is to provide oversight and Department Administration direction to Patrol Operations, including the department's five precincts, Metro Special Response units, and the Traffic Enforcement program, with the goal that personnel are properly trained, supervised, and equipped to perform their jobs effectively.

 General Seattle P6500 South The purpose of the South Precinct Patrol Budget 15,335,093 Subfund Police Precinct Control Level is to provide the full range of public Department Patrol safety and order maintenance services with the goal of keeping residents of, and visitors to, the South Precinct, safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P6700 Southwest The purpose of the Southwest Precinct Patrol Budget 13,739,646 Subfund Police Precinct Control Level is to provide the full range of public Department Patrol safety and order maintenance services with the goal of keeping residents of, and visitors to, the Southwest Precinct, safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P7800 Special The purpose of the Special Investigations Budget 4,536,526 Subfund Police Investigations Control Level is to apply a broad range of Department professional investigative and analytical skills toward investigating and interdicting vehicle theft, fraud, forgery, and financial exploitation cases; vice crimes and organized crime activities in the community; and toward identifying and describing crime patterns and trends with the goals of holding offenders involved in these activities accountable  and to providing public safety.

 General Seattle P7900 Special The purpose of the Special Victims Budget Control 5,458,715 Subfund Police Victims Level is to apply a broad range of professional Department investigative skills to cases involving family violence, sexual assault, child, and elder abuse, and custodial interference with the goals of holding offenders accountable, preventing additional harm to victims, and providing public safety.

 General Seattle P6800 Traffic The purpose of the Traffic Enforcement Budget Control 17,308,162 Subfund Police Enforcement Level is to enforce traffic laws and ordinances, Department provide traffic control at special events and for large construction projects, respond to and investigate traffic accidents, and address chronic traffic and parking problems so city residents and visitors have reasonable access to homes, schools, and businesses, traffic congestion is minimized, and public safety is enhanced.

 General Seattle P7100 Violent The purpose of the Violent Crimes Investigations 6,339,384 Subfund Police Crimes Budget Control Level is to apply a broad range of Department Investigations professional investigative skills and crime scene investigation techniques to homicide, assault, robbery, bias crimes, missing persons, extortion, threat and harassment, and gang-related cases, in order to hold offenders accountable, prevent further harm to victims, and promote public safety.

 General Seattle P6100 West Precinct The purpose of the West Precinct Patrol Budget 25,928,197 Subfund Police Patrol Control Level is to provide the full range of public Department safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the West Precinct, so that they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 Police Police Relief RP604 Police Relief The purpose of the Police Relief and Pension Budget 20,405,783 Relief and and Pension and Pension Control Level is to provide responsive benefit Pension Fund services to eligible active-duty and retired Seattle police officers.

 General Public Safety V1S00 Public Safety The mission and purpose of the Public Safety Civil 143,179 Subfund Civil Service Civil Service Service Commission is to implement, administer, and Commission Commission direct a civil service system for sworn personnel of the Seattle Fire and Police Departments.

 City Light Seattle City SCL220 Conservation The purpose of the Conservation Resources and 40,590,669 Fund Light Resources and Environmental Affairs O&M Budget Control Level is to Environmental see that the utility generates and delivers energy in Affairs O&M a manner that is environmentally responsible, and to design and implement demand-side measures that offset the need for additional generation resources to meet the Utility's load.

 City Light Seattle City SCL320 Customer The purpose of the Customer Services Budget Control 27,160,364 Fund Light Services Level is to provide outstanding customer care and service through efficient, accurate metering and billing, and effective customer account management.

 City Light Seattle City SCL350 Customer The purpose of the Customer Services and Energy 125,229,156 Fund Light Services and Delivery - CIP Budget Control Level is to provide for Energy the installation, maintenance, rehabilitation and/or Delivery - replacement of transmission lines, substations, CIP distribution feeders, transformers, services connections, and meters to meet customer demand. This budget control level's capital program coordinates the utility's plant improvements with the efforts of other agencies involved in the  implementation of large projects such as the Alaskan Way Viaduct and Seawall Replacement, North Downtown redevelopment, and Sound Transit light rail.

 City Light Seattle City SCL810 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service Budget Control Level 149,392,974 Fund Light is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds borrowed to meet City Light's capital expenditure requirements.

 City Light Seattle City SCL310 Distribution The purpose of the Distribution Services Budget 65,728,501 Fund Light Services Control Level is to provide reliable electricity to customers through cost-effective operation and maintenance of City Light's overhead and underground distribution systems, substations, and transmission systems.

 City Light Seattle City SCL550 Financial The purpose of the Financial Services - CIP Budget 5,066,124 Fund Light Services - Control Level is to rehabilitate and replace the CIP utility's information technology infrastructure, such as servers and routers, and fund the development of large software applications.

 City Light Seattle City SCL500 Financial The purpose of the Financial Services - O&M Budget 28,273,717 Fund Light Services - Control Level is to foster City Light's financial O&M health through prudent planning, risk mitigation, and financial discipline. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically-disadvantaged businesses, including women and minority firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 City Light Seattle City SCL800 General The purpose of the General Expenses Budget Control 64,638,568 Fund Light Expenses Level is to budget, track, and monitor the expenses of the utility that, for the most part, are not directly attributable to a specific organizational unit. These expenditures include insurance, bond issue costs, bond maintenance fees, audit costs, Law Department legal fees, external legal fees, employee benefits (medical and retirement costs), industrial insurance costs, general claims costs, and services provided by the City's internal services departments through the central cost allocation mechanism.

 City Light Seattle City SCL400 Human The purpose of the Human Resources Budget Control 6,187,548 Fund Light Resources Level is to help City Light be a safe, high performance organization through excellence in safety, organizational development and training, employee and management services, and labor relations.

 City Light Seattle City SCL100 Office of The purpose of the Office of the Superintendent 3,647,904 Fund Light Superintendent Budget Control Level is to assemble high-level staff to assure the effective delivery of reliable electric power in an environmentally sound manner, and enable the Superintendent to focus on the utility's broad departmental policy direction and leadership, its financial health, and stakeholder relations.

 City Light Seattle City SCL250 Power Supply The purpose of the Power Supply & Environmental 39,684,264 Fund Light & Affairs - CIP Budget Control Level is to provide and Environmental maintain the physical generating plant required to Affairs - CIP meet the electrical needs of City Light customers, provide the physical plant and grounds needed by the utility, and comply with license and regulatory requirements.

 City Light Seattle City SCL210 Power Supply The purpose of the Power Supply O&M Budget Control 58,712,457 Fund Light O&M Level is to provide clean, safe, economic, efficient, reliable sources of electric power for City Light customers.

 City Light Seattle City SCL700 Purchased The purpose of the Purchased Power Budget Control 377,602,045 Fund Light Power Level is to acquire power, transmission, and other services associated with wholesale power purchases in a cost-effective manner to meet the day-to-day electricity needs of City Light's retail customers.

 City Light Seattle City SCL820 Taxes The purpose of the Taxes Budget Control Level is to 63,615,660 Fund Light calculate and pay City Light's legally required tax payments for state, city, and local jurisdictions. This Budget Control Level includes funding for franchise contract payments negotiated with local jurisdictions in City Light's service territory.

 Transportatio Seattle 17001 Bridges & The purpose of the Bridges and Structures Budget 6,973,656 n Operating Department of Structures Control Level is to maintain the City's bridges and Fund Transportation structures which helps provide for the safe and efficient movement of people, goods, and services throughout the city.

 Transportatio Seattle 18001 Department The purpose of the Department Management Budget 3,027,407 n Operating Department of Management Control Level is to provide leadership and operations Fund Transportation support services to accomplish the mission and goals of the Department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically-disadvantaged businesses, including women and minority firms, as authorized by Ordinance  120888.

 Transportatio Seattle 17002 Engineering The purpose of the Engineering Services Budget 2,322,614 n Operating Department of Services Control Level is to provide construction management Fund Transportation for capital projects, engineering support for street vacations, the scoping of neighborhood projects, and other transportation activities requiring transportation engineering and project management expertise.

 Transportatio Seattle 18002 General The purpose of the General Expense Budget Control 16,415,135 n Operating Department of Expense Level is to account for certain City business Fund Transportation expenses necessary to the overall effective and efficient delivery of transportation services. It equitably recovers funding from all transportation funding sources to pay for these indirect cost services. It also includes SDOT Judgment and Claims contributions and debt service payments made by SDOT.

 Transportatio Seattle 19001 Major The purpose of the Major Maintenance/Replacement 62,891,236 n Operating Department of Maintenance/ Budget Control Level is to provide maintenance and Fund Transportation Replacement replacement of roads, trails, bike paths, bridges, and structures.

 Transportatio Seattle 19002 Major The purpose of the Major Projects Budget Control 121,192,943 n Operating Department of Projects Level is to design, manage and construct improvements Fund Transportation to the transportation infrastructure for the benefit of the traveling public including freight, transit, other public agencies, pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists.

 Transportatio Seattle 19003 Mobility-Capit The purpose of the Mobility-Capital Budget Control 47,540,070 n Operating Department of al Level is to help maximize the movement of traffic Fund Transportation throughout the City by enhancing all modes of transportation including corridor and intersection improvements, transit and HOV improvements and sidewalk and pedestrian facilities.

 Transportatio Seattle 17003 Mobility-Opera The purpose of the Mobility-Operations Budget Control 35,806,861 n Operating Department of tions level is to promote the safe and efficient operation Fund Transportation of all transportation modes in the City of Seattle. This includes managing the parking, pedestrian, and bicycle infrastructure; implementing neighborhood plans; encouraging alternative modes of transportation; and maintaining and improving signals and the non-electrical transportation management infrastructure.

 Transportatio Seattle 17004 ROW The purpose of the Right-of-Way (ROW) Management 11,727,829 n Operating Department of Management Budget Control Level is to support efforts that allow Fund Transportation projects throughout the city to meet code specifications for uses of the right-of-way and to provide plan review, utility permit and street use permit issuance, and utility inspection and mapping services.

 Transportatio Seattle 17005 Street The purpose of the Street Maintenance Budget Control 28,531,542 n Operating Department of Maintenance Level is to maintain Seattle's roadways and Fund Transportation sidewalks. Repair and maintenance of the right-of-way promotes safety, enhances mobility, and protects the environment. Through planned maintenance, cleaning, and spot repairs of streets, alleys, pathways, and stairways, Street Maintenance improves the quality of life and business climate in the city.

 Transportatio Seattle 17006 Urban The purpose of the Urban Forestry Budget Control 4,357,881 n Operating Department of Forestry Level is to administer, maintain, protect, and expand Fund Transportation the City's urban landscape in the street right-of-way through the maintenance and planting of new trees and landscaping to enhance the environment and aesthetics of the city. The Urban Forestry BCL maintains city-owned trees to improve the safety of the right-of-way for Seattle's residents and visitors.

 Streetcar Seattle STCAR-OPER Streetcar The purpose of the Streetcar Operations Budget 1,335,814 Fund Department of Operations Control Level is to operate and maintain the South Transportation Lake Union line of the Seattle Streetcar.

 Cumulative Seattle CRS-U-SDOT CRS-U Support The purpose of the CRS-U Support to Transportation 1,375,000 Reserve Department of to Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds from CRS Subfund, Transportation Transportation Unrestricted Sub-account to the Transportation Unrestricted Operating Fund to support specific capital programs. Subaccount These capital programs are listed below, and additional detail is provided in the Seattle Department of Transportation's section of the Adopted Budget.

 Cumulative Seattle CRS-StVac-SD CRS Street The purpose of the CRS Street Vacation Support to 2,240,000 Reserve Department of OT Vacation Transportation Budget Control Level is to appropriate Subfund, Transportation Support to funds from the CRS Street Vacation Subaccount to the Street Transportation Transportation Operating Fund to support specific Vacation capital programs. These capital programs are listed Subaccount in the Seattle Department of Transportation's section of the Adopted Budget.

 Cumulative Seattle 2ECM0 CRS REET II The purpose of the CRS REET II Support to 6,710,000 Reserve Department of Support to Transportation Budget Control Level is to appropriate Subfund, Transportation Transportation funds from REET II to the Transportation Operating Real Estate Fund to support specific capital programs, or in the Excise Tax case of the Debt Service Program, appropriate funds II to pay debt service costs directly from the REET II Subaccount Subaccount.

 Drainage and Seattle N100B-DW Administration The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 2,558,469 Wastewater Public Administration Budget Control Level is to provide Fund Utilities overall management and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities and, more specifically, for the Drainage and Wastewater Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services to the entire Department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and  Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including women- and minority-owned firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 Drainage and Seattle C310B Control The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 12,226,002 Wastewater Public Structures Control Structures Budget Control Level, a Capital Fund Utilities Improvement Program funded by wastewater revenues, is to design and construct facilities to control overflows from the combined sewer system.

 Drainage and Seattle N300B-DW Customer The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 7,490,440 Wastewater Public Service Customer Service Budget Control Level is to provide Fund Utilities customer service in the direct delivery of essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.

 Drainage and Seattle N000B-DW General The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 188,125,262 Wastewater Public Expense General Expense Budget Control Level is to Fund Utilities appropriate funds to pay the Drainage and Wastewater Utility's general expenses.

 Drainage and Seattle C335B Landslide The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 1,211,913 Wastewater Public Mitigation & Landslide Mitigation & Special Programs Budget Fund Utilities Special Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded Programs by drainage and wastewater revenue, is to protect SPU drainage and wastewater infrastructure from landslides, provide drainage improvements where surface water generated from the city right-of-way is contributing to landslides, and manage stormwater policy and grants, interdepartmental coordination and programs, and citizen response activities.

 Drainage and Seattle C334B Low Impact The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 3,730,363 Wastewater Public Development Low Impact Development Budget Control Level, a Fund Utilities Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage revenues, is to develop multiple functionality stormwater facilities for achieving the primary goals of flood protection, surface water quality improvement and/or habitat enhancement.

 Drainage and Seattle N400B-DW Other The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control 47,793,457 Wastewater Public Operating Level is to fund the Drainage and Wastewater Fund Utilities Utility's operating expenses for Engineering Services, Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and Utility Systems Management programs.

 Drainage and Seattle C333B Protection of The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 4,161,484 Wastewater Public Beneficial Protection of Beneficial Uses Budget Control Level, a Fund Utilities Uses Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage revenues, is to make improvements to the City's drainage system to reduce the harmful effects of stormwater runoff on creeks and receiving waters by improving water quality and protecting or enhancing habitat.

 Drainage and Seattle C350B Sediments The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 2,342,908 Wastewater Public Sediments Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Fund Utilities Program funded by drainage and wastewater revenues, is to restore and rehabilitate natural resources in or along Seattle's waterways.

 Drainage and Seattle C410B-DW Shared Cost The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 21,208,113 Wastewater Public Projects Shared Cost Projects Budget Control Level, a Drainage Fund Utilities and Wastewater Capital Improvement Program, is to implement the Drainage and Wastewater Utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds benefiting the Utility.

 Drainage and Seattle C332B Stormwater & The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 17,702,916 Wastewater Public Flood Control Stormwater & Flood Control Budget Control Level, a Fund Utilities Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage revenues, is to make improvements to the City's drainage system to alleviate and prevent flooding in Seattle, with a primary focus on the protection of public health, safety and property.

 Drainage and Seattle C510B-DW Technology The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 4,702,660 Wastewater Public Technology Budget Control Level, a Capital Fund Utilities Improvement Program, is to make use of recent technology advances to increase the Drainage and Wastewater Utility's efficiency and productivity.

 Drainage and Seattle C320B Wastewater The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 10,861,785 Wastewater Public Conveyance Wastewater Conveyance Budget Control Level, a Capital Fund Utilities Improvement Program funded by wastewater revenues, is to improve the effectiveness of the City's wastewater system.

 Solid Waste Seattle N100B-SW Administration The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Administration 3,004,120 Fund Public Budget Control Level is to provide overall management Utilities and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities, and, more specifically, for the Solid Waste Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services to the entire Department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including women- and minority-owned firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 Solid Waste Seattle N300B-SW Customer The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Customer 15,782,628 Fund Public Service Service Budget Control Level is to provide customer Utilities service in the direct delivery of essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.

 Solid Waste Seattle N000B-SW General The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility General 123,864,501 Fund Public Expense Expense Budget Control Level is to provide Utilities appropriation to pay the Solid Waste Utility's general expenses.

 Solid Waste Seattle C230B New The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility New Facilities 12,119,994 Fund Public Facilities Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program Utilities funded by solid waste revenues, is to design and construct new facilities to enhance solid waste operations.

 Solid Waste Seattle N400B-SW Other The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control 15,838,474 Fund Public Operating Level is to fund the Solid Waste Utility's operating Utilities expenses for Engineering Services, Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and Utility Systems Management programs.

 Solid Waste Seattle C240B Rehabilitation The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Rehabilitation 10,703,894 Fund Public and Heavy and Heavy Equipment Budget Control Level, a Capital Utilities Equipment Improvement Program funded by solid waste revenues, is to implement projects to repair and rehabilitate the City's solid waste transfer stations and improve management of the City's closed landfills and household hazardous waste sites.

 Solid Waste Seattle C410B-SW Shared Cost The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Shared Cost 1,612,947 Fund Public Projects Projects Budget Control Level, a Solid Waste Capital Utilities Improvement Program, is to implement the Solid Waste Utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds and will benefit the Solid Waste Fund.

 Solid Waste Seattle C510B-SW Technology The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Technology 2,515,219 Fund Public Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program, Utilities is to make use of technology to increase the Solid Waste Utility's efficiency and productivity.

 Water Fund Seattle N100B-WU Administration The purpose of the Water Utility Administration 2,697,507 Public Budget Control Level is to provide overall management Utilities and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities, and, more specifically, for the Water Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services to the entire Department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the  development of small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including women- and minority-owned firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 Water Fund Seattle N300B-WU Customer The purpose of the Water Utility Customer Service 10,418,572 Public Service Budget Control Level is to provide customer service Utilities in the direct delivery of essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.

 Water Fund Seattle C110B Distribution The purpose of the Water Utility Distribution Budget 22,007,639 Public Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded Utilities by water revenues, is to repair and upgrade the City's water lines, pump stations, and other facilities.

 Water Fund Seattle N000B-WU General The purpose of the Water Utility General Expense 121,570,061 Public Expense Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds to pay Utilities the Water Utility's general expenses.

 Water Fund Seattle C160B Habitat The purpose of the Water Utility Habitat Conservation 5,645,525 Public Conservation Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program Utilities Program funded by water revenues, is to manage projects directly related to the Cedar River Watershed Habitat Conservation Plan.

 Water Fund Seattle N400B-WU Other The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control 52,390,032 Public Operating Level is to fund the Water Utility's operating Utilities expenses for Engineering Services, Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and Utility Systems Management programs.

 Water Fund Seattle C410B-WU Shared Cost The purpose of the Water Utility Shared Cost Projects 24,437,152 Public Projects Budget Control Level, which is a Water Capital Utilities Improvement Program, is to implement the Water Utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds.

 Water Fund Seattle C510B-WU Technology The purpose of the Water Utility Technology Budget 5,705,190 Public Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program, is to Utilities make use of recent technology advances to increase the Water Utility's efficiency and productivity.

 Water Fund Seattle C120B Transmission The purpose of the Water Utility Transmission Budget 2,910,380 Public Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded Utilities by water revenues, is to repair and upgrade the City's large transmission pipelines that bring untreated water to the treatment facilities, and convey water from the treatment facilities to Seattle and its suburban wholesale customers' distribution systems.

 Water Fund Seattle C140B Water Quality The purpose of the Water Utility Water Quality & 33,777,619 Public & Treatment Treatment Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Utilities Program funded by water revenues, is to design, construct, and repair water treatment facilities and remaining open-water reservoirs.

 Water Fund Seattle C150B Water The purpose of the Water Utility Water Resources 15,651,764 Public Resources Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program Utilities funded by water revenues, is to repair and upgrade water transmission pipelines and promote residential and commercial water conservation.

 Water Fund Seattle C130B Watershed The purpose of the Water Utility Watershed 6,047,670 Public Stewardship Stewardship Budget Control Level, a Capital Utilities Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to implement projects associated with the natural land, forestry, and fishery resources within the Tolt, Cedar, and Lake Youngs watersheds.

 General Office of VG000 Office of The purpose of the Office of City Auditor is to 1,129,483 Subfund City Auditor City Auditor provide unbiased analyses, accurate information, and objective recommendations to assist the City in using public resources equitably, efficiently, and effectively in delivering services to Seattle residents.

 General Civil Service V1C00 Civil Service The purpose of the Civil Service Commission Budget 222,972 Subfund Commission Commission Control Level is threefold: 1) to provide employees and departments with a quasi-judicial process wherein they can appeal disciplinary actions and alleged violations of the City Charter, personnel code, or other personnel rules; 2) to submit legislation and recommendations to the Mayor and City Council intended to improve the City's personnel system; and 3) to investigate allegations of political patronage so the City's hiring process conforms to the merit system set forth in the City Charter.

 Employees' Employees' R1E00 Employees' The purpose of the Employees' Retirement Budget 10,734,829 Retirement Retirement Retirement Control Level is to manage and administer retirement Fund System assets and benefits.

 General Ethics and V1T00 Ethics and The purpose of the Ethics and Elections Budget 668,244 Subfund Elections Elections Control Level is threefold: 1) to audit, investigate, Commission and conduct hearings regarding non-compliance with, or violations of, Commission-administered ordinances; 2) to advise all City officials and employees of their obligations under Commission-administered ordinances; and 3) to publish and broadly distribute information about the City's ethical standards, City election campaigns, campaign financial disclosure statements, and lobbyist disclosure statements.

 General Department of C8400 Business The purpose of the Business Technology Budget Control 10,499,249 Subfund Executive Technology Level is to plan, strategize, develop, implement, and Administration maintain business technologies to support the City's business activities.

 General Department of C8700 Contracting The purpose of the Contracting Budget Control Level 3,580,074 Subfund Executive (BCL) is to anticipate and meet customer contracting Administration and purchasing needs; provide education throughout the contracting process; administer policy and law; implement the City's various social objectives in contracting; and provide fair, thorough, and responsive service to customers so they can meet their business needs in an affordable and timely manner. This BCL also supports the efforts and  services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically-disadvantaged businesses, including women and minority firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 General Department of C8100 Executive The purpose of the Executive Management Budget 2,525,330 Subfund Executive Management Control Level is to provide executive direction and Administration leadership; strategic, financial and operational planning; risk management and human resource services; and administrative support so that Department managers, staff, and other decision-makers can make informed decisions on how to best serve City customers.

 General Department of C8200 Financial The purpose of the Financial Services Budget Control 8,384,796 Subfund Executive Services Level is to perform financial transactions, provide Administration financial reporting, and receive and disburse funds so that the City remains fiscally solvent.

 General Department of C8500 Revenue and The purpose of the Revenue and Consumer Affairs 5,434,029 Subfund Executive Consumer Budget Control Level is to administer and enforce the Administration Affairs City's license and tax codes for Seattle residents with the goal that budget expectations are met and consumer protection standards are upheld.

 General Department of C8600 Seattle The purpose of the Seattle Animal Shelter Budget 3,492,608 Subfund Executive Animal Control Level is to provide enforcement, animal care, Administration Shelter and spay and neuter services in Seattle to control pet overpopulation and foster public safety.

 Judgment/ Department of CJ000 Judgment The purpose of the Judgment/Claims Subfund Budget 24,000,000 Claims Executive Claims - Control Level is to provide for the payment of legal Subfund Administration General claims and suits brought against City government. The subfund receives appropriations from the General Subfund and the utilities to pay the judgments, settlements, claims and other eligible expenses expected in the following year. Unused balances, if any, may reduce the contribution required in succeeding years. General Fund-supported departments  with 2% of more of historical Judgment/Claims costs make premium payments to the subfund directly from their budgets. Finance General covers premiums for departments with less than 2% of historical Judgment/Claims costs. Utilities pay their actual expenses as incurred.

 Cumulative Department of 2CCE0-1 1998B Capital The purpose of the 1998B Capital Facilities Refunding 2,935,963 Reserve Executive Facilities REET I Budget Control Level is to pay debt service on Subfund, Administration Refunding 1998 Series B Limited Tax General Obligation bonds, Real Estate REET I which were issued to refund bonds issued in 1992 at Excise Tax I lower interest rates. Subaccount

 Bond Department of DEBTBIRF Bond Interest The purpose of the Bond Interest and Redemption 1,699,909 Interest and Executive and Budget Control Level is to create legal appropriation Redemption Administration Redemption authority for debt service payments to be made Fund through the Bond Interest and Redemption Fund (BIRF) from outside sources.

 2007 Department of DEBTISSUE Debt Issuance The purpose of the Debt Issuance Costs Budget Control 3,507,646 Multipurpose Executive Costs Level is to create the appropriation authority to pay LTGO Bond Administration debt issuance costs related to the 2009 Multipurpose Fund Limited Tax General Obligation (LTGO) Debt Issuance.

 General Department of CZ000 Finance The purpose of the Finance Budget Control Level is to 5,275,284 Subfund Finance develop and monitor the budget, issue and manage debt, establish financial policies and plans, and implement overall financial controls for the City. The department also oversees policy on City taxes, investments, accounting and related activities.

 General Executive X1R00 Civil Rights The purpose of the Civil Rights Budget Control Level 2,336,278 Subfund is to work toward eliminating discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations, contracting, and lending in Seattle through enforcement, and policy and outreach activities. The Office seeks to encourage and promote equal access and opportunity, diverse participation, and social and economic equity. In addition, the Office is responsible for directing the Mayor's Race & Social Justice Initiative, leading other City departments to design and implement programs which eliminate institutionalized racism.

 General Executive VJ500 Indigent The purpose of the Indigent Defense Services Budget 5,173,818 Subfund Defense Control Level is to secure legal defense services, as Services required by state law, for indigent people facing criminal charges in Seattle Municipal Court.

 General Executive X1G00 Inter-governme The purpose of the Intergovernmental Relations Budget 2,334,638 Subfund ntal Control Level is to promote and protect the City's Relations federal, state, regional, and international interests by providing strategic advice, representation, and advocacy to, and on behalf of, City elected officials on a variety of issues. These include: federal and state executive and legislative actions; issues and events relating to the City's international relations; and jurisdictional issues involving King County, suburban cities, and regional governmental organizations.

 General Executive VJ100 Jail Services The purpose of the Jail Services Budget Control Level 17,522,952 Subfund is to provide for the booking, housing, transporting, and guarding of City inmates, as well as day check-in services for pre-trial defendants and sentenced offenders, other alternatives to confinement, and for the lease of a courtroom in the King County jail. The jail population, for which the City pays, are adults charged with or convicted of misdemeanor crimes alleged to have been committed within the  Seattle city limits.

 General Executive X1D00 Office of The purpose of the Office of Economic Development 6,232,304 Subfund Economic Budget Control Level is to provide business Development assistance and community and work force development services to businesses, community organizations, and residents to support a strong local economy, thriving neighborhoods, and broadly-shared prosperity.

 General Executive X1000 Office of The purpose of the Office of Sustainability and 1,472,500 Subfund Sustainability Environment Budget Control Level is to develop, and communicate, implement, and monitor the City's Environment Environmental Action Agenda (EAA) and lead the City's Climate Protection and Green Seattle initiatives.

 General Executive X1A00 Office of the The purpose of the Mayor's Office Budget Control 3,048,821 Subfund Mayor Level is to provide honest, accessible leadership to residents, employees, and regional neighbors of the City of Seattle that is clear and responsible in an environment that encourages ideas, civic discourse, and inclusion for the entirety of the City's diverse population, creating an even better place to live, learn, work, and play.

 General Executive X1X00 Policy and The purpose of the Policy and Management Budget 2,687,677 Subfund Management Control Level is to provide policy assessment support to the Mayor and Council on major policy issues facing the City, and oversee progress on major projects and initiatives.

 Housing Executive XZ600 Office of The purpose of the Office of Housing Operating Fund 4,625,949 Operating Housing 16600 Budget Control Level is to fund the Fund Operating Department's administration activities. Fund 16600

 Low-Income Executive XZ-R1 Low-Income The purpose of the Low-Income Housing Fund 16400 40,937,527 Housing Fund Housing Fund Budget Control Level is to fund multi-family housing 16400 production, and to support homeownership and sustainability.

 Federal Executive 6XD10 Office of The purpose of the Office of Economic Development 5,003,675 Shared Economic Budget Control Level is to help create and maintain Revenue Fund Development healthy businesses, thriving neighborhoods, and community organizations to contribute to a robust economy that will benefit all Seattle residents and future generations.

 Federal Executive 6XZ10 Office of The purpose of the Office of Housing Budget Control 3,044,876 Shared Housing Level is to provide opportunities for residents to Revenue Fund thrive by investing in and promoting the development and preservation of affordable housing.

 Municipal Executive MUNIJAIL-BCL Municipal The purpose of the Municipal Jail Bond Proceeds 1,125,000 Jail Subfund Jail Bond Budget Control Level is to pay capital costs Proceeds associated with the construction of a new jail.

 Pike Place Executive PKLVYBCL-01 Pike Place The purpose of the Pike Place Market Renovation 24,979,000 Levy Market Budget Control Level is to provide appropriation Renovation authority for the City's reimbursement of Pike Place Market Preservation and Development Authority (PDA) expenditures on elements of the Market renovation.

 Pike Place Executive PKLVYBCL-02 Pike Place The purpose of the Pike Place Market Renovation Debt 417,150 Levy Market Service Budget Control Level is to provide Renovation appropriation authority for the City's payment of Debt Service debt service for debt issued in support of the Pike Place Market Renovation funded by levy proceeds.

 General Finance 2QA00 Appropriation The purpose of the Appropriation to General Fund 38,265,877 Subfund General to General Subfunds and Special Funds Budget Control Level is to Fund Subfunds appropriate General Subfund resources, several of and Special which are based upon the performance of certain City Funds revenues, to bond redemption or special purpose funds. These appropriations are implemented as operating transfers to the funds, subfunds, or accounts they support.

 General Finance 2QG00 Contingent The purpose of the Contingent Support to Operating 1,250,000 Subfund General Support to Funds Budget Control Level is to appropriate General Operating Subfund resources to line departments contingent upon Funds the performance of certain City revenues. These appropriations are implemented as operating transfers to the funds, subfunds, or accounts they support

 General Finance 2QD00 Reserves The purpose of the Reserves Budget Control Level is 23,845,567 Subfund General to provide appropriation authority to those programs for which there is no single appropriate managing department, or for which there is some Council and/or Mayor desire for additional budget oversight.

 General Finance 2QF00 Support to The purpose of the Support to Community Development 2,561,769 Subfund General Community Budget Control Level is to appropriate General Development Subfund resources for services or capital projects that are not directly administered by a City department.

 General Finance 2QE00 Support to The purpose of the Support to Operating Funds Budget 263,454,168 Subfund General Operating Control Level is to appropriate General Subfund Funds resources to support the operating costs of line departments that have their own operating funds. These appropriations are implemented as operating transfers to the funds or subfunds they support.

 Fleets and Fleets and A1000 Administration The purpose of the Administration Budget Control 3,812,031 Facilities Facilities Level is to provide executive leadership and a range Fund Department of planning and support functions, including policy and strategic analysis, budget development and monitoring, financial analysis and reporting, accounting services, information technology services, human resource services, office administration, and central departmental services such as contract review and legislative coordination. These functions  promote solid business systems, optimal resource allocation, and compliance with Citywide financial, technology, and personnel policies.

 Fleets and Fleets and A3000 Facility The purpose of the Facility Operations Budget Control 66,249,934 Facilities Facilities Operations Level is to manage most of the City's general Fund Department government facilities, including the downtown civic campus, police precincts, fire stations, shops and yards, and several parking facilities. Functions include property management, environmental analysis, implementation of environmentally sustainable facility investments, facility maintenance and repair, janitorial services, security services, and  event scheduling. The Facility Operations team is also responsible for warehouse and mail services throughout the City. These functions promote well-managed, clean, safe, and highly efficient buildings and grounds that house City employees and serve the public.

 Fleets and Fleets and A2000 Fleet The purpose of the Fleet Services Budget Control 48,487,271 Facilities Facilities Services Level is to provide fleet vehicles to City Fund Department departments; assess and implement environmental initiatives related to both the composition of the City's fleet and the fuels that power it; actively manage and maintain the fleet; procure and distribute fuel including biodiesel; and operate a centralized motor pool. The goal of these functions is to create and support an environmentally responsible and  cost-effective Citywide fleet that helps all City departments carry out their work as efficiently as possible.

 Fleets and Fleets and 50300-A1GM1 General The purpose of the General Government Facilities - 3,500,000 Facilities Facilities Government General Budget Control Level (BCL) is to execute Fund Department Facilities - capital projects in general government facilities. General This BCL is funded by Fleets and Facilities Fund (50300-CIP) dollars (Fund 50300).

 Fleets and Fleets and A4000 Judgment and The Judgment and Claims Budget Control Level pays for 477,386 Facilities Facilities Claims judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible Fund Department expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.

 Fleets and Fleets and 50300-A1PS2 Public Safety The purpose of the Public Safety Facilities - Fire -122,000 Facilities Facilities Facilities - Budget Control Level (BCL) is to renovate, expand, Fund Department Fire replace, or build fire department facilities. This (50300-CIP) BCL is funded by Fleets and Facilities Fund dollars (Fund 50300).

 Fleets and Fleets and A3100 Technical The purpose of the Technical Services Budget Control 5,486,547 Facilities Facilities Services Level is to manage most of the City's non-utility Fund Department real estate portfolio, and plan and administer FFD's Capital Improvement Program. These functions help assure that the City buys, sells, and manages its real property assets in a strategic fashion. The division also helps the City develop and preserve its facilities, striving to provide high-quality and environmentally sustainable capital facilities for  City staff and functions.

 Parking Fleets and 46011 Pacific Place The purpose of the Pacific Place Garage Budget 7,160,520 Garage Facilities Garage Control Level is to provide appropriation authority Operations Department for the City's expenses to operate the Pacific Place Fund Garage, which is located between Sixth and Seventh Avenues and Pine and Olive Streets in downtown Seattle. The City took over responsibility for the Garage in November 1998.

 General Fleets and 00100-A1GM3 Environmental The purpose of the Environmental Stewardship Budget -3,400,000 Subfund Facilities Stewardship Control Level is to provide resources to projects Department (00100-CIP) that mitigate existing environmental damage or increase the energy efficiency of City facilities. This BCL is supported by General Subfund resources.

 Cumulative Fleets and 00164-A51647 Garden of The purpose of the Garden of Remembrance Budget 22,000 Reserve Facilities Remembrance Control Level (BCL) is to provide City support for Subfund, Department (00164-CIP) replacing components of the memorial located at the Unrestricted Benaroya Concert Hall. This BCL is funded by CRS Subaccount Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Fleets and 00164-A1GM4 Preliminary The purpose of the Preliminary Engineering Budget 225,000 Reserve Facilities Engineering Control Level (BCL) is to conduct engineering studies Subfund, Department (00164-CIP) helping plan capital projects in general government Unrestricted facilities. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted Subaccount dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Fleets and 00164-A1PS1 Public Safety The purpose of the Public Safety Facilities - Police 255,000 Reserve Facilities Facilities - Budget Control Level (BCL) is to renovate, expand, Subfund, Department Police replace, or build police facilities. This BCL is Unrestricted (00164-CIP) supported by CRS, Unrestricted (Fund 00164). Subaccount

 Cumulative Fleets and 00163-A16173 Emergency The purpose of the Emergency Generators Budget 415,000 Reserve Facilities Generators Control Level (BCL) is to install new or replacement Subfund, Department (00163-CIP) generators and generator components at police Real Estate facilities. This BCL is supported by REET I Excise Tax I resources (Fund 00163). Subaccount

 Cumulative Fleets and 00163-A1FL1 Neighborhood The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget 10,244,000 Reserve Facilities Fire Stations Control Level (BCL) is to replace and renovate fire Subfund, Department (00163-CIP) stations and other emergency response facilities as Real Estate part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Excise Tax I Levy program. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars Subaccount (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Fleets and 00163-A1PS1 Public Safety The purpose of the Public Safety Facilities - Police 145,000 Reserve Facilities Facilities - Budget Control Level (BCL) is to renovate, expand, Subfund, Department Police replace, or build police facilities. This BCL is Real Estate (00163-CIP) funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163). Excise Tax I Subaccount

 Cumulative Fleets and 00168-A1AP1 Asset The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Civic Core 475,000 Reserve Facilities Preservation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace components Subfund, Department - Civic Core of Civic Core buildings at the end of their useful Asset (00168-CIP) lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund Subaccount - 00168). Fleets and Facilities

 Cumulative Fleets and 00168-A1AP6 Asset The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Public Safety 605,000 Reserve Facilities Preservation Facilities Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace Subfund, Department - Public components of public safety facilities at the end of Asset Safety their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Facilities Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities Subaccount - (00168-CIP) dollars (Fund 00168). Fleets and Facilities

 Cumulative Fleets and 00168-A1AP2 Asset The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Seattle 2,045,000 Reserve Facilities Preservation Municipal Tower Budget Control Level (BCL) is to Subfund, Department - Seattle replace components of the Seattle Municipal Tower at Asset Municipal the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded by Preservation Tower CRS Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Subaccount - (00168-CIP) Facilities dollars (Fund 00168). Fleets and Facilities

 Cumulative Fleets and 00168-A1AP4 Asset The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Shops and 595,000 Reserve Facilities Preservation Yards Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace Subfund, Department - Shops and components of shop and yard facilities at the end of Asset Yards their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation (00168-CIP) Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities Subaccount - dollars (Fund 00168). Fleets and Facilities

 Municipal Fleets and 00139-A1PS3 Correctional The purpose of the Correctional Facility Budget 4,500,000 Jail Subfund Facilities Facility Control Level (BCL) is to site and build a municipal Department (00139-CIP) jail. This BCL is supported by resources from the Municipal Jail Subfund (Fund 00139).

 2009 Fleets and 35300-A1PS1 Public Safety The purpose of the Public Safety Facilities - Police 1,410,000 Multipurpose Facilities Facilities - Budget Control Level (BCL) is to renovate, expand, LTGO Bond Department Police replace, or build police facilities. This BCL is Fund (35300-CIP) supported by debt proceeds (Fund 35300).

 2003 Fire Fleets and 34440-A1FL1 Neighborhood The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget 18,148,000 Facilities Facilities Fire Stations Control Level (BCL) is to replace and renovate fire Fund Department (34440-CIP) stations and other emergency response facilities as part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy program. This BCL is funded by 2003 Fire Facilities Fund dollars (Fund 34440).

 General Office of V1X00 Office of The purpose of the Office of Hearing Examiner Budget 581,443 Subfund Hearing Hearing Control Level is to conduct fair and impartial Examiner Examiner hearings in all subject areas where the Seattle Municipal Code grants authority to do so (there are currently more than 50 subject areas) and to issue decisions and recommendations consistent with applicable ordinances.

 Information Department of D1100 Finance and The purpose of the Finance and Administration Budget 2,610,691 Technology Information Administration Control Level is to provide administrative, Fund Technology contracting, finance, budget, and accounting services (planning, control, analysis, and consulting) to the Department.

 Information Department of D4400 Office of The purpose of the Office of Electronic 8,065,660 Technology Information Electronic Communications Budget Control Level is to operate the Fund Technology Communica-tion Seattle Channel, Cable Office, Web sites, and related s programs so that technology delivers services and information to residents, businesses, visitors, and employees in an effective way.

 Information Department of D3300 Technology The purpose of the Technology Infrastructure Budget 45,845,699 Technology Information Infrastructure Control Level is to build and operate the City's Fund Technology corporate communications and computing assets so that the City can manage information more effectively, deliver services more efficiently, and make well-informed decisions.

 Information Department of D2200 Technology The purpose of the Technology Leadership and 2,455,083 Technology Information Leadership Governance Budget Control Level is to provide Fund Technology and departments with strategic direction and coordination Governance on technology for their respective investment decisions.

 Cable Department of D160B Cable Fee The purpose of the Cable Fee Support to Information 7,271,359 Television Information Support to Technology Fund Budget Control Level is to authorize Franchise Technology Information the transfer of resources from the Cable Television Sub-Fund Technology Franchise Subfund to the Department of Information Fund Technology's Information Technology Fund. These resources are used by the Department for a variety of programs consistent with Council Resolution 30379.

 Cable Department of D160B-TBD Cable Fee The purpose of the Cable Fee Support to Library Fund 150,000 Television Information Support to Budget Control Level is to authorize the transfer of Franchise Technology Library Fund resources from the Cable Television Franchise Subfund Sub-Fund to the Seattle Public Library's Operating Fund. The Library uses these resources to pay for and maintain computers available to the public.

 General Legislative G1100 Legislative The purpose of the Legislative Department Budget 12,297,375 Subfund Department Department Control Level is to set policy, enact City laws, approve the City's budget, provide oversight of City departments, and to conduct operational and administrative activities in an efficient and effective manner to support the mission of the Department.

 General Personnel N4000 City/Union The purpose of the City/Union Relations and 3,198,798 Subfund Department Relations and Classification/Compensation Services Budget Control Class/Comp Level is to support the City's efforts to fairly Services manage and compensate its diverse work force. City/Union Relations staff provide technical and professional labor-relations services to policymakers and management staff of all City departments. The Class/Comp staff develop pay programs, perform compensation analysis, and provide classification  services and organizational consultation to all City departments.

 General Personnel N3000 Citywide The purpose of the Citywide Personnel Services Budget 3,549,817 Subfund Department Personnel Control Level is to establish Citywide personnel Services rules and provide human resources systems, policy advice, information management, finance and accounting services, contingent work force oversight, and expert assistance to departments, policymakers, and employees so the City can accomplish its business goals in a cost-effective manner. This program includes Policy Development, Information Management,  Finance and Accounting, Temporary Employment Services, and other internal support services.

 General Personnel N2000 Employee The purpose of the Employee Health Services Budget 3,055,119 Subfund Department Health Control Level is to provide quality, cost-effective Services employee health care and other benefits, workers' compensation benefits, and safety services to maintain and promote employee health and productivity, and to provide a competitive non-cash compensation package. This program also includes administration of the Seattle Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust.

 General Personnel N1000 Employment The purpose of the Employment and Training Budget 2,729,928 Subfund Department and Training Control Level is to provide staffing services, employee-development opportunities, mediation, and technical assistance to all City departments so the City can meet its hiring needs efficiently, maintain legal compliance, and help organizations and employees accomplish the City's work in a productive and cost-effective manner. This Budget Control Level includes the Police and Fire Exams, Employment,  Supported Employment, Equal Employment Opportunity, Alternative Dispute Resolution, and Career Quest units.

 Group Term Personnel NA000 Group Term The purpose of the Group Term Life Budget Control 800,000 Life Department Life Level is to provide appropriation authority for the Insurance City's group term life insurance, long-term Subfund disability insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance.

 Health Care Personnel NM000 Health Care The purpose of the Health Care Budget Control Level 135,386,370 Subfund Department is to provide for the City's medical, dental, and vision insurance programs; the Flexible Spending Account; the Employee Assistance Program; and COBRA continuation coverage costs. The City is self-insured and re-insured for some medical plans, and carries insurance for other medical plans and for all dental and vision plans.

 Industrial Personnel NR500 Industrial The purpose of the Industrial Insurance Budget 17,186,769 Insurance Department Insurance Control Level is to provide for medical, wage Subfund replacement, pension and disability claims related to occupational injuries and illnesses; occupational medical monitoring; workplace safety programs; and related expenses. Since 1972, the City of Seattle has been a self-insured employer as authorized under state law. The Industrial Insurance Subfund receives payments from City departments to pay for medical, wage replacement, pension and disability claims related to occupational injuries and illnesses; occupational medical monitoring; workplace safety programs; and related administrative expenses.

 Special Personnel NT000 Special The purpose of the Special Employment Budget Control 300,000 Employment Department Employment Level is to capture the expenditures associated with Subfund outside agency use of the City's temporary, intern, and work study programs. Outside agencies reimburse the City for costs. Expenses related to employees hired by City departments through the Special Employment Program are charged directly to the departments.

 Unemployment Personnel NS000 Unemployment The purpose of the Unemployment Compensation Budget 1,826,250 Insurance Department Compensation Control Level is to provide the budget authority for Subfund the City to pay unemployment compensation expenses. The City is a self-insured employer with respect to unemployment compensation. The Unemployment Compensation Subfund contains the revenues and expenditures associated with the City's unemployment benefit costs for employees.

 KeyArena Seattle KASPFTBD2 Transfer to The purpose of this Budget Control Level is to 121,000 Settlement Center the Seattle support operating expenses at Seattle Center Proceeds Center Fund including, but not limited to, Seattle Center's Fund Century 21 Initiative. This BCL is supported by resources from the City's settlement with the Sonics (Fund 00138).

 t

 ATTACHMENT B:

 Position Modifications in the 2009 Proposed Budget

 (Excluding Changes Reflected in the "Budget Errata" Submitted by the Department of Finance to the City Council)

 The following is the official list of position modifications in the 2009 Proposed Budget. The modifications result from budget actions that reclassify positions, abrogate positions, create new positions, transfer existing positions between City departments, or change the status of a position, e.g. from full-time to part-time status. Numbers in parentheses are reductions. The figures in the column labeled "Number" represent net position adjustments as a result of changes contained in the 2009 Proposed Budget. The modifications listed here will take effect on January 1, 2009.

 Position

 Department Position Title Status Number

 Department of Executive Civil Rights Anlyst FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive Licenses&Standards FullTime (1) Administration Inspector

 Department of Executive Paralegal FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime 1 Administration

 Department of Executive Administration Total (2)

 Department of Finance StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Department of Finance StratAdvsr2,Exempt PartTime (2)

 Department of Finance Total (3)

 Department of Information Actg Tech II-BU FullTime (1) Technology

 Department of Information Info Technol Prof B FullTime 1 Technology

 Department of Information Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (1) Technology

 Department of Information StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1) Technology

 Department of Information StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime (1) Technology

 Department of Information Video Spec II FullTime 1 Technology

 Department of Information Technology Total (2)

 Department of Neighborhoods Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Ed Prgms Spec PartTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec II PartTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods StratAdvsr1,Exempt FullTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Total (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Admin Spec I-BU FullTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation Admin Spec I-BU PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Admin Spec II-BU FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Admin Spec II-BU PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Admin Spec III-BU FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Admin Staff Asst FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Admin Support Asst-BU PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Biologist 2 PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Biologist 2 PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Biologist 3 FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Guide PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Cashier PartTime (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Cashier,Sr PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Cashier,Sr PartTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation Ed Prgm Asst PartTime (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Exec Asst FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Gardener FullTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation Gardener PartTime (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Graphic Arts Designer PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Grounds&Facilities Supv FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Laborer FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Maint Laborer FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Manager2,General Govt FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Manager2,Parks&Rec FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Mgmt Systs Anlyst Supv FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Parks Special Events FullTime (1) Schedlr

 Department of Parks and Recreation Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Publc Ed Prgm Spec FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Publc Ed Prgm Supv FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Publc/Cultural Prgms FullTime (1) Spec,Supv

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Attendant PartTime (4)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Cntr Coord,Asst PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Leader FullTime 3

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Leader PartTime (9)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Prgm Coord,Sr FullTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Prgm Spec FullTime 4

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Prgm Spec PartTime (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Security Ofcr FullTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation StratAdvsr1,General Govt FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation StratAdvsr1,Parks&Rec FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation StratAdvsr2,Parks&Rec FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Tree Trimmer FullTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation Tree Trimmer,Lead FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Truck Drvr,Heavy FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Util Laborer FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Util Laborer PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Warehouser-BU FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Total (4)

 Department of Planning and Admin Spec II-BU PartTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Arborist PartTime 1 Development

 Department of Planning and Civil Engrng Spec,Sr FullTime 1 Development

 Department of Planning and Code Dev Anlyst Supv FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Code Dev Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1 Development

 Department of Planning and Elecl Plans Examiner FullTime 1 Development

 Department of Planning and Housing Ordinance Spec PartTime 1 Development

 Department of Planning and Land Use Plnr II FullTime (4) Development

 Department of Planning and Land Use Plnr III FullTime (2) Development

 Department of Planning and Manager2,Engrng&Plans Rev FullTime 2 Development

 Department of Planning and Mech Plans Engr,Sr FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1 Development

 Department of Planning and Permit Process Leader FullTime (2) Development

 Department of Planning and Plng&Dev Spec,Supvsng FullTime 1 Development

 Department of Planning and Plng&Dev Spec,Supvsng PartTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Pressure Systs FullTime (1) Development Inspector(J)

 Department of Planning and Site Dev Insp FullTime 3 Development

 Department of Planning and Strucl Plans Engr FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Strucl Plans Engr,Sr FullTime (3) Development

 Department of Planning and Development Total (5)

 Employees' Retirement System Accountant FullTime (1)

 Employees' Retirement System Accountant,Sr FullTime 1

 Employees' Retirement System Actg Tech II-BU FullTime 1

 Employees' Retirement System Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Employees' Retirement System Admin Spec II-BU FullTime 1

 Employees' Retirement System Fin Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Employees' Retirement System Manager3,Fin,Bud,&Actg FullTime 1

 Employees' Retirement System Total 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department Auto Mechanic FullTime 2

 Fleets and Facilities Department Auto Mechanic Aprn FullTime 3

 Fleets and Facilities Department Bldg Operating Engr FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Capital Prjts Coord,Asst FullTime 2

 Fleets and Facilities Department Fin Anlyst FullTime 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department StratAdvsr2,P&FM FullTime 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department Total 8

 Human Services Department Actg Tech I-BU FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Actg Tech I-BU PartTime 1

 Human Services Department Admin Spec I-BU PartTime (1)

 Human Services Department Admin Support Asst-BU FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Counslr FullTime 5

 Human Services Department Human Svcs Coord FullTime 3

 Human Services Department Human Svcs Prgm Supv,Sr FullTime 1

 Human Services Department Info Technol Prof B-BU FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Manager1,Human Svcs FullTime 1

 Human Services Department Publc Relations Spec FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Social Svcs Aide FullTime 1

 Human Services Department Trng&Ed Coord FullTime 1

 Human Services Department Total 8

 Office of Housing Com Dev Spec,Sr PartTime (1)

 Office of Housing StratAdvsr1,General Govt FullTime 1

 Office of Housing Total 0

 Office of Intergovernmental StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime 1 Relations

 Office of Intergovernmental Relations Total 1

 Office of Policy and Management Plng&Dev Spec II PartTime (1)

 Office of Policy and Management StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime 1

 Office of Policy and Management Total 0

 Office of the Mayor Mayoral Staff Asst 2 FullTime (1)

 Office of the Mayor Total (1)

 Personnel Department Admin Spec II FullTime 1

 Personnel Department Personnel Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1

 Personnel Department Plng&Dev Spec,Sr FullTime 1

 Personnel Department Plng&Dev Spec,Sr PartTime (1)

 Personnel Department StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Personnel Department StratAdvsr3,General Govt FullTime (1)

 Personnel Department Workers' Comp Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Personnel Department Total (1)

 Seattle Center Dining Room Attendant,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Laborer FullTime (4)

 Seattle Center Marketing Dev Coord PartTime (1)

 Seattle Center Parking Attendant PartTime (1)

 Seattle Center Total (7)

 Seattle City Light Accountant FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Act Exec FullTime 6

 Seattle City Light Capital Prjts Coord,Sr FullTime 2

 Seattle City Light Economist FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Elecl Engrng Spec,Asst I FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Elecl Hlpr FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Elecl Pwr Systs Engr,Prin FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Plng Anlyst FullTime 6

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Plng Supv FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Res&Eval Anlyst FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Executive2 FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Manager3,CL&PS FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Manager3,Utils FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Marketing Dev Coord FullTime 2

 Seattle City Light Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime 4

 Seattle City Light Prot&Cntrl Elctn II FullTime 2

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr2,Utils FullTime 3

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Trng&Ed Coord FullTime 3

 Seattle City Light Trng&Ed Coord,Sr FullTime 3

 Seattle City Light Total 42

 Seattle Department of Admin Spec II FullTime 3 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Admin Spec II PartTime (1) Transportation

 Seattle Department of Admin Spec III-BU FullTime (1) Transportation

 Seattle Department of Cement Finisher FullTime 2 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Civil Engr,Asst I FullTime 2 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Civil Engr,Sr FullTime 2 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc FullTime 3 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Civil Engrng Spec,Sr FullTime 1 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Constr&Maint Equip Op FullTime 1 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Engrng Aide FullTime 3 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Maint Laborer FullTime 2 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Sfty&Hlth Spec,Sr FullTime 1 Transportation

 Seattle Department of StratAdvsr1,Exempt FullTime 2 Transportation

 Seattle Department of StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime 1 Transportation

 Seattle Department of StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime 1 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Transp Plnr,Assoc FullTime (3) Transportation

 Seattle Department of Transp Plnr,Sr PartTime (1) Transportation

 Seattle Department of Truck Drvr,Heavy FullTime 1 Transportation

 Seattle Department of Transportation Total 20

 Seattle Fire Department Fire Chief,Dep-80 Hrs FullTime (1)

 Seattle Fire Department Fire Lieut-Prev Inspector FullTime (1) I

 Seattle Fire Department Fireboat Engr-92.30 Hrs FullTime (4)

 Seattle Fire Department Info Technol Prof B-BU FullTime 1

 Seattle Fire Department Total (5)

 Seattle Police Department Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Admin Spec II-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Admin Staff Asst FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Com Svc Ofcr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Equip&Facilities Coord FullTime 1

 Seattle Police Department Executive2 FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Executive4 FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Legal Advisor FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Parking Enf Ofcr FullTime 8

 Seattle Police Department Parking Enf Ofcr Supv FullTime 2

 Seattle Police Department Pol Data Tech FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Total 3

 Seattle Public Utilities Actg Tech III-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Actg Tech III-BU PartTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Admin Spec II FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Admin Staff Asst FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Admin Staff Asst PartTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engr Supv FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engr,Asst III FullTime 6

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engr,Sr FullTime 4

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engrng Spec Supv FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc FullTime 7

 Seattle Public Utilities Disposal CC II FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Maint Laborer FullTime 2

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager3,Utils FullTime 2

 Seattle Public Utilities Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Plng&Dev Spec II PartTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Solid Wst Fld Rep,Lead FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities StratAdvsr2,Utils FullTime 2

 Seattle Public Utilities Truck Drvr,Heavy FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Total 31

 Grand Total 82

 t

 ATTACHMENT C:

 City Council Changes to Position Modification List in the 2009 Proposed Budget

 (Including Changes Reflected in the "Budget Errata" Submitted by the Department of Finance to the City Council)

 The following is the official list of the City Council changes to the position modification list in the 2009 Proposed Budget. Numbers in parentheses are reductions. The figures in the column labeled "Number" represent net position adjustments as a result of City Council changes.

 Department Position Title Position Number Status

 City Auditor StratAdvsr-Audit FullTime (1)

 City Auditor Total (1)

 Department of Executive StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive Administration Total (1)

 Department of Information Technology Info Technol Prof FullTime 1 A,Exempt

 Department of Information Technology Total 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods StratAdvsr1,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods StratAdvsr1,General FullTime 1 Govt

 Department of Neighborhoods Total 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Leader FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Prgm Spec FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Security Ofcr FullTime (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation StratAdvsr1,Parks&Rec FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Tree Trimmer,Lead FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Tree Trimming Rep FullTime (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Total (6)

 Department of Planning and Plng&Dev Spec,Sr FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and StratAdvsr1,Exempt FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Development Total (2)

 Human Services Department Plng&Dev Spec,Sr PartTime 1

 Human Services Department Prjt Fund&Agreemts PartTime (1) Coord

 Human Services Department Total 0

 Law Department Legal Intern PartTime (2)

 Law Department Total (2)

 Office of Economic Development Admin Spec I FullTime (1)

 Office of Economic Development Admin Staff Asst FullTime (1)

 Office of Economic Development Com Dev Spec,Sr PartTime (1)

 Office of Economic Development Personnel Spec PartTime (1)

 Office of Economic Development Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime (1)

 Office of Economic Development StratAdvsr1,General FullTime (1) Govt

 Office of Economic Development Total (6)

 Office of Housing StratAdvsr1,General FullTime (1) Govt

 Office of Housing Total (1)

 Department Position Title Position Number Status

 Office of Intergovernmental StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1) Relations

 Office of Intergovernmental Relations Total (1)

 Office of Policy and Management StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Office of Policy and Management (1) Total

 Office of Sustainability and StratAdvsr1,Exempt FullTime 1 Environment

 Office of Sustainability and StratAdvsr1,General Govt FullTime (1) Environment

 Office of Sustainability and Environment Total 0

 Seattle City Light Capital Prjts Coord,Sr FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light Executive2 FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Manager3,CL&PS FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr2,Utils FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr3,Utils FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Trng&Ed Coord FullTime (3)

 Seattle City Light Trng&Ed Coord,Sr FullTime (3)

 Seattle City Light Total (14)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Civil Engrng Spec,Sr PartTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Total (1)

 Seattle Police Department Equip&Facilities Coord FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Total (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Actg Tech III-BU FullTime 2

 Seattle Public Utilities Actg Tech III-BU PartTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Admin Spec II FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Admin Spec II PartTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Admin Staff Asst FullTime 2

 Seattle Public Utilities Admin Staff Asst PartTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engr,Asst III FullTime (6)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engr,Sr FullTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc FullTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc PartTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engrng Spec,Asst I FullTime 4

 Seattle Public Utilities Disposal CC II FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Maint Laborer FullTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager3,Utils FullTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Plng&Dev Spec,Sr PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Solid Wst Fld Rep,Lead FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Truck Drvr,Heavy FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Total (13)

 Grand Total (48)

 t

```
