

********

**Council Bill Number: 116376**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122834**
********

 AN ORDINANCE providing for the defeasance and redemption of certain of the City's outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B, Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003, and Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005; creating a special fund; creating and transferring funds into a defeasance account in the Bond Fund; authorizing the execution of a defeasance trust agreement; authorizing the purchase of certain investments and the use of their proceeds; authorizing the call for redemption prior to maturity of defeased bonds; and appropriating amounts in the defeasance account to carry out the defeasance; ratifying and confirming certain prior acts; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 3, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 7, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 7, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Sonics Settlement Agreement

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 20, 2008
   
**Committee:** Full Council
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, FINANCE, BONDS, SEATTLE-CENTER, COLISEUM, BASKETBALL

**Fiscal Note:**116376

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122834](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122834.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE providing for the defeasance and redemption of certain of the City's outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B, Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003, and Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005; creating a special fund; creating and transferring funds into a defeasance account in the Bond Fund; authorizing the execution of a defeasance trust agreement; authorizing the purchase of certain investments and the use of their proceeds; authorizing the call for redemption prior to maturity of defeased bonds; and appropriating amounts in the defeasance account to carry out the defeasance; ratifying and confirming certain prior acts; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 120894, passed by the City Council on August 12, 2002, and Resolution 30528, adopted by the City Council on September 18, 2002 (collectively, the "2002B Bond Legislation"), the City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), issued its $64,560,000 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B (the "2002B Bonds"); and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 120979, passed by the City Council on November 18, 2002, and Resolution 30571, adopted by the City Council on February 5, 2003 (collectively, the "2003 Bond Legislation"), the City issued its $60,855,000 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003 (the "2003 Bonds"); and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 119020, passed by the City Council on May 26, 1998, Ordinance 121651, passed by the City Council on November 22, 2004, Ordinance 121663, passed by the City Council on November 22, 2004, and Resolution 30755, adopted by the City Council on March 9, 2005 (collectively, the "2005 Bond Legislation"), the City issued its $129,540,000 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005 (the "2005 Bonds"); and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to the 2002B Bond Legislation, the City reserved the right to use money available from any lawful source to pay when due the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the 2002B Bonds pursuant to a defeasance plan and to redeem outstanding 2002B Bonds prior to their maturity on or after October 1, 2012, at a price of par plus accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to the 2003 Bond Legislation, the City reserved the right to use money available from any lawful source to pay when due the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the 2003 Bonds pursuant to a defeasance plan and to redeem outstanding 2003 Bonds prior to their maturity on or after August 1, 2013, at a price of par plus accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to the 2005 Bond Legislation, the City reserved the right to use money available from any lawful source to pay when due the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the 2005 Bonds pursuant to a defeasance plan and to redeem outstanding 2005 Bonds prior to their maturity on or after August 1, 2015, at a price of par plus accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption; and

 WHEREAS, financial responsibility for payment of debt service on certain of the outstanding 2002B Bonds, 2003 Bonds and 2005 Bonds has been allocated to the General Fund to reflect the cost of making provision for payment of bonds issued for KeyArena, which bonds are more particularly described in Exhibit A to this ordinance and defined as the "Defeased Bonds"; and

 WHEREAS, the City has determined it is in the best interest of the City to effect a debt service savings in respect of the General Fund by providing for the defeasance and redemption of the Defeased Bonds and appropriating the funds required to accomplish that defeasance and redemption of the Defeased Bonds from funds received by the City from the settlement of the KeyArena litigation;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the meanings hereinafter set forth:

 "Bond Counsel" means a firm of lawyers nationally recognized and accepted as bond counsel and so employed by the City for any purpose under this ordinance applicable to the use of that term.

 "Bond Fund" means the City's Bond Interest and Redemption Fund, previously created and established and to be used for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 2002B Bonds, the 2003 Bonds and the 2005 Bonds.

 "City" means The City of Seattle, Washington, a municipal corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 "City Council" means the City Council of the City, as duly and regularly constituted from time to time.

 "Defeasance Plan" means:

 (a) the placement with the Defeasance Trustee of money of the City, as budgeted and available in the KeyArena Settlement Proceeds Fund that will be sufficient to acquire the Escrow Obligations and provide any required beginning cash balance;

 (b) the payment of the principal of and interest on the 2002B Defeased Bonds when due up to and including October 1, 2012, and on October 1, 2012, to call, pay and redeem all of the then-outstanding 2002B Defeased Bonds at a price of par plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of redemption; and

 (c) the payment of the principal of and interest on the 2003 Defeased Bonds when due up to and including August 1, 2013, and on August 1, 2013, to call, pay and redeem all of the then-outstanding 2003 Defeased Bonds at a price of par plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of redemption;

 (d) the payment of the principal of and interest on the 2005 Defeased Bonds when due;

 (e) the payment of the costs and expenses of carrying out the foregoing elements of the Defeasance Plan.

 "Defeasance Subfund" means the Defeasance Subfund created in the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 3 of this ordinance.

 "Defeasance Trust Agreement" means a Defeasance Trust Agreement between the City and the Defeasance Trustee substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1 and by this reference incorporated herein, with such changes as are consistent with this ordinance and are approved by the Director of Finance.

 "Defeasance Trustee" means the defeasance trustee hereafter selected by the Director of Finance, and any successor thereto, as defeasance trustee under the Defeasance Trust Agreement.

 "Defeased Bonds" means, collectively, the 2002B Defeased Bonds, the 2003 Defeased Bonds and the 2005 Defeased Bonds.

 "Director of Finance" means the director of the Department of Finance of the City, and any successor to substantially the same duties.

 "Escrow Obligations" means Government Obligations purchased to accomplish the defeasance of the Defeased Bonds as authorized by this ordinance.

 "Government Obligations" means noncallable direct obligations of the United States of America.

 "KeyArena Settlement Proceeds Fund" means the KeyArena Settlement Proceeds Fund created pursuant Section 2 of this ordinance.

 "2002B Bond Legislation" means Ordinance 120894, passed by the City Council on August 12, 2002, and Resolution 30528, adopted by the City Council on September 18, 2002.

 "2002B Bonds" means the City's outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B, dated September 1, 2003.

 "2002B Defeased Bonds" means those 2002B Bonds identified as such in Exhibit A to this ordinance.

 "2003 Bond Legislation" means Ordinance 120979, passed by the City Council on November 18, 2002, and Resolution 30571, adopted by the City Council on February 5, 2003.

 "2003 Bonds" means the City's outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003, dated February 1, 2003.

 "2003 Defeased Bonds" means those 2003 Bonds identified as such in Exhibit A to this ordinance.

 "2005 Bond Legislation" means Ordinance 119020, passed by the City Council on May 26, 1998, Ordinances 121663 and 121651, passed by the City Council on November 22, 2004, and Resolution 30555, adopted by the City Council on March 9, 2005.

 "2005 Bonds" means the City's outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005, dated March 23, 2005.

 "2005 Defeased Bonds" means those 2005 Bonds identified as such in Exhibit A to this ordinance.

 Section 2. KeyArena Settlement Proceeds Fund. There is hereby authorized to be created a special fund to be designated the "KeyArena Settlement Proceeds Fund." The City Council hereby authorizes and directs the Director of Finance to deposit into such Fund all proceeds received pursuant to the settlement of the KeyArena litigation. Amounts deposited in the KeyArena Settlement Proceeds Fund shall be used and applied in accordance with appropriations by the City Council, including the appropriations in this ordinance.

 Section 3. Defeasance Subfund. There is hereby authorized to be created in the Bond Fund a special account to be designated the "Defeasance Subfund," which account shall be maintained for the sole purpose of implementing the Defeasance Plan and defeasing future City bonds. The City Council hereby authorizes and directs the Director of Finance to transfer to the Defeasance Subfund the amount specified in Section 9 of this ordinance for the defeasance of the Defeased Bonds. The Director of Finance is authorized and directed to transfer, or cause to be transferred, from the Defeasance Account to the KeyArena Settlement Proceeds Fund any money not required to carry out the Defeasance Plan.

 Section 4. Defeasance of Defeased Bonds.

 (a) Appointment of Defeasance Trustee. The Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a Defeasance Trustee and negotiate, and execute an agreement for, appropriate financial terms.

 (b) Acquisition of Escrow Obligations. A sufficient amount of money on deposit in the Defeasance Account shall be transferred to the Defeasance Trustee to be used to discharge the obligations of the City relating to the Defeased Bonds under the 2002B Bond Legislation, the 2003 Bond Legislation and the 2005 Bond Legislation, as applicable, by providing for the payment of the amounts required to be paid by the Defeasance Plan. To the extent practicable, such obligations shall be discharged fully by the Defeasance Trustee's simultaneous purchase of the Escrow Obligations, bearing such interest and maturing as to principal and interest in such amounts and at such times so as to provide, together with a beginning cash balance, if necessary, for the payment of the amount required to be paid by the Defeasance Plan. The Escrow Obligations shall be listed and more particularly described in Schedule B attached to the Defeasance Trust Agreement. The City shall deliver to the Defeasance Trustee with the Defeasance Trust Agreement (i) a verification by a nationally recognized independent certified public accounting firm acceptable to the Defeasance Trustee confirming that the payments of principal of and interest on the Escrow Obligations, if paid when due, and any other money held by the Defeasance Trustee will be sufficient to carry out the Defeasance Plan; and (ii) an opinion of Bond Counsel to the effect that the interest on the Defeased Bonds will remain excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes under Sections 103 and 148 of the Code.

 (c) Administration of Defeasance Plan. The Defeasance Trustee is authorized and directed to purchase the Escrow Obligations and to make the payments required to be made by the Defeasance Plan from the Escrow Obligations and money deposited with the Defeasance Trustee pursuant to this ordinance. All Escrow Obligations and the money deposited with the Defeasance Trustee and any income therefrom shall be held irrevocably and applied in accordance with the provisions of the 2002B Bond Legislation, the 2003 Bond Legislation, the 2005 Bond Legislation, this ordinance and the Defeasance Trust Agreement. All necessary and proper fees, compensation, and expenses of the Defeasance Trustee for costs incidental to the setting up of the escrow to accomplish the defeasance of the Defeased Bonds, including verification fees, bond counsel's fees, and other related expenses, shall be paid by the City.

 (d) Authorization for Defeasance Trust Agreement. The Director of Finance is authorized and directed to enter into a Defeasance Trust Agreement with the Defeasance Trustee.

 Section 5. Findings and Determinations Concerning Defeasance Plan. The City Council finds and determines that it is in the best interest of the City and its taxpayers that the City carry out the Defeasance Plan and hereby ratifies and approves the Defeasance Plan.

 Section 6. Calls for Redemption of the Defeased Bonds. The City calls for redemption on October 1, 2012, all of the then-outstanding 2002B Defeased Bonds at a price of par plus accrued interest, if any. The City calls for redemption on August 1, 2013, all of the then- outstanding 2003 Defeased Bonds at a price of par plus accrued interest, if any. Such calls for redemption shall be irrevocable after the establishment of a sufficient escrow provided by the Defeasance Trust Agreement.

 Section 7. Appropriation for Defeasance. In order to carry out the Defeasance Plan, the appropriations for the following in the 2008 Budget are increased from the funds shown, as follows:

 Fund Department Budget Control Maximum Amount Level

 KeyArena Debt Service Bond Interest and $34,200,000 Seattlement Redemption Budget Proceeds Fund Control Level

 Section 8. Transfer for Defeasance. To support the appropriation made in Section 7 above, the Director of Finance is authorized to transfer or cause to be transferred to the Defeasance Subfund cash up to the amount as specified in Section 7 of this ordinance.

 Section 9. Appropriation for Litigation Expenses. In order to pay for necessary legal costs incurred or to be incurred for the KeyArena settlement, the appropriations for the following in the 2008 Budget are increased from the funds shown, as follows:

 Fund Budget Control Level Maximum Amount

 KeyArena Litigation Expense Budget Control $2,750,000 Settlement Level Proceeds Fund

 Section 10. Appropriation for Revenue Loss Mitigation. In order to mitigate certain General Subfund revenue losses associated with the premature termination of the Sonic's KeyArena lease, the appropriations for the following in the 2008 Budget are increased from the funds shown, as follows:

 Fund Budget Control Level Maximum Amount

 KeyArena General Subfund Budget Control $1,430,000 Settlement Level Proceeds Fund

 Section 11. Transfer for Revenue Loss Mititgation. To support the appropriation made in Section 10 above, the Director of Finance is authorized to transfer or cause to be transferred to the General Subfund cash up to the amount as specified in Section 10.

 Section 12. General Authorization. The Mayor and the Director of Finance and each of the other appropriate officers of the City are each authorized and directed to do everything as in their judgment may be necessary, appropriate, or desirable in order to carry out the terms and provisions of, and complete the transactions contemplated by, this ordinance.

 Section 13. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, such offending provision shall, if feasible, be deemed to be modified to be within the limits of enforceability or validity. However, if the offending provision cannot be so modified, it shall be null and void with respect to the particular person or circumstance, and all other provisions of this ordinance in all other respects, and the offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 14. Ratification of Prior Acts. Any action taken consistent with the authority of this ordinance but between its passage and the effective date is ratified, approved and confirmed.

 Section 15. Headings. The section headings in this ordinance are used for convenience only and shall not constitute a substantive portion of this ordinance.

 Section 16. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council the _____ day of __________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008.

 President __________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of __________, 2008.

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of __________, 2008.

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachment

 Exhibit A - Defeased Bonds

 Attachment 1 - Defeasance Trust Agreement

 EXHIBIT A

 DEFEASED BONDS

 2002B Defeased Bonds

 Maturity Year Par Amount Interest

 (October 1) Defeased* Rate

 2009 3,760,000 3.50

 2010 3,900,000 3.50

 2011 4,025,000 3.50

 2012 4,175,000 4.00

 2013 4,345,000 4.00

 2014 4,525,000 4.00

 *represents all of the principal due on each maturity date of the City's Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B

 2003 Defeased Bonds

 Maturity Year Par Amount Interest

 (August 1) Defeased* Rate

 2009 $ 925,000 4.00%

 2010 960,000 4.00

 2011 1,000,000 4.00

 2012 1,040,000 4.00

 2013 1,080,000 4.00

 2014 1,125,000 4.00

 *represents a portion of the principal due on each maturity date of the City's Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003

 2005 Defeased Bonds

 Maturity Year Par Amount Interest

 (August 1) Defeased* Rate

 2009 $380,000 5.00%

 2010 395,000 5.00

 *represents a portion of the principal due on each maturity date of the City's Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005

 ATTACHMENT 1

 DEFEASANCE TRUST AGREEMENT

 William G. Tonkin/Van Dyck

 DOF Key Arena Defeasance 2008 LE ORD.doc

 September 18, 2008

 Version 7a

 page |13

 -10-

 50929219.1

 DEFEASANCE TRUST AGREEMENT

 THIS DEFEASANCE TRUST AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of the ____ day of ____________, 2008, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, WASHINGTON (the "City"), a municipal corporation, and [BANK TBD] of Seattle, Washington, (the "Defeasance Trustee").

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 120894, passed by the City Council on August 12, 2002, and Resolution 30528, adopted by the City Council on September 18, 2002 (collectively, the "2002B Bond Legislation"), the City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), issued its $64,560,000 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B (the "2002B Bonds"); and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 120979, passed by the City Council on November 18, 2002, and Resolution 30571, adopted by the City Council on February 5, 2003 (collectively, the "2003 Bond Legislation"), the City issued its $60,855,000 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003 (the "2003 Bonds"); and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 119020, passed by the City Council on May 26, 1998, Ordinance 121651, passed by the City Council on November 22, 2004, Ordinance 121663, passed by the City Council on November 22, 2004, and Resolution 30755, adopted by the City Council on March 9, 2005 (collectively, the "2005 Bond Legislation"), the City issued its $129,540,000 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005 (the "2005 Bonds"); and

 WHEREAS, the 2002B Bond Legislation, the 2003 Bond Legislation and the 2005 Bond Legislation is collectively referred to herein as the "Bond Legislation"; and

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance _________, passed by the City Council on ____________, 2008 (the "Defeasance Legislation"), the City has determined to defease certain of the outstanding 2002B Bonds, 2003 Bonds and 2005 Bonds described in Schedule A hereto (individually the "2002B Defeased Bonds," the "2003 Defeased Bonds" and the "2005 Defeased Bonds" and, collectively, the "Defeased Bonds"), and has authorized the City's Director of Finance to take such actions he deems necessary or desirable to accomplish such defeasance; and

 WHEREAS, the payment of the Defeased Bonds will be accomplished pursuant to this Agreement, which document provides for and, for the purpose of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), is to be considered as the Defeasance Plan, by:

 (a) The delivery by the City to the Defeasance Trustee on the date of this Agreement (the "Date of Closing") of the amount set forth in Section 1 hereof; and

 (b) The purchase by the Defeasance Trustee on the Date of Closing of the noncallable direct obligations of the United States of America listed on Schedule B attached hereto and made a part hereof by this reference (the "Escrow Obligations"), which Escrow Obligations satisfy the requirements of the Verification described in paragraph (c); and

 (c) The delivery to the City and the Defeasance Trustee of a verification (the "Verification") by a nationally recognized independent certified public accounting firm verifying the mathematical accuracy of the computations (which computations shall be attached to that report) showing (i) that the Escrow Obligations to be purchased by the Defeasance Trustee pursuant to this Agreement, together with the specified beginning cash balance, if any, and the maturing principal of and interest on such Escrow Obligations, will provide sufficient money (assuming that all principal of and interest on the Escrow Obligations are paid on the due dates thereof and assuming no reinvestment of such maturing principal and interest) to

 (i) pay interest on the 2002B Defeased Bonds when due up to and including October 1, 2012, and on October 1, 2012, call, pay, and redeem all of the outstanding 2002B Defeased Bonds at a price of par, plus accrued interest, if any;

 (ii) pay interest on the 2003 Defeased Bonds when due up to and including August 1, 2013, and on August 1, 2013, call, pay, and redeem all of the outstanding 2003 Defeased Bonds at a price of par, plus accrued interest, if any;

 (iii) pay principal of and interest on the 2005 Defeased Bonds when due; and

 (iv) that the yield on the particular Escrow Obligations allocated to the defeasance of the 2002B Defeased Bonds, the 2003 Defeased Bonds and the 2005 Defeased Bonds, respectively, is lower than the arbitrage yield on the issue of which those Defeased Bonds were part;

 (d) The receipt by the Defeasance Trustee of the maturing installments of principal of and interest on the Escrow Obligations; and

 (e) The Defeasance Trustee's payment to the fiscal agent of the State of Washington of money sufficient to make the payments on the Defeased Bonds set forth herein;

 and

 WHEREAS, upon the deposit of cash with the Defeasance Trustee and the purchase by the Defeasance Trustee of the Escrow Obligations to carry out the Defeasance Plan under the authority of the laws of the State of Washington, the principal amount of the Defeased Bonds no longer shall be considered outstanding pursuant to the defeasance provisions of the applicable Bond Legislation;

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants hereinafter contained and for the benefit of the City, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 Section 2 . Delivery of Money to Defeasance Trustee. On the Date of Closing, the City shall cause to be delivered to the Defeasance Trustee $_____________ of money of the City on deposit in the Key Arena Defeasance Account (the "Defeasance Deposit") to establish an irrevocable defeasance escrow for the Defeased Bonds.

 Section 3 . Investment and Expenditure of Money. On the Date of Closing, the Defeasance Trustee shall apply $_____________ to pay on behalf of the City the subscription prices of the Escrow Obligations, from the sources, in the principal amounts, with the dates of maturity and bearing the interest rates or yields set forth in Schedule B, and $_____ to establish a beginning cash balance. Upon receipt thereof, the Defeasance Trustee shall deliver to the City copies of the documents evidencing the purchase of and payment for the Escrow Obligations. Investments in mutual funds and unit investment trusts are prohibited.

 On the Date of Closing, the Defeasance Trustee shall pay the costs of the Defeasance as set forth on the attached Schedule C from the funds deposited with the Defeasance Trustee and not needed to defease the Defeased Bonds, and shall transfer all remaining funds to the City for application in accordance with the Defeasance Legislation.

 Section 4 . Sufficiency of and Yield on Escrow Obligations. Based upon the Verification, the City represents (i) that the Escrow Obligations and the maturing principal thereof and the interest thereon, if paid when due, together with the beginning cash balance, shall be sufficient to make when due the payments required by the Defeasance Plan; and (ii) that the yield on the particular Escrow Obligations allocated to the defeasance of the 2002B Defeased Bonds, the 2003 Defeased Bonds and the 2005 Defeased Bonds, respectively, is lower than the arbitrage yield on the issue of which those Defeased Bonds were part. Such amounts coming due are sometimes referred to hereinafter as the "payments described in Section 3." The schedules of the sources, amounts, maturities, and interest rates or yields of the Escrow Obligations and of the Defeased Bonds that will fulfill the foregoing requirements are set forth in the Verification.

 Section 5 . Collection of Proceeds of Escrow Obligations and Application of Such Proceeds and Money. The Defeasance Trustee shall present for payment and shall collect and receive on the due dates thereof the maturing installments of the principal of and the interest on the Escrow Obligations. The Defeasance Trustee shall make payments, but only in the amounts received pursuant to this section, in a timely manner to the Fiscal Agent of the State of Washington (the "Fiscal Agent") of the amounts to be paid on the Defeased Bonds as shown in the Verification. Those payments shall be made by check, wire transfer, or such other method of transfer of funds as shall be agreed upon by the Defeasance Trustee and the Fiscal Agent.

 Section 6 . Notice of Defeasance/Notice of Redemption. The Defeasance Trustee agrees to give a notice of defeasance of the Defeased Bonds and a notice of redemption of the Defeased Bonds pursuant to the terms of the Defeased Bonds, and in substantially the forms attached hereto as and as described in Exhibits A through E, to the Fiscal Agent for distribution as described therein. The notice of defeasance shall be given with respect to each series of Defeased Bonds immediately following the execution of this Agreement. The notice of redemption shall be given in accordance with the applicable Bond Legislation. The cost of giving the notice shall be paid by the City.

 Section 7 . All Obligations and Money and Proceeds Thereof Held in Trust. The Defeasance Trustee irrevocably agrees to hold the Escrow Obligations, the principal thereof and interest thereon, and any other money it may receive pursuant to this Agreement in trust and separate at all times from all other funds and investments held by the Defeasance Trustee, solely for the purpose of making the payments described in Section 3. The City irrevocably conveys, transfers, and assigns to the Defeasance Trustee the Escrow Obligations, the principal thereof and the interest thereon, and any other money and investments deposited with the Defeasance Trustee pursuant to this Agreement, for the purpose of making such payments. The Defeasance Trustee shall not sell, transfer, assign, or hypothecate any Escrow Obligations except pursuant to Sections 12 and 14 hereof.

 Section 8 . Reports and Notice of Insufficiency. The Defeasance Trustee shall submit a report to the City, at least semiannually, which report shall set forth the cash and Escrow Obligations held hereunder by the Defeasance Trustee, the obligations which have matured and amounts received by the Defeasance Trustee by reason of such maturity, the interest earned on such obligations, the amounts paid to the Fiscal Agent, and any other transaction of the Defeasance Trustee pertaining to its duties and obligations as set forth herein.

 If the maturing principal of and interest on the Escrow Obligations and other money held by the Defeasance Trustee pursuant to this Agreement shall be insufficient or shall be projected to become insufficient at any time in the future to make the payments described in Section 3, the Defeasance Trustee shall give the City prompt notice of such insufficiency or projected insufficiency.

 Section 9 . Amendments to Agreement. The Defeasance Trustee and the City recognize that the owners of the Defeased Bonds from time to time have a beneficial interest in the Escrow Obligations and money to be held by the Defeasance Trustee as herein provided. Therefore, this Agreement is irrevocable and shall not be subject to amendment except for the purpose of clarifying any ambiguity herein, increasing the protection of the rights of the owners of the Defeased Bonds, or preserving the exclusion of the interest on the Defeased Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and only if such amendment is accompanied by an opinion addressed to the City and the Defeasance Trustee from Foster Pepper PLLC, its successor or other nationally recognized bond counsel to the City, to the effect that such change is necessary for one of the above reasons and does not detrimentally affect the owners of the outstanding Defeased Bonds or that it strengthens the protection of the owners of the Defeased Bonds and does not detrimentally affect the owners of the Defeased Bonds. If such amendment affects the amount of money and investments in the escrow account or the application thereof, prior to the amendment's taking effect there also shall be a verification by a nationally recognized independent certified public accounting firm satisfactory to the Defeasance Trustee to the effect that after such amendment the Escrow Obligations and other money in the escrow account will be sufficient to make the payments described in Section 3. A copy of such verification shall be delivered to the Defeasance Trustee.

 Section 10 . Limitation of Liability of Defeasance Trustee. None of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall require the Defeasance Trustee to use or advance its own funds in the performance of any of its duties or the exercise of any of its rights or powers hereunder. The Defeasance Trustee shall be under no liability for the payment of interest on any funds or other property received by it hereunder except to the extent the Defeasance Trustee is required by the express terms of this Agreement to invest such funds.

 The Defeasance Trustee's liabilities and obligations in connection with this Agreement are confined to those specifically described herein. The Defeasance Trustee is authorized and directed to comply with the provisions of this Agreement and is relieved from all liability for so doing notwithstanding any demand or notice to the contrary by any party hereto. The Defeasance Trustee shall not be responsible or liable for the sufficiency, correctness, genuineness, or validity of the Escrow Obligations deposited with it; the performance or compliance by any party other than the Defeasance Trustee with the terms or conditions of any such instruments; or any loss which may occur by reason of forgeries, false representations, or the exercise of the Defeasance Trustee's discretion in any particular manner unless such exercise is negligent or constitutes willful misconduct.

 If any controversy arises between the City and any third person, the Defeasance Trustee shall not be required to determine the same or to take any action in the premises, but it may institute, in its discretion, an interpleader or other proceedings in connection therewith as it may deem proper, and in following either course, it shall not be liable.

 Section 11 . City Deposit of Additional Money. The City agrees that it will deposit with the Defeasance Trustee in time to make the then current scheduled debt service payment the additional money specified in the Defeasance Trustee's notice of insufficiency given pursuant to Section 8 hereof.

 Section 12 . Remittance of Funds When Defeased Bonds Paid in Full. At such time as the Defeasance Trustee has received the representation of the City that all of the payments described in Section 3 have been made and the confirmation of such representation by the Fiscal Agent, together with such other evidence of such payments as shall be satisfactory to the City and the Defeasance Trustee, the Defeasance Trustee shall deliver forthwith or remit to the City any remaining Escrow Obligations and money held pursuant to this Agreement.

 Section 13 . Compensation of Defeasance Trustee. The payment arrangement heretofore made between the Defeasance Trustee and the City (attached hereto as Exhibit D and by this reference made a part hereof) on compensation and expenses of the Defeasance Trustee for services rendered by it pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement is satisfactory to it and to the City, and no further payment to the Defeasance Trustee shall be required for such purpose. Such arrangement for compensation and expenses is intended as compensation for the ordinary services as contemplated by this Agreement, and if the Defeasance Trustee renders any service hereunder not provided for in this Agreement, or the Defeasance Trustee is made a party to or intervenes in any litigation pertaining to this Agreement or institutes interpleader proceedings relative hereto, the Defeasance Trustee shall be compensated reasonably by the City for such extraordinary services and reimbursed for all fees, costs, liability, and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) occasioned thereby. The Defeasance Trustee shall not have a lien against or otherwise be compensated for its services and expenses from the money, Escrow Obligations held pursuant to this Agreement to make the payments described in Section 3.

 Section 14 . Successor Defeasance Trustee. The obligations assumed by the Defeasance Trustee pursuant to this Agreement may be transferred by the Defeasance Trustee to a successor if (a) the Defeasance Trustee has presented evidence satisfactory to the City and to Foster Pepper PLLC, its successor or other nationally recognized bond counsel to the City that the successor trustee meets the requirements of RCW 39.53.070, as now in effect or hereafter amended; (b) the City approves the appointment of the successor trustee; (c) the successor trustee has assumed all of the obligations of the Defeasance Trustee under this Agreement and has been compensated; and (d) all of the Escrow Obligations and money then held by the Defeasance Trustee pursuant to this Agreement have been duly transferred to such successor trustee.

 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, any company into which the Defeasance Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated or any company resulting from any merger, conversion, or consolidation to which the Defeasance Trustee is a party, or any company to which the Defeasance Trustee may sell or transfer all or substantially all of its corporate trust business shall be the successor to the Defeasance Trustee without execution or filing of any paper or further act, if such company is eligible to serve as Defeasance Trustee under RCW 39.53.070.

 Section 15 . Miscellaneous. This Agreement is governed by Washington law without regard to the conflict of laws provisions thereof and may not be modified except by a writing signed by the parties and subject to the limitations of Section 11. If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality, or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Agreement, but this Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.

 Section 16 . Notice to Rating Agencies. The Defeasance Trustee shall notify all national rating agencies maintaining (at the request of the City) a rating on the Defeased Bonds or the Bonds, in writing upon timely receipt of notice or evidence of either of the following circumstances:

 (a) Prior to their taking effect, any amendments to this Agreement under Section 11, enclosing the proposed amendatory documents; and

 (b) The holding (referred to in Section 17) that one or more provisions of this Agreement are invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, enclosing a copy of that holding.

 Such notices shall be sent to the applicable rating agencies by first class mail to the addresses advised by those rating agencies.

 Section 17 . Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Agreement pursuant to due and proper authorization, all as of the date and year first above written.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, WASHINGTON BANK TBD, as Defeasance Trustee

 By By Title: Title:

 SCHEDULE A

 DEFEASED BONDS

 2002A Defeased Bonds

 Maturity Year Par Amount Interest

 (October 1) Defeased* Rate

 2008 $3,635,000 3.50%

 2009 3,670,000 3.50

 2010 3,900,000 3.50

 2011 4,025,000 3.50

 2012 4,175,000 4.00

 2013 4,345,000 4.00

 2014 4,525,000 4.00 *represents all of the principal due on each maturity date of the City's Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B

 2003 Defeased Bonds

 Maturity Year Par Amount Interest

 (August 1) Defeased* Rate

 2009 $ 925,000 4.00%

 2010 960,000 4.00

 2011 1,000,000 4.00

 2012 1,040,000 4.00

 2013 1,080,000 4.00

 2014 1,125,000 4.00

 *represents a portion of the principal due on each maturity date of the City's Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003

 2005 Defeased Bonds

 Maturity Year Par Amount Interest

 (August 1) Defeased* Rate

 2009 $380,000 5.00%

 2010 395,000 5.00

 *represents a portion of the principal due on each maturity date of the City's Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005

 SCHEDULE B

 ESCROW OBLIGATIONS

 MATURITY PAR INTEREST RATE TYPE* DATE AMOUNT

 CERT

 CERT

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE

 NOTE ..TX: *CERT - United States Treasury Certificate of Indebtedness--State and Local Government Series

 NOTE - United States Treasury Note--State and Local Government Series

 SCHEDULE C

 DEFEASANCE COSTS

 Description Firm Total

 Bond Counsel Fee Foster Pepper PLLC (est)

 Escrow Agent

 Escrow Verification Agent

 CUSIP Purchase (est) CUSIP

 Contingency Amount City of Seattle

 Total ..TX: EXHIBIT A

 Notice of Defeasance*

 The City of Seattle, Washington

 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B

 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the owners of the above-captioned bonds with respect to which, pursuant to the Defeasance Trust Agreement dated as of _________, 2008, by and between The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), and BANK TBD (the "Defeasance Trustee"), there has been deposited into an escrow account, held by the Defeasance Trustee, cash and non-callable direct obligations of the United States of America, the principal of and interest on which, when due, will provide money to pay each year, to and including the respective maturity dates of such bonds so provided for, the principal thereof and interest thereon (the "2002B Defeased Bonds"). Such 2002B Defeased Bonds are therefore deemed to be no longer outstanding pursuant to Section 16 of Ordinance 120894 of the City relating to the 2002B Defeased Bonds, but will be paid by application of the assets in such escrow account.

 The 2002B Defeased Bonds are described as follows:

 The City of Seattle, Washington

 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B

 (Dated September 1, 2002)

 Call Date Maturity for Date Par Amount Interest 2002B Original (August Defeased Rate Defeased CUSIP Nos. 1) Bonds

 2008 $3,635,000 3.500% N/A

 2009 3,670,000 3.500% N/A

 2010 3,900,000 3.500% N/A

 2011 4,025,000 3.500% N/A

 2012 4,175,000 4.000% N/A

 2013 4,345,000 4.000% 10/1/2012

 2014 4,525,000 4.000% 10/1/2012 ..TX: 2014 4,525,000 4.000% 10/1/2012

 BANK TBD, as Defeasance Trustee

 Dated:

 EXHIBIT B

 Notice of Defeasance*

 The City of Seattle, Washington

 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003

 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the owners of the above-captioned bonds with respect to which, pursuant to the Defeasance Trust Agreement dated as of ________, 2007, by and between The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), and BANK TBD (the "Defeasance Trustee"), there has been deposited into an escrow account, held by the Defeasance Trustee, cash and non-callable direct obligations of the United States of America, the principal of and interest on which, when due, will provide money to pay each year, to and including the respective maturity dates of such bonds so provided for, the principal thereof and interest thereon (the "Defeased Bonds"). Such Defeased Bonds are therefore deemed to be no longer outstanding pursuant to Section 16 of Ordinance 120979 of the City relating to the Defeased Bonds, but will be paid by application of the assets in such escrow account.

 The 2003 Defeased Bonds are described as follows:

 The City of Seattle, Washington

 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003

 (Dated February 1, 2003)

 Maturity Call Date Defeased Date Original Interest Par for Bonds Amount Non-Defeased (August CUSIP Nos. Rate Amount Defeased CUSIP Nos. Undefeased 1) Defeased Bonds CUSIP Nos.

 2009 812626MJ5 4.000% $ N/A 812626TF6 925,000

 2010 812626MK2 4.000% 960,000 N/A 812626TG4

 2011 812626ML0 4.000% 1,000,000 N/A 812626TH2

 2012 812626MM8 4.000% 1,040,000 N/A 812626TJ8

 2013 812626MN6 4.000% 1,080,000 N/A 812626TK5

 2014 812626MP1 4.000% 1,125,000 8/1/2013 812626TL3

 BANK TBD, as Defeasance Trustee

 Dated:

 EXHIBIT C

 Notice of Defeasance*

 The City of Seattle, Washington

 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005

 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the owners of the above-captioned bonds with respect to which, pursuant to the Defeasance Trust Agreement dated as of ________, 2007, by and between The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), and BANK TBD (the "Defeasance Trustee"), there has been deposited into an escrow account, held by the Defeasance Trustee, cash and non-callable direct obligations of the United States of America, the principal of and interest on which, when due, will provide money to pay each year, to and including the respective maturity dates of such bonds so provided for, the principal thereof and interest thereon (the "Defeased Bonds"). Such Defeased Bonds are therefore deemed to be no longer outstanding pursuant to Section 17 of Ordinance 119020 and Section 16 of Ordinances 121651 and 121663 of the City relating to the 1005 Defeased Bonds, but will be paid by application of the assets in such escrow account.

 The 2005 Defeased Bonds are described as follows:

 The City of Seattle, Washington

 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2005

 (Dated March 23, 2005)

 Maturity Call Date Defeased Date Original Interest Par for Bonds Amount Non-Defeased (August CUSIP Nos. Rate Amount Defeased CUSIP Nos. Undefeased 1) Defeased Bonds CUSIP Nos.

 2009 812626PE3 5.000% $ N/A $5,850,000 380,000

 2010 812626PF0 5.000% 395,000 N/A 8,225,000

 BANK TBD, as Defeasance Trustee

 Dated:

 EXHIBIT D

 Notice of Redemption*

 The City of Seattle, Washington

 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B

 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that The City of Seattle, Washington, has called for redemption on October 1, 2012, all of its then-outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2002B (the "Bonds").

 The Bonds will be redeemed at a price of one hundred percent (100%) of their principal amount, plus accrued interest to October 1, 2012. The redemption price of the Bonds is payable on presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the office of:

 [By Mail or in Person] -or- [In Person Only]

 The Bank of New York Any branch of Wells Fargo Mellon Bank, National Worldwide Securities Association in the State Processing of Washington 2001 Bryan Street, 9th Floor Dallas, TX 75201

 Interest on all Bonds or portions thereof which are redeemed shall cease to accrue on October 1, 2012.

 The following Bonds are being redeemed:

 Maturity Par Amount Interest Call Date Defeased Bonds Date Defeased Rate (at 100%) CUSIP Nos. (August 1)

 2013 $4,345,000 4.000% 10/1/2012

 2015 4,525,000 4.000% 10/1/2012

 By Order of The City of Seattle, Washington

 The Bank of New York Mellon, as Paying Agent

 Dated:

 Under Section 3406(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code the Registrar may be obligated to withhold a percentage of the principal of a holder who has failed to furnish the Registrar with a valid taxpayer identification number and a certification that the owner is not subject to backup withholding. Owners who wish to avoid the application of these provisions should submit a completed IRS Form W- 9 when presenting their certificates for payment.

 EXHIBIT E

 Notice of Redemption*

 The City of Seattle, Washington

 Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003

 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that The City of Seattle, Washington, has called for redemption on August 1, 2013, a portion of its then- outstanding Limited Tax General Obligation Improvement and Refunding Bonds, 2003 (the "Bonds").

 The Bonds will be redeemed at a price of one hundred percent (100%) of their principal amount, plus accrued interest to August 1, 2013. The redemption price of the Bonds is payable on presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the office of:

 [By Mail or in Person] -or- [In Person Only]

 The Bank of New York Any branch of Wells Fargo Mellon Bank, National Worldwide Securities Association in the State Processing of Washington 2001 Bryan Street, 9th Floor Dallas, TX 75201

 Interest on all Bonds or portions thereof which are redeemed shall cease to accrue on August 1, 2013.

 The following Bonds are being redeemed:

 Maturity Par Amount Interest Call Date Defeased Bonds Date Defeased Rate (at 100%) CUSIP Nos. (August 1)

 2014 $1,125,000 4.000% 8/1/2013

 By Order of The City of Seattle, Washington

 The Bank of New York Mellon, as Paying Agent

 Dated:

 Under Section 3406(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code the Registrar may be obligated to withhold a percentage of the principal of a holder who has failed to furnish the Registrar with a valid taxpayer identification number and a certification that the owner is not subject to backup withholding. Owners who wish to avoid the application of these provisions should submit a completed IRS Form W- 9 when presenting their certificates for payment.

 EXHIBIT F

 Schedule of Fees for Services as

 Refunding Trustee

 For

 City of Seattle

 * This notice shall be given immediately by first class mail to each registered owner of the 2002B Defeased Bonds and to each Nationally Recognized Municipal Securities Information Repository and the Depository Trust Company of New York, New York.

 * This notice shall be given immediately by first class mail to each registered owner of the Defeased Bonds and to each Nationally Recognized Municipal Securities Information Repository and the Depository Trust Company of New York, New York.

 * This notice shall be given immediately by first class mail to each registered owner of the Defeased Bonds and to each Nationally Recognized Municipal Securities Information Repository and the Depository Trust Company of New York, New York.

 * This notice shall be given not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to October 1, 2012, by first class mail, postage prepaid, to each registered owner of the redeemed bonds. In addition, notice shall be mailed within the same period, postage prepaid, to Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's at their offices in New York, New York; and The Depository Trust Company of New York, New York, and each NRMSIR.

 * This notice shall be given not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to August 1, 2013, by first class mail, postage prepaid, to each registered owner of the redeemed bonds. In addition, notice shall be mailed within the same period, postage prepaid, to Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and Standard & Poor's at their offices in New York, New York; JP Morgan Securities, Inc. at its principal office in Seattle, Washington; and The Depository Trust Company of New York, New York, and each NRMSIR.

```
