

********

**Council Bill Number: 116322**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122816**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning and to the relocation of and standards for fire stations, amending Sections 23.40.002, 23.42.040, 23.42.104, 23.47A.032, 23.54.030, 23.76.004, 23.76.006, and 23.76.032 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 29, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 8, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 8, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 8, 2008
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, FIRE-STATIONS, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, LAND-USE-PERMITS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 122311

**Fiscal Note:**116322

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122816](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122816.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning and to the relocation of and standards for fire stations, amending Sections 23.40.002, 23.42.040, 23.42.104, 23.47A.032, 23.54.030, 23.76.004, 23.76.006, and 23.76.032 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 23.40.002, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122311, is amended as follows:

 23.40.002 Conformity with regulations required.

A. The establishment or change of use of any structures, buildings or premises, or any part thereof, ~~shall require~~requires approval according to the procedures set forth in Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, except as permitted in Section 23.47A.004 E and F and except for reinstatement of a use interrupted by a temporary use authorized pursuant to Section 23.42.040.

B. No use of any structure or premises shall hereafter be commenced, and no structure or part of a structure shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, except in conformity with the regulations specified in this title for the zone and overlay district, if any, in which it is or will be located.

C. Owners of such structures, building or premises or parts thereof are responsible for any failure of such structures, buildings or premises to conform to the regulations of this title and for compliance with the provisions of this title in or on such structures, buildings or premises. Any other person who created, caused or contributed to a condition in or on such structure, building or premises, either alone or with others, is also responsible under this title for any failure to conform to the regulations of this title. Building and use permits on file shall be prima facie evidence of the time a building was built or modified, or a use commenced, and the burden of demonstrating to the contrary shall be upon the owner.

D. Changes to existing structures that make the structures nonconforming may be permitted if the changes are required by law for reasons of health and safety.

 Section 2. Section 23.42.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122198, is amended as follows:

 23.42.040 Intermittent and temporary uses.

 The Director may grant, deny or condition applications for the following intermittent or temporary uses not otherwise permitted or not meeting development standards in the zone.

 ***

 E. Temporary Relocation of Police and Fire Stations ~~,Twelve (12)m~~o~~nths or Less~~. A Master Use Permit~~,~~may be issued for a period of ~~twelve (12)~~24 months or less for the temporary relocation of police and fire stations if the proposal complies with the criteria for approval of intermittent uses in subsections A 1 a, b, and c,~~not involving~~and if the proposal does not involve the construction of any permanent structure ~~, may be authorized subject to the conditions of subsection A of Section 23.42.040. Such permits shall not be renewable~~.  A Master Use Permit for temporary relocation of police and fire stations may be renewed once for a period not to exceed 12 months.

 ***

G. Authorized temporary uses do not interrupt any legally established permanent use of a property.

 Section 3. Subsections A and B of Section 23.42.104 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 120293, is amended as follows:

 23.42.104 Nonconforming uses.

 A. Any nonconforming use may be continued, subject to the provisions of this section.

 B. A nonconforming use that has been discontinued for more than ~~twelve (~~12~~)~~ consecutive months shall not be reestablished or recommenced. A use is considered discontinued when:

 1. A permit to permanently change the use of the lot or structure was issued and acted upon; or

 2. The structure~~,~~ or a portion of a structure is not being used for the use allowed by the most recent permit, except that interruption of a nonconforming use by a temporary use authorized pursuant to Section 23.42.040, if no structures are demolished, is not a discontinuation of the previous nonconforming use; or

 3. The structure is vacant, or the portion of the structure formerly occupied by the nonconforming use is vacant. The use of the structure ~~shall be~~is considered discontinued even if materials from the former use remain or are stored on the property. A multifamily structure with one~~(1)~~ or more vacant dwelling units is not considered vacant and the use is not considered to be discontinued unless all units in the structure are vacant.

 4. If a complete application for a permit that would allow the nonconforming use to continue, or that would authorize a change to another nonconforming use, has been submitted before the structure has been vacant for ~~twelve (~~12~~)~~ consecutive months, the nonconforming use shall not be considered discontinued unless the permit lapses or the permit is denied. If the permit is denied, the nonconforming use may be reestablished during the six ~~(6)~~ months following the denial.

 ***

 Section 4. Subsection C of Section 23.47A.032 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122311, is further amended as follows:

 23.47A. 032 Parking location and access.

 ***

 C. Exceptions to parking location and access requirements.

 1. Access to off-street parking may be from a street ~~when~~if, due to the relationship of an alley to the street system, use of the alley for parking access would create a significant safety hazard as determined by the Director as a Type I Master Use Permit decision.

 2. ~~When~~If a lot fronts on two or more streets on which the lineal feet of commercially zoned frontage are equal, the Director will determine the front lot line for the purposes of location of parking and may allow parking between a building and the street. In making a determination, the Director will consider the following criteria:

 a. The extent to which parking along a street would disrupt an established commercial street's pedestrian-oriented character or commercial continuity;

 b. The potential for pedestrian and automobile conflicts;

 c. The relative traffic capacity of a street as an indicator of a street's role as a principal commercial street.

 3. On waterfront lots in the Shoreline District, parking may be located between the structure and the front lot line, if necessary to prevent blockage of view corridors or to keep parking away from the edge of the water as required by the Shoreline Master Program.

4. For fire and police stations, if access to parking is needed for official emergency vehicles that have limited maneuverability and that must rapidly respond to emergencies, the Director may allow access for any vehicles from the street or alley determined most suitable by the Director.

 ***

 Section 5. Subsection F of Section 23.54.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122311, is amended as follows:

 23.54.030 Parking space standards.

 ***

 F. Curb cuts. Curb cut requirements ~~shall be~~are determined by whether the parking served by the curb cut is for residential or nonresidential use, and by the zone in which the use is located. ~~When~~If a curb cut is used for more than one ~~(1)~~ use or for one~~(1)~~ or more live-work units, the requirements for the use with the largest curb cut requirements ~~shall~~ apply.

 1. Residential uses in single-family and multifamily zones and residential structures in all other zones.

 a. For lots not located on a principal arterial as designated on Exhibit 23.53.015 A, curb cuts are permitted according to the following chart:

 Street or Easement Frontage of the Lot Number of Curb Cuts Permitted 0 -- 80 feet 1 81 -- 160 feet 2 161 -- 240 feet 3 241 -- 320 feet 4

 For lots with frontage in excess of ~~three hundred twenty~~320 feet, the pattern established in the chart is continued.

 b. Curb cuts must not exceed a maximum width of ~~ten (~~10~~)~~ feet except that:

 (1) One ~~(1)~~ curb cut greater than ~~ten (~~10~~)~~ feet but in no case greater than ~~twenty (~~20~~)~~ feet in width may be substituted for each two~~(2)~~ curb cuts permitted by subsection F1a; and

 (2) A greater width may be specifically permitted by the development standards in a zone; and

 (3) When subsection D of Section 23.54.030 requires a driveway greater than ~~ten (~~10~~)~~ feet in width, the curb cut may be as wide as the required width of the driveway.

 c. For lots on principal arterials designated on Exhibit 23.53.015 A, curb cuts of a maximum width of ~~twenty-three (~~23~~)~~ feet are permitted according to the following chart:

 Street Frontage of the Lot Number of Curb Cuts Permitted 0 -- 160 feet 1 161 -- 320 feet 2 321 -- 480 feet 3

 For lots with street frontage in excess of ~~four hundred eighty (~~480~~)~~ feet, the pattern established in the chart is continued.

 d. There must be at least ~~thirty (~~30~~)~~ feet between any two~~(2)~~ curb cuts located on a lot.

 e. A curb cut may be less than the maximum width permitted but shall be at least as wide as the minimum required width of the driveway it serves.

 f. Where two~~(2)~~ adjoining lots share a common driveway according to the provisions of Section 23.54.030 D1, the combined frontage of the two~~(2)~~ lots will be considered one ~~(1)~~ in determining the maximum number of permitted curb cuts.

 2. Nonresidential uses in single-family and multifamily zones, and in all other zones except industrial zones, all uses except residential structures.

 a. Number of curb cuts.

 (1) In RC, NC1, NC2 and NC3 zones and within Major Institution Overlay Districts, two-way curb cuts are permitted according to the following chart:

 Street Frontage of the Lot Number of Curb Cuts Permitted 0--80 feet 1 81--240 feet 2 241--360 feet 3 361--480 feet 4

 For lots with frontage in excess of ~~four hundred eighty (~~480 ~~)~~ feet the pattern established in the chart is continued. The Director may allow two~~(2)~~ one-way curb cuts to be substituted for one~~(1)~~ two-way curb cut, after determining that there would not be a significant conflict with pedestrian traffic.

 (2) In C1 and C2 zones and the SM zone, the Director will review and make a recommendation on the number and location of curb cuts.

 (3) In downtown zones, a maximum of two~~(2)~~ curb cuts for one-~~(1)~~way traffic at least ~~forty (~~40~~)~~ feet apart, or one~~(1)~~ curb cut for two -~~(2)~~ way traffic, ~~shall be~~is permitted on each street front where access is permitted by Section 23.49.019 H. No curb cut shall be located within ~~forty (~~40~~)~~ feet of an intersection. These standards may be modified by the Director as a Type I decision on lots with steep slopes or other special conditions, to the minimum extent necessary to provide vehicular and pedestrian safety and facilitate a smooth flow of traffic.

 (4) For public schools, the Director shall permit the minimum number of curb cuts that ~~he or she~~the Director determines to be necessary.

(5) For police and fire stations, the Director shall permit the minimum number of curb cuts that the Director determines to be necessary to provide adequate maneuverability for emergency vehicles and access to the site for passenger vehicles.

 b. Curb cut widths.

 (1) For one~~(1)~~-way traffic, the minimum width of curb cuts is ~~twelve (~~12~~)~~ feet, and the maximum width is ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ feet.

(2) For two~~(2)~~-way traffic, the minimum width of curb cuts is ~~twenty-two (~~22~~)~~ feet, and the maximum width is ~~twenty-five (~~25~~)~~ feet, except that the maximum width may be increased to ~~thirty (~~30~~)~~ feet when truck and auto access are combined.

 (3) For public schools, the maximum width of curb cuts is ~~twenty-five (~~25~~)~~ feet. Development standard departures may be granted or required pursuant to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79.

(4) For fire and police stations, the Director may allow curb cuts up to, and no wider than, the minimum width necessary to provide access for official emergency vehicles that have limited maneuverability and that must rapidly respond to emergencies. Curb cuts for fire and police stations are considered curb cuts for two-way traffic.  (5)

~~(4)~~ When one~~(1)~~ of the following conditions applies, the Director may require a curb cut of up to ~~thirty (~~30~~)~~ feet in width, if it is found that a wider curb cut is necessary for safe access:

 i. The abutting street has a single lane on the side that abuts the lot; or

 ii. The curb lane abutting the lot is less than ~~eleven (~~11~~)~~ feet wide; or

 iii. The proposed development is located on an arterial with an average daily traffic volume of over ~~seven thousand (~~7,000~~)~~ vehicles; or

 iv. Off-street loading ~~space is~~berths are required according to subsection ~~G~~A of Section ~~23.54.015~~23.54.035.

 c. The entrances to all garages accessory to nonresidential uses or live-work units and the entrances to all principal use parking garages shall be at least ~~six (~~6~~)~~ feet ~~nine (~~9~~)~~ inches high.

 3. All uses in industrial zones.

 a. Number and location of curb cuts. The number and location of curb cuts will be determined by the Director.

 b. Curb cut width. Curb cut width in industrial zones shall be ~~provided~~as follows:

 (1) ~~When~~If the curb cut provides access to a parking area or structure, it must be a minimum of ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ feet wide and a maximum of ~~thirty (~~ 30~~)~~ feet wide.

 (2) ~~When~~If the curb cut provides access to a loading berth, the maximum width~~of thirty (30) feet set in subsection F3b(1)~~ may be increased to ~~fifty (~~50~~)~~ feet.

 (3) Within the minimum and maximum widths established by this subsection, the Director shall determine the size of the curb cuts.

 4. Curb cuts for access easements.

 a. ~~When~~If a lot is crossed by an access easement serving other lots, the curb cut serving the easement may be as wide as the easement roadway.

 b. The curb cut serving an access easement shall not be counted against the number or amount of curb cut permitted to a lot if the lot is not itself served by the easement.

 5. Curb cut flare. A flare with a maximum width of ~~two and one-half (~~2 1/2~~)~~ feet is permitted on either side of curb cuts in any zone.

 6. Replacement of unused curb cuts. When a curb cut is no longer needed to provide access to a lot, the curb and any planting strip must be replaced.

 * * *

 Section 6. Exhibit 23.76.004 A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122497, is amended as follows:

 23.76.004 Land use decision framework.

 * * *

 Exhibit 23.76.004 A

 LAND USE DECISION FRAMEWORK DIRECTOR'S AND HEARING EXAMINER'S DECISIONS REQUIRING MASTER USE PERMITS

 TYPE I Director's TYPE II Director's Decision TYPE III Hearing Decision (No (Appealable to Hearing Examiner's Administrative Appeal) Examiner*) Decision (No Administrative Appeal)

 Compliance with Temporary uses, more than Subdivisions development standards four weeks, except for (preliminary plats) temporary relocation of Uses permitted outright police and fire stations

 Variances Temporary uses, four weeks or less Administrative conditional uses Intermittent uses Shoreline decisions Certain street uses (*appealable to Shorelines Hearings Board along with all related environmental Lot boundary appeals) adjustments Short subdivisions Modifications of features bonused under Special Exceptions Title 24 Design review Determinations of significance (EIS Light rail transit required) except for facilities determinations of significance based solely Monorail transit facilities on historic and cultural preservation The following environmental Temporary uses~~,~~ determinations: ~~twelvemonths or less,~~ for relocation of police 1. Determination of and fire(( ~~protection~~nonsignificance (EIS not stations required) 2. Determination of final EIS Exemptions from adequacy right-of-way improvement 3. Determinations of requirements significance based solely on historic and cultural Special accommodation preservation 4. A decision by the Director to approve, condition or deny Reasonable a project based on SEPA accommodation Policies Minor amendment to a 5. A decision by the Director Major Phased Development that a project is consistent Permit with a Planned Action Ordinance and EIS (no Determination of public threshold determination or benefit for combined lot EIS required) FAR Other Type I decisions Major Phased Development that are identified as such in the Land Use Code Downtown Planned Community Developments

 COUNCIL LAND USE DECISIONS

 TYPE IV TYPE V (Quasi-Judicial) (Legislative)

 Amendments to the Official Land Use Map Land Use Code text (rezones), except area-wide amendments, and amendments adjustments pursuant to Section 23.69.023 Area-wide amendments to the Public project approvals Official Land Use Map

 Major Institution master plans, including Concept approval for City major amendments and renewal of a master facilities plan's development plan component Major Institution Major amendments to Property Use and designations Development agreements Waiver or modification of Council conditional uses development standards for City facilities

 Planned Action Ordinance

 Section 7. Section 23.76.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122054, is amended as follows:

 23.76.006 Master Use Permits required.

 A. Type I, II and III decisions are components of Master Use Permits. Master Use Permits ~~shall be~~are required for all projects requiring one~~(1)~~ or more of these decisions.

 B. The following decisions are Type I:

 1. Determination that a proposal complies with development standards;

 2. Establishment or change of use for uses permitted outright, temporary uses for four~~(4)~~ weeks or less not otherwise permitted in the zone, and temporary relocation of police and fire stations for ~~twelve (12)~~24 months or less;

 3. The following street use approvals associated with a development proposal:

 a. Curb cut for access to parking,

 b. Concept approval of street improvements, such as additional on-street parking, street landscaping, curbs and gutters, street drainage, sidewalks, and paving,

 c. Sidewalk cafes provided that Type II notice of application procedures shall be followed,

 d. Structural building overhangs,

 e. Areaways;

 4. Lot boundary adjustments;

 5. Modification of the following features bonused under Title 24:

 a. Plazas,

 b. Shopping plazas,

 c. Arcades,

 d. Shopping arcades,

 e. Voluntary building setbacks;

 6. Determinations of Significance (determination that an environmental impact statement is required) for Master Use Permits and for building, demolition, grading and other construction permits (supplemental procedures for environmental review are established in Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures), except for Determinations of Significance based solely on historic and cultural preservation;

 7. Discretionary exceptions for certain business signs authorized by Section 23.55.042D;

 8. Waiver or modification of required right-of-way improvements;

 9. Special accommodation pursuant to Section 23.44.015;

 10. Reasonable accommodation;

 11. Minor amendment to Major Phased Development Permit;

 12. Determination of public benefit for combined lot development; and

 13. Other Type I decisions that are identified as such in the Land Use Code.

 C. The following are Type II decisions:

 1. The following procedural environmental decisions for Master Use Permits and for building, demolition, grading and other construction permits are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner and are not subject to further appeal to the City Council (supplemental procedures for environmental review are established in SMC Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures):

 a. Determinations of Nonsignificance (DNSs), including mitigated DNSs;

 b. Determination that a final environmental impact statement (EIS) is adequate; and

 c. Determination of Significance based solely on historic and cultural preservation.

 2. The following decisions, including any integrated decisions to approve, condition or deny based on SEPA policies, are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner (except shoreline decisions and related environmental determinations, which are appealable to the Shorelines Hearings Board):

 a. Establishment or change of use for temporary uses more than four ~~(4)~~ weeks not otherwise permitted in the zone or not meeting development standards, including the establishment of temporary uses and facilities to construct a light rail transit system for so long as is necessary to construct the system as provided in Section 23.42.040E, ~~and~~but excepting temporary relocation of police and fire stations for ~~twelve (12)~~24 months or less;

 b. Short subdivisions;

 c. Variances; provided that, variances sought as part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 d. Special exceptions; provided that, special exceptions sought as part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 e. Design review;

 f. Administrative conditional uses; provided that, administrative conditional uses sought as part of a Type IV decision may be approved by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 g. The following shoreline decisions (supplemental procedures for shoreline decisions are established in Chapter 23.60):

 (1) Shoreline substantial development permits,

 (2) Shoreline variances,

 (3) Shoreline conditional uses;

 h. Major Phased Development;

 i. Determination of project consistency with a planned action ordinance and EIS;

 j. Establishment of light rail transit facilities necessary to operate and maintain a light rail transit system, in accordance with the provisions of Section 23.80.004;

 k. Establishment of monorail transit facilities necessary to operate and maintain a monorail transit system, in accordance with the provisions of Section 23.80.004 and Section 15.54.020; and

 l. Downtown planned community developments.

 ***

 Section 8. Section 23.76.032, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122311, is amended as follows:

 23.76.032 Expiration and renewal of Type I and II Master Use Permits.

 A. Expiration.

 1. An issued Type I or II Master Use Permit ~~shall expire~~expires three~~(3)~~ years from the date a permit is approved for issuance as described in Section 23.76.028, except as follows:

 a. Expiration of a Master Use Permit with a shoreline component ~~shall be~~is governed by WAC 173-27-090.

 b. Expiration of a variance component of a Master Use Permit ~~shall be~~is governed by the following:

 (1) Variances for access, yards, setback, open space, or lot area minimums granted as part of a short plat or lot boundary adjustment~~shall~~ runs with the land in perpetuity as recorded with the Director of the King County Department of Records and Elections.

 (2) Variances granted as separate Master Use Permits pursuant to Section 23.76.004 G~~shall~~ expire three~~(3)~~ years from the date the permit is approved for issuance as described in Section 23.76.028 or on the effective date of any text amendment making more stringent the development standard from which the variance was granted, whichever is sooner. If a Master Use Permit to establish the use is granted within this period, the variance's expiration date shall be extended until the expiration date established for the use approval.

 c. The time during which~~pendency of~~ litigation is pending related to the Master Use Permit or the property subject to the permit made it reasonable not to submit an application for a building permit, or to establish a use where a building permit is not required, ~~shall not be~~is not included in the three~~(3)~~ year term of the Master Use Permit.

 d. Master Use Permits with a Major Phased Development or Planned Community Development component established under Section 23.47A.007, 23.50.015 or 23.49.036~~shall~~ expire as follows:

 (1) For the first phase, three~~(3)~~ years from the date the permit is approved for issuance;

 (2) For subsequent phases, expiration shall be determined at the time of permit issuance.

e. Temporary or intermittent use permits issued pursuant to Section 23.42.040 expire on the date stated in the permit.

 2. At the end of the three~~(3)~~-year term, Master Use Permits~~shall~~ expire unless one~~(1)~~ of the conditions in subsections a through d of this subsection 2 ~~prevails~~exists:

 a. A building permit is issued before the end of the three-~~(3)~~year term, or an application for a building permit is:

 (1) submitted at least ~~sixty (~~60~~)~~ days before the end of the three~~(3)~~-year term;

 (2) made sufficiently complete to constitute a fully complete building permit application as defined in the Seattle Building Code, or for a highrise structure regulated under Section 403 of the Seattle Building Code, made to include the complete structural frame of the building and schematic plans for the exterior ~~shall~~shell of the building, in either case before the end of the three~~(3)~~ year term; and

 (3) subsequently issued. In such cases, the Master Use Permit shall be extended for the same term as the building permit is issued. For highrise structures regulated under Section 403 of the Seattle Building Code, the building permit application may be a partial one, provided that it includes the complete structural frame of the building, and schematic plans for the exterior ~~shall~~shell of the building.

 b. For projects that do not require a building permit, the use has been established prior to the expiration date of the Master Use Permit and is not terminated by abandonment or otherwise. In such cases the Master Use Permit ~~shall~~does not expire.

 c. The Master Use Permit is renewed pursuant to subsection B.

 d. A Major Phased Development or Planned Community Development component is part of the Master Use Permit, in which case subsection A1d ~~shall apply~~applies.

 B. Renewal.

 1. The Director shall renew issued Master Use Permits for projects that are in conformance with applicable regulations, including land use and environmentally critical areas regulations, and SEPA policies in effect at the time renewal is sought. Except as provided in subsections B2 and B3 below, Master Use Permit renewal is for a period of two~~(2)~~ years. A Master Use Permit shall not be renewed beyond a period of five~~(5)~~ years from the original date the permit is approved for issuance, except for second and subsequent phases of a Master Use Permit with a major phased development (MPD) component, for which this subsection B does not apply. The Director shall not renew issued Master Use Permits for projects that are not in conformance with applicable regulations, including land use and environmentally critical areas regulations, or SEPA policies in effect at the time renewal is sought, except for second and subsequent phases of an approved Master Use Permit with a Major Phased Development component for which this subsection B does not apply.

 2. If an application for a building permit is ~~(1)~~(a) submitted at least ~~sixty (~~60~~)~~ days before the end of the two~~(2)~~-year term of renewal; ~~(2)~~(b) made sufficiently complete to meet the requirements of Section 106 of the Seattle Building Code; and ~~(3)~~(c) subsequently issued, the Master Use Permit shall be extended for the life of the building permit. For highrise structures regulated under Section 403 of the Seattle Building Code, the building permit application may be a partial one, provided that it includes the complete structural frame of the building, and schematic plans for the exterior shell of the building.

3. The Director may renew a Master Use Permit for the temporary relocation of police and fire stations issued pursuant to Section 23.42.040 for a period not to exceed 12 months.

 Section 9. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ___________________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 September 24, 2008 Version 11 t

```
