

********

**Council Bill Number: 116332**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122825**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to commute trip reduction, adopting a revised Commute Trip Reduction Plan ("CTR"), amending various sections of Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 25.02, Seattle's Commute Trip Reduction Ordinance, amending Section 3.02.125 and repealing Section 25.02.060.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 6, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 14, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 13, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2008
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** TRANSPORTATION-DEMAND-MANAGEMENT, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, MASS-TRANSIT ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES, COMMUTERS, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 119056

**Fiscal Note:**116332

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122825](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122825.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to commute trip reduction, adopting a revised Commute Trip Reduction Plan ("CTR"), amending various sections of Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 25.02, Seattle's Commute Trip Reduction Ordinance, amending Section 3.02.125 and repealing Section 25.02.060.

 WHEREAS, the Washington State Clean Air Act, codified as RCW 70.94.521-.551, requires certain local governments in those counties experiencing the greatest automobile-related air pollution and traffic congestion to adopt and implement CTR plans and ordinances to reduce single-occupancy vehicle trips; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle recognizes the importance of increasing individual citizens' awareness of air quality, energy consumption, traffic congestion, and the contribution that employers and individuals can make towards addressing these issues; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The 2008 City of Seattle Commute Trip Reduction (CTR) Basic Plan, attached as Attachment A, is adopted as the City's Commute Trip Reduction Plan.

 Section 2. Section 25.02.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119056, is amended as follows:

 25.02.030 Definitions.

~~For the purposes of this chapter the following works or phrases are defined as described below:~~The following definitions apply throughout this chapter:

A. "Affected employee" means a full-time employee who begins his or her regular work day at ~~a single~~an affected employer's worksite between six (6:00) a.m. and nine (9:00) a.m. (inclusive) on two (2) or more weekdays for at least twelve continuous months, who is not an independent contractor, and who is scheduled to be employed on a continuous basis for fifty-two weeks for an average of at least thirty-five hours per week.

 B. "Affected employer" means a private or public employer, including government agencies, that ~~for twelve (12) continuous months~~ employs one hundred (100) or more affected~~full- time~~ employees at a single worksite ~~who are scheduled to begin their regular workday between six (6:00) a.m. and nine (9:00) a.m.(inclusive) on two (2) or more weekdays , even if the identity of the employees varies over time~~. This is equivalent to the term "major employer" used in RCW 70.94.521 through 70.94.551.

C. "Alternative mode" means a method of commuting to work other than a single-occupant motor vehicle being the dominant mode, and may include telecommuting and compressed workweeks if those methods result in fewer commute trips.

 D. "Base year" means ~~the calendar year from January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992. Goals for vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per employee and proportion of single-occupant vehicle trips (SOV) are based upon VMT and SOVs established in that year for the CTR zone~~the twelve-month period on which commute trip reduction goals are based and commencing when an affected employer becomes subject to the requirements of this chapter.

 E. "Commute trips" means trips made from an employee's residence to a worksite ~~for a regularly scheduled workday beginning between~~during the peak period of six (6:00) a.m. ~~and~~to nine (9:00) a.m. ~~(inclusive)~~on weekdays.

 F. "CTR plan" means ~~Seattle's commute trip reduction plan as set forth in this chapter~~the 2008 City of Seattle Commute Trip Reduction Basic Plan adopted by ordinance.

 G. "CTR program" means a document, approved by the Director pursuant to RCW 70.94.531 and Section 25.02.040, 25.02.055 or 25.02.065, containing an employer's strategy to reduce affected ~~employee's~~employees' SOV use and VMT per employee.

 H. ~~"CTR zone" means an area, such as a census tract or combination of census tracts within Seattle, characterized by similar employment density, population density, level of transit service, parking availability, access to high-occupancy vehicle facilities, and other factors that affect the level of SOV commuting. One of the six (6) areas shown on Attachment A1.~~"Department" means the Seattle Department of Transportation.

I. "Director" means the Director of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 J. "Dominant mode" means the mode of travel used for the greatest distance of a commute trip.

 K. ~~"Employee" means any person who works for an employer in return for financial or other compensation, and whose workload and schedule is subject to the control of the employer. Employee does not include independent contractors.~~

~~L.~~ "Equivalent survey information" means information that substitutes for the Washington State Department of Transportation goal measurement survey, as determined by the City.

L.~~M.~~"Full-time employee" means an employee, scheduled to be employed on a continuous basis for fifty-two (52) weeks for an average of at least thirty-five (35) hours per week.

M. "Goal" means the measure of reduction in either the percentage of SOV trips or VMT that would result in an affected employer or worksite meeting the SOV or VMT "Target."  N. "Good faith effort" means that an employer has met the minimum requirements identified in RCW 70.94.534(2). Regardless of whether an employer has met its SOV or VMT goals, the Director shall consider the employer to be making a good faith effort if it complies with RCW 70.94.534(2) and works collaboratively with the City, in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, to: (i) continue its existing CTR program; or (ii) develop and implement an initial or revised CTR program consistent with the requirements of this chapter.

 O

.  "Growth and Transportation Efficiency Center (GTEC)" means a defined, compact, mixed-use urban area that contains jobs or housing and supports multiple modes of transportation.

P.~~N~~ "Mode" means the type of transportation used by employees, such as single-occupant vehicle, rideshare, bicycle, walk, ferry, and transit.

~~O.~~Q. "Proportion of SOV trips" or "SOV rate" means the number of commute trips made by single-occupant vehicles~~in the survey week made by affected employees in SOVs, minus any adjustments for telecommuting, bicycling, walking or compressed work schedules,~~ divided by the total number of full-time employees ~~affected employee workdays during the survey week. An "affected employee workday" includes any day that an employee does not work due to a compressed work schedule~~.

~~P.~~ R. "Single-occupant vehicle (SOV)" means a motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, occupied by one ~~(1) employee~~person for commute purposes ~~, excluding motorcycles~~.

~~Q.~~S. "Target" means a quantifiable or measurable value that is expressed as a desired level of performance, against which actual achievement can be compared in order to assess progress.

~~R.~~T. "Vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per employee" means the sum of the individual vehicle ~~average~~ commute trip lengths, in miles, made by affected employees over a set period~~, multiplied~~divided by the number of ~~vehicle commute trips per~~ affected employees during that period.

U. "Worksite" means a building or group of buildings on physically contiguous parcels of land or on parcels separated solely by private or public roadways or rights-of-way. ~~Construction worksites, when the expected duration of the construction project is less than two (2) years, are excluded.~~

~~S. "Writing," "written" or "in writing" means original signed and dated documents. Facsimile (fax) transmissions are a temporary notice of action that must be followed by the original signed and dated document via mail or delivery.~~

~~T. "Good faith effort" means that an employer has met the minimum requirements identified in RCW 70.94.531~~~~and this chapter, and is working collaboratively with the City to: continue its existing CTR program or is developing and implementing program modifications likely to result in improvements to its CTR program over an agreed upon length of time.~~

 Section 3. A new Section 25.02.035 of the Seattle Municipal Code is adopted to read as follows:

25.02.035Applicability.  A.

General Rule. The provisions of this chapter apply to all affected employers within the City of Seattle. Construction worksites, when the expected duration of the construction project is less than two (2) years, are excluded. It is the responsibility of the employer to notify the Seattle Department of Transportation (Department) of a change in status pursuant to subsection B of this section.

B.Change in Status.

1.From Affected to Unaffected Employer. If a previously affected employer no longer employs one hundred (100) or more affected employees and expects not to employ one hundred (100) or more affected employees for the next twelve (12) months, the City shall consider that employer no longer to be an affected employer beginning thirty (30) days after the employer provides written notice to the Department of its change in status.

a.If the same employer returns to the level of one hundred (100) or more affected employees within the same twelve (12) month period, that employer will be considered an affected employer for the entire twelve (12) month period and will be subject to the same program requirements as other affected employers.

b.If the same employer returns to the level of one hundred (100) or more affected employees more than twelve (12) months after changing from an affected employer to an unaffected employer, that employer shall be considered an affected employer beginning thirty (30) days after its return to affected status or January 1 of the following calendar year, whichever is earlier.

 2. From Unaffected Employer to Affected Employer. An employer meeting the definition of "affected employer" shall provide written notification to the City within 30 days of either moving within the City boundaries or growing in employment at a worksite to one hundred (100) or more affected employees.  C.

Multi-Jurisdictional Worksites. An affected employer that has a work site located in both the City of Seattle and another incorporated or unincorporated jurisdiction with common borders or related regional issues may jointly, with one of those jurisdictions, petition the Department in writing at least sixty (60) calendar days prior to submittal of the affected employer's CTR program description or report to request that the affected employer be allowed to report to, and be governed by, the applicable commute trip reduction laws and regulations of the other jurisdiction. If such request is granted, the approval to report to and be governed by the applicable commute trip reduction laws and regulations of the other jurisdiction remains in effect so long as the Department receives copies of the affected employer's CTR program and reports submitted to the other jurisdiction and of any administrative decisions or actions taken by the jurisdiction or its agents in regard to the affected employer.  D.

Growth and Transportation Efficiency Centers. Affected employers located within a designated growth and transportation efficiency center (GTEC) are subject to the requirements of this chapter, except where otherwise provided by administrative rule adopted pursuant to Section 25.02.100 B.

Section 4. Section 25.02.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119056, is amended as follows:

25.02.040 Employer's baseline measurement and initial commute trip reduction program.

 A. Baseline Measurement. An affected employer shall complete a baseline survey of employee commuting patterns in accordance with the requirements of this subsection.

1.Preparation Deadline.  a.

After becoming an affected employer, an affected employer that has not adopted an approved CTR program shall conduct its baseline measurements on or before the later of the following dates:  i.

ninety (90) days after the effective date of the ordinance introduced as Council Bill 116332, if the employer is an affected employer on that date; or  ii.

ninety (90) days after issuance of the affected employer's business license, or renewal thereof, if the employer becomes an affected employer after the effective date of the ordinance. b.

An affected employer may request an extension of up to one hundred eighty (180) days. The Director shall grant all or part of the extension request or shall deny the request within ten (10) days of receipt a written request for extension. If the Director fails to respond within ten days, the extension is automatically granted for thirty (30) calendar days.

2.Contents of Baseline Measurement. An affected employer's baseline measurement shall consist of survey data of affected employee commuting patterns, which shall be the primary source of data for measuring CTR program performance and will be used in developing the employer's CTR program. The survey methodology used by the affected employer, including but not limited to sample size and response rates, shall conform to the guidelines and methodology approved by the Washington State Department of Transportation pursuant to RCW 70.94.537(2)(b) and the Washington Administrative Code, Chapter 468-63. The Director will provide sample surveys for affected employers to use and will work collaboratively with affected employers to complete and process the surveys.  B.

Initial CTR Program Submittal ~~and Implementation~~.

 1. Timing of CTR Program Submittal.~~Application.~~~~a. This chapter applies to any affected employer at any worksite within The City of Seattle.~~ An affected employer ~~must~~shall submit ~~a~~its initial CTR program to the Director for review no later than ninety (90) days after completing its baseline measurement pursuant to subsection A of this section.~~within one hundred eighty (180) days of June 4, 1993, the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, regardless of whether the employer has received notice from the City that this chapter applies to the employer. The purpose of an employer CTR program is to help achieve the goals set forth in Section 25.02.060.~~

~~b. An employer that becomes an "affected employer" after adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall develop and submit its initial CTR program to the Director within one hundred eighty (180) days of the first Washington State Department of Employment Security's Employer's Quarterly Report of Employee's Wages published after becoming an affected employer.~~ 2. Extension.

An affected employer may request an extension of up to ninety (90) days for submitting its initial CTR program. The Director shall grant all or part of the extension request or shall deny the request within ten (10) days of receipt of the written request. If the director fails to respond within ten days, the extension is automatically granted for thirty (30) calendar days. An extension will not excuse affected employers from developing a commute trip reduction program and submitting a description of that program to the Director for review not more than ninety days after the affected employer receives the results of the baseline measurement.

3.If the Director rejects an affected employer's initial CTR program, the affected employer shall make the changes required by a Director's decision made pursuant to this section and resubmit its initial CTR program within thirty (30) days after receiving the Director's decision.

~~c. An affected employer is required to make a good faith effort, as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter, to develop and implement a CTR program that will encourage its employees to reduce VMT per employee and SOV commute trips.~~d. An affected employer shall implement its approved CTR program within one hundred eighty (180) days after the initial program is submitted to the Director. Implementation is accomplished by carrying out all of the program measures contained in an employer's CTR program.

~~2. Transportation Management Associations.~~~~~~a. In lieu of submitting an initial CTR program and annual report as described in Section 25.02.050, an affected employer may join a transportation management association (TMA) or other organization that submits a single program or annual report on behalf of its members. In addition to describing program measures which are common to its members, the TMAs CTR program and annual report shall describe specific program measures which are unique to individual members' worksites. The TMA, as an agent for its members, shall provide performance data for each worksite, as well as data aggregated from all TMA members, to the Director. A TMA is subject to the same time-period requirements as any single employer.

 b. Each employer is responsible for meeting the requirements of this chapter regardless of the employer's participation in a TMA. Program modifications shall be specific to an employer. If an employer elects to satisfy its CTR program requirements through a TMA program or annual report, the employer shall notify the Director in writing, designating the TMA as its agent.

C.~~B.~~Initial CTR Program Content. Each employer CTR program shall include the following ~~elements~~:

 1. Worksite Characteristics. A CTR program shall include a description of worksite characteristics, including the total number of employees and number of affected employees at the worksite, transportation characteristics and surrounding services, and any unique conditions that may affect employee commute choices.~~Designation of Employee Transportation Coordinator. The employer shall designate a transportation coordinator to administer CTR program and act as liaison with the Director. An affected employer with multiple worksites may have one (1) transportation coordinator for all sites. The coordinator's and/or designee's name, location and telephone number must be displayed prominently at each affected work site;~~

~~2. Distribution of Information. The employer shall provide a complete description of its CTR program to employees at least twice a year and to each new employee when he or she begins his or her employment. Each employer's program description and annual report must report the information to be regularly distributed and the method and frequency of distribution;~~

~~3.~~2. Mandatory CTR Program Elements ~~Measures~~. An affected employer's ~~initial~~ CTR program shall ~~include~~specifically identify at least two (2) of the following measures to be implemented by the affected employer:

 a. Provide bicycle parking facilities and/or lockers, changing areas, and showers for employees who walk or bicycle to work~~,~~.

b. Provide commuter ride-matching services to facilitate employee ride-sharing for commute trips~~,~~.

 c. Provide subsidies for transit fares~~,~~.

 d. Provide employer vans or third-party vans for vanpooling~~,~~.

 e. Provide subsidy for carpool and vanpool participation ~~,~~.

 f. Permit the use of the employer's vehicles for carpool and/or vanpool commute trips~~,~~.

 g. Permit alternative work schedules, such as a compressed workweek~~work week~~, that reduce commute trips by affected employees between six (6:00) a.m. and nine (9:00) a.m. A compressed workweek regularly allows a full-time employee to eliminate at least one (1) workday every two (2) weeks, by working longer hours during the remaining days, resulting in fewer commute trips by the employee~~,~~.

 h. Permit alternative work schedules such as flex- time that reduce commute trips by affected employees between six (6:00) a.m. and nine (9:00) a.m. Flex-time allows individual employees some flexibility in choosing the time, but not the number, of their working hours~~,~~.

 i. Provide preferential parking for high-occupancy vehicles~~,~~.

 j. Provide reduced parking charges for high-occupancy vehicles~~,~~.

 k. ~~Cooperate~~Collaborate with transportation providers to provide additional regular or express service to the work site (e.g., a custom bus service arranged specifically to transport employees to work) ~~,~~.

 l. Construct special loading and unloading facilities for transit, carpool and/or vanpool users~~,~~.

 m. Provide and fund a program of parking incentives such as a cash payment for employees who do not use the parking facilities~~,~~.

 n. Institute or increase parking charges for SOVs~~,~~.

 o. Establish a program to permit employees to telecommute either part- or full-time, where telecommuting is an arrangement that permits an employee to work from home, eliminating a commute trip, or to work from a work center closer to home, reducing the distance traveled in a commute trip by at least half~~,~~.

 p. Provide a shuttle between the employer's worksite and the closest park-and-ride lot, transit center, or principal transit street~~,~~.

q. Attend at least four meetings of a local transportation management association, transportation management organization, or employer transportation network group each year.  r.

 Implement other measures designed and demonstrated to facilitate the use of non-SOV commute modes or to reduce vehicle miles traveled that ~~, which~~ are agreed upon between the Director and the affected employer~~;~~.

~~4. A description of any additional program measures included in the employer's CTR program;~~ 3. CTR Implementation Plan. An affected employer's CTR program shall provide for:  a. Distribution of the CTR program to affected employees at least twice a year and to each new affected employee when the new affected employee begins employment.

 b. Designation of an employee transportation coordinator to administer the CTR program and to act as a liaison to the Director for one or more worksites of an affected employer. The coordinator's and/or designee's name, location and telephone number must be displayed prominently at each worksite.

 c.

~~5. Assignment of responsibilities for implementing the CTR program, evidence of commitment to provide appropriate~~Appropriate resources to carry out the CTR program~~, and a schedule of implementation; and~~.  d. Retention of all records related to the affected employer's CTR compliance for at least twenty-four (24) months.

~~6. Description of employer's CTR worksite characteristics. The employer program must include:~~a. A general description of the affected employer worksite

 ,~~~~b. A general description of the availability of transportation to the worksite

,~~~~c. The total number of employees and affected employees at the worksite

,~~.~~d. Site or operational conditions which may affect an employee's choice of commute mode;

7. Record-keeping. The CTR program shall include a list of the records to be maintained by the employer in implementing the program. Employers will maintain all records listed in their CTR program for twenty-four (24) months.

~~C.~~D.Initial CTR Program Review and Approval.

 1. Director's Decision.

 a. ~~The Director shall review each employer's initial CTR program to determine if it has met the minimum requirements of this CTR chapter.~~b. The Director shall complete review of each employer's initial CTR program and annual reports within

Within ninety (90) days of the date ~~the~~anaffected employer submits ~~the~~its initial CTR  program,~~or report to~~ the Director~~,~~shall issue a written decision approving or rejecting the program based on the standards in this subsection and mail a copy of the decision to the affected employer~~and notify the employer in writing whether or not the program or report has been approved, and the reasons for approval or disapproval~~. b. If the Director approves an affected employer's initial CTR program, the Director's decision shall establish a date by which the affected employer is required to submit subsequent regular program reports pursuant to Section 25.02.050. The regular program reporting date shall be no sooner than one-year and ninety (90) days from the date of the Director's decision approving the initial CTR program.

 c. If the Director rejects an employer's initial CTR program, the Director's decision shall explain the reasons for the rejection and set forth changes that are required to obtain approval.

 2. Review Standards. An affected employer's CTR program shall be approved if the program:  a. satisfies the minimum requirements of this chapter; and

 b. is likely to achieve the commute trip reduction goals applicable to the affected employer under the City's CTR plan

.

~~No later than thirty (30) days before the initial CTR program description or annual report is to be submitted, an employer may request a thirty (30) day extension to submit that document. An extension shall be granted and shall not exceed thirty (30) days.~~3. Beginning in 1995, the Director shall review each employer's annual report to determine the employer's progress toward achieving its SOV and VMT goals.

 a. If an employer makes a good faith effort as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter and meets either or both goals for SOV and VMT, the employer has satisfied the objectives of the CTR plan and will not be required to modify the CTR program. The Director shall issue a decision approving an employer's CTR program.

 b. (i) If an employer makes a good faith effort, as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter, but has met or is likely to meet neither the applicable SOV and VMT goal the employer shall, in its annual report, propose changes to its CTR program measures, and the schedule for implementing these measures, which it believes will help achieve the goals. The city shall work collaboratively with the employer to make modifications to the CTR program. After the City and the employer agree on modifications, the employer shall submit a revised CTR program description to the City for approval within thirty (30) days.

 (ii) When determining whether to approve changes to a CTR program, the Director shall consider the likelihood that the changes will help achieve the goals, based on the following criteria:

 -- The extent to which the employer has implemented the program and attained the CTR goals;

 -- The extent to which the employer has demonstrated a commitment to implementing the program and achieving the goals;

 -- ~~Diversity of modes and CTR strategies included in the program;~~-- Characteristics of pedestrian, bicycle, transit, ferry, road and HOV access, and facilities available to the employer's worksite;

 -- Expected benefit to be derived from a specific program element as well as its effect on the entire program;

 -- Effect on reducing the relative cost or improving the convenience of commuting by non-SOV modes versus by SOV.

 c. If the Director approves the proposed program changes, then the Director shall issue a final decision, and the changes shall be made in the program and implemented by the employer.

 d. If the Director determines that the proposed program is insufficient, or unlikely to help achieve the goals, the Director shall recommend changes to the program which can reasonably be expected to be effective. The Director's preliminary decision shall be in writing, and mailed to the employer within ninety (90) days of the date the annual report is submitted.

 (i) An affected employer may request that the Director reconsider a preliminary decision regarding its CTR program elements, except for the minimum requirements of subsection B of this section. The employer may apply in writing for reconsideration of the preliminary decision within fifteen (15) days of the date the Director's preliminary decision is mailed to the employer. The Director shall meet with the employer to discuss program changes if the application for reconsideration includes a request for a meeting. The Director shall give the employer a written response to the request for reconsideration.

 (ii) An employer who disagrees with a preliminary decision by the Director regarding the approval of the employer's CTR program or changes to the program, may ask the peer review panel to consider the issue in disagreement. The peer review panel shall make a recommendation to the Director following meeting with the employer, if the employer requests a meeting.

 (iii) If an employer fails to make a good faith effort as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2) and this chapter, and meets neither the applicable SOV nor the VMT reduction goal, the City shall work collaboratively with the employer to identify modifications to the CTR program and shall direct the employer to revise its program within thirty (30) days to incorporate the modifications. In response to the recommended modifications, the employer shall submit a revised CTR program description, including the requested modifications or equivalent measures, within thirty (30) days of certified return receipt. The City shall review the revisions and notify the employer of acceptance or rejection of the revised program. If a revised program is not acceptable, the City will send notice (certified return receipt) to that effect to the employer within thirty (30) days and if necessary require the employer to attend a conference with program review staff for the purpose of reaching a consensus on the required program. A final decision on the required program will be issued in writing by the City within ten (10) working days of the conference.

 (iv) The Director shall make a final decision regarding changes to an employer's CTR program within sixty (60) days of making a preliminary decision, based upon consideration of the peer review panel recommendation and the preliminary decision.

 (iv) Within thirty (30) days of written notification of the Director's final decision regarding required program modifications, an employer shall incorporate those modifications into its CTR program and submit a revised CTR program description, including the required modifications or equivalent measures, to the Director.

 4. If an affected employer does not submit an initial CTR program or an annual report, and no request for an extension or reconsideration is filed, the Director shall issue a final decision without issuing a preliminary decision.

E. Initial CTR Program Implementation. An affected employer shall begin implementing its approved CTR program no later than ninety (90) days after the program is approved pursuant to subsection D of this section.

F. CTR Program Amendment. An affected employer may not alter or amend its approved CTR program without the express written approval of the Director.

 Section 5. Section 25.02.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119056, is amended as follows:

 25.02.050 ~~Employer's Annual~~Regular Program Reports and Biennial Surveys.

A.Program Reports.

1. Submittal.

a.~~1.~~Except as otherwise provided by this chapter,~~A~~an affected employer that has an approved CTR program shall submit regular ~~an annual~~ CTR program reports to the Director ~~beginning with the 1995 annual reporting date assigned by the Director after reviewing the employer's initial CTR program~~in a format and on dates established by the Director and consistent with the guidelines established by the State CTR Board. ~~Annual reports shall be due on the same date each year.~~

b.~~2.~~Pursuant to this section,~~At least thirty (30) days prior to the date an annual report is due)~~ an affected employer may request a thirty (30) day extension to complete its ~~annual~~program report. The Director may grant one or more such extensions, but~~This extension shall~~the grant of an extension does not change the normal reporting date for subsequent years.~~~~c.If the Director rejects an affected employer's program report on the  grounds that it fails to include the required information, the affected employer shall submit a revised report pursuant to this section.

 2

.~~B.~~ Contents. The ~~annual~~program report shall include

 a~~n annual~~ review of employee commuting patterns and of progress and good faith efforts toward meeting the ~~SOV~~ reduction goals and targets established for the worksite. The ~~annual~~ program report shall include each of the following elements:

a.~~1~~. Review of CTR Program Elements. A description of each CTR

 program ~~measure~~element that was carried out ~~undertaken~~ during the reporting period~~year;~~.  b.

~~2~~. Number of Participants. The number of employees participating in each of the CTR program  elements.~~measures;~~

~~3. An evaluation of the effectiveness of the CTR program; and if necessary, a description of proposed revisions to the CTR program to help achieve the CTR goals;~~

c.~~4.~~Summary of Program Distribution . A description of the method and frequency by which the information required by the approved CTR program was distributed ~~;~~.

~~5. A statement of the employer's method of measuring its VMT per employee, using either the average zonal trip length or the employer's average trip length from a survey;~~

~~6.~~~~Data~~~~of Employees' Commuting Behavior.~~

~~a. Survey information or approved equivalent information must be provided in the 1995, 1997, 1999, 2001, 2003, and 2005 reports. Employers whose work sites became affected after 1993 must provide survey data or approved equivalent information in the second, fourth, sixth, eighth, tenth, and twelfth years following initial program implementation. Employee surveys of commuting behavior will be the primary source of data about an employer's CTR program performance. Washington State Department of Transportation goal measurement questionnaires shall be used to measure affected employer's progress towards goal attainment, unless the Director approves equivalent information which is provided by the employer.~~b. Instead of surveying all affected employees at a worksite, an employer may conduct a survey based on a sample of its affected employees if there are at least one hundred (100) affected employees at its worksite. The employer must demonstrate to the Director that the sampling method is in accordance with generally accepted methods before the sampling is undertaken.

 c. A minimum response rate of seventy (70) percent of all affected employees in the population or seventy (70) percent of the sample is required. When a seventy (70) percent response rate is not achieved, an employer shall either:

 (i) Provide supporting information, approved by the Director, to document mode choice of affected employees. This information may include transit pass sales, records of rideshare subsidies, parking lot counts, (where affected employees' actual commute trip behavior is measured between six (6:00) a.m. and nine (9:00) a.m. when access and egress points are completely monitored; or

 (ii) Designate all non-responses below seventy (70) percent of the affected employee population or sample as SOV trips; or

 (iii) Use a combination of options in subsections B6c(i) and (ii) above, if approved by the Director.

3. Review and Approval.

 a. Director's Decision. Within ninety (90) days of the date an affected employer submits its program report, the Director shall issue a written decision approving or rejecting the report based on the standards of this section and shall mail a copy of the decision to the affected employer.  b. Review Standards.

 (i) If the program report satisfies the requirements of this section and the affected employer has satisfied either or both of its SOV and VMT reduction goals, the report will be approved and no revisions to the affected employer's CTR program will be required.

 (ii) If the program report satisfies the requirements in this section but the affected employer satisfies neither its SOV nor its VMT reduction goals, the report will be approved, but the affected employer shall submit a revised CTR program pursuant to Section 25.02.055.

 (iii) If the program report fails to satisfy the requirements of this section, the report will be rejected and the affected employer shall submit a revised program report within thirty (30) days. A revised report is subject to the requirements of this section.

 B. Biannual Survey of Employees' Commuting Behavior.

 1. At two year intervals, an affected employer shall measure employee commuting behavior at the affected employer's worksite consistent with the guidelines and methodology approved by the Washington State Department of Transportation as required by RCW 70.94.537(2)(b) and Chapter 468-63 of the Washington Administrative Code.

 2. The most recent survey data will the primary source of data for measuring an affected employer's progress towards meeting CTR plan goals and determining an employer's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.

 Section 6. A new Section 25.02.055 is adopted to read as follows:

25.02.055Affected Employer's revised CTR program.  A.

Submittal of Revised CTR Program. An affected employer shall submit a revised CTR program if, based on a review of the affected employer's program report or most recent biannual survey results pursuant to Section 25.02.050, the Director finds that the employer has not met either its VMT or SOV reduction goals.

1.Submittal Deadline.  a.

If the Director's decision finds that an affected employer has made a good faith effort, the affected employer shall submit a revised CTR program by a date agreed to in writing between the affected employer and the Director.  b.

If the Director's decision finds that an employer has failed to make a good faith effort, the affected employer shall submit a revised CTR program within thirty (30) days following receipt of the Director's decision.  2.

Collaborative Process for Developing Revisions. The Director will work collaboratively with an affected employer to reach agreement on program revisions prior to the applicable deadline for submitting a revised CTR program under this section. The Director may grant one or more thirty (30) day extensions if the affected employer demonstrates progress in developing revisions to its CTR program.

B.Contents of Revised CTR Program. An affected employer's revised CTR program shall include all of the elements required for CTR programs under Section 25.02.040, in addition to changes or modifications to the CTR program that are reasonably likely to achieve the SOV and VMT reduction goals applicable to the affected employer under the City's CTR plan.

C.Review and Approval of Revised CTR Program.  1.

Director's Decision.  a.

Within ninety (90) days of the date an affected employer submits its revised CTR program, the Director will issue a written decision approving or rejecting the program based on the review standards in this section and will mail a copy of the decision to the affected employer.  b.

If the Director approves an affected employer's revised CTR program, the Director's decision shall establish a date by which the affected employer is required to submit subsequent program reports pursuant to Section 25.02.050. The program reporting date shall be no sooner than one-year and ninety (90) days from the date of the Director's decision approving the revised CTR program.  c.

If the Director rejects an affected employer's revised CTR program, the Director's decision shall explain the reasons for the rejection and set forth additional program revisions that are required to obtain approval. The affected employer shall resubmit a revised CTR program plan addressing the Director's concerns within 30 days from the date of the Director's decision rejecting the revised CTR program.  2.

Review Standards. Revisions proposed by an affected employer to its CTR program will be approved if they are reasonably likely to achieve the commute trip reduction goals applicable to the affected employer under the City's CTR plan, considering the following factors:  a.

The extent to which the affected employer has implemented its existing CTR program and attained its CTR goals.

b.The extent to which the affected employer has demonstrated a commitment to implementing the proposed revisions to its CTR program and to achieving its VMT and SOV reduction goals.

c.The diversity of modes and strategies included in the revised CTR program.

d.The viability of pedestrian, bicycle, transit, ferry, road, and high occupancy vehicle facilities and the accessibility of such facilities to the affected employer's worksite.  e.

The expected benefit to be derived from specific program revisions, as well as the effect of those revisions on the entire program.

f.The likely effect of proposed program revisions on the cost and convenience of commuting by non-SOV as opposed to SOV modes of transportation.

 Section 7. A new Section 25.02.065 is adopted to read as follows: 25.02.065

Transportation management associations.  A.

 Submittal of CTR Documents by Transportation Management Associations. In lieu of submitting a CTR program pursuant to Section 25.02.040, a program report pursuant to Section 25.02.050, or a revised CTR program pursuant to Section 25.02.055, an affected employer may appoint as its agent a transportation management association (TMA) or other transportation-related organization authorized under RCW 35.87A.010 that submits a single program report or revised program on behalf of its members. If an affected employer elects to satisfy its obligations under this chapter through a TMA, the affected employer and the TMA shall notify the Director in writing that the TMA is authorized to submit a CTR program, revised CTR program, and/or program report on behalf of the affected employer.  B.

Standards and Requirements. CTR documents submitted by TMAs are subject to the same standards and requirements, including deadlines, that apply to documents submitted by individual affected employers. In addition to describing program elements that are common to its members, CTR documents submitted by a TMA shall describe specific program measures that are unique to individual members' worksites and include performance data for each affected employer's worksite consistent with the requirements for program reports under Section 25.02.050.

C.Affected Employer Responsibility for CTR Compliance. Each affected employer is responsible for meeting the requirements of this chapter regardless of the affected employer's participation in a TMA. Each program revision shall specify the affected employer to which it applies.

Section 8. Section 25.02.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119056, is amended as follows:

 25.02.070 Exemptions from CTR Requirements ~~, credit,~~ and adjustments to CTR calculations~~to definition of affected employee~~.

 A. Exemptions from Requirement to Implement CTR Program.

1.Worksite Exemptions. An affected employer that has adopted a CTR program pursuant to Section 25.02.040 may, at any time, submit a request to the ~~City~~~~to grant~~Director for an exemption from the requirement to implement its CTR program or from specific elements contained therein, for one or more of its~~all CTR Plan requirements for a particular~~ worksites. The affected employer's request must cite the specific CTR program requirements from which it is seeking an exemption and demonstrate that:

a. due to the characteristics of the affected employer's~~its~~ business, ~~or~~~~its~~ workforce, or ~~its~~ location, ~~that~~ complying with the requirements of this chapter would cause undue hardship, such as bankruptcy~~.~~; or  b.

~~The City may grant an exemption if the employer can demonstrate undue hardship or that~~ the affected employer is unable for economic reasons to implement any measures that could reduce the proportion of SOV trips and VMT per employee. ~~The City may grant exemptions at any time based on written notice provided by the affected employer. The notice should explain clearly the conditions for which the affected employer is seeking an exemption from the requirements of the CTR plan. The City shall review annually all employers receiving exemptions and shall determine if the exemption will be in effect during the following program year.~~

~~B.~~~~Credit for Successful Transportation Demand Management Program)~~.

~~1. In either the initial CTR program description or any annual report an affected employer who has already met both the VMT per employee and proportion of SOV trips goals for one (1) or more future goal years, may request a waiver from the requirement to submit the following year's annual report and from the required CTR program measures, except for the requirements to report performance in annual reports for the goal years. An employer receiving this waiver must commit in writing to continue its current CTR level of effort.~~2. If any of the goal-year annual reports indicates the employer does not satisfy the next applicable year's goal, the employer shall immediately become subject to all requirements of this chapter.

 3. Requests for credit shall include results from a survey of employees, or equivalent information that establishes the applicant's reduction of VMT per employee and reduction of proportion of SOV trips. The survey or equivalent information shall conform to all applicable standards established in this chapter.

 C. Credit for Telecommuting, Bicycling, Walking and Compressed Workweek Schedules. Trips avoided by telecommuting and compressed workweek schedules, and trips made by bicycling and walking, shall be multiplied by two-tenths (0.2) and subtracted from the number of SOV commute trips when calculating the proportion of SOV vehicle trips and VMT per employee.

 D. Credit for Schedule Changes Which Move Some or all Employees Outside of the Peak Commute Period. For purposes of counting commute vehicle trips, employers who have modified their employees' work schedules out of the six (6:00) a.m. to nine (9:00) a.m. peak commute period in response to the CTR law or for impacts associated with the Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A) may apply for credit toward calculating SOV trips and VMT per employee. Such credit shall be two-tenths (0.2) of a trip reduced per employee whose work schedule has been shifted out of the six (6:00) a.m. to nine (9:00) a.m. window. An employer who wants to claim such credit for changes implemented prior to 1998 shall provide the City with the following information: (1) an explanation of how the schedule change is related to provisions of the Growth Management Act of 1990 or a demonstration that the schedule change was an identified element of a previously approved CTR program; (2) the number of employees whose schedules were changed; (3) the date on which the schedule change became effective; and (4) the previous schedule for those employees for which the credit is being claimed.

2.~~E.~~~~Adjustment to the Calculation of Affected Employee and~~ Employee Exemptions.

a.Request for Exemption.  (i)

An affected employer may request that the Director exempt the following types of employees from a worksite's CTR program:

(a) Specific employees or groups of employees who are required to drive alone to work as a condition of employment ~~may be exempted from a worksite's CTR program. Exemptions may also be granted for~~; and

(b) employees who work variable shifts throughout the year and who do not rotate as a group to identical shifts.

(ii)~~The City will use the criteria identified in the CTR Task Force~~Guidelines to assess the validity of employee exemption requests. The City shall review annually all employee exemption requests and shall determine whether the exemption will be in effect during the following program year.

Affected~~E~~employers requesting employee exemptions ~~or adjustments~~ must do so at least thirty (30) days prior to conducting the surveys ~~of progress as described in SMC~~required by Section 25.02.050~~and SMC Section 25.02.060~~and shall provide credible documentation indicating the number of employees who qualify for an employee exemption under this subsection.  3.

Duration of Exemption. The Director shall review annually all affected employers receiving any exemption and shall determine if the exemption will remain in effect during the following program year. In making this determination, the Director may require the affected employer to provide additional information related to the economic hardship or other factors on which the exemption was based.

C. Adjustments to the Calculation of Affected Employees.

1. Request for Adjustment.

 a. An affected employer may request that the Director, in determining whether the affected employer has met its goals and targets for purposes of the biannual survey, exclude the following types of employees in calculating the total number of affected employees:

(i)~~an adjustment to the calculation of affected employee if the employer can demonstrate that it requires certain~~ employees who are required to use the vehicles they drive to work during the workday for work purposes~~.~~; and

(ii)~~Any employee who needs frequent and regular access to the vehicles they drive to work, for which no reasonable alternative commute mode exists , will not be included in the calculations of proportion of SOV trips and VMT per employee used to determine the employer's progress toward program goals~~;

full-time employees who work variable shifts that sometimes begin between six (6:00) a.m. to nine (9:00) a.m. and sometimes begin outside of that time period, but not those employees who rotate shifts together as part of a group.

~~b. The employer shall provide documentation indicating how many employees meet this condition and why.~~c. Seasonal agricultural employees, including seasonal employees of processors of agricultural products, are excluded from the count of affected employees.

 2. a. An affected employer may request an adjustment to the calculation of affected employee if it can demonstrate that it requires full-time employees to work varying shifts, so that these employees sometimes begin their shift between six (6:00) a.m. to nine (9:00) a.m. and at other times begin their shifts outside that time period.

 2. Deadline to Request Adjustments. Affected employers requesting adjustments to the calculation of affected employees must do so at least thirty (30) days prior to conducting the survey required by Section 25.02.050. The affected employer shall provide credible documentation indicating how  many~~may~~ employees qualify to be excluded from the calculation of affected employees pursuant to this subsection~~meet this condition~~ and must demonstrate that no reasonable alternative commute trip reduction program can be developed for these employees. ~~Under this condition, the applicable goals will not be changed, but those full-time employees working varying shifts need not be included in the calculations of proportion of SOV trips and VMT per employee used to determine the employer's progress toward program goals.~~

~~b. Adjustments to the calculation of affected employee shall not apply to full-time employees who rotate shifts together, as a group.~~

3.Effect of Adjustment.~~3. An adjustment~~ Adjustments to the calculation of affected employees approved pursuant to this subsection are solely for the purpose of determining affected employer progress toward achieving the CTR goals and do~~does~~ not change whether the affected employer is subject to this chapter.

D. Director's Decision on Requests for Exemptions and Adjustments.  1.

Requirements for Requests. All requests made by affected employers pursuant to this section shall be addressed to the Director in writing and shall include the information required for the particular type of exemption or adjustment being sought.  2.

Standards for Granting Exemptions and Adjustments. The Director shall grant requests for exemptions and adjustments that are supported by credible documentation and meet the applicable criteria in this section. Within thirty (30) days of receiving a request from an affected employer pursuant to this section, the Director shall issue a decision granting or denying the request and mail a copy of the decision to the affected employer.

 Section 9. Section 25.02.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119056, is amended as follows:

25.02.080 Appeal of Director's ~~final~~ Decision.

 A. Appealable Decisions. An affected employer that is aggrieved by any of the following decisions of the Director may appeal the decision to the Office of the Hearing Examiner pursuant to this section:~~Director's final decision regarding exemptions, changes to its CTR program measures, credits, adjustments to the calculation of affected employee, and violations to the CTR Appeals Board~~.

1.Decisions rejecting a CTR program pursuant to Section 25.02.040.  2.

Decisions rejecting a CTR program report pursuant to Section 25.02.050 for failure to include the required performance data.  3.

Decisions approving a CTR program report pursuant to Section 25.02.050, but finding that the affected employer has not met its goals and targets and is therefore required to submit a revised CTR program pursuant to Section 25.02.050 and 25.02.055.  4.

Decisions rejecting a revised CTR program pursuant to Section 25.02.055.  5.

Decisions denying a request for an exemption or adjustment under Section 25.02.070.~~The notice of appeal must be filed with the Director within fifteen (15) days after the Director's final decision is mailed to the employer.~~

 B. Effect of Appeal or Failure to Appeal. If a Director's decision is timely appealed to the Hearing Examiner, any deadline imposed by that decision for submitting an initial or revised CTR program or report is tolled pending the outcome of the appeal. If the Hearing Examiner affirms the Director's decision, the Hearing Examiner shall set a new deadline for submitting an initial or revised CTR program or report. If the affected employer does not appeal a Director's decision to the Hearing Examiner, the Director's decision is final for purposes of enforcement action under Section 25.02.090.  C.

Hearing Examiner Appeal Procedures. Except as otherwise provided by this section, appeals of Director's decisions pursuant to this chapter are governed by the Hearing Examiner's rules for contested cases adopted pursuant to Chapter 3.02 SMC.  1.

Standing. Only an affected employer subject to a decision of the Director may appeal that decision to the Hearing Examiner.  2.

Filing Requirements.

a.Appeals shall be filed with the Hearing Examiner no later than five (5:00) p.m. on the fourteenth calendar day following the date of the Director's decision. When the last day of the appeal period so computed is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal or City holiday, the period extends until five (5:00) p.m. on the next business day. The appeal shall be accompanied by payment of the applicable filing fee set forth in Section 3.02.125, Hearing Examiner filing fees.

b. In form and content, the appeal shall conform to the rules of the Hearing Examiner adopted pursuant to Chapter 3.02 SMC.

3. Hearing and Notice of Hearing. The Hearing Examiner shall schedule a hearing and provide notice of the hearing at least twenty (20) days prior to the scheduled hearing date.  D. Hearing-- Scope of Review. The hearing shall be conducted de novo and in accordance with the Hearing Examiner's rules of procedure. The Hearing Examiner shall consider only those issues raised in the notice of appeal and relating to the requirements of this chapter.

E. Hearing Examiner's Decision. Within thirty (30) days after the hearing, the Hearing Examiner shall issue a written decision that shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law in support of the decision. The Hearing Examiner may affirm, reverse, remand, or modify the Director's decision. The Director and the affected employer that appealed the Director's decision shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the Hearing Examiner's decision unless the decision is reversed or remanded on judicial review.

F.Notice of Hearing Examiner Decision. On the day the Hearing Examiner issues a decision, the Hearing Examiner shall mail the decision to the Director and to the affected employer that appealed.~~The Appeals Board shall review the appeal to determine if the Director's final decision is consistent with RCW Chapter 70.94 and this chapter. If the Appeals Board determines that the decision is inconsistent, it shall reverse or modify the decision as appropriate. If the Appeals Board determines that the decision is consistent, the Director's final decision shall be upheld.~~

 Section 10. Section 25.02.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119056, is amended as follows:

 25.02.090 Violation -- Penalties.

 A. Civil Penalties.

 1. Amount of Penalty. A person who commits any of the violations enumerated in this section is subject to a cumulative civil penalty in an amount not to exceed two hundred and fifty ($250) dollars for each day that the violation continues, beginning on the date for compliance established by a notice of violation issued pursuant to this section. ~~The Director shall notify the employer of his intent to impose a civil penalty for violation of this chapter.~~~~

~~2.~~~~Collection of Penalty.

a.If the violation relates to a requirement imposed by a decision of the Director, and that decision has been appealed to the Hearing Examiner pursuant to Section 25.02.080, no action for civil penalties shall be commenced and no civil penalties may be collected or imposed until the appeal has been resolved.~~The Director may not impose a penalty until the completion of the administrative appeal authorized by SMC Section 25.02.080.~~ b.

The penalty imposed by this section shall be collected by civil action brought in the name of the City. The Director shall notify the City Attorney in writing of the name of any employer subject to a penalty, and the City Attorney shall, with the assistance of the Director, take appropriate action to collect the penalty.  3.

Burden of Proof. In any civil action for a penalty, the City shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the violation enumerated in a notice of violation exists or existed. An unappealed decision of the Director or an unappealed decision of the Hearing Examiner finding that a CTR program or report fails to comply with this chapter is conclusive evidence of a violation.

~~2. An affected employer who commits any of the following acts is subject to a civil penalty as a Class I civil infraction pursuant to RCW 7.80.120, as provided herein:~~

B.Violations.  1.

Violations Subject to Civil Penalties.

 a. Failure to comply with the requirements of Section 25.02.040 for initial CTR programs; the requirements of Section 25.02.050 for CTR program reports, or the requirements of Section 25.02.055 for revised CTR programs.~~Failure to prepare and submit a complete CTR program or annual report to the Director within the time period and as prescribed by this chapter. Each day of failure to submit a CTR program or annual report shall constitute a separate violation and is subject to a civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) per day;~~

~~b. Failure to implement an approved CTR program or change an unacceptable CTR program measure after the first goal year, after receiving notice of violation, unless the program elements that are carried out can be shown to meet or exceed VMT and SOV goals as specified in this chapter. Each day of failure to implement an approved CTR program or individual CTR program measure is a separate violation and is subject to civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall not exceed Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) per day and shall be based on the degree of failure to implement;~~

~~c.Failure to make available to the Director any documentation supporting an annual report as required pursuant to subsection B6 of Section 25.02.050. Each day of failure to provide required documentation is a separate violation and is subject to civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) per day;~~

~~d.~~ Failure to make a good faith effort as defined in RCW 70.94.534(2)and this chapter. ~~Each day of failure to make a good faith effort is a separate violation and is subject to civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) per day; or~~

~~e. Failure to revise a CTR program as prescribed in RCW 70.94.53(4) and this chapter. Each day of failure to revise a CTR program is a separate violation and is subject to civil penalty. The penalty for each violation shall be Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) per day.~~

2.~~B.~~Violations Not Subject to Penalties.

a.Violations resulting from~~Pursuant to RCW 70.94.534(4), an employer shall not be liable for civil penalties if a violation was the result of~~ an inability to reach agreement with a certified collective bargaining agent under applicable laws where the issue was raised by an employer and pursued in good faith. A unionized employer shall be presumed to act in good faith if it:

(i)~~1.~~ Proposes to a recognized union any provision of the employer's CTR program that is subject to bargaining as defined by the National Labor Relations Act; and

(ii)~~2.~~ Advises the union that compliance with~~of the existence of the statute and the mandates of~~ the CTR program approved by the City is required by the Washington Clean Air Act (RCW 70.94.521-.555), and advises the union that the proposal being made is necessary for compliance with the CTR program~~state law (RCW 70.94.531)~~.

b.Failure to achieve SOV or VMT reduction goals so long as an affected employer is working in good faith to meet such goals.

C.Notice of Violation.

1.Issuance and Service. If the Director determines that an affected employer has failed to comply with the requirements of this chapter, the Director may issue a notice of violation and send it by first class mail addressed to the affected employer's chief executive officer or highest-ranking official at the worksite.

2.Contents. The notice of violation shall contain:  a.

The name and address of the affected employer;  b.

A statement that the Director has found the affected employer to have committed a violation subject to civil penalty pursuant to this chapter, with a description of the specific requirements found to have been violated.  c.

A statement of the corrective action required to cure the violation and the date by which such action must be taken in order to avoid the imposition of civil penalties by the Director.

3.Legal Effect. The Director may not seek civil penalties pursuant to this section unless a notice of violation has been issued, but the notice of violation is not evidence of the violation in any civil action to collect such penalties.

D.~~C.~~ Criminal Penalties. An employer who submits a report pursuant to this chapter is subject to state and local laws making it a crime to submit false information. ~~These laws include, but are not limited to, RCW 9A.76.020 and SMC Section 12A.16.040.~~D. No major employer may be held liable for failure to reach the applicable SOV or VMT goal.

 Section 11. Section 25.02.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119056, is amended as follows:

 25.02.100 Administration and implementation.

 A. Responsible Agency. The Department is authorized to administer and implement this chapter.  B.

The Director of the Department is authorized to:

1.~~Authority to Promulgate Administrative Rules. The Director is authorized to~~~~promulgate~~Promulgate administrative rules to implement this chapter and to implement the guidelines developed by the Washington CTR Board pursuant to RCW 70.94.537.

2.Develop and recommend to the City Council proposed amendments to the City's CTR plan.

3.Coordinate with other jurisdictions to improve consistency in the development and implementation of CTR plans.

4.Provide technical assistance to affected employers within the City of Seattle to assist them in complying with the requirements of this chapter and to further their SOV and VMT reduction goals.  5.

Implement a CTR plan for City of Seattle employees.  6.

Provide information on the City of Seattle CTR Plan, in addition to reports and other required information, to the state CTR board.  7.

Carry out all functions authorized by this chapter, including but not limited to reviewing affected employer CTR programs and reports and enforcing the requirements of this chapter.

~~B. Peer Review Panel. The Director shall appoint five (5) public and private sector employers to a peer review panel. The peer review panel may consider employer disagreements with preliminary decisions by the Director regarding exemptions, credits, applicability of this chapter to the employer, violations, calculations of affected employees, and approval of the employer's CTR program or changes to the program.~~ C. Appeals Board. The three (3) members of the Appeals Board are a Director of a City Department designated by the Mayor, a member of the Seattle Planning commission designated by the chair of the Planning Commission, and a private sector employer appointed by the City Council. Terms of appointment are two (2) years and members may be reappointed.

 Section 12. Section 25.02.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119056, is repealed.

 Section 13. A new Section 25.02.110 is adopted to read as follows:

25.02.110.Savings Clause.

The amendment or repeal of any section of Chapter 25.02 SMC shall not affect any right or duty accrued or any proceeding commenced under the provisions of such amended or repealed sections which were in existence on the effective date of the amended or repealed sections of chapter 25.02 SMC.

 Section 14. Section 3.02.125 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 122564, is amended as follows:

 3.02.125 Hearing Examiner filing fees.

 A. Filing fees for hearings before the City Hearing Examiner are as follows:

 Basis for Hearing Fee

 Admission Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.40) $50

 Admission Tax, Revocation of Exemption (Sec. 5.40.085) No fee

 Ballard Avenue Landmark District (Ch. 25.16) 50

 Business License Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.45) 50

 Cable Television Ordinance (Ch. 21.60) No fee

 Columbia City Landmark District (Ch. 25.20) 50

 Commercial Parking Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.35) 50

Commute Trip Reduction (CTR) (Ch. 25.02) 50

 Design Decision in Multiple Residence - Mixed

 Density Zone (Ch. 24.38) 50

 Employee Hours Tax (Ch. 5.37) 50

 Fair Employment Practices Ordinance (Ch. 14.04) No fee

 Floating Home Moorages (Ch. 7.20) 50

 /petitioner; maximum fee 150

 Gambling Tax Deficiency (Ch. 5.52). 50

 Grading Ordinance (Title 22, Subtitle VIII) 50

 Harvard/Belmont Landmark District (Ch. 25.22) 50

 Housing Code (Ch. 22.206) 50

 Land Use Code Enforcement (Ch. 23.90) 50

 Landmark Preservation Controls and Incentives

 (Sec. 25.12.530) No fee

 Landmarks Preservation (Sec. 25.12.740 and Sec. 25.12.835) 50

 License Code (Title 6, Subtitle I) 50

 Master Use Permit (Ch. 23.76) 50

 Noise Ordinance (Ch. 25.08) 50

 Open Housing Ordinance (Ch. 14.08) No fee

 Pike Place Market Historical District (Ch. 25.24) 50

 Pioneer Square Minimum Maintenance Ordinance

 (Ch. 25.28, Subchapter II) 50

 Planned Unit Development (Ch. 24.66) 50

 Plumbing Code

 (Ch. 20.16, Uniform Plumbing Code, Ord. 116594) 50

 Property Tax Exemption, Cancellation of Exemption (Ch. 5.72) 50

 Radiofrequency Radiation Ordinance (Ch. 25.10) 50

 Refund Anticipation Loan (Ch. 7.26) 5

 Relocation Assistance (Ch. 20.84) No fee

 Seizure of Property; Controlled Substances

 (RCW 69.50.505(e No fee

 Special Review Districts (Ch. 23.66) 50

 Square Footage Tax (Ch. 5.46) 50

 State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA)

 (when not a Master Use Permit component) (Ch. 25.04) 50

 Utility tax (Ch. 5.48) 50

 Zoning Map Amendments (Rezones)(Ch. 23.34) No fee

 Zoning Rulings and Interpretations (Ch. 23.88) 50

 B. Filing fees are nonrefundable unless otherwise provided in this Code. The City Hearing Examiner may waive a fee if its assessment will cause financial hardship to the appellant.

 C. There is no fee for hearing appeals from an administrative assessment or an order under Sections 6.212.280 and 6.212.290.

 Section 15. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

[Attachment A: 2008 City of Seattle COMMUTE TRIP REDUCTION (CTR) BASIC PLAN](/~ordpics/116332_ata.pdf)

 Attachment A is a 4,411 KB PDF document, requiring Adobe Acrobat or equivalent program to view.

 Kathleen Anderson: ka

 SDOT Commute Trip Reduction 2008 ORD

 July 14, 2008

 V #9a

 7

```
