

********

**Council Bill Number: 116353**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122844**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the solid waste system of Seattle Public Utilities; providing for compostable waste collection; revising rates and charges for solid waste services; revising credits to low income customers for solid waste services; and amending Chapters 21.36, 21.40, and 21.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 24, 2008
   
**Vote:** 7-2 (No: Harrell, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 4, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 2, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Originally referred to EEMU on 9/22/08

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 10, 2008
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** UTILITY-RATES, RECYCLING, SOLID-WASTE, SOLID-WASTE-DISPOSAL

**Fiscal Note:**116353

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122844](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122844.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the solid waste system of Seattle Public Utilities; providing for compostable waste collection; revising rates and charges for solid waste services; revising credits to low income customers for solid waste services; and amending Chapters 21.36, 21.40, and 21.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 WHEREAS, the City last modified solid waste rates and charges January 1, 2008; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 30990 outlines actions to be taken to upgrade City facilities, achieve waste-reduction goals, and efficiently manage solid waste; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 122653 authorized the Director of Seattle Public Utilities to enter into contracts with Waste Management of Washington, Inc. and CleanScapes, Inc. to provide solid waste collection and transfer services in the City of Seattle beginning on March 30, 2009; and

 WHEREAS, operating costs and capital spending are expected to increase as a result of the new contracts, facility upgrades and waste reduction programs, increasing the revenue requirements of the Solid Waste Fund; and

 WHEREAS, the solid waste rates authorized by this ordinance are consistent with the general ratemaking policies set forth in Resolution 30695 and are intended to generate sufficient revenue to meet the expected increase in revenue requirements; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 21.36.085 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.36.085 ~~Yardwaste~~Compostable waste programs.

 Yardwaste shall not be mixed with garbage, refuse or rubbish for disposal.

 A. Curbside ~~Yardwaste~~Compostable Waste Collection. ~~Yardwaste~~Compostable waste for collection under the City's curbside program shall be set apart from refuse for pickup in a manner that is readily identifiable by the collectors. ~~Yardwaste~~Compostable waste shall be defined as set forth in Section 21.36.012~~6~~, except that ~~yardwaste~~compostable waste for curbside collection shall not include wood or tree limbs over four (4) feet long. Only ~~yardwaste~~compostable waste generated at the dwelling unit shall be collected at curbside.

 B. Transfer Station Yardwaste. All yardwaste delivered to the City's transfer stations shall be separated from garbage, refuse and rubbish and deposited in an area designated for yardwaste. Yardwaste shall be defined as set forth in Section 21.36.016, except that yardwaste delivered to the transfer station shall not include wood or tree limbs over eight (8) feet long.

 C. Plastic Bags and ~~Yardwaste~~Compostable Waste.~~Yardwaste~~Compostable waste shall not be setout at the curb for collection in plastic bags nor shall plastic bags containing yardwaste be deposited in transfer station yardwaste collection areas or transfer trailers.

 Section 2. Section 21.36.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.36.012 Definitions C- E.

 * * * * * * *

 25. "Electronics" means household batteries, televisions, computer equipment, radios, calculators, video and audio equipment,  phones, cameras, and similar electronic devices which contain circuit boards. Electronics are further defined as "hand-held" Electronics, which are Electronics that are held in the hand such as phones, cameras, hand-held music players, etc; "screened" Electronics, which are Electronics with screens such as TV's, computer monitors, etc.; and "other" Electronics which are Electronics that are not held-held or screened, such as CPU's, keyboards, table radios, DVD players, etc. Electronics do not include speakers, small appliances or other household products.

 26.

"Energy Recovery" means the recovery of energy in a useable form from mass burning or refuse-derived fuel incineration, pyrolysis or any other means of using the heat of combustion of solid waste that involves high temperature (above twelve hundred degrees Fahrenheit) processing.

 Section 3. Section 21.40.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.050 Residential can rates and charges.

 A. ~~There is imposed upon all residences and other dwelling units within the City a c~~Charges for residential can  garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service shall be in accordance with the following~~~~schedules~~, and the amounts stated below shall be charged for optional services~~:

 1. All residences with curbside/alley garbage container pickup: a charge per month or portion thereof, ~~for each dwelling unit~~ for once-a-week service for each service unit subscribed to, billed directly to the owner, homeowner association, or occupant thereof as follows:

~~Effective~~ Effective Effective Effective~~Through~~throughMarch 30, January 1,~~December 31,~~~~January 1,~~2009 2010~~2007~~~~2008~~March 29, 2009

 Service Units ~~Rates per~~ Rates per Rates per Rates per~~Service Unit~~ Service Unit Service Service UnitUnit

 Micro-can (12~~$10.35~~ $11.05 $14.05 $15.65gallon)

 Mini-can (20~~$12.70~~ $13.55 $17.15 $19.15gallon)

~~Garbage~~~~$16.55~~ $17.65  $22.30 $24.85 32 gallon can

 60 to 65 gallon ~~$33.10~~ $35.30  $44.60 $49.70 cart

 90 to 96 gallon ~~$49.65~~ $53.00  $66.90 $74.55 cart

 2. All residences with backyard garbage container pickup: a charge per month or portion thereof, ~~for each dwelling unit~~ for once-a-week service for each service unit subscribed to, billed directly to the owner, homeowners association, or occupant as follows:

~~Effective~~ Effective Effective Effective~~Through~~throughMarch 30, January 1,~~December 31,~~~~January 1,~~2009 2010~~2007~~~~2008~~March 29, 2009

 Service Units ~~Rates per~~ Rates per Rates per Rates per~~Service Unit~~ Service Unit Service Service UnitUnit

~~Garbage $23.15~~ $24.70 $31.20 $34.8032 gallon can

 60 to 65 gallon ~~$46.30~~ $49.40  $62.45 $69.60 cart

 90 to 96 gallon ~~$69.45~~ $74.10  $93.65 $104.40 cart

3. Multiunit residential consolidated curbside/alley garbage collection service. Effective through March 29, 2009, a charge for at least one service unit will be imposed on each dwelling unit in a residence with two or more dwelling units, per the pricing schedule set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection. A service unit is one can of any size. Effective March 30, 2009, multiunit residences with a single combined utility account may consolidate garbage into fewer service units than the number of dwelling units on the premise. In the event of consolidation, an additional consolidation charge, equal to the minimum charge set forth in paragraph 4 of this subsection, will be applied for each dwelling unit in excess of the number of service units. Upon request, multiunit residences with multiple combined utility accounts, such as townhouse complexes, may consolidate garbage service if such premises share a single water irrigation meter for which a homeowners association is financially responsible. In this case, collection service charges, per paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection, plus the applicable consolidation charges described in this paragraph, will be applied to the water irrigation account.

~~3~~4. Minimum Charge, No Pickup Service.

~~Effective through December 31, 2007, a charge per month or portion thereof, for each dwelling unit, including single-family dwellings not being used as residences, billed directly to the owner or occupant of Six Dollars and Forty Cents ($6.40) to cover landfill closure costs, billing, collection, Low Income Rate Assistance, and hazardous waste costs.~~ Effective January 1, 2008, a charge per month or portion thereof ~~,~~~~for each dwelling unit, including single-family dwellings not being used as residences, billed directly to the owner or occupant~~ of Six Dollars and Eighty-five Cents ($6.85) shall be billed directly to the owner, homeowners association, or occupant, of any residence not subscribing to pick-up service to cover landfill closure costs, billing, collection, Low Income Rate Assistance, and hazardous waste costs. To be eligible for the minimum charge (zero (0) container rate) a customer may not generate any garbage or rubbish for collection or disposal. With occupied premises, the customer must demonstrate a consistent and effective practice of selective purchasing to minimize refuse, of recycling materials whenever practical, and of composting any yardwaste~~s~~ generated on the premises and the customer must have qualified for the rate on or before December 31, 1988. A customer is not eligible for the zero (0) container rate by hauling his or her garbage and rubbish to a transfer station, disposal site, or by disposal in another customer's containers or by the use of prepaid stickers. Vacant dwelling units in multiunit residences where each dwelling unit receives a separate combined utility bill qualify for the minimum charge where the conditions of this paragraph are met. Vacant ~~multifamily~~dwelling units in multiunit residences with a single combined utility account do not qualify for the minimum charge, except after March 29, 2009, where a consolidation charge is applicable per the provisions of paragraph 3 of this subsection.

~~4~~5. Extra Bundles. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, a charge of Five Dollars and Sixty Cents ($5.60) for a bundle. Effective January 1, 2008 a charge of Six Dollars ($6.00) for a bundle.~~ A customer may place an extra bundle with its container for regular pickup. The charge will be billed directly to the owner or occupant, unless a prepaid sticker is used. A prepaid sticker authorizes pickup of the bundle when placed with the customer's container. The sticker must be affixed to the bundle in order for the bundle to be picked up by the collector, and the customer not to be billed. The following charges will apply to each extra bundle:  Effective through March 29, 2009: $6.00 per bundle Effective March 30, 2009: $7.60 per bundle

~~5~~6. Bulky and White Goods Pickup. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, a charge of Twenty Dollars ($20.00) for each item plus an additional charge of Six Dollars ($6.00) per item for items containing hazardous waste such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Effective January 1, 2008, a charge of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) for each item plus an additional charge of Six Dollars ($6.00) per ite~~~~m~~ Charges for the pickup of bulky and white goods, as well as additional charges for items containing hazardous waste such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)~~.~~, shall be billed as follows:

Effective through March 29, 2009 Effective March 30, 2009 Bulky/White Goods Pickup (per item) $25.00 $30.00 Hazardous Waste Charge (per item) $6.00 $8.00

7. Curbside Electronics Recycling Pickup. Effective March 30, 2009, curbside electronics pickup service will be available by customer request to all residential can accounts. The Director shall establish appropriate charges per pickup and the maximum number and size of items to be collected.

~~6~~8. Curbside/Alley Compostable Waste~~Yardwaste~~. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, a charge per month or portion thereof for each residence, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of Five Dollars ($5.00) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste per collection plus an additional charge of One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection~~~~.~~ Effective through March 29, 2009,~~January 1, 2008~~~~,~~ a charge per month or portion thereof for each residence, billed directly to the owner, homeowners association, or occupant, of Five Dollars and Thirty-five Cents ($5.35) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste and other compostable waste per collection plus an additional charge of One Dollar and Sixty Cents ($1.60) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste , or other compostable waste, beyond four (4) per collection. Through March 29, 2009, ~~T~~to receive this service, a customer must be signed up with the Seattle Public Utilities for a minimum of twelve (12) months' service and place his or her ~~yardwaste~~compostable waste at the curbside/alley for collection on the scheduled date. Effective March 30, 2009, a collection charge for weekly service will be billed monthly directly to the owner, homeowners association, or occupant, according to the following schedule:

Effective March 30, 2009 Effective January 1, 2010 Service Units Rates per Service Unit Rates per Service Unit Mini can (10 to 20 gallon) $3.60 $4.10 32 gallon can $5.40 $6.10 92 gallon can $6.90 $7.85 Extra bundle $2.95 $3.90

 9. Mandatory Curbside/Alley Compostable Waste Service and Exemptions. Effective March 30, 2009, curbside/alley compostable waste service will be mandatory for all residential solid waste can accounts, except customers who do not require curbside collection of yardwaste and who actively compost all vegetative foodwaste on-site, and customers with no garbage pick-up service, per the provisions of paragraph 4 of this subsection. To qualify for the home composting exemption, customers must agree to comply with public and environmental health guidelines and allow Seattle Public Utility representatives to evaluate their composting methods.

~~7~~10. New/Changed Account. A charge of Ten Dollars ($10.00) for the establishment of a new account or for each change in an existing account. This charge shall apply when the owner or property manager of any single-family residence or multifamily structure (duplex, triplex, fourplex, or structure with five (5) or more units) establishes a new account or requests any change in his/her account requiring a change in account number or customer number. The new/changed account charge is not applicable to customers qualified for Low Income Rate Assistance.

~~8~~11. Physical Disability Exemption. An exemption will be provided to qualified residents to allow for backyard collection at curbside rates when the resident is physically unable to take his or her garbage and rubbish containers to the curb. Qualifying criteria shall include, but are not limited to, the resident's physical condition, qualification for backyard service in other City programs, a physician's recommendation, the presence of other physically capable persons in the household, special topography and other unique property conditions, taking into account the contractors' ability to provide different combinations of container sizes to make curbside pickup feasible.

 B. Effective through March 29, 2009, ~~T~~the City shall calculate the charge for each dwelling unit within apartment houses and apartment hotels and for each resident within boarding, rooming, fraternity, sorority and group student houses for two (2) times a week service, billed directly to the owner or agent

 for the entire building, by doubling the applicable garbage container rates in subsection A1 of this section and reducing this calculated amount by Three Dollars and Sixty-five Cents ($3.65) per unit to adjust for billing, collection, hazardous waste, and litter cleanup costs that occur only once a month.

 C. All Residential Customers Requesting and Receiving Nondetachable Container (Can) Special, Nonroutine Collection Service for Garbage, Yardwaste, or Recyclable Materials. The following charges shall apply to special collections of all nondetachable containers (cans), bundles or bundles-of-yardwaste: ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, a per-pickup charge of Twenty-four Dollars ($24) for first unit collected plus Two Dollars and Fifty Cents ($2.50) for each additional unit. Effective January 1, 2008, a per-pickup charge of Twenty-six Dollars ($26.00) for first unit collected plus Two Dollars and Sixty-five Cents ($2.65) for each additional unit~~~~.~~

Effective through Effective March 29, 2009 March 30, 2009 First unit $26.00 $34.45 Each additional unit $2.65 $3.70

D. Ancillary and Elective (A&E) Service Charges. The following charges shall apply to residential can customers receiving any of the A&E Services listed in the table below.

Type of Service Effective Effective March 30, 2009 January 1, 2010 Deliveries/Pick-Ups/Swap-outs: Can/Toter $18.20 $20.25 Container Special Services:  Can/Cart Pressure Washing $7.40 $8.30

~~D~~E. The charges imposed by subsections A1 through A~~3~~4 of this section inclusive shall not apply to ~~dwelling units~~residences which elect to use detachable containers supplied either by the City's contractor or by the customer for the storage of garbage and rubbish. Application for detachable container service for a minimum period of six (6) months shall be made to the Director of Seattle Public Utilities on forms supplied by him/her, and collection of garbage and rubbish from such premises shall be made at such frequency as is necessary as determined by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, but in no event less than once each week. The monthly charges for detachable container service for the container and frequency selected shall be in accordance with the rates set forth in Section 21.40.060.

~~E~~F. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities may adjust the service level to a single-family residence to match the garbage and rubbish actually collected from the premises, or, for multifamily structures, to match the amount of garbage and rubbish reasonably anticipated from the dwelling units on the premises.

 Section 4. Section 21.40.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.060 Residential detachable container rates and charges.

A. Account charges. Effective March 30, 2009, a fixed fee will be charged to each residential detachable container solid waste account, according to the following schedule.  Effective March 30, 2009: $26.55 per account per month

~~A~~B. Uncompacted container rates~~Rates~~. There is imposed upon residential premises that use detachable containers without mechanical compactors a monthly charge for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service in accordance with the following applicable formulas:

~~1. Effective Through December 31, 2007: ($9.65 + $19.05f + $29.75fn + $46.65fns +$0.60d)~~

~~2~~1. Effective through March 29, 2009~~January 1, 2008~~: ($10.30+ $20.35f + $31.75fn + $49.80fns +$0.65d) where: n = number of containers served; f = number of pickups per week; s = size of container in cubic yards; and d = number of dwelling units.

2. Effective March 30, 2009, the charge for each container will be calculated in accordance with the following formula:  (A*m) + B*cy)*m), where A = Trip rate B = Volume rate

 m = number of pick-ups per month cy = number of cubic yards picked up at each collection

 The following trip and volume rates will apply.

Effective March 30, 2009Effective January 1, 2010Trip Rate$16.75$20.55Volume Rate$15.75$15.75

~~B~~C. Compacted container rates~~Rates~~. There is imposed upon residential premises that use detachable containers with compactors a monthly charge for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal service in accordance with the following formulas:

~~1. Effective Through December 31, 2007: ($9.65 + $19.05f + $29.75fn + $113.83fns +$0.60d)~~

~~2.~~1. Effective through March 29, 2009~~January 1, 2008~~: ($10.30 + $20.35f + $31.75fn + $121.45fns +$0.65d) where: n = number of containers served; f = number of pickups per week; and s = size of container in cubic yards; and d = number of dwelling units.

2. Effective March 30, 2009, the charge for each container will be calculated in accordance with the following formula:  (A*m) + B*cy)*m), where A = Trip rate B = Volume rate m = number of pick-ups per month cy = number of cubic yards picked up at each collection

 The following trip and volume rates will apply.

Effective March 30, 2009Effective January 1, 2010Trip Rate$16.75$20.55Volume Rate$31.95$31.95

D. Pre-Paid Bag Service. Effective March 30, 2009, customers located in specific areas designated by Seattle Public Utilities, and who permanently store garbage containers in the right- of-way, will be required to subscribe to pre-paid bag service, in lieu of detachable container service, for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal, subject to the following charges:

Effective March 30, 200915 gallon bag$3.50 per bag30 gallon bag$5.00 per bag

Compostable waste bag rates for pre-paid bag service shall be thirty-two (32) percent less than the corresponding rates above for garbage service. Recycling bags shall be provided free of charge. Yardwaste shall not be mixed with garbage, refuse or rubbish for disposal.

~~C~~E. Mixed-use Building. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities will determine the appropriate residential collection service level for a mixed-use building according to the estimated amount of residential garbage or refuse generated and to be collected by the City.

~~D~~F. Charges for Lockable Containers. Customers using detachable containers (compacted or noncompacted) may have a lock installed by the collection contractors, subject to the following charges. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, a fee of Fifty-three Dollars and Forty Cents ($53.40) will be assessed for installation of the lock. Additional keys are Three Dollars and Sixty Cents ($3.60) and an extra padlock is Eight Dollars and Thirty Cents ($8.30 ). Effective January 1, 2008, a fee of Fifty-seven Dollars ($57.00) will be assessed for installation of the lock. Additional keys are Three Dollars and Eighty-five Cents ($3.85) and an extra padlock is Eight Dollars and Eighty-five Cents ($8.85).~~ Only customers who own their own containers may install their own locks.

Effective Effective Effective through March 30, 2009 January 1, March 29, 2009 2010Lock installation$57.00$68.90$75.35Extra key $3.85$4.90$5.40Extra padlock$8.85$9.85$10.75

~~E~~G. All Residential Customers Receiving Detachable Container Special, Nonroutine Collection Service for Garbage, ~~Yardwaste~~Compostable Waste, or Recycling Materials. The following charges shall apply to special collections of all detachable containers or bundles of garbage, ~~yardwaste~~compostable waste or recycling materials~~:~~. These charges shall be in addition to any charges applicable to regular solid waste collection and disposal service.

~~Effective Through December 31, 2007~~

~~Detachable Container Size Uncompacted Service Compacted Service~~~~3/4 cubic yards First container $38.75 $50.40 Each Additional $12.05 $23.70~~~~1 cubic yards First container $41.45 $14.75 Each Additional $56.95 $30.30~~~~1.5 cubic yards First container $47.50 $20.80 Each Additional $70.75 $44.10~~~~2 cubic yards First container $62.25 $35.55 Each Additional $93.25 $66.55~~~~3 cubic yards First container $74.35 $47.65 Each Additional $120.90 $94.20~~~~4 cubic yards First container $86.45 $59.75 Each Additional $148.50 $121.80~~~~6 cubic yards First container $109.30 $82.65 Each $202.40 $175.70~~~~8 cubic yards First container $132.85 $106.20 Each Additional $257.00 $230.30~~~~10 cubic yards First container $267.80 $241.10 Each Additional $422.95 $396.25~~~~20 cubic yards First container $375.50 $348.85 Each Additional $685.80 $659.15~~

 Effective through March 29, 2009~~January 1, 2008~~

 Detachable Container Uncompacted Service Compacted Service Size

 3/4 cubic yards - First container $41.35 $53.80 - Each Additional $12.85 $25.30

 1 cubic yards - First container $44.25 $60.75 - Each Additional $15.75 $32.35

 1.5 cubic yards - First container $50.70 $75.50 - Each Additional $22.20 $47.05

 2 cubic yards - First container $66.40 $99.50 - Each Additional $37.95 $71.00

 3 cubic yards - First container $79.35 $129.00 - Each Additional $50.85 $100.50

 4 cubic yards - First container $92.25 $158.45 - Each Additional $63.75 $129.95

 6 cubic yards - First container $116.60 $215.95 - Each Additional $88.20 $187.45

 8 cubic yards - First container $141.75 $274.20 - Each Additional $113.30 $245.75

 10 cubic yards - First container $285.75 $451.30 - Each Additional $257.25 $422.80

 20 cubic yards - First container $400.65 $731.75 - Each Additional $372.20 $703.30

Effective March 30, 2009  Detachable Container Uncompacted Service Compacted Service Size

 3/4 cubic yards $41.35 $53.80

 1 cubic yards $44.25 $60.75

 1.5 cubic yards $50.70 $75.50

 2 cubic yards $66.40 $99.50

 3 cubic yards $79.35 $129.00

 4 cubic yards $92.25 $158.45

 6 cubic yards $116.60 $215.95

 8 cubic yards $141.75 $274.20

 10 cubic yards $285.75 $451.30

 20 cubic yards $400.65 $731.75

Effective March 30, 2009, additional containers will be charged at the same rate as the first container.

~~F~~H. Extra Bundles of Garbage. A customer may place extra bundles of garbage with its container for regular pickup. Extra bundles of garbage will be billed in quarter yard increments as follows:

~~Effective Through~~ Effective Effective MarchEffective~~December 31, 2007~~through March 29,30, 2009January20092010~~January 1, 2008~~

 1/4 yard = ~~$5.60~~ $6.00 $7.40$8.05 1/2 yard = ~~$16.80~~ $17.95 $22.10$24.15 3/4 yard = ~~$22.40~~ $23.90 $29.35$32.15 1 yard = ~~$33.60~~ $35.85 $44.10$48.25

 The charge will be billed directly to the owner or occupant.

~~G~~I. Bulky and White Goods Pickup. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, a charge of Twenty Dollars ($20) for each item plus an additional charge of Six Dollars ($6.00) per item for items containing hazardous waste such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Effective January 1, 2008, a charge of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) for each item plus an additional charge of Six Dollars ($6) per ite~~~~m~~Charges for the pickup of bulky and white goods, as well as additional charges for items containing hazardous waste such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)~~.~~, shall be billed as follows:

Effective throughEffectiveMarch 29, 2009March 30, 2009

Bulky/White Goods Pickup (per item) $25.00$30.00Hazardous Waste Charge (per item)$6.00$8.00

J. Curbside Electronics Recycling Pickup. Effective March 30, 2009, curbside electronics pickup service will be available by customer request to residential detachable container accounts, with approval by the applicable solid waste account owner or designee. The Director shall establish appropriate charges per pickup and the maximum number and size of items to be collected.

~~H. Curbside/Alley Yardwaste. Effective through December 31, 2007, a charge per month or portion thereof for each residence of Five Dollars ($5.00) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste per collection plus an additional charge of One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. Effective January 1, 2008, a charge per month or portion thereof for each residence of Five Dollars and Thirty-five Cents ($5.35) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste per collection plus an additional charge of One Dollar and Sixty Cents ($1.60) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. To receive this service, a customer must be signed up with the Seattle Public Utilities for a minimum of twelve (12) months' service and place his or her yardwaste at the curbside/alley for collection on the scheduled date.~~

K. Effective through March 29, 2009, residential detachable container customers may subscribe to residential can curbside/alley compostable waste collection service per the terms of SMC 21.40.050.A.7. Effective March 30, 2009, residential detachable container customers who are not required to subscribe to pre-paid bag garbage service have the option to subscribe to either residential can curbside/alley compostable waste collection service per the terms of SMC 21.40.050.A.7 or commercial compostable waste collection service per the terms of SMC 21.40.070. Customers who are required to subscribe to pre-paid bag garbage service have the option to subscribe to either one or more residential can curbside/alley compostable waste collection services per the terms of SMC 21.40.050.A.7 or pre-paid bag compostable waste collection service per the terms of SMC 21.40.060.D. Detachable container customers are not subject to the provisions of SMC 21.40.050.A.8, which requires mandatory curbside/alley compostable waste service as of March 30, 2009.  L. Ancillary and Elective (A&E) Service Charges. The following charges shall apply to residential detachable container customers receiving any of the A&E Services listed in the table below.

Type of Service Effective Effective March 30, January 2009 1, 2010  Deliveries/Pick-Ups/Swap-outs:

 Can/Toter $18.20 $20.25

 Detachable Container $21.85 $24.30

 Drop Box 2-8 CY $29.10 $32.45

 Drop Box 10-40 CY $45.51 $50.70

 Pickup Ancillary Services:

 Can/Cart Roll out (>100 fit or up/down stairs) $1.80 $2.00

 Roll Out, Container ( Reposition, Container >2 CY $5.45 $6.00

 Entering Secured Buildings $3.65 $4.05

 Container Special Services:

 Detachable Container Washing and Steam $27. 30 $30.45 Cleaning, per container

 Drop Box Washing and Steam Cleaning, per Drop $36.40 $40.55 Box

 Can/Cart Pressure Washing $7.30 $8.10

 Compactor/Drop Box Special Services:

 Compactor Disconnect/Reconnect Cycle $30.95 $34.45

 Dry Run $63.70 $70.95

 Other Ancillary Services:

 Hourly Paid Special, Truck and Driver $163.85 $182.50

 Hourly Paid Special, Swamper $54.60 $60.80

 Section 5. Section 21.40.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.070 Commercial collection rates and charges.

 A. Primary and Secondary Service Territories Established. The City hereby establishes two (2) primary service territories for commercial solid waste collection in the City, bordered by Royal Brougham to 4th Avenue to Dearborn, Dearborn to I-5, I-5, I-5 to Jackson, Jackson to Lake Washington. The City shall designate by ordinance one (1) contract collector of commercial solid waste to be the provider of primary services in each territory, and another collector to be the secondary service provider. Rates and charges for services provided by a primary service provider and a secondary service provider shall be according to the schedules in subsection B. The service areas established in this subsection and all related rates and charges will remain in effect through March 29, 2009.

B. ~~Primary and Secondary~~ Commercial Solid Waste Service Rates and Charges. There is imposed upon all commercial establishments in the City receiving container or drop service from one of the City's contract collectors of commercial solid waste or one of the City's contract collectors of commercial compostable waste the following schedule of rates and charges:

1. Account charges. Effective March 30, 2009, in addition to any fees for service charged to commercial establishments, per the provisions of this Subsection B, a fixed fee will be charged to each commercial solid waste account, according to the following schedule.  Effective March 30, 2009: $14.75 per account per month

 Effective January 1, 2010: $19.55 per account per month

~~1~~2. Container Service Rates. The following charges shall apply to commercial establishments receiving ~~primary~~ container service for solid waste. ~~Customers receiving secondary container service for solid waste shall pay twenty (20) percent more than the corresponding rate for primary container service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent and related taxes all multiplied by 1.2). Effective through December 31, 2007, customers receiving primary or secondary container service for compostable waste shall pay twenty (20) percent less than the corresponding rate for primary container service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent multiplied by 0.80). Effective January 1, 2008, customers receiving primary or secondary container service for c~~Compostable waste container service rates shall ~~pay~~be thirty-two (32) percent less than the corresponding rate for primary container service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent multiplied by 0.68), plus any applicable taxes. Commercial container service customers may subscribe to one or more residential can curbside/alley compostable waste collection services per the terms of SMC 21.40.050.A.7.

Effective through March 29, 2009, customers receiving commercial primary container service will be charged according to the following schedules, and customers receiving secondary container service shall pay twenty (20) percent more than the corresponding rate for primary container service (the basic service charge, including container rent and related taxes, multiplied by 1.2), except for compostable waste, which will be subject to the primary container service rate.

~~Container Service Non-Compacted Material Effective Through December 31, 2007~~

~~SIZE OR TYPE OF CONTAINER~~SERVICE 60 90 1 Yd 1.5 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd TYPE Gal Gal. Yd Toter Toter

 Permanent Account

 First $7.00 $8.30 $18.40 $26.20 $31.95 $44.80 $57.80 $70.95 $79.05 $100.20 Pickup

 Ea. $7.00 $8.30 $18.40 $26.20 $31.95 $44.80 $57.80 $70.95 $79.05 $100.20 Add'l Pickup

 Special $8.70 $9.75 $27.85 $34.90 $41.45 $54.75 $68.05 $79.05 $89.95 $112.20 Pickups

 Monthly $1.80 $1.80 $4.85 $7.05 $9.10 $11.30 $12.90 $17.75 $19.85 $22.55 Rent

 Flat $30.30 $35.85 $80.65 $113.70 $138.65 $194.15 $250.35 $307.35 $342.70 $434.30 Monthly Pickup Charge*

 Temporary Account

 Initial $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 $13.20 Delivery

 Pickup $27.85 $34.90 $41.45 $54.75 $68.05 $79.05 $89.95 $112.20 Rate

 Rent Per $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 $3.25 Calendar Day

Primary Container Service Non-Compacted Material ~~Effective January 1, 2008~~

 SIZE OR TYPE OF CONTAINER

 SERVICE 60 90 1 Yd 1.5 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd TYPE Gal Gal. Yd Toter Toter

 Permanent Account

 First $8.75 $10.35 $23.00 $32.70 $39.90 $55.95 $72.20 $88.60 $98.75 $125.15 Pickup

 Ea. $8.75 $10.35 $23.00 $32.70 $39.90 $55.95 $72.20 $88.60 $98.75 $125.15 Add'l Pickup

 Special $10.85 $12.20 $34.80 $43.60 $51.75 $68.40 $85.00 $98.75 $112.35 $140.15 Pickups

 Monthly $2.35 $2.35 $6.35 $9.25 $11.95 $14.85 $16.95 $23.30 $26.05 $29.60 Rent

 Flat $37.85 $44.80 $100.75 $142.00 $173.15 $242.50 $312.70 $383.90 $428.05 $542.45 Monthly Pickup Charge*

 Temporary Account

 Initial $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 $16.50 Delivery

 Pickup $34.80 $43.60 $51.75 $68.40 $85.00 $98.75 $112.35 $140.1 Rate 5

 Rent Per $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 $4.25 Calendar Day

~~Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 2 Ratio Effective Through December 31, 2007~~Size or Type of Container Service Type 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $37.15 $57.45 $83.65 $109.75 $135.75 $162.15 $216.15

 Ea. Add'l Pickup $37.15 $57.45 $83.65 $109.75 $135.75 $162.15 $216.15

 Special Pickups $47.10 $67.15 $93.95 $120.30 $145.55 $173.30 $231.05

 Monthly Rent $15.05 $30.05 $33.30 $37.55 $40.80 $45.00 $60.00

 Flat Monthly Pickup $160.80 $249.10 $362.50 $475.47 $588.50 $702.40 $936.60 Charge*

Primary Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 2 Ratio ~~Effective January 1, 2008~~

 Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $46.40 $71.75 $104.50 $137.10 $169.55 $202.55 $269.95

 Ea. Add'l $46.40 $71.75 $104.50 $137.10 $169.55 $202.55 $269.95 Pickup

 Special $58.85 $83.85 $117.35 $150.25 $181.80 $216.45 $288.60 Pickups

 Monthly Rent $19.75 $39.45 $43.70 $49.30 $53.55 $59.10 $78.75

 Flat Monthly $200.85 $311.15 $452.75 $593.85 $735.05 $877.30 $1,169.80 Pickup Charge*

~~Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 5 Ratio Effective December 31, 2007~~Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $53.20 $90.15 $128.80 $167.50 $208.50 $254.50 $339.35

 Ea. Add'l Pickup $53.20 $90.15 $128.80 $167.50 $208.50 $254.50 $339.35

 Special Pickups $59.60 $96.95 $135.80 $174.75 $215.45 $262.45 $349.95

 Monthly Rent $16.20 $32.50 $34.40 $40.60 $44.25 $48.75 $65.00

 Flat Monthly Pickup $230.55 $390.75 $558.20 $725.55 $903.20 $1,102.85 $1,470.55 Charge*

Primary Container Service Compacted Material, 1 to 5 Ratio ~~Effective January 1, 2008~~

 Size or Type of Container

 Service Type

 1 Yd 2 Yd 3 Yd 4 Yd 5 Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $66.45 $112.60 $160.85 $209.20 $260.40 $317.85 $423.85

 Ea. Add'l Pickup $66.45 $112.60 $160.85 $209.20 $260.40 $317.85 $423.85

 Special Pickups $74.45 $121.10 $169.60 $218.25 $269.10 $327.80 $437.10

 Monthly Rent $21.25 $42.65 $45.15 $53.30 $58.10 $64.00 $85.35

 Flat Monthly Pickup $287.95 $488.05 $697.20 $906.20 $1,128.10 $1,377.45 $1,836.70 Charge*

 * "Flat monthly pickup" rate schedules exclude rental rates.

Effective March 30, 2009, the charge for each detachable container will be calculated in accordance with the following formula:  (A*m) + B*cy)*m), where A = Trip rate B = Volume rate m = number of pick-ups per month cy = number of cubic yards picked up at each collection

 The following trip and volume rates will apply for uncompacted material:

Effective March 30, 2009 Effective January 1, 2010 Trip Rate $9.85 $12.70 Volume Rate $21.15 $21.55

The following trip and volume rates will apply for compacted material:

Effective March 30, 2009 Effective January 1, 2010 Trip Rate $9.85 $12.70 Volume Rate $42.95 $43.75

 3. Pre-Paid Bag Service. Effective March 30, 2009, customers located in specific areas designated by Seattle Public Utilities, and who permanently store garbage containers in the right-of-way, will be required to subscribe to pre-paid bag service, in lieu of detachable container service, for garbage and rubbish collection and disposal, subject to the following charges:

Effective March 30, 200915 gallon bag$3.50 per bag30 gallon bag$5.00 per bag

Customers required to subscribe to pre-paid bag garbage service may also subscribe to either residential can curbside/alley compostable waste collection service per the terms of SMC 21.40.050.A.7 or pre-paid bag compostable waste collection service, at rates which shall be thirty-two (32) percent less than the rates specified above for pre-paid bag garbage collection. Yardwaste shall not be mixed with garbage, refuse or rubbish for disposal. Compostable waste service is optional.  4. Special Container Pick-up Charges. Effective March 30, 2009, the following charges shall apply to special collections of all detachable containers of garbage and compostable waste. These charges shall be in addition to any charges applicable to regular solid waste collection and disposal service.

Effective March 30, 2009

Detachable Container Size Uncompacted Service Compacted Service3/4 cubic yards $41.35$53.801 cubic yards $44.25$60.751.5 cubic yards$50.70$75.502 cubic yards$66.40$99.503 cubic yards$79.35$129.004 cubic yards$92.25$158.456 cubic yards$116.60$215.958 cubic yards$141.75$274.2010 cubic yards$285.75$451.3020 cubic yards$400.65$731.75

~~*~~5. Can-unit Pickup Rates. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, customers receiving regularly scheduled can-unit pickup service for one (1) or more cans will be charged Three Dollars and Twenty-five Cents ($3.25) per can pickup, with a minimum monthly charge of Twenty-one Dollars and Thirty Cents ($21.30). When a set number of units are serviced each week, the customer may be billed at a flat rate equal to four and one-third (4 1/3) times the applicable unit rate, subject to the same Twenty-one Dollars and Thirty Cents ($21.30) minimum monthly charge. Effective January 1, 2008,~~~~c~~Customers receiving regularly scheduled can-unit pickup service for one (1) or more cans will be charged according to the following schedule:~~Four Dollars and Five Cents ($4.05) per can pickup, with a minimum monthly charge of Twenty- six Dollars and Sixty Cents ($26.60).~~

 Effective through Effective March Effective March 29, 2009 30, 2009 January 1, 2010  Per can-unit $4.05 - -

 Minimum monthly $26.60 - - charge

 Per 0 - 32 gallon can - $6.40 $8.30 pickup

 Per 33 - 64 gallon - $13.00 $16.20 can pickup

 Per 65 - 96 gallon - $15.20 $19.00 can pickup

 When a set number of units are serviced each week, the customer may be billed at a flat ~~rate~~monthly collection charge equal to four and one-third (4 1/3) times the applicable unit rate,  times the number of units serviced each week, subject to the ~~same Twenty-six Dollars and Sixty Cents ($26.60)~~ minimum monthly charges where applicable.

Effective March 30, 2009,customers requesting special, non-routine can-unit pickup service for one (1) or more cans will be charged according to the following schedule:

 Effective March 30, Effective January 2009 1, 2010  Per 0 - 32 gallon can $8.00 $10.40 special pickup

 Per 33 - 64 gallon can $16.25 $20.25 special pickup

 Per 65 - 96 gallon can $19.00 $23.75 special pickup

~~*~~6. Bulky Waste Collection. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, customers setting out bulky waste will be charged at the rate of Fifteen Dollars and Eighty Cents ($15.80) per cubic yard for such waste. Effective January 1, 2008, c~~Customers setting out bulky waste will be charged at the following rate s:~~of Nineteen Dollars and Seventy-five Cents ($19.75) per cubic yard for such waste.~~

Effective through March 29, 2009: $19.75 per cubic yard Effective March 30, 2009: $24.30 per cubic yardEffective January 1, 2010: $26.55 per cubic yard

 The charges for bulky waste collection will be assessed per one- quarter (1/4) cubic yard. Any such charges will be in addition to the customer's regular container collection service charges.

~~*~~7. Overload Container Charges. A tote~~r~~ or container whose contents exceed one (1) foot above the top of the tote~~r~~ or container will be charged at the bulky waste collection rate on a per one-quarter ( 1/4) cubic yard basis.

~~2~~8. Drop Box Service Rates. The following charges shall apply to commercial establishments receiving ~~primary~~ drop box service for solid waste. ~~Customers receiving secondary drop box service for solid waste shall pay fifteen (15) percent more than the corresponding rate for primary drop box service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent and related taxes all multiplied by 1.15). Effective through December 31, 2007, customers receiving primary or secondary drop box service for compostable waste shall pay twenty (20) percent less than the corresponding rate for primary drop box service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent multiplied by 0.80). Effective January 1, 2008, customers receiving primary or secondary drop box service for c~~Compostable waste container service rates shall be~~pay~~ thirty-two (32) percent less than the corresponding rate for primary drop box service for solid waste (the basic service charge including container rent multiplied by 0.68)~~, plus any applicable taxes~~. Effective through March 29, 2009, customers receiving secondary drop box service shall pay fifteen (15) percent more than the corresponding rate for primary container service (the basic service charge, including container rent and related taxes, multiplied by 1.15), except for compostable waste, which will be subject to the primary container service rate. In accordance with subsection A of this section, as of March 30, 2009, primary and secondary service areas will no longer be in effect and all subscribers to drop box service will pay rates in accordance with the applicable schedules below.

~~Drop Box Service Noncompacted Material Effective Through December 31, 2007~~Size or Type of Container SERVICE TYPE

 3 -4Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd 10 Yd 12 Yd 15 Yd 16 Yd 20Yd 25Yd 30Yd 40 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First $72.65 $72.65 $72.65 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 Pickup

 Ea. $72.65 $72.65 $72.65 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 $97.50 Add'l Pickup

 Special $84.25 $84.25 $84.25 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $170.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 Pickups

 Monthly $13.85 $26.55 $28.80 $31.15 $34.60 $38.05 $40.80 $43.80 $55.40 $66.90 $72.60 Rent

 Temporary Account

 Pickup $84.25 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 $107.50 Rate

 Rent $3.45 $3.45 $3.45 $3.45 $4.60 $4.60 $4.60 $5.80 $5.80 Per Calendar Day

Primary Drop Box Service Noncompacted Material Effective through March 29, 2009~~January 1, 2008~~

 Size or Type of Container SERVICE TYPE

 3 -4Yd 6 Yd 8 Yd 10 Yd 12 Yd 15 Yd 16 Yd 20Yd 25Yd 30Yd 40 Yd

 Permanent Account

 First $90.75 $90.75 $90.75 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 Pickup

 Ea. $90.75 $90.75 $90.75 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 $121.80 Add'l Pickup

 Special $105.25 $105.25 $105.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $212.95 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 Pickups

 Monthly $18.20 $34.85 $37.80 $40.90 $45.45 $49.95 $53.55 $57.50 $72.75 $87.85 $95.30 Rent

 Temporary Account

 Pickup $105.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 $134.25 Rate

 Rent $4.55 $4.55 $4.55 $4.55 $6.05 $6.05 $6.05 $7.60 $7.60 Per Calendar Day

~~Drop Box Service Compacted Material Effective Through December 31, 2007~~SERVICE TYPE

 10 Yd 15 Yd 20 Yd 25 Yd 30 yd 40 yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05

 Ea. Add'l $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 $150.05 Pickup

 Special $162.55 $162.55 $162.55 $162.55 $162.55 $162.55 Pickups

Primary Drop Box Service Compacted Material Effective through March 29, 2009 ~~January 1, 2008~~

 SERVICE TYPE

 10 Yd 15 Yd 20 Yd 25 Yd 30 yd 40 yd

 Permanent Account

 First Pickup $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40

 Ea. Add'l $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 $187.40 Pickup

 Special $203.05 $203.05 $203.05 $203.05 $203.05 $203.05 Pickups

Effective March 30, 2009, the following price schedules will apply for drop box service for both compacted and noncompacted material:  Effective Effective March 30, 2009 January 1, 2010 Service Type

 Permanent Account Pickup Up to 10 cu yd $109.95 $ 120.30 Over 10 cu yd $147.60 $161.45

 Special/Temporary Pick-Up Up to 10 cu yd $120.95 $132.35 Over 10 cu yd $162.35 $177.60

 Monthly Account/Rental $ 98.40 $ 98.40

~~3~~9. A&E (Ancillary and Elective) Service Charges. The following charges shall apply to commercial establishments receiving any of the A&E (Ancillary and Elective) Services listed in the table below. Effective through March 29, 2009,  c~~C~~ustomers receiving secondary container service for solid waste shall pay twenty (20) percent more for A&E Services than primary container solid waste service customers (the applicable A&E service charge(s) multiplied by 1.2)~~. C~~and customers receiving secondary drop box service for solid waste shall pay fifteen (15) percent more for A&E Services than primary drop box solid waste service customers (the applicable A&E service charge(s) multiplied by 1.15). Effective January 1, 2005, customers receiving ~~primary or secondary~~ container or drop box service for compostable waste shall pay the same amount for A&E Services as ~~primary~~ container or drop box solid waste service customers.

The following charges for primary commercial customers shall apply through March 29, 2009:

~~A&E Service Charges~~~~Effective Through December~~~~Effective January 1, 2008~~~~31, 2007~~

A&E Service Type~~of Service~~~~Charge to Customer~~ Charge to Customer

 Deliveries Toter initial delivery-Permanent ~~$12.00~~ $15.00 Container initial delivery-Temporary ~~$14.10~~ $17.60 1-8 CY Container initial delivery-Permanent ~~$14.10~~ $17.60 1-8 CY Drop box initial delivery-Temporary ~~$19.95~~ $24.90 3-8 CY Drop box initial delivery-Permanent ~~$19.95~~ $24.90 3-8 CY Drop box initial delivery-Temporary ~~$31.50~~ $39.35 10-40 CY Drop box initial delivery-Permanent ~~$31.50~~ $39.35 10-40 CY

 Pickup Ancillary Services Temporary pickup ~~$14.20~~ $17.75 Return trip-Can ~~$4.50~~ $5.60 Return trip-Container ~~$9.45~~ $11.80 Return trip-Drop Box ~~$37.85~~ $47.25 Time rates for Special Event Service, ~~$1.30, 30-minute minimum~~ $1.60, 30-minute minimum Deliveries/Pickups*

 Container, Drop Box, and Compactor Special Services Pickup/redelivery up to 8 CY ~~$14.20~~ $17.75 Pickup/redelivery over 8 CY ~~$31.50~~ $39.35 Washing and steam cleaning, per CY ~~$2.10~~ $2.60 Washing and steam cleaning, minimum ~~$15.75~~ $19.65 payment Sanitizing containers, per CY ~~$0.95~~ $1.20 Sanitizing containers, minimum payment ~~$10.50~~ $13.10 Compactor disconnect/reconnect cycle ~~$21.00~~ $26.25 Container, drop box compactor ~~$16.75~~ $20.90 turnaround Drop box solid lid monthly provision ~~$12.40~~ $15.50 Overtime service, hourly premium for ~~$36.25, in 4 hour~~ $45.30, in 4 hour increments service provided between Saturday, ~~increments~~ 4:00 p.m., to Sunday, 5:00 p.m. Replacement lock for container, if ~~$10.50~~ $13.10 requested more frequently than every 12 months

 * Qualification for this rate requires preapproval by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities.

Effective March 30, 2009, the following charges will apply to commercial establishments receiving A&E Services:

Type of Service Effective March 30, 2009 Effective January 1, 2010Deliveries/ Pick-Ups/Swap-outs: -- --Can/Toter$18.20$20.25Detachable Container$21.85$24.30Drop Box 2-8 CY$29.10$32.45

Drop Box 10-40 CY$45.51$50.70Pickup Ancillary Services: -- --Can/Cart Roll out (>100 fit or up/ down stairs)$1.80$2.00Roll Out, Container ($5.45$6.00Reposition, Container >2 CY$5.45$6.00Entering Secured Buildings$3.65$4.05Container Special Services: ---- Detachable Container Washing and Steam Cleaning, per container$27. 30$30.45Drop Box Washing and Steam Cleaning, per Drop Box$36.40$40.55Can/Cart Pressure Washing$7.30$8.10Compactor/Drop Box Special Services: -- --Compactor Disconnect/ Reconnect Cycle$30.95$34.45Dry Run$63.70$70.95Other Ancillary Services: -- --Hourly Paid Special, Truck and Driver$163.85$182.50Hourly Paid Special, Swamper$54.60$60.80~~4~~10. Disposal Fee for MSW and Processing Fee for Compostable Waste Drop Box Service. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, disposal fees for MSW drop box service shall be assessed on each MSW drop box load at the rate of Eighty-one Dollars and Twenty-five Cents ($81.25) per ton, measured on a per tip basis rounded to the next highest one-hundredth ( 1/100) ton. Effective January 1, 2008, d~~Disposal fees for MSW drop box service shall be assessed on each MSW drop box load at the rates set forth below~~of One Hundred Seventeen Dollars and Forty-five Cents ($117.45) per ton~~, measured on a per tip basis rounded to the next highest one-hundredth (1/100) ton.

Effective through March 29, 2009: $117.45 per ton Effective March 30, 2009: $137.75 per ton

~~Effective January 1, 2005, p~~Processing fees for compostable waste drop box service shall be assessed on each compostable waste drop box load~~at the rate of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per ton,~~and measured on a per tip basis rounded to the next highest one-hundredth (1/100) ton. Charges for this service shall be as follows:  Effective through March 29, 2009: $50.00 per ton Effective March 30, 2009: $68.90 per ton

~~5~~11. Application of Local Hazardous Waste Plan Fee. Effective through March 29, 2009, ~~T~~the following fees shall be added to the collection and disposal charges set forth in this section.

 Household Hazardous Waste Collection Fees as set by The Local Hazardous Waste Management Program in King County pursuant to RCW 70.105.220, with applicable taxes.

~~6~~12. Payment of Charges -- Delinquency and Lien.

 a. Collection and disposal charges shall be against the premises served and when such charges have not been paid within ninety (90) days after billing, service shall be discontinued and the charges ~~shall~~may constitute a lien against the premises served. Notice of the City's lien specifying the amount due, the period covered and giving the legal description of the premises sought to be charged may be filed with the County Auditor within the time required and may be foreclosed in the manner and within the time prescribed for liens for labor and material, as authorized by RCW 35.21.140.

 b. Penalty interest at the rate of twelve (12) percent per year, computed monthly, shall be added to collection and disposal charges that become delinquent. Penalty interest shall be imposed on all such charges that remain unpaid thirty (30) days after their bill date and shall continue until such charges are paid.

 C. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities may adjust the service level to a commercial establishment to match the amount of garbage and rubbish actually collected from that establishment.

 Section 6. Section 21.40.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.40.080 Recycling and disposal station rates.

 A. Basic Rates. The following rates are established for the use of the City's recycling and disposal stations.

~~Types of Waste and Vehicle Effective Through December 31, 2007~~1. Deposit of Contaminant-free Clean Recyclables. Any vehicle No Charge

 2. Deposit of Refuse.

 Sedans, station wagons, sport utility $20.00 per entry vehicles (all without trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, vans $110.00 per (including minivans), vehicles with ton; minimum trailers, travel-alls, motor homes, and charge of modified buses, aid cars and commercial $20.00 per vehicles) vehicle

 3. Deposit of Source Separated Yard Waste at Yard Waste Collection Areas.

 Sedans, station wagons, sport utility $13 per entry vehicles (all without trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, vans $80.00 per (including minivans), vehicles with ton; minimum trailers, travel-alls, motor homes, and charge of $13 modified buses, aid cars and commercial per vehicle vehicles)

 4. Deposit of Source Separated Clean Wood at Clean Wood Collection Areas.

 Sedans, station wagons, sport utility $13 per entry vehicles (all without trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, vans $55.00 per (including minivans), vehicles with ton; minimum trailers, travel-alls, motor homes, and charge of $13 modified buses, aid cars and commercial per vehicle vehicles)

 5. Deposit of Passenger Vehicle Tires: $10.00 per load; maximum of four (4) tires per load

 6. Deposit of Household Hazardous Waste Only.

 Passenger and other noncommercial No charge

 vehicles

 7. Deposit of a Combination of Refuse and White Goods, Seattle Residents Only.

 All vehicles $110.00 per ton plus $6.00 per white good; a maximum of two (2) white goods per load

 8. Deposit of White Goods Only, Seattle Residents Only.

 All vehicles $20.00 per white good; a maximum of two (2) white goods per load

The following charges shall apply through March 29, 2009:

 Types of Waste and Vehicle Effective through March 29, 2009~~January 1, 2008~~

 1. Deposit of Contaminant-free Clean Recyclables.

 Any vehicle No Charge

 2. Deposit of Refuse.

 Sedans, station wagons, sport $25.00 per utility vehicles (all without entry trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, $130.00 per vans (including minivans), ton; minimum vehicles with trailers, charge of travel-alls, motor homes, and $25.00 per modified buses, aid cars and vehicle commercial vehicles)

 3. Deposit of Source Separated Yard Waste at Yard Waste Collection Areas.

 Sedans, station wagons, sport $15 per entry utility vehicles (all without trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, $85.00 per vans (including minivans), ton; minimum vehicles with trailers, charge of $15 travel-alls, motor homes, and per vehicle modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles)

 4. Deposit of Source Separated Clean Wood at Clean Wood Collection Areas.

 Sedans, station wagons, sport $15 per entry utility vehicles (all without trailers)

 Other vehicles (e.g., trucks, $59.00 per vans (including minivans), ton; minimum vehicles with trailers, charge of $15 travel-alls, motor homes, and per vehicle modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles)

 5. Deposit of Passenger Vehicle $11.00 per Tires: load; maximum of four (4) tires per load

 6. Deposit of Household Hazardous Waste Only.

 Passenger and other No charge noncommercial vehicles

 7. Deposit of a Combination of Refuse and White Goods, Seattle Residents Only.

 All vehicles $130.00 per ton plus $7.00 per white good; a maximum of two (2) white goods per load

 8. Deposit of White Goods Only, Seattle Residents Only.

 All vehicles $25.00 per white good; a maximum of two (2) white goods per load

Effective March 30, 2009, the following charges will apply at the City's recycling and disposal stations. The flat rate will apply to sedans, station wagons, sport utility vehicles (all without trailers). The per ton rate, subject to the minimum charge, will apply to all other vehicles, including but not limited to trucks, vans (including minivans), vehicles with trailers, travel-alls, motor homes, modified buses, aid cars and commercial vehicles.

 Effective Effective March 30, 2009 January 1, 2010  Recyclables* No charge No charge

 Garbage per ton $135 $145 minimum/flat rate $27 $30

 Yard Waste per ton $100 $110 minimum/flat rate $18 $20

 Wood Waste per ton $100 $110 minimum/flat rate $18 $20

 Tires (maximum per load $12 $13 of four per load)

 Appliances per appliance $30 $30 (maximum of two per appliance if $8 $8 per load) included with garbage

 *Contaminant-free clean recyclables

 B. Collection of Charges. It shall be the duty of the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent, to issue and sell tickets at City recycling and disposal stations for the privilege of such disposal; provided, that such disposal charges shall not apply to the disposal of earth or other material suitable for road construction when disposal of same has been approved by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his/her authorized agent.

 C. State Tax Collection and Refund. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent, has the authority to collect taxes due as required by state law and to make refunds to any person entitled thereto under state law.

 D. Charitable Organizations Reusing Goods.

 1. ~~a. Effective through December 31, 2007, a qualified charitable organization shall be charged at the rate of Sixty-two Dollars and Seventy Cents ($62.70) per ton for the disposal on an ongoing basis, rather than on an occasional or incidental basis, of refuse generated within Seattle only, that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations.~~b. Effective January 1, 2008, a qualified charitable organization shall be charged at the rate of Seventy-four Dollars and Ten Cents ($74.10) per ton for the disposal on an ongoing basis, rather than on an occasional or incidental basis, of refuse generated within Seattle only, that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations.

Qualified charitable organizations shall be charged on an ongoing basis, rather than on an occasional or incidental basis, for the disposal of refuse generated within Seattle only, that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations, at the following rates.

Effective through March 29, 2009: $74.10 per ton  Effective March 30, 2009: $76.95 per ton

 Effective January 1, 2010: $82.65 per ton

2. Qualified charitable organizations may dispose of white goods at no charge under the following conditions:

 a. White goods must be delivered directly to the City's selected vendor for white good processing ("vendor").

 b. By the tenth of each month, the qualified charitable organization must provide Seattle Public Utilities with dated receipts from the vendor for all of the white goods disposed of in the previous month.

 c. The number of white goods disposed of in a calendar year may not exceed the average the number of white goods delivered to City recycling and disposal stations by the qualified charitable organization in 1997 and 1998. If the above conditions are not met or if limits set forth in subsection D2c are exceeded, qualified charitable organizations shall be charged at a per-unit rate equal to that established by contract between the City and its selected vendor.

 3. For purposes of this subsection D, a charitable organization shall be considered a qualified charitable organization if found by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his/her authorized agent, after application by such organization to the Director, to:

 a. Be a credit customer of the Seattle Public Utilities;

 b. Be a nonprofit charitable organization recognized as such by the Internal Revenue Service; and

 c. Be engaged, as a primary form of its doing business, in processing abandoned goods for resale or reuse.

 E. Interest on Delinquent City Recycling and Disposal Stations Payments. Interest shall accrue on delinquent payments of customers at City recycling and disposal stations at the rate of twelve (12) percent per annum from thirty (30) days after the bill date and shall continue until the bill is paid.

 F. Requirements for Special Event, Free Disposal. Under certain conditions, Seattle Public Utilities shall offer free disposal at City recycling and disposal stations for special events. An organization shall be qualified for free disposal for a special event if the organization's written application to the Director of Seattle Public Utilities is found by the Director, or his/her authorized agent, to:

 1. Be the only such request from the organization for the calendar year;

 2. Support the City's goals for cleaner neighborhoods and environments;

 3. Not to supplant any current or existing agency responsibilities or activities; and

 4. Provide benefit to SPU as well as the community or the City.

 G. Waiver of Residential Disposal Rates Under Certain Circumstances. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities has discretion to waive disposal rates for City residents for yard waste or refuse for up to sixty (60) days at a time when the Director determines that unique or emergency situations, such as transitions in collection service, incidents of arson, windstorms, etc., make it prudent to encourage self-haul of refuse or yard waste to City recycling and disposal stations by waiving the disposal fee for a limited period.

 H. ~~1. Effective through December 31, 2007, the Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged at the rate of Sixty-two Dollars and Seventy Cents ($62.70) per ton for the disposal of up to five thousand eight hundred (5,800) tons per calendar year of refuse that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations. If the actual tons delivered in a calendar year exceed this maximum, Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged the per ton rate for refuse set forth in subsection A of this section for the additional tons.~~

~~2. Effective January 1, 2008, the Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged at the rate of Seventy-four Dollars and Ten Cents ($74.10) per ton for the disposal of up to five thousand eight hundred (5,800) tons per calendar year of refuse that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations. If the actual tons delivered in a calendar year exceed this maximum, Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged the per ton rate for refuse set forth in subsection A of this section for the additional tons.~~

The Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged for the disposal of up to five thousand eight hundred (5,800) tons per calendar year of refuse that is deposited at City recycling and disposal stations, at the following rates.  Effective through March 29, 2009: $74.10 per ton

 Effective March 30, 2009: $76.95 per ton

 Effective January 1, 2010: $82.65 per ton

If the actual tons delivered in a calendar year exceed this maximum, the Seattle Housing Authority shall be charged the per ton rate for refuse set forth in subsection A of this section for the additional tons.

 Section 7. Subsection 21.40.085 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows.

 21.40.085 Commercial railyard rate.

 A. ~~1. Effective through December 31, 2007, nonresidential, non-contract solid waste generated within the City and directed by the City to the Argo Yard or its successor facility for transport and disposal shall be charged Sixty-seven Dollars ($67.00) per ton with a minimum charge of One Thousand Six Hundred Seventy-five Dollars ($1,675.00).~~2. Effective January 1, 2008, nonresidential, non-contract solid waste generated within the City and directed by the City to the Argo Yard or its successor facility for transport and disposal shall be Seventy-one Dollars and Fifty Cents ($71.50) per ton with a minimum charge of One Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty-eight Dollars ($1,788.00).

Nonresidential, non-contract solid waste generated within the City and directed by the City to the Argo Yard or its successor facility for transport and disposal shall be charged at the following rates per ton, with the specified total minimum charges per disposal.

Effective DatePer ton rateTotal minimum chargeThrough March 29, 2009 $71.50 $1,788.00March 30, 2009$78.70$1968.00January 1, 2010$88.05$2,201.00

 * * * *

 Section 8. Subsection 21.76.040 B of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows.

 21.76.040 Low Income Rate Credits.

 * * * * *

 B. Solid Waste. Persons qualified by the Director of the Human Services Department as eligible recipients of Low Income Rate Assistance (LIRA) shall be granted low income billing credits or rates as follows:

 1. Eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for garbage container, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.014, services, or compostable waste services, shall receive a credit equal to 0.5 times the current billing.

 2. Eligible recipients with twice weekly garbage container, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.014, service shall be charged 0.5 times the rate calculated in subsection B of SMC Section 21.40.050.

 3. ~~Effective through December 31, 2007, eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for yardwaste service shall be charged per month or a portion thereof for each dwelling unit, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of Two Dollars and Fifty Cents ($2.50) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.010, per collection plus an additional charge of Seventy-five Cents ($0.75) for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection. Effective January 1, 2008, eligible recipients who are billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for yardwaste service shall be charged per month or a portion thereof for each dwelling unit, billed directly to the owner or occupant, of Two Dollars and Seventy Cents ($2.70) for up to four (4) bundles-of-yardwaste, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.010, per collection plus an additional charge of Seventy-five Cents $0.75 for each extra bundle-of-yardwaste beyond four (4) per collection.~~

~~4.~~ Eligible recipients not billed directly by Seattle Public Utilities for solid waste services and receiving garbage container, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.014, ~~yardwaste~~compostable waste, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.012~~6~~, or detachable container, as defined in SMC Section 21.36.012, service shall receive the following credits:

~~Effective Through December 31, 2007~~ Garbage container customers $8.30 per month

 Detachable container $6.45 per month customers

 Yardwaste customers $2.50 per month

 Effective January 1, 2008

 Garbage container customers $8.85 per month

 Detachable container $6.90 per month customers

 Yardwaste customers $2.65 per month

Effective Effective Effective through March March 30, 2009 January 1, 29, 2009 2010  Garbage container $8.85 per $11.15 per $12.45 per customers month month month

 Detachable container $6.90 per $9.15 per $10.20 per customers month month month

 Yardwaste customers $2.65 per $3.45 per $3.95 per month month month

 * * * * *

 Section 9. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If any one or more of the provisions of this ordinance shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, then such provision or provisions shall be null and void and severed from the rest of this ordinance, and all other provisions of this ordinance shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 10. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 November 17, 2008 Version #11 t

```
