

********

**Council Bill Number: 116347**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122881**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy; authorizing the acquisition of real property commonly known as 2100 Westlake Avenue; authorizing acceptance of the deed for open space, park, and recreation purposes; increasing appropriations to the Department of Parks and Recreation in the 2008 Budget; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 15, 2008
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 22, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 19, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Cornish College Property purchase

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 15, 2008
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, PARKS, DOWNTOWN, DENNY-REGRADE

**Fiscal Note:**116347

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122881](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122881.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy; authorizing the acquisition of real property commonly known as 2100 Westlake Avenue; authorizing acceptance of the deed for open space, park, and recreation purposes; increasing appropriations to the Department of Parks and Recreation in the 2008 Budget; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 proposed the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy ("2000 Parks Levy") to provide funding for, among other things, property acquisitions identified by neighborhood and community groups; and

 WHEREAS, the voters of Seattle approved the 2000 Parks Levy on November 7, 2000; and

 WHEREAS, the 2000 Parks Levy program includes an Acquisition and Development Opportunity Fund ("Opportunity Fund"), making available up to Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) to fund acquisition and development projects not identified for funding in the remainder of the program; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 established a Parks and Green Spaces Levy Oversight Committee ("Oversight Committee"), with responsibilities to include adopting evaluation criteria and recommending Opportunity Fund awards to the Superintendent, Mayor, and City Council; and

 WHEREAS, the Oversight Committee conducted an extensive public process regarding acquisition and development projects to be funded in the first cycle of the Opportunity Fund; and

 WHEREAS, the Oversight Committee recommended the allocation of Six Million Dollars ($6,000,000) for the Opportunity Fund's first funding cycle, including Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for acquisition projects and One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) for development projects; and

 WHEREAS, the Oversight Committee recommended first cycle-awards for property acquisitions in multiple locations, including the Denny Triangle; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120869 accepted the recommendations of the Oversight Committee and authorized the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to conduct planning activities of any or all of the parcels recommended by the Oversight Committee, including the Denny Triangle; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 121775 authorized the City to deposit collections of 2003 King County Conservation Futures Levy proceeds into the 2000 Parks Levy Fund, including an allocation for land acquisition in the Denny Triangle Urban Village; and

 WHEREAS, the King County Conservation Futures Citizen's Oversight Committee has recommended an additional allocation of 2009 King County Conservation Futures Levy proceeds be directed to land acquisition in the Denny Triangle Urban Village subject to the approval of an amendment to an existing interlocal agreement between both the King County and the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 119729 created the Denny Triangle Amenity Fund to enable the use of real estate developer payments associated with the Transfer of Development Credit Program to finance the provision of public open space, improvements to existing open space, and development of designated green streets within the Denny Triangle Urban Village and Ordinance 122301 appropriated the referenced payments; and

 WHEREAS, the acquisition of real property commonly known as 2100 Westlake Avenue meets the criteria for expenditures from the Denny Triangle Amenity Fund;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent"), or his designee, is authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to acquire substantially in accordance with the terms of the Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement attached hereto as Attachment 1 ("Agreement") the following described real property ("Property"):

 That portion of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 24, Second Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid off by the Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased (commonly known as Heirs of Sarah A. Bell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 121, in King County, Washington, lying easterly of and excepting thereof that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 36118 for Westlake Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 7733 of the City of Seattle.

 Section 2. The Superintendent or his designee is authorized to execute such documents as he deems necessary or desirable to accomplish acquisition of the Property, including, without limitation, such consents, approvals, extensions of time and minor amendments of the Agreement as he shall deem appropriate to carry out the intent of this ordinance. Upon delivery of the statutory warranty deed for the Property, the Superintendent or his designee is authorized to accept the deed on behalf of the City of Seattle by attaching to the deed his written acceptance thereof, and to record the same. The Property shall be accepted for open space, park, and recreation purposes, and placed under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation.

 Section 3. To pay for the Property and for necessary related costs and expenses, the appropriation for the following in the 2008 Adopted Budget is increased from the fund shown, as follows:

 Fund Department Capital Improvement Program: Amount Program (Number) $2,516,190 2000 Parks Parks and 2000 Parks Levy - Levy Fund Recreation Opportunity Fund - (33850) Acquisition (K723007)

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and taken after passage of this ordinance, but prior to the effective date, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement

 12/8/2008 Version #3 t

 ATTACHMENT 1: AGREEMENT FOR PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL PROPERTY

 THIS AGREEMENT FOR PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL PROPERTY (this "Agreement") is made by and between CORNISH COLLEGE OF THE ARTS, a Washington non-profit corporation ("Seller"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("Buyer"). This Agreement is made effective as of the date it has been executed by both Seller and Buyer (the "Effective Date").

 In consideration of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and the mutual covenants herein contained, Seller and Buyer hereby agree as follows:

 1. Property. The "Property" subject to this Agreement consists of all of the following:

 (a) That certain real property with a street address of 2100 Westlake Avenue located in Seattle, Washington and more particularly described in Exhibit A attached together with all buildings, structures and other permanent improvements thereon (the "Real Property").

 (b) All rights, privileges and easements appurtenant to the Real Property, including without limitation all minerals, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances on the Land, all development rights, air rights, and any and all appurtenances used in connection with the beneficial use and enjoyment of the Real Property.

 2. Purchase Price; Payment. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, Seller agrees to sell to Buyer and Buyer agrees to purchase from Seller the Property for an aggregate price of Two Million Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand and NO/100 Dollars (U.S. $2,750,000.00) (the "Purchase Price").

 2.1 Deposit. No later than 5 business days after mutual execution of this Agreement, Buyer will open an escrow account with Pacific Northwest Title Company of Washington, Inc., 215 Columbia Street, Seattle, Washington 98104 (referred to hereafter as "Escrow Agent" or "Title Company") and shall deliver to Escrow Agent a deposit of Five Thousand and NO/100 Dollars ($5,000.00) (the "Deposit") together with a fully executed copy of this Agreement. Escrow Agent shall place the Deposit in an interest-bearing account. Buyer shall be entitled to all interest accrued on the Deposit. At Closing (defined below), Escrow Agent shall apply the Deposit, together with the interested accrued thereon (if any) to the Purchase Price.

 2.2 Payment of Remainder of Purchase Price. The balance of the Purchase Price shall be paid in cash, certified funds or other good funds at Closing.

 3. Conveyance; Title Insurance.

 3.1 Conveyance. At Closing, Seller shall convey the Property to Buyer by bargain and sale deed ("Deed"), free and clear of any and all liens, encumbrances, defects, easements, conditions, and restrictions except that certain Commercial Lease between Howard K. Anderson and Dorcas Anderson, as lessor, and Enterprise Leasing Company d/b/a/ Enterprise Rent-A-Car ("Enterprise"), as lessee, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Enterprise Lease"), those matters listed on Exhibit C and such other matters as may be accepted in writing by Buyer prior to Closing (collectively, the "Permitted Exceptions"). Also at Closing, Seller shall assign a partial lessor's interest in the Enterprise Lease to Buyer by a

 partial assignment of lease, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D and incorporated herein (the "Partial Assignment of Lease").

 3.2 Title Insurance. Buyer's title to the Property shall be insured under an ALTA extended coverage owner's policy of title insurance issued pursuant to the preliminary commitment for title insurance from the Title Company, No. 590369, dated April 8, 2005 and July 30, 2007 and all supplements thereto (the "Title Report"). At its sole cost and expense (if required by the Title Company to issue an extended coverage owner's ALTA title insurance policy) Buyer shall obtain an update to the Title Report and a survey of the Property. Seller shall satisfy all requirements reasonably requested of Seller by the Title Company in connection with issuance of an extended coverage owner's ALTA title insurance policy insuring Buyer's title to the Property in the amount of the Purchase Price subject only to the printed exclusions, the general exceptions appearing in the policy form and the Permitted Exceptions.

 4. Conditions Precedent; Feasibility Period.

 4.1. Buyer Conditions. The obligations of Buyer under this Agreement are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the following conditions, which are for the benefit of Buyer and may be satisfied or waived only in writing by Buyer. If any of the following conditions has not been satisfied or waived in writing on or before Closing (or such earlier date as provided elsewhere in this Agreement), then this Agreement shall terminate upon Buyer's written notice to Seller, Buyer shall be entitled to return of the Deposit together with the interest accrued thereon (if any) and the parties shall have no further obligations to one another except those which expressly survive Closing or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 4.1.1 Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Seller. Seller's representations and warranties in this Agreement shall be true and correct as of Closing.

 4.1.2 No Material Adverse Changes. As of Closing, there shall have been no material adverse change in the physical condition of the Property from the date of this Agreement.

 4.1.3 No Seller Bankruptcy. At no time prior to Closing, (i) shall there be filed by or against Seller a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or a petition seeking to effect any plan or other arrangement with creditors or seeking the appointment of a receiver and that is not discharged or dismissed before Closing; (ii) shall there have been a receiver or liquidator appointed for all or substantially all of Seller's property; or (iii) shall Seller have made an assignment for the benefit of creditors or taken any other similar action for the benefit or protection of creditors.

 4.1.4 Ordinance. On or before Closing, an ordinance shall have been passed by the Seattle City Council and signed by the Mayor authorizing the transaction contemplated by this Agreement and appropriating funds to complete this transaction.

 4.1.5 Title Insurance. On the date of Closing, Title Company shall be irrevocably committed to issuing to Buyer an extended coverage owner's ALTA title insurance policy (or a standard coverage owner's title insurance policy, at Buyer's sole election), dated as of the date of Closing and insuring Buyer in the amount of the Purchase Price against loss or damage by reason of defect in Buyer's title to the Property, subject only to the printed exclusions and general exceptions appearing in the policy form and the Permitted Exceptions.

 4.1.6 Tenant Certificate. On or before Closing, Seller shall have delivered to Buyer an estoppel certificate signed by the authorized representative(s) of Enterprise Leasing Company dba Enterprise Rent-A-Car, effective as of the date of signature and the date of Closing, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit E and incorporated herein (the "Tenant Certificate").

 4.1.7 Compliance With Obligations. Seller shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, conditions and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Seller.

 4.2. Seller Conditions. The obligation of Seller to convey the Property to Buyer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the following conditions within the time periods specified below, which conditions are for the benefit of Seller and may be satisfied or waived only in writing by Seller. If any of the following conditions is not satisfied or waived in writing on or before Closing (or such earlier date as provided elsewhere in this Agreement), then this Agreement shall terminate upon Seller's written notice to Buyer, Buyer shall be entitled to return of the Deposit together and the interest accrued thereon (if any) and the parties shall have no further obligations to one another except those which expressly survive Closing or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 4.2.1 Compliance With Obligations. Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, conditions and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Buyer.

 4.2.2 Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Buyer. Buyer's representations and warranties in this Agreement shall be true and correct as of Closing.

 4.2.3 Temporary Use Permit. On the date of Closing, Buyer shall have executed and delivered to Seller a Temporary Use Permit in favor of Seller in the form attached hereto as Exhibit F (the "Temporary Use Permit").

 5. Seller's Representations and Warranties. Seller represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive Closing and shall not be merged in any deed or agreement delivered at Closing.

 5.1 Authority of Seller. Seller is the sole owner of the fee interest in the Property and the persons signing on behalf of Seller have full power and authority to execute this Agreement and perform

 Seller's obligations hereunder including execution and delivery of the Deed and the Partial Assignment of Lease. When executed and delivered by Seller, this Agreement shall constitute a legal, valid, and binding obligation of Seller.

 5.2 Agreements to Transfer or Encumber. Seller has neither committed nor obligated itself in any manner whatsoever to sell, lease or encumber the Property or any interest therein to any party other than to Buyer or as set forth in the Enterprise Lease.

 5.3 Bankruptcy, Etc. No bankruptcy, insolvency, rearrangement or similar action involving Seller or the Property, whether voluntary or involuntary, is pending, threatened by a third party, or contemplated by Seller.

 5.4 Litigation. To the best of Seller's knowledge, there are no pending or threatened judicial, municipal or administrative proceedings with respect to this transaction or in any manner affecting the Property or any portion thereof or in which Seller is or will be a party by reason of Seller's ownership of the Property or any portion thereof.

 5.5 Notices. Seller has not received any notices from any insurance companies, governmental agencies or from any other parties with respect to any violations or other matters concerning the Property.

 5.6 Tax Returns. To the best of Seller's knowledge, Seller has filed all local, state and federal tax forms that are required to be filed by Seller, has paid all taxes due and payable by Seller to date and will pay all such taxes that become due and payable by Seller prior to Closing.

 5.7 Underground Storage Tanks. Other than as disclosed to Buyer in the "Phase I and II Environmental Site Assessment" dated October 30, 2007 prepared by GeoEngineers, Inc. which has been previously delivered to Buyer, to the best of Seller's knowledge there are no cisterns, wells, subterranean storage or underground storage tanks on the Property and underground storage tanks have not been removed from the Property.

 5.8 Leases, Service Contracts or Other Contracts. Other than the Enterprise Lease, to the best of Seller's knowledge as of Closing, no leases, service contracts or other contracts are in place regarding or related to the Property.

 5.9 Mechanic's Liens. To the best of Seller's knowledge, no labor, material or services have been furnished in, on or about the Property or any part thereof as a result of which any mechanics', laborer's or materialmen's liens or claims might arise.

 5.10 Assumption of Liabilities. Other than: (i) such obligations as may be expressly assumed by Buyer under the Partial Assignment of Lease; and (ii) any liens or other obligations with respect to the Property that result from any action or activities by or on behalf of Buyer after Closing, Seller will pay and discharge any and all liabilities of each and every kind arising prior to Closing out of or by virtue of the possession, ownership or use of the

 Property and shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer harmless therefrom.

 5.11 Further Information. From the date of this Agreement to the Closing date, Seller will notify Buyer of each event of which Seller becomes aware that affects the Property or any part thereof immediately upon learning of the occurrence of such event.

 5.12 Environmental Compliance. In addition to and without limiting any other representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in this Agreement, Seller represents, warrants, covenants and agrees:

 (a) Hazardous Substances. Seller has not used, generated, manufactured, produced, stored, released, discharged or disposed of on, under, above or about the Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property) or transported to or from the Property, any Hazardous Substance. Other than as disclosed to Buyer in the "Phase I and II Environmental Site Assessment" dated October 30, 2007 prepared by GeoEngineers, Inc. which has been previously delivered to Buyer, Seller has no knowledge nor has Seller observed any questionable practice or conduct indicating that any Hazardous Substance has been used, generated, manufactured, produced, stored, released, discharged or disposed of on, under or above the Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property) or transported to or from the Property by any entity, firm or person, or from any source whatsoever.

 (b) Pre-closing Covenant. Seller will not use, generate, manufacture, produce, store, release, discharge or dispose of on, under, above or about the Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property), or transport to or from the Property, any Hazardous Substance or authorize any other person or entity to do so, prior to Closing.

 (c) Environmental Indemnity. Seller shall protect, indemnify, hold harmless and defend Buyer and its elected officials, officers and, employees, from and against any and all loss, damage, cost, expense or liability (including attorneys' fees and costs) directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to a breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in this Section 5.12 including, without limitation, (a) all consequential damages, and (b) the costs of any required or necessary repairs, cleanup or detoxification of the Property and the preparation and implementation of any closure, remedial or other required plans. This indemnity does not apply to actions of Buyer, its agents or independent contractors.

 (d) Definitions. The term "Hazardous Substance" includes without limitation: (a) those substances included within the definitions of "hazardous substances", "hazardous materials", "toxic substances", "hazardous wastes" or "solid waste" in any Environmental Law; (b) petroleum products and petroleum byproducts; (c) polychlorinated biphenyls; and (d) chlorinated solvents. The term "Environmental Law" includes any federal, state, municipal or local law, statute, ordinance, regulation, order or rule pertaining to health, industrial hygiene, environmental conditions or Hazardous Substance.

 6. Seller's Pre-closing Obligations.

 6.1. Claims, Events and Litigation. Seller shall promptly notify Buyer upon receiving notice of a claim or pending litigation affecting the Property or any part thereof, or notice of any event, transaction, or occurrence before Closing that would have a materially adverse affect the Property or any part thereof.

 6.2. Title. Seller shall not lease, convey, mortgage, grant a deed of trust, or contract to do the foregoing or otherwise allow or consent to convey, abandon, relinquish, cloud or encumber title to the Property or any interest therein or part thereof without Buyer's consent.

 6.3. Maintenance and Operation. Seller shall maintain the Property in good order, condition and repair prior to Closing.

 6.4. No Adverse Actions. Seller shall take no action that will directly or indirectly adversely affect the Property or title to the Property.

 7. Closing.

 7.1 Closing Date. Closing shall occur in the office of Escrow Agent on a date mutually agreeable to Buyer and Seller, but in no event later than December 31, 2008; provided that if the ordinance referred to in Subsection 4.1.4 is not effective by December 31, 2008 and all other conditions set forth in Section 4.1 have been satisfied by December 31, 2008: (i) Buyer shall continue to diligently pursue enactment, if necessary, of such ordinance; (ii) this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect; and (iii) the Closing shall be extended until such time as it is reasonably practicable to close after such ordinance is effective. As used in this Agreement, "Closing," "Closing date" or "date of Closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for disbursement to Seller in accordance with this Agreement. Funds held in reserve accounts pursuant to escrow instructions shall be deemed, for purposes of the definition of "Closing," "Closing date" and "date of Closing," as available for disbursement to Seller.

 7.2 Prorations; Closing Costs. On the date of Closing, Escrow Agent shall pro-rate all surface water management fees, real property taxes, general assessments, and other fees (if any) accruing against the Property and such charges shall be charged to Seller's account to the extent they have accrued on or before the date of Closing. If Seller is entitled to reimbursement for any overpayment made under this paragraph, it shall be Seller's responsibility to seek such reimbursement outside of Closing. Monetary liens on the Property that have not been released, discharged or reconveyed prior to Closing shall be discharged in full out of the Purchase Price at Closing. Buyer will pay the premium for its title insurance policy (or policies), the Escrow Agent's fees and the cost of recording the Deed and the Partial Assignment of Lease.

 7.3 Deliveries at Closing.

 7.3.1 Seller's Deliveries at Closing. At Closing, Seller shall execute and deliver to Escrow Agent the following items, each of which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Buyer: (i) an executed counterpart of the Partial Assignment of Lease and the Temporary Use Permit; (ii) the executed Deed; (iii) an executed real estate excise tax affidavit(s) together with payment for any excise tax, if any, arising from the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (which may be deducted from Seller's proceeds); and (iv) an affidavit evidencing that Seller is exempt from the withholding requirements of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code.

 7.3.2 Buyers' Deliveries at Closing. At Closing, Buyer shall execute and deliver to Escrow Agent the following items, each of which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Seller: (i) an executed counterpart of the Partial Assignment of Lease and the Temporary Use Permit; (ii) an executed real estate excise tax affidavit(s); and (iii) readily available funds in the amount of the Purchase Price less the Deposit together with additional funds sufficient to pay such items as are to be charged to Buyer's account pursuant to this Agreement.

 7.4. Risk of Loss. Seller will bear the risk of loss of or damage to the Property until the date of Closing. In the event of material loss of or damage to the Property prior to Closing, Buyer may terminate this agreement by giving notice of termination to Seller. If Buyer elects to terminate this Agreement, the Deposit together with interest, if any, shall be refunded to Buyer, and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations under this agreement. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "material loss or damage" shall mean damage, the cost of which to repair exceeds $50,000 as determined by a neutral third party professional engineer to be reasonable selected by Buyer and hired and paid for by Seller. In the case of any damage other than material damage occurring to the Property prior to Closing, the parties shall proceed to Closing and Seller, at its sole cost, shall undertake to diligently repair such damage and restore the Property to the condition in which it was in immediately prior to such damage. The date of Closing shall be extended as necessary to provide time for assessment of damage, termination and repair, as applicable.

 7.5 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property upon Closing, subject to the Enterprise Lease and the Temporary Use Permit.

 8. Remedies. If Buyer has performed all of its obligations under this Agreement and Seller fails, without legal excuse, to convey to Buyer the Property and the Partial Assignment of Lease on the terms set forth herein, then Buyer shall be entitled to pursue such remedies as may be available at law or equity or to terminate this Agreement and receive return of the Deposit, together with the interest accrued thereon, if any. If Seller has performed all of its obligations under this Agreement, and Buyer fails, without legal excuse, to deliver the items set forth in Subsection 7.3.2 above or perform its obligations under Section 7.1, then the Deposit, together with all interest accrued thereon shall be forfeited to Seller as liquidated damages as Seller's sole and exclusive remedy.

 9. Broker Representation. Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that Seller has not incurred finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with this Agreement. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees incurred by Seller. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that Buyer has not incurred finder's, broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with this Agreement. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees incurred by Buyer.

 10. General Provisions.

 10.1 Notices. All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or delivered via facsimile transmittal, and shall be deemed received on the sooner of actual or facsimile receipt or three (3) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer, as the case may be, at the address/facsimile number set forth below and with copies as specified:

 Seller: Cornish College of the Arts 1000 Lenora Street Seattle, WA 98121 Facsimile: (206) 726-5053 Telephone: (206) 726-5020 Attn: Jeff Riddell, Chief Financial Officer

 Buyer: Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr. Seattle, WA 98134 Facsimile: (206) 233-7038 Telephone: (206) 733-9106 Attn: Lise Ward

 Notice of a change of address or facsimile number shall be given by written notice in the manner specified above.

 10.2 Costs. Except as specifically provided in this Agreement, neither party shall be responsible for paying any costs incurred by the other party in connection with this Agreement or otherwise.

 10.3 Amendment. This Agreement may be amended only by written instrument signed by Seller and Buyer, acting through duly authorized representatives if applicable.

 10.4 Entire Understanding. This Agreement, and the exhibits attached hereto and the documents incorporated herein, embody the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the transaction contemplated hereby, superseding all prior expressions by the parties. The terms of this Agreement cannot be waived except by the written agreement of the party against whom a waiver is asserted.

 10.5 Time of Essence. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and each term and condition hereof.

 10.6 Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement shall in all respects be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws and judicial decisions of the State of Washington. The venue for resolution of any dispute in connection with this Agreement shall be the Superior Court of King County, Washington.

 10.7 Severability. If any portion of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, the same shall not affect in any respect whatsoever the validity of the remainder of this Agreement, which shall be enforced in accordance with its terms.

 10.8 Holidays and Weekends. In the event that the date for any notice, performance, term, or period specified or contemplated hereunder shall fall on a holiday or a weekend, the date and any associated performance or action shall automatically be extended to the next succeeding business day.

 10.9 Captions. Section titles or other headings set forth in this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not be a part of this Agreement, nor shall they be considered in its interpretation, construction, or enforcement.

 10.10 Exhibits Incorporated. All exhibits attached hereto, as listed below, are expressly incorporated into and form a part of this Agreement.

 Exhibit A. Legal Description of Property Exhibit B. Enterprise Lease Exhibit C. Permitted Exceptions Exhibit D. Partial Assignment of Lease Exhibit E. Tenant Certificate Exhibit F. Temporary Use Permit

 11. Seller's Indemnification. Seller hereby agrees to indemnify, defend, at the option of Buyer, and hold harmless Buyer and Buyer's members, managers, affiliates, directors, officers, and employees, for, from and against any and all claims, suits, actions, proceedings, or liabilities of any kind, including attorney's fees and expenses associated therewith, arising from or in any way connected to that certain Letter Agreement dated November 2, 2006 between Charles Anderson and Enterprise Rent-a-Car, concerning the South Land Union Street Car Local Improvement District No. 6750 assessment for the Property, a copy of which is included in the Enterprise Lease attached as Exhibit B. This indemnification shall survive Closing unimpaired and shall not merge into the Deed and the recordation thereof.

 12. Survival. The covenants, agreements, indemnities, representations and warranties

 made in this Agreement shall survive Closing unimpaired and shall not merge into the Deed and the recordation thereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this Agreement as of the Effective Date.

 BUYER: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation By: ___________________________________ Timothy A. Gallagher, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 SELLER: Cornish College of the Arts, a Washington non-profit corporation By: __________________________________ Sergei Tschernisch, President By: ___________________________________ Jeff Riddell, Chief Financial Officer

 EXHIBIT A

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY

 That portion of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 24, Second Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid off by the Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased (commonly known as Heirs of Sarah A. Bell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 121, in King County, Washington, lying easterly of and excepting therefrom that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 36118 for Westlake Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 7733 of the City of Seattle.

 EXHIBIT B

[ENTERPRISE LEASE ](/~ordpics/116347At1ExB.pdf) (pages 14-34 of this Agreement)

 EXHIBIT C

 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS

 1. EASEMENT AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS REFERENCED THEREIN, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE FOLLOWING:

 GRANTEE: City of Seattle PURPOSE: Sewer main RECORDED: April 20, 1894 RECORDING NUMBER: 127288 AREA AFFECTED: Along the westerly line of Lot 1 adjoining Westlake Avenue

 2. EASEMENT AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS REFERENCED THEREIN, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE FOLLOWING:

 GRANTEE: City of Seattle PURPOSE: Sewer main RECORDED: May 16, 1894 RECORDING NUMBER: 128258 AREA AFFECTED: Along the westerly line of Lots 2 and 3 adjoining Westlake Avenue

 3. The Enterprise Lease (See Exhibit B)

 EXHIBIT D

 PARTIAL ASSIGNMENT OF LEASE (pages 37-71 of this Agreement)

 Return Address: The City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Floor Seattle, WA 98134 Attn: Lise Ward

 PARTIAL ASSIGNMENT OF LANDLORD'S INTEREST IN LEASE

 Reference numbers of related documents: NOT APPLICABLE

 Grantor: CORNISH COLLEGE OF THE ARTS

 Grantee: THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 Legal Description:

 1. Abbreviated form: PTN Lots 1, 2, 3 BLK 24, Sarah's Bell's 2nd Add.

 2. Additional legal description is on Schedule B.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s): 066000-0485 and 066000-0540.

 THIS PARTIAL ASSIGNMENT OF LANDLORD'S INTEREST IN LEASE ("Agreement") is made the _________ day of ____________________, 2008, by and between CORNISH COLLEGE OF THE ARTS, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Cornish"), having an address at 1000 Lenora Street, Seattle, Washington, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("City"), having an office at c/o Department of Parks and Recreation, 800 Maynard Avenue South, Seattle, WA 98134.

 RECITALS

 A. Cornish is the successor lessor under that certain lease dated April 6, 1993 as amended by letter dated May 6, 1998, letter dated December 2, 2003, lease amendment dated August 2, 2005, (collectively "Lease") between Howard K. Anderson and Dorcas Anderson ("Landlord") and Enterprise Leasing Company dba Enterprise Rent-A-Car ("Tenant"), as amended by letter dated November 2, 2006 between Charles Anderson, as Landlord, and Tenant, and amended by letter dated March 20, 2008 by Cornish College of the Arts, as Landlord, and Tenant. A copy of the Lease is attached hereto as Schedule A and incorporated herein.

 B. The premises leased under the Lease are legally described on Schedule B attached hereto and incorporated herein ("Premises").

 C. The City has acquired a portion of the Premises by deed from Cornish dated ________ and recorded under King County recording number ___________________ ("City Property"). The City Property is legally described on Schedule B. The portion of the Premises retained by Cornish ("Cornish Property") is also legally described on Schedule B.

 D. The City and Cornish have agreed on allocation of rights and obligations in connection with the Lease.

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the City and Cornish hereby covenant and agree as follows:

 AGREEMENT

 1. Assignment; Rights and Obligations.

 a) Assignment. Cornish does hereby assign, transfer, set over, convey and deliver to the City, its successors and assigns, the rights and interests of lessor under the Lease as they pertain to the City Property.

 b) Obligations. In consideration of the Management Fee (defined in subsection (c) below), Cornish hereby agrees to perform (i) all obligations of lessor as set forth in the Lease, including obligations of lessor with respect to the City Property, and (ii) each obligation of Cornish as provided in this Agreement. If Cornish fails to perform the lessor obligations as set forth in the Lease or the obligations of Cornish as provided in this Agreement, the City shall have the right to perform such obligations with respect to the City Property, to withhold the Management Fee from Cornish and to recover from Cornish the City's out of pocket costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees) not reimbursable by Tenant or not actually reimbursed by Tenant. The City shall have no obligation to perform obligations of Cornish with respect to the Cornish Property.

 c) Rental. Cornish shall collect rent from Tenant. The City shall be entitled to receive 55% of the Net Rental Income as follows: For purposes of this subsection, "Net Rental Income" shall mean all rents collected from Tenant under the Lease less: (i) a management fee payable to Cornish equal to 3% of all rents collected from Tenant under the Lease ("Management Fee"); and (ii) any reasonable out-of- pocket collection costs (including attorneys' fees) incurred by Cornish in connection with its performance of lessor obligations under the Lease (unless and until the same are reimbursed by Tenant). Cornish shall distribute the City's share of the Net Rental Income, together with an accounting thereof, monthly beginning the month following the City's acquisition of the City Property. In the event Cornish's calculation of the Net Rental Income results in a negative number (a "Deficiency"), there shall be no distribution of Net Rental Income until such Deficiency is offset by future positive Net Rental Income and the City shall have no liability to Cornish for such Deficiency.

 d) Leasehold Excise Tax. Cornish shall bill and collect from Tenant, and deliver to the City on a monthly basis, the leasehold excise tax attributable to rental of the City Property and the same shall not be "rents collected from Tenant" for purposes of this Agreement. "Rent attributable to rental of the City Property" shall be determined by multiplying all rents collected from Tenant by a fraction having a numerator equal to the square footage of the City Property and a denominator equal to the square footage of the Premises.

 e) Insurance. Cornish shall consult with the City's Risk Manager concerning the acceptability of the Tenant's insurance company and form of evidence of insurance with respect to the insurance required under Sections 5.5 and 8.2 of the Lease, and shall cause the Tenant to comply with City Risk Manager requirements concerning acceptable insurance companies and forms of evidence of insurance, to the extent not inconsistent with the Lease. Cornish shall also diligently pursue each of the following: (i) Tenant's addition of the City to the policies, as provided in Sections 5.5 and 8.2 of the Lease, effective as of the date of the City's acquisition of the City Property; (ii) amendment of its liability policies to name the City as one of the insureds for primary and noncontributory limits of liability; and (iii) furnishing evidence of such insurance no later than the date of the City's acquisition of the City Property.

 2. Warranties and Representations. Cornish hereby warrants and represents to the City that:

 a) Corporate Status; Authority. Cornish is a corporation duly organized and in good standing under the laws of the state of Washington and has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement, and this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf of Cornish.

 b) Copy of Lease. To the best of Cornish's knowledge, the copy of the Lease attached hereto as Schedule A is a true, complete and correct copy of the Lease.

 c) No Modifications. To the best of Cornish's knowledge, the Lease has not been modified or amended and is the only lease or rental agreement, either oral or in writing, relating to the occupancy of the City Property.

 d) No Claims or Offsets. To the best of Cornish's knowledge, neither Cornish nor the Tenant has any claims, setoffs, defenses or causes of action, at law or in equity, with respect to the Lease or any payment of rent or other sums payable under the Lease.

 e) Monthly Rent. The current monthly rent under the Lease is $8500. Tenant has paid monthly rent through __________________________.

 f) Termination of Lease. Cornish and Tenant have entered into a letter agreement (a copy of which is attached hereto as Schedule C) wherein Tenant has agreed that Cornish's current development plans satisfy the Lease termination provisions of Section 17.12(b). Cornish warrants that it will comply with the terms of such letter agreement.

 3. Covenants. Cornish covenants as follows:

 a) No Amendment. Cornish shall not enter into any agreement amending, modifying, or extending the Lease without the prior written consent of the City.

 b) No Offset. Cornish shall not allow or agree to any offset of rent or change of rent without the prior written consent of the City.

 c) No Forbearance. Cornish shall not forbear from enforcing the terms of the Lease against the Tenant without the prior written consent of the City.

 d) No Assignment. Subject to Section 9.1 of the Lease, Cornish shall not allow Tenant to assign all or any portion of its interest in the Lease or to sublet all or any portion of the Premises without the prior written consent of the City.

 e) Copies. Cornish shall provide to the City, as soon as possible, a copy of each notice, document, and written communication received by Cornish from the Tenant or sent to the Tenant by or for Cornish.

 f) Tenant Reimbursement. Cornish shall be solely responsible for reimbursing Tenant for the amount of any unamortized improvements on the Premises in satisfaction of Section 17.12 of the Lease.

 4. Indemnity. The City shall not become obligated to keep, fulfill, observe, perform or discharge, nor does the City assume, expressly or impliedly, any covenant, duty, debt or obligation of the lessor under the terms, provisions and conditions of the Lease, and Cornish hereby agrees to indemnify the City against and defend and hold the City harmless from and against any and all costs, claims, fees and expenses (including the City's attorneys' fees) arising out of or in any way relating to defaults and liabilities of Cornish or its predecessor in interest under the Lease. Additionally, Cornish hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless City and City's members, managers, affiliates, directors, officers, and employees, for, from and against any and all claims, suits, actions, proceedings, or liabilities of any kind, including attorney's fees and expenses associated therewith, arising from or in any way connected to that certain Letter Agreement dated November 2, 2006, concerning the South Land Union Street Car Local Improvement District No. 6750 assessment for the Property, between Charles Anderson and Enterprise Rent-a-Car, a copy of which is included in the Enterprise Lease attached as Schedule A.

 5. Notices. Any notice, request or demand given or made under this Agreement (each such notice, request, or demand being called a "Notice") shall be in writing and shall be considered received when hand delivered, when received by facsimile transmission during normal business hours, or two (2) business days after sent, postage prepaid, by U.S. mail. Each Notice which is given (the party giving the Notice is called the "Sending Party") to the other (such other party being called the "Receiving Party") shall be addressed to such Receiving Party at its address set forth below. Each party to this Agreement may designate a change of address by Notice given, as provided in this Section, to the other party at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the date such change of address is to become effective.

 Cornish: Cornish College of the Arts 1000 Lenora Street Seattle, WA 98121 Facsimile: (206) 726-5053 Attn: Jeff Riddell

 City: Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr. Seattle, WA 98134 Facsimile: (206) 233-7038 Attn: Property Management

 6. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Cornish and the City and their respective successors and assigns.

 7. No Oral Changes. This Agreement may not be modified in any manner or terminated except by an instrument in writing executed by the parties to this Agreement.

 8. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the substantive laws of the state of Washington.

 9. Headings Have No Legal Effect. The headings and captions of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, and have no legal effect, and are not to be construed as defining or limiting, in any way, the scope or intent of the provisions of this Agreement.

 10. Recordation. This Agreement shall be recorded in the King County Office of Records and Elections.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.

 CORNISH COLLEGE OF THE ARTS,

 a Washington non-profit corporation

 By: __________________________________ Sergei Tschernisch, President

 By: ___________________________________ Jeff Riddell, Chief Financial Officer

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation

 By: __________________________________________ Timothy A. Gallagher Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 Schedule A: Lease Schedule B: Legal Description of Premises (City Property and Cornish Property) Schedule C: Letter Agreement between Cornish and Tenant

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ________________, 2008, before me the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of _________________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________________________, to me known to be the ____________________ of Cornish College of the Arts, the nonprofit corporation that executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 Date: _______________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at _______

 My commission expires:

 ____________________ PRINT NAME:

 Use this space for Notary Seal/Stamp

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ________________, 2008, before me the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of _________________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________________________, to me known to be the ____________________ of Cornish College of the Arts, the nonprofit corporation that executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 Date: ________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at ___________

 My commission expires: _________________ __________________________ PRINT NAME:

 Use this space for Notary Seal/Stamp

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ________________, 2008, before me the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of _________________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________________________, to me known to be the ____________________ of the _______________________________of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the municipal corporation that executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 Date: __________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at _____________

 My commission expires:

 __________________________ PRINT NAME:

 Use this space for Notary Seal/Stamp

[Schedule A - LEASE](/~ordpics/116347At1ExDSchedA.pdf)

 Schedule B

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES

 (CITY PROPERTY AND CORNISH PROPERTY)

 City Property:

 That portion of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 24, Second Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid off by the Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased (commonly known as Heirs of Sarah A. Bell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 121, in King County, Washington, lying easterly of and excepting therefrom that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 36118 for Westlake Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 7733 of the City of Seattle.

 Cornish Property:

 That portion of Lot 10, Block 24, Second Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid off by the Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased (commonly known as Heirs of Sarah A. Bell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 121, in King County, Washington, lying easterly of and excepting therefrom that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 36118 for Westlake Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 7733 of the City of Seattle

[Schedule C - LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN CORNISH AND TENANT](/~ordpics/116347At1ExDSchedC.pdf)

 EXHIBIT E

 TENANT CERTIFICATE (pages 73-102 of this Agreement)

 TENANT ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE AND AGREEMENT

 To: The City of Seattle c/o Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Floor Seattle, WA 98134

 Re: Lease dated April 6, 1993 as amended by Lease Extension dated May 6, 1998, Letter Agreement dated December 2, 2003, Lease Amendment dated August 2, 2005, Letter Agreement dated November 2, 2006, and Lease Extension dated March 20, 2008 (collectively "Lease") between Cornish College of the Arts, as successor in interest to Howard K. Anderson and Dorcas Anderson ("Lessor"), and Enterprise Leasing Company dba Enterprise Rent-A-Car ("Tenant") of premises located at 2116 Westlake Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98112

 Ladies and Gentlemen:

 We understand that Cornish College of the Arts ("Cornish"), the successor to Lessor under the above-described Lease, intends to sell to the City of Seattle ("City") a portion of the real property that is currently leased to Tenant. The portion to be acquired by the City is legally described on Attachment 1 attached hereto and incorporated herein ("City Property"). We understand that the City intends to purchase the City Property subject to the Lease and that City intends to accept a partial assignment of the Lessor's interest in the Lease at closing. We further understand that as a condition to closing, the City requires certain representations, warranties, assurances and agreements from Tenant. This Tenant Estoppel Certificate and Agreement shall be valid in all respects from the date of its execution through and including the date upon which the City acquires title to the City Property from Cornish (the "Closing Date"), provided such acquisition occurs on or before January 31, 2009. At any time prior to the Closing Date, upon the occurrence of any event which would render any of the statements contained herein materially untrue, Tenant may revoke this Estoppel Certificate and Agreement by written notice to Cornish and City delivered in the manner set forth in Section 17 and, in the absence of such revocation, Cornish and the City may rely upon the statements contained herein as of the Closing Date.

 We hereby warrant to you and agree with you as follows:

 1. The Lease is in full force and effect, has not been modified or amended except as set forth above and is enforceable in accordance with its terms. A true and complete copy of the Lease is attached hereto as Attachment 2.

 2. The legal description of the real property leased by Tenant under the Lease is attached hereto as Attachment 3 ("Premises").

 3. The term of the Lease commenced on December 1, 1993, and expires on November 30, 2013 (as evidenced by our March 20, 2008 letter exercising our third 5-year option to renew). As of the date hereof Tenant is in possession of the Premises in accordance with the terms of the Lease. Tenant has no rights of renewals or other Lease extension options respecting the Premises except as stated in the lease amendment dated August 2, 2005, which provides for two five-year renewal options, one of which remains unexercised, and if exercised, will extend the term of the Lease until November 30, 2018, unless the Lease is sooner terminated.

 4. Cornish and Tenant have entered into a letter agreement (a copy of which has been provided to the City) wherein Tenant has agreed that Cornish's current development plans for the Premises satisfy the Lease termination provisions of Section 17.12(b) and that the Lease may be terminated pursuant to such letter and the terms of Section 17.12.(b).

 5. Tenant has not assigned, transferred, or encumbered all or any portion of its interest in the Lease. Tenant does not currently sublet the Premises, or any portion thereof.

 6. To Tenant's actual knowledge without investigation, Tenant is not in default in the performance of any term or provision of the Lease to be performed by Tenant. To Tenant's actual knowledge without investigation, no condition exists that, with the passage of time or the giving of notice, would constitute a default if not cured within any applicable cure period.

 7. Cornish is not in default in the performance of any term or provision of the Lease to be performed by Cornish. No condition exists that, with the passage of time or the giving of notice, would constitute a default if not cured within any applicable cure period.

 8. On the date of Cornish's acquisition of the Premises, Lessor was not in default in the performance of any term or provision of the Lease to be performed by Lessor. Tenant has no claims against Lessor with respect to the Lease or the Premises, and Tenant hereby acknowledges and agrees that Cornish and the City have no liability to Tenant, and Tenant hereby releases Cornish and the City, for any acts or omissions of Lessor with respect to the Lease or the Premises.

 9. Neither Cornish nor Lessor, the predecessor in interest to Cornish, has waived the performance or observance by Tenant of any of the terms, covenants or conditions to be performed or observed by Tenant under the Lease, and Tenant has not waived the performance or observance by Lessor or Cornish of any of the terms, covenants or conditions to be performed or observed by the lessor under the Lease.

 10. Tenant has received no notice and has no knowledge of a prior sale, transfer, assignment, hypothecation, or pledge of the Premises, or any part thereof, or of the Lease, or the rents or any other interest thereunder, besides the sale of the Property which closed on January 10, 2008 between the Estate of Howard Anderson, seller, and Cornish College of the Arts, buyer, AND the pending sale of a portion of the Property, between Cornish College of the Arts, seller, and the City of Seattle, buyer.

 11. Intentionally deleted.

 12. The current rent under the Lease is Eight Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($8500) per month, scheduled to increase to Nine Thousand Three Hundred Fifty Dollars ($9350) per month starting December 1, 2008. No rent or other sum payable by Tenant under the Lease has been prepaid. As of the date hereof, there is no offset or defense to the payment of any rent, additional rent, or other sums payable under the Lease.

 13. The annual real property taxes for the City Property, which Tenant is required to pay under the terms of the Lease, are Twenty-six Thousand Nine Hundred Seventy-four and 35/100 Dollars ($26,974.35) for 2008. Tenant understands that the City Property will be exempt from general real property taxes (but not special district charges, including, without limitation, surface water and noxious weed charges) upon City acquisition of the City Property, but that pursuant to RCW Chapter 82.29A, Tenant is required to pay leasehold excise tax in lieu of general real property taxes with respect to rent for the City Property. Tenant acknowledges that it has agreed to pay such a tax pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Lease. In addition, Tenant will continue to be responsible for payment of special district charges for the City Property, which Tenant shall pay on a semi-annual basis on or prior to the payment due dates.

 14. Tenant agrees to make payments of the leasehold excise tax owed with respect to the rent for the City Property, on a monthly basis along with Tenant's rent payment. Rent allocable to the City Property is 55% of the total rent, or currently Four Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy-five and 00/100 Dollars ($4875.00) per month (subject to the increase described in Section 12 above). The real estate excise tax is twelve and 84/100 percent (12.84%) of the rent for the City Property, or currently Six Hundred Twenty-five and 95/100 Dollars ($625.95) per month (subject to the increase described in Section 12 above). Upon written notice to Tenant that the City has acquired the City Property until further written notice from the City, Tenant shall make payments of rent and of leasehold excise tax directly to Cornish. Tenant shall pay rent for the City Property along with leasehold excise tax directly to the City upon receipt of written notice from the City to do so.

 15. Within ten business days of written notice from Cornish of closing of the City's acquisition of the City Property, Tenant shall add the City to its policies of insurance, as required by Sections 5.5 and 8.2 of the Lease, and shall provide to the City evidence of payment, waivers and copies of all insurance certificates as required by the Lease. In addition, with respect to the insurance required under Section 8.2 of the Lease, Tenant agrees to cause its insurer to name the City as one of the insureds.

 16. Tenant's address for notice is:

 Enterprise Rent-A-Car 1119 SW 7th Street Renton, WA 98057 ATTN: General Manager

 17. Tenant agrees to notify the City and Cornish in writing, sent via first class mail return receipt requested, of any default under the Lease and any change of circumstance that affects the accuracy of the warranties made by Tenant. The City's address for notice is:

 Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South Third Floor Seattle, WA 98134 ATTN: Property Management

 Cornish's address for notice is: Cornish College of the Arts 1000 Lenora Street Seattle, WA 98121 ATTN: Vicki Clayton

 18. Tenant represents and warrants that it is a corporation duly organized and in good standing under the laws of the state of Washington, and that this Tenant Estoppel Certificate and Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf of Tenant.

 This Tenant Estoppel Certificate and Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and may be relied upon by the City, its successors and assigns.

 TENANT: Enterprise Leasing Company dba Enterprise Rent-A-Car By:_______________________________ Name:_____________________________ Title:______________________________ Dated:_____________________________

 Attachments:

 1. Legal Description of City Property 2. Copy of the Lease 3. Legal Description of the Premises

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ________________, 2008, before me the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of _________________, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________________________, to me known to be the ____________________ of ____________________________________________________, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 Date: _____________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at ____________

 My commission expires: ______________________

 _______________________ PRINT NAME:

 Use this space for Notary Seal/Stamp

 Attachment 1 Legal Description of City Property

 That portion of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 24, Second Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid off by the Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased (commonly known as Heirs of Sarah A. Bell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 121, in King County, Washington, lying easterly of and excepting thereof that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 36118 for Westlake Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 7733 of the City of Seattle.

[Attachment 2 - Copy of Lease](/~ordpics/116347At1ExEAt2.pdf)

[Attachment 3 - Legal Description of the Premises](/~ordpics/116347At1ExEAt3.pdf)

 EXHIBIT F - TEMPORARY USE PERMIT (pages 104-112 of this Agreement)

 TEMPORARY PERMIT AGREEMENT FOR PARKING AND CONSTRUCTION

 This TEMPORARY PERMIT AGREEMENT FOR PARKING AND CONSTRUCTION ("Agreement") is made and entered into this _______ day of ________, 2008 ("Effective Date"), by and between CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation (the "City") and CORNISH COLLEGE OF THE ARTS, a Washington non-profit corporation ("Cornish").

 RECITALS

 A. The City has purchased from Cornish the real property described in Exhibit A attached hereto (the "City Property").

 B. In the future, the City intends to construct and erect improvements and features on the City Property necessary for the City's construction, operation and maintenance of a public park (the "Park Improvements").

 C. Cornish is the owner of the real property described on Exhibit B attached hereto (the "Cornish Property").

 D. On the Cornish Property, Cornish intends to construct a new building at 2118 Westlake Avenue and remodel an existing building at 2101 9th Avenue (the "Cornish Improvements").

 E. As of the date hereof, the City Property and the Cornish Property are encumbered by that certain Commercial Lease dated April 6, 1993 as amended by letter dated May 6, 1998, as amended by letter dated December 2, 2003 and lease amendment dated August 2, 2005 by and between Howard K. Anderson and Dorcas Anderson, as landlord, and Enterprise Leasing Company dba Enterprise Rent-A-Car ("Enterprise") as tenant, as amended by letter dated November 2, 2006 between Charles Anderson, as landlord, and Enterprise, and amended by letter dated March 20, 2008 by Cornish College of the Arts, as landlord, and Enterprise (the "Enterprise Lease").

 F. As a condition of Cornish's sale of the City Property to the City, the City agreed to permit Cornish to use the City Property on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

 AGREEMENT

 1. Grant of Permits. The permits described in this Section 1 may each be referred to as a "Permit" and are collectively referred to as the "Permits".

 a. Parking Permit. The City hereby grants to and for the benefit of Cornish a temporary permit, over and across the City Property for the purpose of parking motor vehicles on the surface of the City Property and on the first below-grade parking level of the City Property for Cornish's officers, agents, contractors, employees and invitees (the "Temporary Parking Permit"). Commercial parking is not permitted.

 b. Temporary Construction Permit. The City hereby grants to and for the benefit of Cornish a temporary permit upon, over and across the City Property for the purposes of staging, storing and laying down construction materials, equipment and supplies to be used by Cornish and its contractors in connection with building and erecting the Cornish Improvements (the "Temporary Construction Permit"); provided that the Temporary Construction Permit shall be conditioned upon requirements that: (1) Cornish's design and installation techniques utilized in connection with construction of the Cornish Improvements shall be calculated to reasonably protect against personal injury and property damage and (2) all persons performing services on behalf of Cornish in connection with the construction of the Cornish Improvements shall provide reasonable protection against personal injury and property damage and shall comply with the terms of this Agreement.

 c. Crane Sweep Permit. The City hereby grants to and for the benefit of Cornish a temporary permit to allow Cornish and its contractors, subcontractors and agents to swing a crane through the airspace above the City Property at a safe distance above any facilities or improvements located thereon in connection with construction of the Cornish Improvements (the "Temporary Crane Sweep Permit").

 2. Use and Maintenance of City Property.

 a. Use of City Property. Cornish agrees to use the City Property in a safe and reasonable manner so as to minimize disruption to the City Property and in compliance with all governmental laws and regulations with respect to any and all activities conducted by Cornish upon the City Property pursuant to this Agreement. Under the Temporary Parking Permit, Cornish shall have the right to use the surface area and the first below-grade parking level of the City Property for parking in a manner consistent with this Agreement. Parking shall be for the non- commercial parking of vehicles upon the City Property by invitees of Cornish or the Cornish Property. Cornish shall use the Temporary Construction Permit and the Temporary Crane Sweep Permit for building and installing the Cornish Improvements at its own expense and storing and staging construction materials, equipment and supplies in connection therewith. To provide structural support for the Cornish Improvements, Cornish may install temporary tie-backs (de-tensioned tie-backs may remain in place upon the City Property notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement, provided that in such event Cornish shall deliver to the City an accurate as-built plan of their depths and locations). Cornish shall construct the Cornish Improvements in a careful, workmanlike manner and free of claims or liens upon the City Property.

 b. Maintenance of and Responsibility for City Property. While the Permits are in effect, Cornish shall maintain the City Property (including the first below-grade parking level) in a good, safe condition in compliance with all applicable governmental laws and regulations. Cornish's maintenance obligations under this paragraph shall include the duty to generally keep the City Property free from trash, debris and graffiti. Cornish shall also be responsible for providing adequate security, particularly night time security, and for prohibiting and taking reasonable actions to prevent unlawful use of the City Property.

 3. Term of Permits.

 a. Commencement of Permits. The Permits shall commence upon Enterprise vacating the City Property.

 b. Termination of Permits. The Permits shall terminate upon the earlier to occur of the following events: (i) Cornish's delivery to the City of written notice of termination; or (ii) the date which is thirty (30) days after the date on which the City delivers written notice of termination to Cornish, provided: (a) the City shall not deliver such notice if Cornish is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, has previously commenced construction of the Cornish Improvements, is diligently prosecuting completion of the Cornish Improvements and the Cornish Improvements are not yet substantially complete, (b) the City shall not deliver such notice if Cornish is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the City is not yet fully prepared and intends to use the City Property for park purposes, and (c) in no event shall the City deliver such notice earlier than twenty-four (24) months after the termination of the Enterprise Lease unless Cornish is not in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 4. No Vested Rights; Non-Assignable. The Permits are wholly of a temporary nature, vest no permanent rights to Cornish whatsoever, are granted to Cornish only and cannot be transferred.

 5. Permit Fee. Upon Enterprise vacating the City Property and so long as the Permits have not been terminated in accordance with Section 3(b), Cornish shall pay to the City, as consideration for the Permits, monthly payments in an amount determined by multiplying the gross rents that would have been payable by Enterprise under the Enterprise Lease during such month by a fraction having a numerator equal to the square footage of the City Property and a denominator equal to the square footage of the Premises (the "Permit Fee"). Cornish shall pay the Permit Fee in advance in monthly installments until the Permits are terminated pursuant to Section 3(b) and, in the event of such termination, Cornish shall be entitled to a pro-rated refund of any prepaid Permit Fee.

 6. Deduction from Permit Fee for Maintenance and Security. Prior to commencement of construction of the Cornish Improvements, and effective upon substantial completion of the Cornish Improvements as evidenced by the certificate of occupancy issued in connection therewith, Cornish shall be entitled to deduct from the Permit Fee its actual and reasonable costs of maintaining the City Property (including, without limitation, keeping the City Property free from trash, debris and graffiti) and providing reasonable security, particularly night time security, for the City Property, consistent with Section 2(b), until such time as the Permits are terminated; provided that in no event shall the City owe any payment to Cornish for maintenance and security.

 7. Restoration of City Property. In the event any portion of the City Property is disturbed by the activities of Cornish, its employees, invitees, or its contractors or agents relating to, or arising from, the exercise of any of Cornish's rights under this Agreement, Cornish shall promptly restore the City Property to the condition in which it existed at the commencement of such activities.

 8. Rights Retained by City. Notwithstanding the Permits, the City shall retain the right to use the City Property during the term of this Agreement for purposes not inconsistent with this Agreement and provided such use does not unreasonably interfere with Cornish's rights hereunder.

 9. Indemnity. Cornish shall indemnify, defend and hold the City and its beneficiaries, agents, employees and contractors, individually and collectively harmless from and against any and all losses, damages, fines, penalties, liens, liabilities and expenses resulting from any actual or alleged injury to any person or any actual or alleged loss of or damage to any property arising from use of the City Property or the Permits by Cornish, its employees, invitees, or any agent, contractor or other person performing services on behalf of Cornish in connection with construction of the Cornish Improvements. In the event that any suit based upon such losses, damages, fines, penalties, liens, liabilities or expenses is brought against the City, Cornish shall (at the election of the City) defend the same at its sole cost and expense. If final judgment is adverse to the City or the City and Cornish jointly, Cornish shall promptly satisfy the same, to the extent of Cornish's indemnity obligations hereunder.

 10. Insurance. Cornish shall maintain, and shall cause its contractors to maintain, Commercial General Liability insurance under which the City of Seattle shall be included as an additional insured for primary and non-contributory limits of liability. The minimum limits of liability of such insurance shall be $2,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage. Cornish shall provide certification of insurance on or before the Effective Date and shall cause its contractors to provide certification of insurance prior to commencement of any work on the Cornish Improvements. Certification shall: (a) be issued to "The City of Seattle, Risk Management Division, P.O. Box 94669, Seattle, WA 98124-4669,"(b) delivered electronically by fax to (206)470-1270 or as an email attachment to riskmanagement@seattle.gov, (c) reference "Temporary Permit For Parking And Construction by and between the City of Seattle and Cornish College of The Arts, and (d) include an actual copy of the additional insured provision of the insurance policy that documents that the City of Seattle is an additional insured for primary and non-contributory limits of liability. If any contractor constructing or working on the Cornish Improvements fails to comply with the foregoing requirements relating to insurance, the City, at its option, may require the contractor to cease construction activity until such insurance is obtained.

 11. Liens And Encumbrances. Cornish shall keep the City Property free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising out of the use or occupancy of the City Property by Cornish, its agents and contractors. At the City's request, Cornish shall furnish the City with written proof of payment of any item which, if not paid, would or might constitute the basis for such a lien on the City Property.

 12. Hazardous Substances. Cornish shall not allow the use or storage of any hazardous, dangerous or toxic substances or material (including but not limited to petroleum products, greases and illegal pesticides) on the City Property except in full compliance with applicable law. Cornish shall be responsible for complying with all federal, state and local laws and regulations in regard to the handling and disposing of hazardous, dangerous or toxic substances or material that Cornish, its employees, agents or contractors brings onto or uses on the City Property. In no instance shall Cornish allow the release or disposal of any hazardous, dangerous or toxic substances or material on the City Property.

 13. Other Permits / Approvals / Regulations. Cornish shall obtain all necessary permits and approvals required by applicable State and City laws, ordinances, rules and regulations to perform any work on the City Property.

 14. Representation and Warranty. Each party represents and warrants that it has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement without the consent of any other person or entity and that the person signing this Agreement on its behalf is duly authorized to do so.

 15. Enforcement; Remedies. This Agreement is enforceable only by the City and Cornish and there are no intended third party beneficiaries of this Agreement. In addition to such other remedies as may be available at law or equity, the parties shall be entitled to specific performance of this Agreement.

 16. Notice. Any notice permitted or required to be given by either party to this Agreement shall be given in writing and may be effected by certified United States mail, with return receipt requested, properly addressed, postage prepaid, by reputable overnight delivery service, or by personal delivery, as follows:

 If to Cornish: Cornish College of the Arts 1000 Lenora Street Seattle, WA 98121 Attn: Jeff Riddell, Chief Financial Officer

 If to the City : Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr. Seattle, WA 98134 Attn: Lise Ward

 17. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.

 18. Modification. This Agreement may be amended or modified only by written instrument, executed and acknowledged by the parties hereto.

 19. Headings. The headings used herein are for convenience only and are not to be used in interpreting this Agreement.

 20. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed the original and which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

 If to Cornish: Cornish College of the Arts 1000 Lenora Street Seattle, WA 98121 Attn: Jeff Riddell, Chief Financial Officer

 If to the City : Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Flr. Seattle, WA 98134 Attn: Lise Ward

 or to such other address or to such other person's attention of which notice was given in accordance with this section. Notice shall be deemed effective upon receipt in the case of personal delivery or delivery by overnight courier and two (2) days after being properly deposited in the United States mail as described above.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties execute this Agreement as of the Effective Date.

 "CORNISH" Cornish College of the Arts, a Washington non-profit corporation By: __________________________________ Sergei Tschernisch President

 By: ___________________________________ Jeff Riddell Chief Financial Officer

 "CITY" The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation By: ___________________________________ Timothy A. Gallagher Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

 Exhibit A

 THE CITY PROPERTY

 That portion of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block 24, Second Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid off by the Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased (commonly known as Heirs of Sarah A. Bell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 121, in King County, Washington, lying easterly of and excepting therefrom that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 36118 for Westlake Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 7733 of the City of Seattle.

 Exhibit B

 THE CORNISH PROPERTY

 Lots 11 and 12, Block 24, Second Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid off by the Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased (commonly known as Heirs of Sarah A. Bell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 121, in King County, Washington.

 And

 That portion of Lot 10, Block 24, Second Addition to the Town of Seattle as laid off by the Heirs of Sarah A. Bell, deceased (commonly known as Heirs of Sarah A. Bell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle), according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 121, in King County, Washington, lying easterly of and excepting therefrom that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause Number 36118 for Westlake Avenue, as provided by Ordinance Number 7733 of the City of Seattle.

 t

```
