

********

**Council Bill Number: 116358**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122882**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning; enacting a new Chapter 23.58A in the Seattle Municipal Code in order to support workforce housing incentives and other incentives, and to implement Comprehensive Plan policies.

**Status:** Passed as Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 15, 2008
   
**Vote:** 6-3 (No: Harrell, Licata, Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 22, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 19, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Incentive Zoning Ordinance

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 6, 2008
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, ZONING, HOUSING, MODERATE-INCOME-HOUSING, MIXED-INCOME-HOUSING, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, HOUSING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Clerk File 309620](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s2=&s3=309620&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CFCF1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CFCF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcfcf1.htm&r=1&f=G)

**Fiscal Note:**116358

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122882](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122882.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning; enacting a new Chapter 23.58A in the Seattle Municipal Code in order to support workforce housing incentives and other incentives, and to implement Comprehensive Plan policies.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. A new Chapter 23.58A, "Incentive Provisions" is added to the Seattle Municipal Code, including subchapters I and II, as follows:

 Chapter 23.58A Incentive Provisions

 Subchapter I General provisions

 23.58A.002 Scope of chapter; general rules

 A. This chapter contains rules for workforce housing and other incentive programs in areas for which the provisions of the zone specifically refer to this chapter. This chapter does not apply to Downtown zones. The provisions in this chapter specify conditions under which extra floor area may be allowed, as exceptions to the otherwise applicable floor area or base height limit, or both, subject to the maximum limits stated in the provisions of the zone and to all other applicable requirements and approvals. Nothing in this chapter authorizes allowance of extra floor area, or the construction or use of any structure, contrary to any other provisions of this title or Title 25. Projects for which extra floor area is sought may be subject to conditions under other chapters and titles of this Code, including without limitation conditions imposed pursuant to Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures.

 B. The provisions of this subchapter apply generally to projects using any of the incentive provisions in this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided in the applicable subchapter of this chapter or in the provisions of the zone.

 C. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to confer on any owner or developer any development rights or property interests. The availability and terms of any allowance of extra floor area depend on the regulations in effect on the relevant date for consideration of a permit application for the project proposing to use such extra floor area, pursuant to Section 23.76.026, notwithstanding any prior approvals, interpretations or agreements by the Director, Housing Director or other official regarding the eligibility of any actual or proposed facility or feature to satisfy conditions for extra floor area.

 23.58A.004 Definitions

 A. Scope and Applicability.

 1. General Rule. The terms set forth in quotations in this section, when used in this chapter, have the meanings set forth in this section unless the context otherwise requires.

 2. Definitions in Chapter 23.84A. Definitions in this chapter or in the applicable provisions of the zone supersede any definitions of the same terms in Chapter 23.84A for purposes of the provisions of this chapter, unless specified otherwise in this chapter.

 B. Defined Terms - General.

 "Affordable housing" means a unit or units of low-income housing provided as a condition to bonus floor area.

 "Base FAR" or "Base floor area ratio" means the nonresidential floor area that may be allowed under the provisions of the zone limiting floor area, expressed as a multiple of the lot area, without use of any bonuses, transfer of development capacity, other incentive provisions, or any departures, waivers, variances or special exceptions.

 "Base residential floor area" means the amount of residential floor area allowable on a lot under the provisions of the zone that expressly limit floor area, excluding any floor area exempted from such limits, without use of any bonuses, transfer of development capacity, other incentive provisions, or any departures, waivers, variances or special exceptions, and before giving effect to any transfer of residential development potential to another lot.

 "Base height limit" means the height limit that would apply under the provisions of the zone based upon the proposed uses in a structure, if the applicant did not qualify for any additional height dependent on the provisions of this chapter, after giving effect to any additional height that is actually allowed for the pitched roof of a structure and any additional height that is or would be allowed under the provisions of the zone because of the slope of the lot, but before giving effect to any allowance for rooftop features or any departure, waiver, variance or special exception.

 "Bonus floor area" means bonus residential floor area or bonus nonresidential floor area.

 "Bonus nonresidential floor area" means extra nonresidential floor area allowed pursuant to any bonus provisions in this chapter.

 "Bonus residential floor area" means extra residential floor area allowed pursuant to the bonus provisions in subchapter II of this chapter. It includes, without limitation, housing bonus residential floor area.

 "Certificate of occupancy" means the first certificate of occupancy issued by the City for a project, whether temporary or permanent, unless otherwise specified.

 "Extra floor area" means extra residential floor area or extra nonresidential floor area.

 "Extra residential floor area" means the gross floor area of all residential development allowed in addition to a base height limit or base floor area limit, or both, under the provisions of this chapter or under any other provisions of this title referring to this chapter that allow a bonus or a transfer of development rights or development capacity. It includes, without limitation, gross floor area in residential use in all stories wholly or in part above the base height limit, and all bonus residential floor area.

 "Extra nonresidential floor area" means the nonresidential floor area of all nonresidential development allowed in addition to base FAR or to a base height limit for nonresidential use, or both, under the provisions of this chapter or under any other provisions of this title referring to this chapter that allow a bonus or a transfer of development rights or development capacity. It includes, without limitation, gross floor area in nonresidential use in all stories wholly or in part above the base height limit for nonresidential use, and all bonus nonresidential floor area.

 "Housing bonus residential floor area" means extra residential floor area allowed on condition that low-income housing be provided, or that a payment in lieu thereof be made, under subchapter II of this chapter.

 "Income-eligible households" means:

 1. In the case of rental of (a) eighty percent of annual median family income for the statistical area or division thereof including Seattle for which median family income is published from time to time by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, with adjustments according to household size in a manner determined by the Director of the Office of Housing or (b) the maximum level permitted by RCW 36.70A.540 as in effect when the agreement for the units to serve as affordable units is executed.

2. In the case of owner occupancy housing units, housing affordable to and occupied by households with incomes no higher than the lesser of (a) annual median family income for the statistical area or division thereof including Seattle for which median family income is published from time to time by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, with adjustments according to household size in a manner determined by the Director of the Office of Housing, or (b) the maximum level permitted by RCW 36.70A.540 as in effect when the agreement for the units to serve as affordable units is executed.

 "Low-income housing" means housing affordable to and occupied by "income-eligible households."

 "Net bonus residential floor area" means gross square footage of "housing bonus residential floor area", multiplied by an efficiency factor of 80 percent.

 "Payment option" means making a payment to the City in lieu of providing low-income housing, child care, or any amenity or feature, in order to qualify for bonus floor area.

 "Performance option" means providing or committing to provide a physical facility, or a portion or feature of a project, such as low-income housing, in order to qualify for bonus floor area.

 "Provision of the zone" means a provision of another chapter of this title relating to allowable floor area or height, or to the allowance of extra floor area or additional height, or both, for the area in which the lot on which extra floor area is used or proposed is located.

 23.58A.006 Permitting conditions-Incentive Plans

 A. Master Use Permit. The Master Use Permit application to establish any extra floor area under this chapter shall include a calculation of the total amount of extra floor area sought and shall identify the manner in which the conditions to such extra floor area shall be satisfied. If the applicant seeks bonus floor area under any provisions allowing the option of performance or a payment in lieu thereof, the applicant shall indicate whether it intends to pursue the payment option or the performance option, or what combination of the two options. If any performance option is to be used, the application shall include the proposed location of the affordable housing or other facilities, including the proposed location or distribution within the proposed building(s), and if not to be provided on the same lot as the development using the extra floor area, the address, legal description, dimensions and ownership of the other lot(s). The Director shall, at the time of issuance of any Master Use Permit decision approving any such extra floor area, issue a Type I decision as to the amount of extra floor area to be allowed and the conditions to such extra floor area, which decision may include alternative means to achieve extra floor area, at the applicant's option, if each alternative would be consistent with the provisions of this chapter, the applicable provisions of the zone, and any other conditions of the permit, including Design Review conditions if applicable.

 B. First Building Permit. Prior to issuance, and as a condition to issuance, of the first building permit for a project, and in any event before any permit for any construction activity other than excavation and shoring is issued, the applicant shall execute and record a declaration in a form acceptable to the Director that shall commit the applicant to satisfy the conditions to establishing extra floor area as approved by the Director at the time of the Master Use Permit decision.

 23.58A.008 Limits on use of incentives

 No extra floor area under this chapter shall be granted to any proposed development that would result in significant alteration to any designated feature of a Landmark structure unless a Certificate of Approval for the alteration is granted by the Landmarks Preservation Board.

 Subchapter II: Extra residential floor area

 23.58A.010 Scope of subchapter

 This subchapter II includes provisions under which applicants may gain extra residential floor area in development for which the applicable provisions of the zone expressly refer to this chapter.

 23.58A.012 Methods to achieve extra residential floor area

 All or a percentage of the extra residential floor area on a lot shall be housing bonus residential floor area pursuant to Section 23.58A.014. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the provisions of the zone:

 A. If the maximum height limit for residential use is 85 feet or less, all extra residential floor area shall be housing bonus residential floor area.

 B. If the maximum height limit for residential use is greater than 85 feet, the applicant shall use housing bonus residential floor area to achieve at least 60 percent of total the extra residential floor area on the lot, and, to the extent permitted under the provisions of the zone or this subchapter, shall use other bonus residential floor area or transfer of residential development potential, or both, for the balance of the extra residential floor area.

 23.58A.013 Affordable housing incentive program: purpose and findings

 A. Purpose; Scope of provisions; State Law Controlling. The purpose of affordable housing incentive programs is to encourage higher density residential development in appropriate areas while ensuring that a portion of the additional development will be affordable housing, pursuant to authority granted in RCW 36.70A.540. In case of any irreconcilable conflict between the terms of this section and the authority granted in RCW 36.70A.540, as it may be amended, the provisions of RCW 36.70A.540, as it may be amended, shall supersede and control. Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, references to RCW 36.70A.540 in this subchapter mean that section as in effect on the date as of which the provisions of this title apply to the application for a use permit for the project using the bonus residential floor area.

 B. Findings. Pursuant to the authority of RCW 36.70A.540, the City finds that the higher income levels specified in the definition of "income-eligible households" in Section 23.58A.004, rather than those stated in the definition of "low-income households" in RCW 36.70A.540, are needed to address local housing market conditions throughout the City.

 23.58A.014 Bonus residential floor area for affordable housing

 A. Scope; General Rule. This section applies to bonus residential floor area allowed on lots for which applicable sections of this title expressly refer to this chapter. Bonus residential floor area may be allowed when the applicant qualifies by using the performance option, the payment option, or a combination of these options, in accordance with this section and subject to the provisions of the zone. However, where the maximum allowable height under the applicable provisions of the zone is 85 feet or less, the applicant may only use the performance option.

 B. Performance option.

 1. An applicant using the performance option shall provide low-income housing with a gross floor area at least equal to the greatest of (a) 17.5 percent of the net bonus residential floor area obtained through the performance option, except that an applicant may elect to provide low-income housing equal to 10 percent of the net bonus residential floor area obtained through the performance option if the housing is affordable to, and restricted to occupancy by, households with incomes no higher than 50% of median income as defined by Section 23.84A.025; or (b) 300 net residential square feet; or (c) any minimum floor area specified in the provisions of the zone. The percentage of net bonus residential floor area obtained through the performance option may be reduced by the Council below 17.5 percent of the net bonus residential floor area to no less than 15 percent of the net bonus residential floor area as a Type V decision on an official land use map amendment or text amendment when the Council determines that the reduction is needed to accomplish Comprehensive Plan goals and policies or to reflect economic conditions of the area. Applicants may provide low- income housing as part of the project using extra floor area, or by providing or contributing to a low-income housing project at another location, subject to requirements in subsection B5 of this section and approved in writing by the Housing Director prior to issuance of the first building permit for the development using the bonus floor area.

 2. Affordable housing shall serve only income-eligible households for a minimum period of 50 years from the later of the date when the agreement between the housing owner and the City, as referenced in subsection B5, is recorded, or the date when the affordable housing becomes available for occupancy as determined by the City. For rental housing, rent shall be limited so that housing costs, including rent and basic utilities, shall not exceed 30 percent of the applicable income limit for the unit under this section, all as determined by the Housing Director, for a minimum period of 50 years. For owner-occupied housing, the initial sale price shall not exceed an amount determined by the Housing Director to be consistent with affordable housing for an income-eligible household with the average family size expected to occupy the unit based on the number of bedrooms, and the units shall be subject to recorded instruments satisfactory to the Housing Director providing for sales prices on any resale consistent with affordability on the same basis for at least 50 years.

 3. Affordable housing shall be provided in a range of sizes consistent with RCW 36.70A.540. The affordable housing shall comply with all requirements of RCW 36.70A.540.

 4. If the affordable housing is developed within the project using the bonus floor area:

 (a) The affordable housing must serve income- eligible households for the minimum time period referred to in this section.

 (b) The affordable housing shall be completed and ready for occupancy at or before the time when a certificate of occupancy is issued for any other units in the project using the bonus residential floor area, and as a condition to any right of the applicant to such a certificate of occupancy.

 5. If the affordable housing is not being developed within the project using the bonus residential floor area:

 (a) Proposals for affordable housing at a location other than within the project using the bonus floor area are subject to approval by the Housing Director. Approval requires a determination by the Housing Director that the affordable housing will (1) be located within the same neighborhood where the development using the bonus residential floor area is located, except as otherwise provided in subsection B5(b) of this section; (2) provide a public benefit, the value of which, as demonstrated by the applicant, exceeds the amount of the payment-in-lieu that would otherwise be paid; and (3) be more affordable than market rents or sale prices, as applicable, for housing in the neighborhood in which the affordable housing is located.

 (b) If the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Housing Director that it is infeasible for the off-site affordable housing to be located within the same neighborhood where the development using the bonus residential floor area is located, then (i) the Housing Director may allow the affordable housing to be provided elsewhere in the City within 0.5 mile of a light rail or bus rapid transit station, or (ii) if the applicant demonstrates that providing the affordable housing in such a location is also infeasible, then the Housing Director may allow the off-site housing to be provided elsewhere within the same City sector, as delineated by Interstate-5, the Ship Canal and Interstate- 90 (as projected to Elliott Bay), where the development using the bonus residential floor area is located.

 (c) The affordable housing must serve income- eligible households for the minimum time period referred to in this section pursuant to an agreement between the housing owner and the City.

 (d) The agreement required by subsection (c) must be executed and recorded prior to issuance, and as a condition to issuance, of the first building permit for the project using the bonus residential floor area, and in any event before any permit for any construction activity other than excavation and shoring is issued.

 (e) The applicant shall provide to the City an irrevocable letter of credit, or other sufficient security approved by the Housing Director, prior to and as a condition of issuance of the first building permit, other than for grading and shoring, for the project using the bonus residential floor area, unless completion of the affordable housing has already been documented to the satisfaction of the Housing Director and the affordable housing is subject to recorded restrictions satisfactory to the Housing Director. The letter of credit or other security shall be in an amount equal to the Payment Option amount calculated according to provisions in subsection C of this section, plus an amount equal to interest on such payment, at the rate equal to the prime rate quoted by Bank of America or its successor at the time the letter of credit or other security is provided, plus 3 percent per annum, from the date of issuance of the first building permit, other than for excavation and shoring, for the project using the bonus residential floor area. The letter of credit or other security shall be on terms such that when a certificate of occupancy is issued for the project using the bonus residential floor area, or on any earlier date 30 days before the letter of credit or other security will expire, if the required quantity of affordable housing is not completed and ready for occupancy or the affordable housing is not all subject to a recorded agreement sufficient to satisfy the terms of this section, the City shall have a right to draw on the letter of credit or other security. If and when the City becomes entitled to realize on any such security, the Housing Director shall take appropriate steps to collect the amount calculated pursuant to the payment option provisions in subsection C of this section (after allowing credit for any affordable housing then provided and accepted by the Housing Director), with interest for the period and at the rate determined pursuant to this subsection, and the amounts realized, net of any costs to the City, shall be used in the same manner as cash payments for housing made under this section. To the extent the City receives payment through a letter of credit or other security, the obligation of the applicant to provide affordable housing will be deemed satisfied and the applicant shall be deemed to have elected the payment option. The applicant shall not be entitled to any refund based on later completion of affordable housing.

 (f) If the Housing Director certifies to the Director that either (i) the applicant has provided the City with a letter of credit or other sufficient security pursuant to subsection B5(e) of this section; or (ii) there have been recorded one or more agreements or instruments satisfactory to the Housing Director providing for occupancy and affordability restrictions on affordable housing with the minimum floor area determined under this section, all affordable housing have been completed, and the affordable housing is on a different lot from the bonus residential floor area or are in one or more condominium units separate from the bonus residential floor area under condominium documents acceptable to the Housing Director, then any failure of the affordable housing to satisfy the requirements of this subsection B shall not affect the right to maintain or occupy the bonus residential floor area.

 (g) Unless and until the Housing Director shall certify as set forth in clause (i) or (ii) of subsection B5(f) of this section, it shall be a continuing permit condition, whether or not expressly stated, for each project obtaining bonus residential floor area based on the provision of housing to which this section applies, that the affordable housing shall be maintained in compliance with the terms of this section and any applicable provisions of the zone, as documented to the satisfaction of the Housing Director.

 6. No subsidies for bonused housing; Exception.

 (a) The Housing Director may require, as a condition of any bonus residential floor area under the performance option, that the owner of the lot upon which the affordable housing is located agree not to seek or accept any subsidies, including without limitation those items referred to subsection B6(b)(i) of this section, related to housing, except for any subsidies that may be allowed by the Housing Director under that subsection. The Director may require that such agreement provide for the payment to the City, for deposit in an appropriate subfund or account, of the value of any subsidies received in excess of any amounts allowed by such agreement.

 (b) In general, and except as may be otherwise required by applicable federal or state law, no bonus residential floor area may be earned by providing housing if:

 (i) Any person is receiving or will receive with respect to the housing any charitable contributions or public subsidies for housing development or operation, including, but not limited to, tax exempt bond financing, tax credits, federal loans or grants, City of Seattle housing loans or grants, county housing funds, and State of Washington housing funds; or

 (ii) The housing is or would be, independent of the requirements for the bonus residential floor area, subject to any restrictions on the income of occupants, rents or sale prices.

 (c) For the purpose of this subsection B6, the qualification for and use of property tax exemptions pursuant to Chapter 5.73 SMC, or any other program implemented pursuant to Chapter 84.14 RCW, does not constitute a subsidy , and any related conditions regarding incomes, rent or sale prices do not constitute restrictions.

 (d) As an exception to the restriction on subsidies, the Housing Director may allow the building or buildings in which the affordable housing is located to be financed in part with subsidies based on the determination that (1) the total amount of affordable housing is at least 300 net residential square feet greater than the amount otherwise required through the performance option under this section; (2) the public benefit of the affordable housing net of any subsidies, as measured through an economic analysis, exceeds the amount of the payment-in-lieu that would otherwise be paid; and (3) the subsidies being allowed would not be sufficient to leverage private funds for production of the affordable housing, under restrictions as required for the performance option, without additional City subsidy in an amount greater than the payment-in-lieu amount that would otherwise be paid.

 7. The Housing Director is authorized to accept and execute agreements and instruments to implement this section. Issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the project using the bonus residential floor area may be conditioned on such agreements and instruments.

 8. The housing owner, in the case of rental housing, shall provide annual reports and pay an annual monitoring fee to the Office of Housing for each affordable housing unit, as specified under Chapter 22.900G. In the case of affordable housing for owner- occupancy, the applicant shall pay an initial monitoring fee to the Office of Housing as specified under Chapter 22.900G, and the recorded resale restrictions shall include a provision requiring payment to the City, on any sale or other transfer of a unit after the initial sale, of a fee in the amount of $500, to be adjusted in proportion to changes in the consumer price index from 2008 to the year in which the sale or transfer is made, for the review and processing of documents to determine compliance with income and affordability restrictions.

 C. Payment option. The payment option is available only where the maximum height for residential use under the provisions of the zone is more than 85 feet.

 1. In lieu of all or part of the performance option, an applicant may pay to the City $18.94 per square foot of net bonus residential floor area.

 2. Cash payments shall be made prior to issuance, and as a condition to issuance, of any building permit after the first building permit for a project, and in any event before any permit for any construction activity other than excavation and shoring is issued, unless the applicant elects in writing to defer payment. If the applicant elects to defer payment, then the issuance of any certificate of occupancy for the project shall be conditioned upon payment of the full amount of the cash payment determined under this section, plus an interest factor equal to that amount multiplied by the increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers, West Region, All Items, 1982-84=100, as published monthly, from the last month prior to the date when payment would have been required if deferred payment had not been elected, to the last month for which data are available at the time of payment. If the index specified in this subsection is not available for any reason, the Director shall select a substitute cost of living index. In no case shall the interest factor be less than zero.

 3. Payments in lieu of affordable housing shall be deposited in a special account established solely to support the development of low-income housing as defined in this chapter. Earnings on balances in the special account shall accrue to that account. The Housing Director shall use cash payments and any earnings thereon to support the development or preservation of low- income housing in any manner now or hereafter permitted by RCW 36.70A.540, including renter or owner housing for income-eligible households. Uses of funds may include land purchase for the purpose of providing low-income housing; the City's costs to administer projects, not to exceed 10 percent of the payments into the special account loans or grants to public or private owners or developers of housing; and loans or grants to affordable households for home purchases. The location of affordable housing funded wholly or in part with cash payments shall be prioritized in the following order: (1) within the same neighborhoods where the developments using the bonus residential floor area are located; (2) in the City within 0.5 mile of light rail or bus rapid transit stations; and (3) within the same City sectors delineated by Interstate-5, the Ship Canal and Interstate-90 (as projected to Elliott Bay) where the developments using the bonus residential floor area are located.

 D. If a rental housing building on a lot contained four or more dwelling units that were occupied and demolished on the site of the new project within 18 months prior to a Master Use Permit application to establish bonus residential floor area on the lot, the amount of low-income housing to be provided under subsection B1 of this Section is increased by the gross square footage of any units within the building that were rented to tenants who received a tenant relocation assistance payment under Chapter 22.210, and the additional low- income housing is subject to the following requirements:

 1. For the first 50 calendar years of operation, the low-income housing shall be affordable to households with incomes at or below 50 percent of median income as defined by Section 23.84A.025.

 2. A cash payment in lieu of the additional low- income housing is not permitted.

 3. If the additional low-income housing is not being provided in the project using the bonus residential floor area, the additional low-income housing units shall be completed, and a certificate of occupancy shall be issued, within three years from the time when a certificate of occupancy is issued for any units in the project seeking bonus residential floor area, except that the Director may extend the time for completion if Director finds that:

 (a) The failure to complete the low-income housing is due to circumstances beyond the applicant's control;

 (b) The applicant has been acting and may reasonably be expected to continue to act in good faith and with due diligence; and

 (c) The low-income housing will be completed within a reasonable time.

 E. The Director and the Housing Director are authorized jointly to adopt rules to interpret and implement the provisions of this section.

 Section 2. Section 23.48.011 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was enacted by Ordinance 122835, is amended as follows:

 23.48.011 Affordable Housing Incentive Program

 ***

~~D. This section shall expire and be of no further effect on the earlier of the effective date of any ordinance passed by the City Council enacting a new chapter 23.58A in the Seattle Municipal Code, or March 31, 2009.~~

 Section 3. Section 23.48.016 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was enacted by Ordinance 122835, is amended as follows:

 23.48.016 Standards applicable to specific areas

 ***

 C. Seattle Mixed/D/40-85

 2. Additional Height for Certain Structures with Only Residential Uses Above 40 Feet. A structure in the SM/D/40-85 zone that has only residential uses above a height of 40 feet has a maximum height limit of 85 feet if~~:~~

~~a.~~the applicant satisfies the conditions to bonus development under Section 23.48.011~~; or~~

~~b. Section 23.48.011 is no longer in effect, Chapter 23.58A is in effect, and the applicant satisfies all conditions set forth in Chapter 23.58A that apply to residential floor area above a base height limit; or~~

~~c. neither Section 23.48.011 nor Chapter 23.58A is in effect~~.

 Section 4. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision, or its invalidity as applied in any circumstances, shall not affect the validity of any other provision or the application of the particular provision in other circumstances.

 Section 5. To the extent that any performance or payment under Section 23.58A.014 as enacted by this ordinance may constitute a tax under applicable law, this ordinance enacts that tax pursuant to the authority in RCW 36.70A.540.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2008. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 ta

 CB 116358 as Adopted 12.15.08 v.18.doc December 15, 2008

```
