

********

**Council Bill Number: 116423**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122892**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment; authorizing the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding by and between the City of Seattle, the City Light Department, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77 effective January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2013; and providing payment therefor.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 15, 2008
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 22, 2008
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 19, 2008
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 8, 2008
   
**Committee:** Culture, Civil Rights, Health and Personnel
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** COLLECTIVE-BARGAINING, CITY-EMPLOYEES, WAGES-AND-SALARIES

**Fiscal Note:**116423

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122892](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122892.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment; authorizing the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding by and between the City of Seattle, the City Light Department, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77 effective January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2013; and providing payment therefor.

 WHEREAS, a collective bargaining agreement between the City and the City Light Department and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77 as the representative of certain employees will expire on January 22, 2009; and

 WHEREAS, collective bargaining has led to an agreement concerning wages, benefits and other conditions of employment between the City and the City Light Department and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77; the Agreement that was effective January 23, 2006 shall roll over in full force and effect for a four year period beginning January 23, 2009 and expiring January 22, 2013; and NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Personnel Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Mayor is hereby authorized for and on behalf of the City to execute a Memorandum of Understanding with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 77 effective through January 22, 2013, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1 and identified as "Memorandum of Understanding by and between City of Seattle and the City Light Department and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 77."

 Section 2. The Superintendent of City Light Department and/or his designees are hereby authorized to use unexpended and unencumbered salary funds accumulating in their budgets to pay the compensation authorized in the attached Memorandum of Understanding, and associated rates of pay described in Attachment 2, identified as "2009 Schedule "A" for Active Titles IBEW, Local 77, City Light - Wage Relationships and Wages January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2010."

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2008, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____ day of _____________, 2008. _________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2008. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2008. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Memorandum of Understanding By and Between City of Seattle and the City Light Department and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 77

 Attachment 2: 2009 Schedule "A" for Active Titles IBEW, Local 77, City Light - Wage Relationships and Wages January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2010.

 November 18, 2008 Version #1

 ATTACHMENT 1: Memorandum of Understanding

 By and Between City of Seattle and the City Light Department

 and

 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 77

 Effective January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2013

 This MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING is supplemental to the AGREEMENT by and between the City of Seattle, hereinafter referred to as the City, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 77, hereinafter referred to as the Union. Collectively they shall be known as the Parties.

 It is understood and agreed by and between the City and the Union that:

 1. All the terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement, currently in effect from January 23, 2006 through January 22, 2009 shall be rolled over to provide for a new contract period from January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2013 except for the following changes:

 a) Effective January 23, 2009 base waged rates for titles covered under this collective bargaining agreement shall receive a cost of living adjustment (COLA) equal to six point two percent (6.2%).

 b) Effective January 23, 2009 there will be a one-time wage adjustment to all classifications in the Lineworker series equal to three percent (3%) above the COLA adjustment of six point two percent (6.2%).

 c) Effective January 23, 2009 there will be a one-time wage adjustment to all classifications in the Protection and Control Electrician series equal to six percent (6%) above the COLA adjustment of six point two percent (6.2%).

 d) Effective January 23, 2010 base wage rates for titles covered under this collective bargaining agreement shall receive a cost of living adjustment equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the percentage increase in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton area Consumer price Index for the June over June method consistent with "Article 17 Wage Rates", in the current agreement.

 e) Effective January 23, 2011 base wage rates for titles covered under this collective bargaining agreement shall receive a cost of living adjustment equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the percentage increase in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton area Consumer price Index for the June over June method consistent with "Article 17 Wage Rates", in the current agreement.

 f) Effective January 23, 2012 base wage rates for titles covered under this collective bargaining agreement shall receive a cost of living adjustment equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the percentage increase in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton area Consumer price Index for the June over June method consistent with "Article 17 Wage Rates", in the current agreement.

 g) Add URD or Network Cable Pulling to "Material Supplier assigned Line Equipment Operator/Pole Digging Machine or Hydraulic Boom for Pole Setting or Transmission Line Work" title in schedule "A" of the parties agreement.

 h) The parties agree that the Seattle Municipal Code regarding the funding of the Seattle City Employees' Retirement System (hereinafter, "System") shall be amended consistent with the following language:

 If a year-end actuarial study commissioned by the System finds that the amortization period for the System's unfunded actuarial liability exceeds thirty (30) years and the City determines that an increase in contribution rates to the System is necessary, the City and employees shall equally increase contribution rates. Such increases shall not result in employees paying greater than a 10.03% contribution rate.

 The required contribution rate increases shall take effect no sooner than the beginning of the first pay period of the year following completion of the actuarial study. For example, if the actuarial study for the System as of December 31, 2008 was presented to the Retirement Board in June 2009, and if that study showed an amortization period for the unfunded liability in excess of thirty (30) years that the City determined required a total increase in contributions of one percent (1%) to meet the System's unfunded liability threshold, the City's contribution rate would increase by one-half of one percent (.5%) and the employee contribution rate would increase by one-half of one percent (.5%) as soon as the beginning of the first pay period of 2010.

 2. The terms of all amending memoranda of understanding, memoranda of agreement and letters of agreement identified in the current Collective Bargaining Agreement which would have expired as of January 22, 2009, and any subsequent memoranda or letters signed between the parties since the last round of bargaining that may not be identified in the agreement, shall also be rolled over for the period January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2013.

 3. The City and the Union agree that the HMA medical option of coverage shall be phased out by January 1, 2009, and the employees will be allowed to transition to the Aetna or Group Health Cooperative options.

 4. To replace this plan, the City will offer an alternate City of Seattle Traditional Plan that is the same plan design as the plan currently offered, but administered by Aetna using the Aetna network of health care providers. To mitigate the potential disruption from this change in networks, the City will pay all physician charges (both preferred and non-preferred) at the preferred rate for a period of six (6) months, through June 30, 2009 while employees or family members review the Aetna preferred provider network. If an employee or family member is involved in an active course of treatment that goes beyond this 6-month time period the employee or family member may be permitted to continue with that treatment program at the preferred payment level until that treatment is completed, provided they submit the appropriate Transition Of Care request to Aetna and receive approval. (Some examples of an active course of treatment include pregnancy, chemotherapy, terminal illness, sequential surgeries, recent surgery, outpatient treatment for mental health or substance abuse, and organ or bone marrow transplants.) To mitigate the potential disruption from differences between the Caremark and the Aetna prescription drug formularies, the City will cover drugs that are on the Caremark preferred brand formulary as of January 1, 2009 at the preferred co-payment rate for a period of six (6) months while employees and family members research their prescription options with their physician or pharmacist.

 In return, the City will make certain enhancements to the existing plan options at no additional cost to the members of IBEW Local 77 for such enhancements. These enhancements are identified in attachment "1" that is made a part hereof. Implementation of the enhancements will take place January 1, 2009.

 5. Transit Subsidy: Effective upon signature, the City agrees to increase the transit pass subsidy to an amount equal to the current monthly rate of a "one-zone" peak Puget Pass.

 Signed this______day of______2008

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 77

 Executed under this Authority of

 Ordinance___________

 _________________________ ___________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor Don Guillot, Business Manager

 City Light Department _________________________ Jorge Carrasco City Light Superintendent

 Attachments: Attachment 1- Health Care Benefit Enhancements

 Attachment 1: Health Care Benefit Enhancements Medical Plan Changes for 2009 Aetna Preventive and Traditional

 * NEW BENEFIT - Add Simple Steps to a Healthier Life

 Simple Steps to a Healthier Life is a new, voluntary and confidential wellness program to help you and your dependents age 18 or over determine your health risks now and plan for a healthier future. You may access the wellness program conveniently from work or home; there is no special software to buy or install. The registration process is quick, easy, and secure.

 The program provides a health assessment questionnaire to gauge your health risks, readiness to change certain health behaviors, and the impact of health on productivity. The health assessment questionnaire generates:

 * Tailored health reports to help you focus the areas of your health that matter most. You also will receive a printable one-page health summary to keep, record, and compare your results over time and to share with your doctor, dentist, or other health-care provider.

 * An action plan that is personalized to help you achieve and maintain good health through healthy living programs that are recommended based on your health needs. These may address weight loss, healthy aging, getting in shape, stress relief, a healthier diet, a healthy heart, cancer fighting, diabetes fighting, going smoke-free, and/or alcohol awareness. The programs are easy to follow and provide step-by-step guidance for making health changes and building skills for long-term success. The programs also provide and tools for tracking progress.

 Log into your account at www.aetnanavigator.com to access Simple Steps.

 * NEW BENEFIT - Add Personal Health Record

 Your personal health record will provide you online access to personal information including individualized messages and alerts, detailed health history, and integrated information to help you make informed decisions about your health care. Your medical information is automatically entered into your record based on claims data submitted to Aetna. You may voluntarily enter additional health information such as family history, non-prescription medications, or procedures you had prior to Aetna membership.

 Log into your account at www.aetnanavigator.com to access your personal health record.

 * NEW BENEFIT - Add Informed Health Line Nurse Consultation

 You will have 24-hour, toll-free access to a team of registered nurses experienced in providing information on a variety of health topics. Learn about health conditions and medical procedures, or improve the way you communicate with your doctor.

 Call the Informed Health Line at 1-800-556-1555.

 * NEW BENEFIT - Add hearing aid benefit, which will pay up to $1,000 per ear every 36 months.

 * NEW BENEFIT: Add orthotics coverage paying up to $500 during individual's lifetime subject to annual deductible. Note: Custom orthotics are made to help correct any misalignments in the foot, improve a person's posture, or alleviate any pain in the foot or leg.

 * NEW BENEFIT - Jaw surgery exclusion removed. Orthognathic surgery covered for correction of skeletal deformities of the jaw with required documentation of medical necessity.

 * NEW ELIGIBILITY AGE LIMIT - Increase eligibility of dependent children to age 25 (through age 24) regardless of whether they are in school.

 * ENHANCED BENEFIT -- Eliminate the annual maximum benefit limit for durable medical equipment (DME). The DME benefit covers purchase or rental of prescribed medical equipment for use in the home such as a hospital bed or wheelchair.

 * ENHANCED BENEFIT -- Reduce your annual pharmacy out-of-pocket maximum to $1,200. This will help individuals with chronic and high cost medication requirements.

 Group Health Standard and Deductible Plans

 * NEW ELIGIBILITY AGE LIMIT - Increase eligibility of dependent children to age 25 (through age 24) regardless of whether they are in school.

 Vision Plan Changes for 2009

 Vision Service Plan

 * NEW ELIGIBILITY AGE LIMIT - Increase eligibility of dependent children to age 25 (through age 24) regardless of whether they are in school.

 * ENHANCED BENEFIT -- Increase in-network retail frame allowance to $150 every 24-month period.

 * ENHANCED BENEFIT -- Increase in-network contact lens allowance to full payment for the exam and a $120 lens allowance every 24-month period.

 Dental Plan Changes for 2009

 Dental Health Services

 * NEW ELIGIBILITY AGE LIMIT - Increase eligibility of dependent children to age 25 (through age 24) regardless of whether they are in school.

 * NEW BENEFIT - Add occlusal guard coverage with your $350 copayment. Occlusal guards protect back teeth from grinding while asleep.

 * NEW BENEFIT - Add two additional cleanings for pregnant women, up to four cleanings.

 * Increase copayment on upgrade for noble and high noble crowns and bridges by $20 due to the increase in the cost of gold. Copay for noble upgrade will be $70 and $100 for high noble upgrade.

 Washington Dental Services

 * NEW ELIGIBILITY AGE LIMIT - Increase eligibility of dependent children to age 25 (through age 24) regardless of whether they are in school.

 Flexible Spending Account Program Change for 2009

 Benefits Administration Company

 * NEW BENEFIT - Add use of debit card for health care flexible spending account (FSA) program. Use "reimbursement" at point of purchase.

 You may use the health care FSA to pay your non-reimbursed out-of- pocket expenses for medical, dental, prescription drug, vision and hearing services and supplies. Your before-tax contributions to your account through payroll deduction currently reimburse you after you incur eligible health care expenses, and reduce your taxes.

 Effective January 2009, you will have a second way to access your health care FSA money. Both options will allow you to access your full annual contribution amount at any time for eligible expenses.

 1) Submit your itemized receipts and reimbursement form, as you do now, to Benefit Administration Company for reimbursement by check or direct deposit; and/or

 2) Use your new FSA debit card to purchase health care items and retain all your receipts.

 Eligible health care expenses fall into two categories. Here are some examples:

 * The portion of covered expenses not paid by a health care plan, such as annual deductibles, co-pays, coinsurance, and covered charges that exceed the plan's annual maximum.

 * Services and supplies that may not be covered by the health care plan but are still considered an eligible expense by the IRS, such as hearing aid batteries, acupuncture, home improvements for medical reasons (e.g., wheelchair ramps, lowering of kitchen countertops), contact lens solution and laser vision correction.

 Expenses not eligible for reimbursement include health insurance premiums (already deducted on a pre-tax basis from your paycheck), vitamins, health club dues, and cosmetic surgery or treatments.

 If you participated in the dependent care and/or health care Flexible Spending Account program in 2008, you must re-enroll during Open Enrollment to participate in the 2009 program.

 ATTACHMENT 2: 2009 SCHEDULE "A" for Active Titles IBEW, Local 77, City Light - Wage Relationships and Wages January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2010

 Title Percentage to Effective 01/23/2009 100% Rate

 Apprentice, Cable Splicer 67.00% of 106% $25.55

 71.00% of 106% $27.08

 77.00% of 106% $29.37

 79.00% of 106% $30.13

 83.00% of 106% $31.66

 87.00% of 106% $33.18

 91.00% of 106% $34.71

 95.00% of 106% $36.23

 Apprentice, Electrician 67.00% of 106% $25.55 Constructor

 71.00% of 106% $27.08

 77.00% of 106% $29.37

 79.00% of 106% $30.13

 83.00% of 106% $31.66

 87.00% of 106% $33.18

 91.00% of 106% $34.71

 95.00% of 106% $36.23

 Apprentice, Lineworker 67.00% of $26.32 109.18%

 73.00% of $28.67 109.18%

 77.00% of $30.25 109.18%

 83.00% of $32.60 109.18%

 89.00% of $34.96 109.18%

 95.00% of $37.32 109.18%

 Apprentice, Meter Electrician 67.00% of 106% $25.55

 73.00% of 106% $27.84

 77.00% of 106% $29.37

 83.00% of 106% $31.66

 89.00% of 106% $33.94

 95.00% of 106% $36.23

 Cable Splicer - Assigned 106.00% $38.14 Locator

 Cable Splicer-Non Network Area 106.00% $38.14 (Incumbent)

 Cable Splicer-Network Area 106.00% $38.14

 Cable Splicer Helper-Non 72.00% $25.91 Network

 Area (Incumbent) 75.00% $26.99

 78.00% $28.06

 Cable Splicer Helper-Network 73.14% $26.32 Area

 76.32% $27.46

 79.50% $28.60

 Chief Hydro Operator 119.25% $42.91

 Craft 121.64% $43.77 Instructor-Apprenticeship

 Crew Chief, Assistant 106.00% $38.14 Electrician Meter

 Crew Chief, Cable 119.25% $42.91 Splicer-Assigned Locator

 Crew Chief, Cable Splicer-Non 119.25% $42.91 Network Area (Incumbent)

 Crew Chief, Cable 119.25% $42.91 Splicer-Network Area

 Crew Chief, Cable 119.25% $42.91 Splicer-Assigned Crew Coordinator

 Crew Chief, Electrician 121.50% $43.72 Communications

 Crew Chief, Electrician 119.25% $42.91 Constructor

 Crew Chief, Electrician 119.25% $42.91 Constructor Core

 Crew Chief, Meter Electrician, 119.25% $42.91 Asgd Crew Coordinator

 Crew Chief, Meter Electrician, 119.25% $42.91 Working

 Crew Chief, Electrical Work 119.25% $42.91 Review

 Crew Chief, Line Crew 122.83% $44.19

 Crew Chief, Line-Assigned Crew 122.83% $44.19 Coordinator

 Crew Chief, Lineworker 122.83% $44.19 Assigned Locator

 Crew Chief, Pole Yard 98.44% $35.42

 Crew Chief, Power Structures 106.00% $38.14 Mechanic

 Crew Chief, Structural Iron 119.25% $42.91 Worker

 Crew Chief, Transmission Line 122.83% $44.19

 Dispatcher, Power, Assistant 100.00% $35.98

 104.00% $37.42

 108.00% $38.86

 Dispatcher, Power 119.86% $43.13

 124.11% $44.65

 128.42% $46.21

 Dispatcher, Power, Senior 145.19% $52.24

 Electrical Helper 69.00% $24.83

 72.00% $25.91

 75.00% $26.99

 Electrical Helper-Assigned 73.65% $26.50

 Hydraulic Boom Operator 76.64% $27.58

 (while so assigned) 79.63% $28.65

 Electrical Helper Boundary 69.00% $24.83

 72.00% $25.91

 75.00% $26.99

 Electrical Helper, Boundary 79.63% $28.65 Assigned Operator Heavy Equipment (while so assigned)

 Electrician, Communications I 100.00% $35.98

 Electrician, Communications II 103.00% $37.06

 105.50% $37.96

 108.00% $38.86

 Electrician, Communications II 113.75% $40.93 Temporary In-Charge (while so assigned)

 Electrician, Communications 113.75% $40.93 Journeyworker In-Charge Skagit

 Electrician, Constructor 106.00% $38.14

 Electrician, Constructor 106.00% $38.14 (Operator Incumbent)

 Electrician Constructor In 111.65% $40.17 Temporary Charge

 Electrician Constructor 119.25% $42.91 Working Crew Chief Assigned Crew Coordinator

 Electrician Constructor 119.25% $42.91 Working Crew Chief

 Electrician Constructor 119.25% $42.91 (Operator Incumbent) Working Crew Chief Assigned Crew Coordinator

 Electrician Constructor 110.60% $39.79 Assigned In Charge of Testing/Transformer Repair

 Electrician, Meter 106.00% $38.14

 Hydro Maintenance Worker I - 58.00% $20.87 Generation 61.00% $21.95 64.00% $23.03

 Hydro Maintenance Worker II - 67.00% $24.11 Generation

 Hydro Maintenance Worker II - 79.63% $28.65 Generation Assigned Operator, Heavy Equipment (while so assigned)

 Journeyworker-Asgd Streetlight 109.18% $39.28

 Journeyworker-Asgd Meter 106.00% $38.14

 Journeyworker In Charge - 119.25% $42.91 Powerhouse

 Journeyworker In Charge 115.00% $41.38

 Journeyworker In Charge-Cable 111.65% $40.17 Splicer

 Journeyworker In Charge, Cable 111.65% $40.17 Splicer - Assigned Pump Truck

 Journeyworker In Charge, Cable 111.65% $40.17 Splicer - Assigned Vactor

 Lineworker 109.18% $39.28

 Lineworker - Assigned Locator 109.18% $39.28

 Lineworker Pre-Apprentice 65.00% of $25.53 109.18%

 Lineworker, Transmission 117.16% $42.15

 Lineworker assigned Powerline 117.16% $42.15 Clearance

 Material Supplier, Electrical 80.00% $28.78 Assigned Crew Support, and/or Chipper Dump Truck

 Material Supplier, Electrical 82.50% $29.68 Assigned Oil Truck, Condor Hydraulic Boom, Network Support, Pump Truck, Vactor Truck and/or Tool Room

 Material Supplier, Electrical 87.50% $31.48 Assigned to Pole Hauling assigned to Pole Hauling Detail or 15,000 GVW or heavier truck equipped with Cable Winch and/or Derrick

 Material Supplier, Electrical 98.44% $35.42 Assigned Electrical Equipment Custodian

 Material Supplier, Electrical 93.00% $33.46 Assigned Line Equipment Operator/Pole Digging Machine or Hydraulic Boom for Pole Setting or Transmission Line Work or URD or Network Cable Pulling

 Mechanic, Power Structures 92.44% $33.26

 Operator, Hydro-Crane 90.00% $32.38

 Operator, Hydro-Electric I 91.00% $32.74 96.00% $34.54

 Operator, Hydro-Electric II 106.00% $38.14

 Powerline Clearance Tree 100.00% $35.98 Trimmer

 Powerline Clearance Tree 106.00% $38.14 Trimmer - Journeyworker In Charge

 Powerline Clearance 122.83% $44.19 Coordinator

 Protection & Control 140.72% $50.63 Electrician Crew Chief

 Protection & Control 112.36% $40.43 Electrician I 114.48% $41.19

 Protection & Control 114.48% $41.19 Electrician II 116.60% $41.95 118.72% $42.72 121.90% $43.86 125.08% $45.00

 Prot & Cntrl Electn-In Temp 131.75% $47.40 Charge

 Structural Iron Worker 96.00% $34.54

 101.00% $36.34

 106.00% $38.14

 Structural Iron Worker - In 111.65% $40.17 Temporary Charge

 Structural Iron Worker - In Temporary Charge 111.65% $40.17

 Shift differential pay is flat rate, $3.25 per hour.

```
