

********

**Council Bill Number: 116453**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122921**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the 2009 Budget; recognizing the carry forward of an unexpended appropriation from the 2008 budget; appropriating unexpended funds for non-capital purposes to the 2009 Budget of Finance General; and authorizing a contract to develop green energy jobs and a pre-apprenticeship program at the Puget Sound Industrial Excellence Center; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 23, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 2, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 2, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 9, 2009
   
**Committee:** Housing and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, OFFICE-OF-ECONOMIC-DEVELOPMENT, ECONOMIC-DEVELOPMENT, DEVELOPMENT-ACTIVITIES, EMPLOYMENT, JOB-TRAINING, ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, EMPLOYMENT, ENERGY-CONSERVATION

**Fiscal Note:**116453

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122921](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122921.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the 2009 Budget; recognizing the carry forward of an unexpended appropriation from the 2008 budget; appropriating unexpended funds for non-capital purposes to the 2009 Budget of Finance General; and authorizing a contract to develop green energy jobs and a pre-apprenticeship program at the Puget Sound Industrial Excellence Center; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, in adopting the 2008 Budget, the City Council approved Green Sheet 141-1-B-1, thereby imposing a budget proviso restricting the expenditure of General Funds appropriated to the Finance General Support to Community Development budget control level for the Puget Sound Industrial Excellence Center; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council stated that it anticipated that the proviso would not be lifted until a contract for public benefits was prepared between the Puget Sound Industrial Excellence Center and the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the Office of Economic Development has developed a proposed contract to develop a green energy jobs and pre-apprenticeship program at the Puget Sound Industrial Excellence Center; and

 WHEREAS, the appropriation for 2008 to fund the contract has lapsed; and

 WHEREAS, the Office of Economic Development cannot execute this contract without appropriation authority; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. In order to pay for necessary costs and expenses incurred or to be incurred in 2009, but for which insufficient appropriations were made, the appropriations for the following in the 2009 budget is increased from the fund shown as follows:

 Fund Department Budget Control Level Amount General Subfund (00100) Finance General Support to Community $150,000 Department Development (2QF00)

 Section 2. The OED Director is authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to execute, deliver, administer and cause to be performed a contract with the Puget Sound Industrial Excellence Center based on the form attached as Exhibit A to this ordinance, with such

 additions and modifications as the OED Director may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purposes of this ordinance.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the member of the City Council the ____ day of _________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2009. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _________, 2009. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of _________, 2009. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Exhibit: A) Agency Service Agreement

 28 January 2009 Version #6

 Exhibit: A) Agency Service Agreement

 Office of Economic Development City of Seattle Susan C. Shannon, Director Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 AGENCY SERVICE AGREEMENT Contract No.: 1205/09 Program Title: Energy Efficiency Career Pathway Project Fund Source: 2008 General Fund

 THIS AGREEMENT is made effective as of the 1st day of January, 2009 between The City of Seattle (called the "City") acting through its Director of the Office of Economic Development (called the "Director") and the South Seattle Community College, Puget Sound Industrial Excellence Center (PSIEC) (called the "Agency") to provide the services described in the attached Exhibits.

 In consideration of the covenants in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:

 I. PROGRAM AND SERVICES

 SECTION 101 - SCOPE OF SERVICES

 The Agency shall, in a satisfactory and proper manner as determined by the Director, provide the services described in the Exhibits attached to this Agreement during the specified Time of Performance to complete the work plan in Exhibit A-1 and in accordance with the performance standards in Exhibit A-2.

 SECTION 102 - TIME OF PERFORMANCE

 The Agency shall commence performance of this Agreement on January 1, 2009 and unless extended by written amendment, this Agreement shall expire on December 31, 2010. Except as otherwise specified in Section 409, either party may terminate this Agreement by giving 60 days advance written notice to the other. If either party in writing terminates this Agreement, compensation for services will be based upon work performed and reasonably approved by the City. All materials related to work performed must have been reasonably certified as acceptable by the Director before final payment is made.

 II. DISBURSEMENT; BUDGET; AND RECORDS

 SECTION 201 - BUDGET

 The City shall compensate the Agency for satisfactorily providing the services identified in Exhibit A-1, in accordance with budget shown in Exhibit B-1 subject to a maximum compensation for all services performed of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars and no cents ($150,000.00).

 SECTION 202 - PAYMENT

 To secure payment, the Agency shall submit invoices as shown in Exhibit B-2 and accompanying performance reports as required in Exhibit A-2 to the City of Seattle, Office of Economic Development, Attention: Matthew Houghton. Invoices and work statements shall bear the Agency's name, address and the agreement number. Invoices must be signed by an authorized representative of the Agency, who shall verify that the invoice is accurate, the services purchased have been performed and, the costs shown have been reasonably incurred in accordance with this Agreement. Payments will be made directly to the Agency, to the attention of the individual specified on the "Contract Payment Authorization Form" unless the Agency requests otherwise. All payment requests shall be in accordance with the Payment Structure as outlined in Exhibit A-2.

 The City shall be excused from payments if funds allocated by the Department cease to be available for any cause other than misfeasance of the Department itself.

 The City reserves the right to withhold payments pending timely delivery of program reports or documents as may be required under this Agreement.

 SECTION 203 - REALLOCATION; REPAYMENT OF FUNDS

 The Agency shall inform the Director about any funds allocated to the Agency that it anticipates will not be expended during the term of this Agreement and permit the City to reallocate the same; and it shall inform and promptly pay to the City any funds in its possession that may be due to the City. The Agency shall repay to the City any sums received which the Agency does not expend for eligible purposes.

 SECTION 204 - DOCUMENTATION OF COSTS

 All contract related costs shall be supported by properly executed payrolls, time records, invoices, vouchers, records of service delivery, invoices marked paid or other official documentation evidencing in proper detail the nature and propriety of the Agency costs and consequential charges to the City. All disbursements by the Agency relating to the services to be provided under this Agreement shall be sequentially recorded in the Agency's accounting records by date, check or instrument number, amount, vendor description of the items or services procured, and budget item related to the disbursement. All payroll and financial records pertaining in whole or in part to this contract shall be clearly identified and readily accessible for audit. Such records and documents shall be retained for a period of six (6) years after receipt of final payment under this Agreement and all other pending matters are closed.

 SECTION 205 - RECORDS AND FISCAL CONTROL SYSTEMS

 The Agency shall maintain its financial records and fiscal control systems in a manner that meets with the approval of the Director of the Department of Executive Administration and the Washington State Auditor. It shall maintain personnel and payroll records to identify adequately the source and application of funds; withhold all taxes; pay employment (social security), unemployment compensation, industrial insurance (worker's compensation) and other taxes as may be due; and, unless exempt, procure and maintain a City of Seattle Business License. The Agency shall maintain an effective system of internal control to assure that funds provided through the City are used solely for authorized purposes, including when requested by the City, fidelity bonding of personnel with fiscal responsibilities. All funds relating to the Agreement shall be deposited in an account with a commercial bank; and any disbursement shall be made by check or other document drawn on the account.

 SECTION 206 - ACCESS TO RECORDS; AUDITS

 The City, the United States or its agencies and the State Auditor or any designated agents of the above mentioned agencies shall have access at any time during normal business hours and as often as necessary to any bank account and Agency books, records, documents, accounts, files, reports, and other property and papers of the Agency relating to the services to be provided under this Agreement for the purpose of making an audit, survey, examination, excerpt or transcript. This requirement shall be included in all subcontracts entered into by the Agency.

 SECTION 207 - REPORTS AND INFORMATION

 The Agency shall furnish periodic reports in the manner and at the times contemplated by Exhibit A-2 and such other statements and data relating to the services provided under this Agreement as may be requested by the Director, including assessments of the effectiveness of the services provided in meeting the goals and objectives in Exhibit A-1. The City may withhold payment pending timely delivery of such reports and information.

 SECTION 208 - NOTICE AFFECTING PERFORMANCE

 The Agency shall notify the Director of any matters affecting the eligibility of the Agency to continue performance of this Agreement immediately after the Agency's discovery of the same.

 III. MANNER OF PERFORMANCE

 SECTION 301 - QUALITY OF PERFORMANCE

 The Agency shall be responsible for the quality of services provided through this Agreement. Its responsibilities shall not be reduced by recommendations or assistance received from the City or by any communications that vary from the terms and conditions of this Agreement unless a corresponding written, signed amendment is made to this Agreement.

 The City shall judge the adequacy and efficiency of the services provided. The performance standards in Exhibit A-2 are intended to assist the Agency in performance of this Agreement. If in the sole opinion of the City, the program goals are not being achieved, the City may direct additional performance standards to which the Agency must adhere at its own expense. Should the Agency fail to adhere to the additional performance standards, it shall be a material breach of this Agreement.

 SECTION 302 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 In providing services under this Agreement, the Agency, at its sole cost and expense, shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and Ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 SECTION 303 - NO PARTNERSHIP OR AGENCY RELATIONSHIP

 The sole relationship between the Agency and the City hereunder is that of an independent Agency. Nothing herein shall be construed to create any partnership or joint venture or to make either party the agent or employee of the other. Neither Agency nor any of its members, officers, or employees shall hold themselves out as the partner, employee or agent of the City or to bind the City in any matter.

 IV. GENERAL CONDITIONS

 SECTION 401 - INDEMNIFICATION

 The Agency shall defend, protect, and save harmless the City from and against all claims, suits, actions, liabilities, losses, damages, and expenses in compensation for bodily injury or property damage arising out of any act or omission of the Agency or any sub-Agency under this Agreement or any of their respective agents or employees under this Agreement. In the event that such a claim is made or a suit brought, the Agency shall promptly notify the City in writing and shall promptly defend the City at the Agency's sole expense. In the event that any final judgment is entered against the Agency or the City, the Agency shall promptly satisfy the same, provided, however, that in the event that the judgment is based on any negligence of the City, the City shall be responsible for satisfying said judgment in proportion to its percentage of liability, and if the City shall have satisfied the entire judgment, is shall have the right to recover from the Agency, any amounts above its share of that judgment.

 Each Party agrees that its obligations under this provision extend to any claim, demand, and/or cause of action brought by or on behalf of any of its employees or agents. The foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to constitute a waiver of each Party's immunity under Washington's Industrial Insurance Act, RCW Title 51, as respects the other Party only, and only to the extent necessary to provide the indemnified Party with a full and complete indemnity of claims made by the indemnitor's employees. The Parties acknowledge that these provisions were specifically negotiated and agreed upon by them.

 SECTION 402 - IDENTITY OF PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS/BENEFITS RECIPIENTS

 Except as required by applicable law, the use or disclosure by the Agency of any identifying information concerning the identity of any participant in the program(s) or any of the services or benefits provided to a participant under this Agreement, for any purpose not directly connected with the administration of the City's or Agency's responsibilities under this Agreement, is prohibited except on written consent of the participant or recipient or client, his or her attorney, or responsible parent or guardian.

 SECTION 403 - COPYRIGHTS AND PATENTS

 If this Agreement results in a book or other copyrightable material, the author is free to copyright the work, but the City reserves a royalty-free non-exclusive and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish or otherwise use, and to authorize others to use all such copyrighted material and all materials which can be copyrighted.

 Any discovery or invention arising out of or developed in the course of work pursuant to this Agreement shall be promptly and fully reported to the City for determination as to whether patent protection on such invention or discovery shall be sought and how the rights to the invention or discovery, including rights under any patent issued thereon, shall be disposed of and administered in order to protect the public interest. (If project funds are derived from the United States, federal agency regulations relating to inventions and materials generated under this Agreement apply.)

 SECTION 404 - CONFIDENTIALITY

 Any reports, information, and data given to or prepared or assembled by the Agency or any reports, information, and data prepared or assembled by the City that is in the possession of the Agency under this Agreement that the City requests be kept as confidential shall

 not be made available to any individual or organization by the Agency without the prior written approval of the City.

 SECTION 405 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST

 No member, officer, or employee of The City of Seattle or its designee or agents, and no member of the Seattle City Council or any other public official of the City, who exercises any function or responsibilities with respect to the program(s) affected by this Agreement, shall have any financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract or subcontract or the proceeds thereof, for work to be performed in connection with such program(s); nor shall they for one year after completion of this Agreement have any financial interest with the Agency or any sub-Agency under this Agreement.

 SECTION 406 - POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

 No funds paid or facilities provided by The City of Seattle shall be used directly or indirectly for, and the Agency shall not request or receive reimbursement for the direct or indirect costs of, assisting any campaign for election of any person to any office or for the promotion of or opposition to any ballot measure. If the Agency engages in any such assistance, promotion or opposition, the Agency shall maintain records clearly documenting that such activities are paid for solely from funds not provided by the City. No funds provided by the City shall be applied directly or indirectly to lobbying any legislative body or any member or staff thereof.

 SECTION 407 - SUBCONTRACTING

 This Agreement is personal to each of the parties hereto and neither party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations hereunder without first obtaining the written consent of the other party provided that the City may allocate functions among its departments. Any such approved assignment or subcontract shall be subject to each provision of this Agreement. All provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all subcontracts entered into by the Agency.

 SECTION 408 - CHANGES

 No change or amendment of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless such change is specified in a separate, written agreement signed by the parties to this Agreement.

 SECTION 410 - TERMINATION AND SUSPENSION

 1. For Cause: Either party may terminate this Agreement in the event that the other party materially or substantially fails to perform its obligations as described in this Agreement and such failure has not been corrected to the reasonable satisfaction of the dissatisfied party within twenty (20) days after notice of breach has been provided to such other party.

 2. Notice of Termination. Notice of termination pursuant to Subsection (1) above shall be given by the party terminating this Agreement to the other party in writing.

 SECTION 411 - FUTURE SUPPORT

 The City makes no commitment of future support and assumes no obligation for future support of the activity contracted herein except as set forth in this Agreement.

 SECTION 412 - RESERVATION OF RIGHTS

 Neither payment by the City nor performance by the Agency shall be construed as a waiver of either party's rights or remedies against the other. Failure to require full and timely performance of any provision at any time shall not waive or reduce the right to insist upon complete and timely performance of such provision thereafter.

 SECTION 413 - SEVERABILITY

 If any provisions of this Agreement are held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected, thereby, if such remainder would then continue to serve the purposes and objectives contemplated by the parties hereto.

 SECTION 414 - SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS

 This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and shall insure to the benefit of the parties hereto, any assignees expressly permitted pursuant to Section 407, the United States, and the State of Washington. This Agreement is not intended to confer any legal rights or remedies on any other persons.

 SECTION 415 - ADDRESSES

 Written notices, requests, grievances or adjustments to the Department shall be made to:

 Susan C. Shannon, Director City of Seattle Office of Economic Development 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5752 PO Box 94708 Seattle, WA 98124-4708

 Written notices, requests, grievances or adjustments to the Agency shall be made to:

 Jill Wakefield, President South Seattle Community College 6737 Corson Avenue South Seattle, WA 98108

 Notice shall be effective when hand-delivered during normal business hours or two (2) business days after mailing, postage prepaid, to the proper address. Either party may change its address for notices by written notice as specified above.

 SECTION 416 - INTEGRATED DOCUMENTS

 This Agreement, including documents incorporated by reference and the laws, regulations and OMB Circulars cited herein or therein, embodies the entire Agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, provided that nothing in this Agreement waives or supersedes obligations arising from any contract between the parties regarding the same or similar services for any prior years or periods. No verbal agreements or conversation with any officer, agent or employee of the City shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in any documents comprising this Agreement. Any such verbal agreement shall be considered as unofficial information and in no way binding upon either party.

 SECTION 417 - TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE

 Time is of the essence of all of the Agency's obligations hereunder.

 This Agreement consists of Articles I - IV above, plus Exhibits, which by this reference are incorporated herein.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE CITY AND THE AGENCY HAVE EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT.

 AGENCY THE CITY OF SEATTLE By By ill Wakefield, President Susan C. Shannon, Director South Seattle Community College Office of Economic Development Date: Date:

 EXHIBIT A-1 WORK PLAN

 The Agency shall, in a satisfactory and proper manner, as determined by the Director, provide the following services.

 Project Purpose

 OED will provide $150,000 to help fund South Seattle Community College (SSCC) development of green collar training programs for low income, low skilled and underserved Seattle residents at the Puget Sound Industrial Excellence Center.

 Energy Efficiency Program Objectives and Scope:

 The Georgetown Campus of SSCC will begin a Green Energy Jobs and Pre- Apprenticeship Program called GE-NEW. This program will target low- income Seattle area residents to prepare them for energy conservation jobs and/or entry into utility, electrical, or apprenticeships working on green building techniques.

 A career ladder approach will be developed starting with energy conservation jobs in residential energy efficiency and conservation contractors, Insulation Installer, to Weatherization Crew Chief, to Energy Auditor, Power utility pre-apprenticeship training, and meeting entry level criteria for apprenticeship programs in electrical and green building jobs. The higher the math skills that can be obtained, the higher the pay the low-income residents can expect. This short- term training will result in jobs in the energy conservation sector, entry into more training for utility jobs or apprenticeships or more math and electrical training to meet apprenticeship entry criteria.

 Business and Community Needs:

 Energy conservation and efficiency jobs are expected to grow and have high turnover now. SSCC will work with the industry to define and upgrade the skills necessary to work with this industry as well as explore apprenticeship opportunities with the industry in recognition of the expected growth. Jobs in this field start at $10.00 per hour at the low end and upwards of $70,000 per year for highly skilled jobs in the utility and electrical fields. It is hoped that by convening employers, the project will establish competencies per training level along the pathway, and set relative pay scales as well.

 The utility industry demographics point to an aging workforce in need of replacement workers and potential growth in alternative energy sources. SSCC will work with the current apprenticeship programs and trades to bring new people into these high paying careers.

 Program Milestones:

 2009 Tasks:

 1. Hire half-time coordinator/instructor.

 2. Work with home energy contractors, City of Seattle, Seattle Jobs Initiative (SJI) to map career pathway within the energy efficiency and weatherization fields.

 3. Work with home energy efficiency contractors, labor, SJI and others to define, upgrade, and provide training and employment opportunites including apprenticeship

 4. Work with SJI and other community based organizations to recruit, train and place low-income students in jobs, apprenticeships or further training.

 5. Enroll 45 students and place in jobs, apprenticeship programs.

 2010 Tasks:

 1. Recruit and enroll 45 students, with emphasis on low-income students.

 2. Work with SJI and other community based organizations to expand training and outreach to match employer and apprenticeship demand.

 3. Measure job, asset accrual, and wage placement of first year and second year cohorts.

 4. Expand and refine scope of program to meet energy efficiency and green building demand and growth.

 Reporting

 PSIEC will report on each of these milestones quarterly, the fourth quarterly will be an annual summary.

 EXHIBIT A-2 PAYMENT STRUCTURE/ REPORTING/ PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

 The Agency shall carry out this Agreement in accordance with the following performance standards. (Refer to Exhibit A-1)

 I. PAYMENT STRUCTURE

 The City shall compensate the Agency for satisfactorily performing the services described in Exhibit A-1 in accordance with the performance standards contained therein, upon receipt of required reports and invoices for services. The Agency shall use the Agency's Invoice Form (Exhibit B-3) to invoice the City.

 The total contract amount for the period of this Agreement is one hundred fifty thousand dollars and zero cents ($150,000.00). Payment shall be made upon the receipt of quarterly invoices and performance reports.

 II. REPORT REQUIREMENTS & SUBMITTAL OF REPORTS

 The Agency shall provide quarterly performance reports, summarizing activities performed during the reporting periods. This report shall accompany any invoice for payment and shall match the activities being invoiced. The fourth quarter report should also summarize the annual activities and accomplishments.

 SUBMITTAL OF REPORTS

 Attention: Matthew Houghton City of Seattle Office of Economic Development 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5752 PO Box 94708 Seattle, WA 98124-4708

 III. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

 The Agency shall maintain a current City of Seattle Business License during the term of this Agreement as described in Section 205 - Records and Fiscal Control Systems

 The Agency shall maintain insurance coverage during the term of this Agreement as described in Section 401 - Indemnification.

 IV. CORRECTIVE ACTION

 If actual performance in any period is inadequate, the Agency shall submit a written narrative outlining barriers to performing at planned levels and a corrective action plan to bring performance into compliance with this Agreement. The corrective action plan shall include, at a minimum, specific actions and timeframes the Agency will implement to address the barriers. If the Agency fails to implement the stated corrective action and performance remains inadequate, the Agency shall be considered not in compliance with this Agreement.

 EXHIBIT B-1 PROGRAM BUDGET

 Amount by Funding Source

 Item Source: Source: Total City of Seattle SSCC (Match) Project:

 A. PERSONNEL Salaries - Full & part-time1 72,945 69,311 142,256 Fringe Benefits 18,647 20,793 39,440 SUBTOTAL - PERSONNEL 91,592 90,105 181,696

 B. SUPPLIES & OTHER CHARGES Office Supplies Equipment2 25,000 25,000 50,000 Consultant Services3 8,400 - 8,400 Professional Services Telephone Postage Transportation Printing Insurance Public Utility Service Repairs and Maintenance Rentals - Buildings4 - 42,400 42,200 Rentals - Equipment Training/Conferences Dues and subscriptions SUBTOTAL - SUPPLIES & OTHER CHARGES 33,400 67,200 100,600

 C. SUPPORT SERVICES FOR CLIENTS

 D. CAPITAL OUTLAYS SUBTOTAL - TOTAL EXPENDITURES 124,992 157,305 282,296

 INDIRECT (20%)5 24,998 - 24,998

 TOTAL EXPENDITURES 149,990 157,305 307,294

 Budget Notes

 1. Includes .5 FTE coordinator/instructor; .25 FTE project support. College match includes clerical support, reception, project management, registration and student services, and assessment.

 2. Includes computer laboratory equipment (laptops and / or personal computers; related instructional equipment, including construction equipment, power tools, and safety equipment), with 100% match.

 3. Consultant services will be used for program development, curriculum development and review, program assessment and evaluation, and outreach. College match includes curriculum development.

 4. Program will be housed at the newly constructed Gene Colin Education Building, which was recently completed for a total cost of approximately $6 million with state and private funding. Other Georgetown Campus facilities will also be used. Facility utilization match includes laboratory and classroom instructional rental waiver.

 5. Indirect costs are costs incurred that cannot be easily identified with a specific project. These costs normally are within functional areas such as general and departmental administration, staff support, operations and maintenance, library and facility expenses, services provided by payroll, purchasing, accounting, business office and cashiers, human resources, facilities and utilities, etc.

 EXHIBIT B-2

 In order for invoices to be processed, the following form must be completed and include the authorized signatures (Refer to Section 202.).

 CONTRACT PAYMENT AUTHORIZATION FORM

 To: City of Seattle, Office of Economic Development

 Agency Name: South Seattle Community College, Puget Sound Industry Excellence Center

 Contract No: 1205/08

 PRINT NAME _______________ SIGNATURE ______________ POSITION ____________

 Payments are to be made to the Agency and mailed to the following address:

 I hereby certify that the officers named above are duly authorized on behalf of the Agency to submit and verify requests for payment and all related materials under the above contract, and that the information on this form is true and correct. _______________________ __________________________ Signature Typed Name __________________________ _____________________ Title Date

 EXHIBIT B-3 CITY OF SEATTLE OFFICE OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

 AGENCY'S INVOICE No. _______________________ Invoice Date: _______________________ Invoice Period: _______________________to ____________________

 Agency Name: South Seattle Community College, Puget Sound Industry Excellence Center

 Address: 6737 Corson Avenue South, Seattle, WA 98108

 Contact Person: Joe Hauth Tel no.: 206-764-5838

 Contract No. 1205/08

 Contract Title: Energy Efficiency Career Pathway Project

 Term of Contract: 01/01/09 - 12/31/10

 (Double click on the table below to enter information)

 INVOICE CERTIFICATION

 I, the undersigned, do hereby certify under penalty of perjury, that this invoice represents eligible expenses incurred by the Agency to provide the services rendered or the labor performed in full compliance with the Agreement in the amounts stated. I also certify that I am authorized to authenticate and certify to said claim.

 Typed Name Authorized Signature Date

 PAYMENT AUTHORIZATION

 Amount Authorized for Payment: $

 By ________________ Date: ______________ Signature

 Payment Voucher No: _______________Date: ________________

```
