

********

**Council Bill Number: 116474**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122944**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with KeyCorp that terminates a prior agreement between the parties and replaces it with a new agreement for the title sponsorship of KeyArena at Seattle Center.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 30, 2009
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 3, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** April 3, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** KeyArena Key Arena Naming

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 16, 2009
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** COLISEUM, SEATTLE-CENTER, SEATTLE-CENTER-FACILITIES, NAMING

**Fiscal Note:**116474

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122944](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122944.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with KeyCorp that terminates a prior agreement between the parties and replaces it with a new agreement for the title sponsorship of KeyArena at Seattle Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director or his designee is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with KeyCorp, substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "Title Sponsorship Agreement by and between The City of Seattle and KeyCorp" (Attachment 1), under which KeyCorp shall have rights as the title sponsor of KeyArena at Seattle Center for a two-year term ending December 31, 2010.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ___________________, 2009. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment 1: Title Sponsorship Agreement by and between The City of Seattle and KeyCorp

 2/13/09 Version # 1

 ATTACHMENT 1: TITLE SPONSORSHIP AGREEMENT

 by and between

 The City of Seattle and KeyCorp

 This Title Sponsorship Agreement ("Agreement") is made and entered into by and between KEYCORP ("KeyCorp"), a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Ohio and authorized to do business in the State of Washington, and THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("the City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Seattle Center Department.

 Recitals:

 A. The City owns and operates at the Seattle Center in Seattle, Washington, a sports and entertainment complex currently known as the KeyArena (the "Building"); and

 B. KeyCorp currently has title sponsorship rights at the Building under a contract with the City dated on or about April 11, 1995; and

 C. The City and KeyCorp desire that KeyCorp continue as the title sponsor for the Building, and that the Building continue to be named in a manner that makes it associated with KeyCorp in the minds of the members of the public, all under the terms and conditions set forth herein during the Term.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, promises and performance of the parties as described herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

 1. Term of Agreement; Prior Agreement Superseded.

 This Agreement shall commence on January 1, 2009, and end on December 31, 2010 ("Term"), unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof. This Agreement supersedes and terminates the prior Title Sponsorship Agreement between the parties dated on or about April 11, 1995. To the extent that any obligations under the prior agreement remain unperformed, the parties agree that the execution and performance of this Agreement excuses performance under the prior agreement, with the exception of any indemnity obligation, which will survive termination for the duration of any applicable statute of limitations.

 2.

 Exclusive Title Sponsorship.

 During the Term, KeyCorp will be the exclusive Title Sponsor of the Building. As used in this Agreement, "Title Sponsor" means that KeyCorp will be the sole party entitled to certain advertising and sponsorship rights at the Building, including naming rights, as described further in this Agreement.

 3. Category Designation.

 A. Exclusive Retail Bank Sponsor:

 During the Term, KeyCorp will be the Exclusive Retail Bank Sponsor at the Building. "Exclusive Retail Bank Sponsor" means that no other Retail Bank will be allowed to sponsor, advertise, or otherwise promote its corporate name or any financial products or services at the Building. "Retail Bank" means only financial institutions that offer a walk-in retail location in the state of Washington, and includes banks, savings and loans, and credit unions.

 B. Exclusive Financial Products and Services:

 During the Term, KeyCorp will have the exclusive right to advertise and promote the Exclusive Financial Products and Services at the Building. "Exclusive Financial Products and Services" includes only the following products and services: checking accounts, savings accounts, debit cards, certificates of deposit, check-cashing services, automobile loans, boat loans, home equity loans/lines of credit, personal lines of credit, mortgage services and primary home loans, safe deposit boxes, online banking, online bill pay, business equity lines of credit, business equipment loans, equipment leasing, equipment finance, SBA loans, cash management, foreign currency exchange, asset based lending and syndicated finance.

 C. Non-exclusive Products and Services:

 During the Term, KeyCorp shall have the non-exclusive right to promote the following products and services (defined as "Non- exclusive Products and Services"): insurance, brokerage services, mutual funds, IRA, retirement accounts, 529 plans, college savings plans, student loans, gift certificates, gift checks, gift cards, travelers checks, financial planning, trust and estate planning, investment management, credit cards, charge cards, travel and entertainment charge cards, credit card processing, investment banking, real estate capital and wire transfers. Should the City sign a sponsor for the Non-exclusive Products and Services, such sponsor may not be a Retail Bank.

 D. Event Sponsors:

 Notwithstanding the rights granted to KeyCorp, the City retains the right to accept up to five (5) touring events per calendar year at KeyArena that are sponsored by a Retail Bank, and such events shall be allowed to recognize the Retail Bank sponsor(s) at the event(s) provided no KeyCorp signage is covered. For purposes of calculating the number of events under this Subsection only, a touring event that offers multiple performances of the same show or by the same performer will count as one touring event.

 4. Name of Building.

 During the Term, the name of the Building will remain "KeyArena." Any and all announcements relating to the Building or print or broadcast media advertising for the Building or a Building event, produced by or for the City shall refer to the Building as the "KeyArena."

 5. Title Sponsor Signage Benefits.

 A. Principal Title Sponsor Identification Signs:

 The City will maintain, at no expense to KeyCorp, upon or adjacent to the monitor at the top of the exterior of the "KeyArena," the existing four-faced, pan channeled letter, neon backed sign that will only display the words "KeyArena" and the KeyCorp logo, as it currently exists. The sign will remain illuminated nineteen hours per day, from 6:00 AM to 1:00 AM the following day, during the Term, except when reasonable maintenance or replacement work is being performed on such sign.

 B. Title Sponsors Identification Signs at Main Building Public Entrances:

 At no expense to KeyCorp, the City will continue to maintain the existing sign with the words "KeyArena" and the KeyCorp logo on the exterior of the Building over both the east and west public entrances to the Building.

 C. Free-Standing, Changeable Copy Sign at West Plaza:

 At no expense to KeyCorp, the City will continue to maintain the existing changeable-copy sign on the West Plaza adjacent to the Building and generally perpendicular to First Avenue North.

 D. Title Sponsor Identification Signs on Sports Playing Surfaces:

 At no expense to KeyCorp, the City will arrange for the display of the name "KeyArena" and the KeyCorp logo in the ice used for professional hockey games, on the court installed for the playing of professional and collegiate basketball and professional soccer games, respectively, and on the playing surface used for the playing of any other professional sport in the Building, and in other authorized locations on all playing surfaces agreed upon by the parties to this Agreement. The display of the name "KeyArena" and the KeyCorp logo on any sports playing surface in the Building is at all times subject to prior authorization by the City and the organization governing the sport being played at the Building.

 E. Directional Signage on Seattle Center Grounds and Inside Building:

 At no expense to KeyCorp, the City will identify the Building as "KeyArena" (including the KeyCorp logo with such identification wherever reasonably possible) on all building identification signs erected on the Seattle Center grounds and at or in Seattle Center parking facilities, and all major information points on the interior of the Building (which may include building directories, information and reception kiosks, and ticket booths in or immediately adjacent to and serving the Building).

 F. Zamboni Signage:

 The City will have the name "KeyArena" and the KeyCorp logo painted on the Zamboni machine used for professional hockey games played in the Building and for other events requiring a performance surface of ice, and will thereafter maintain such signage, all at no expense to KeyCorp.

 G. Scoreboard Signage:

 The City will continue to have the name "KeyArena" and the KeyCorp logo incorporated into the Building scoreboard used for professional sporting events in the Building, and for other events requiring a scoreboard, and will thereafter maintain such signage, all at no expense to KeyCorp.

 H. Flags at East Building Entrance:

 The City will have one (1) or more flags displaying the name "KeyArena" and KeyCorp logo at the east public entrance to the Building, and will repair and replace the flag(s), from time to time, as may be necessary to maintain them in good condition, all at no expense to KeyCorp.

 I. Other Applications For KeyCorp Logo and Building Name:

 To the extent that it is within the City's control, the City will have the name "KeyArena" and the KeyCorp logo displayed on the uniforms for all ushers regularly working in the Building. To the extent that it is in the City's control, the City will have the name "KeyArena" displayed on maps of Seattle Center produced by the City for public distribution, all at no expense to KeyCorp.

 J. KeyCorp Corner Display:

 Subject to Section 3, the City grants KeyCorp the right to create and maintain an interactive display featuring KeyCorp signage at the KeyBank Corner. As used in this Agreement, the "KeyBank Corner" means the 2,500 square foot interior portion of the Northwest corner of the Building as was previously used by KeyCorp under its former title sponsorship agreement with the City. KeyCorp is responsible for all costs associated with upgrades and changes to existing signage. However, once the upgrades and changes to the existing signage have been finalized by KeyCorp, the City shall thereafter provide routine maintenance of the KeyCorp signage at the "KeyBank Corner" at no expense to KeyCorp, unless KeyCorp, at its sole discretion, determines to upgrade the branding elements of the signage. At the expiration or termination of the Term, KeyCorp will remove any display and signage and restore the space to good condition. The City will perform all work required to implement KeyCorp's display and signage in the Northwest corner, and KeyCorp will pay all costs and expenses associated with any requested name and signage changes, including but not limited to City project management expenses, within forty-five (45) days after the date of the City's invoice therefore. KeyCorp will also have the right to have promotional representatives present at the KeyBank Corner during mutually agreeable events. Prior to the event, KeyCorp will work directly with the KeyArena Manager, or his or her designated representative, to coordinate access and load-in and out.

 K. KeyCorp Logo Incorporated Into KeyArena Landing Page on City Web- site:

 The City will display KeyCorp's logo and a link to KeyBank homepage on the KeyArena landing page on www.seattlecenter.com.

 L. Substitution for Unavailable Benefit:

 KeyCorp and the City acknowledge and agree that, due to circumstances beyond the control of either of them or due to the rules, regulations, or laws of the City, the State of Washington or the United States of America, or any of their respective agencies, now or hereafter in effect, it may be or become impossible or impractical for the City to provide KeyCorp with all of the rights contemplated herein ("Unavailable Benefit"). In the event of an Unavailable Benefit, such event shall not be deemed a breach of this Agreement and KeyCorp and the City shall cooperate, in good faith, so that the rights and obligations of the parties may be fulfilled by rescheduling, substitution, alternative performance or similar means of comparable value. If the City terminates KeyCorp's right of first refusal in compliance with the conditions in Section 8.A., such termination will not be considered an Unavailable Benefit, and the City will not be required to provide alternative benefits or pay damages.

 6. Suite Made Available for KeyCorp Use & Occupancy; Tickets.

 A. During the Term, KeyCorp and its invitees are authorized to use and occupy Suite #37, subject to execution of and compliance with all terms and conditions in a Suite License Agreement, which will be executed separately from this Agreement.

 B. When promoters and third party users of KeyArena make ticket discounts and pre-sale opportunities available, the City will use reasonable efforts to encourage the promoters and third party users to offer the discounts or pre-sale opportunities to KeyCorp employees. Additionally, KeyCorp will have the opportunity to purchase twenty-five (25) 'building hold' tickets per event at KeyArena, subject to the event promoter's or event sponsor's right to prohibit use of tickets in mass marketed contests. KeyCorp will receive one (1) free parking pass with every four (4) 'building hold' tickets purchased.

 7. Public References to Building.

 During the Term, the City will identify the Building as the "KeyArena" in all official documents, press releases, directional signage, and promotional materials produced or disseminated by the City. The City will use reasonable efforts to ensure that all persons and entities that contract for the use of the Building will identify the Building as the "KeyArena" in all promotional, advertising, and other material referencing use of the Building and disseminated to the public. Additionally, the City will use reasonable efforts to ensure that the "KeyArena" appears on the face of all tickets identifying the Building.

 8. Miscellaneous Title Sponsorship Rights and Limitations Thereon.

 A. First Right of Refusal:

 If the City intends to enter into a title sponsorship agreement with respect to the Building at the expiration of this Agreement, the City will first disclose renewal terms and conditions to KeyCorp and KeyCorp will have a right of first refusal, so long as KeyCorp exercises the right by November 1st, 2010. The City will provide KeyCorp with a proposal for renewal by September 1, 2010. KeyCorp will have until November 1, 2010 to accept the City's offer of renewal or to negotiate an agreement with the City, otherwise, the City will have the right to terminate KeyCorp's right of first refusal and the City will not be in breach of this Agreement or liable for any damages to KeyCorp.

 However, in the event that future redevelopment of the Building or securing a major tenant for the Building requires a competitive process for selecting a title sponsor or is conditioned upon granting the title sponsorship rights to another party, the City will have the right to terminate KeyCorp's right of first refusal, and the City will not be in breach of this Agreement or liable for any damages to KeyCorp.

 B. City Obligation to Offer KeyCorp Opportunity to Become Title Sponsor or

 Subordinate Sponsor of Seattle Center-Produced Special Events & Promotions:

 The City shall not offer the title or any subordinate sponsorship rights to any special event or promotion in the Building produced exclusively by Seattle Center to any person or entity other than KeyCorp without having first offered the same to KeyCorp. The City shall not sell such sponsorship rights for such events to any person or entity for an amount less than that offered by KeyCorp for such rights.

 C. Specialized Customer-Bank Communication Terminals In Building:

 The City will continue to exclusively license, permit and authorize KeyCorp to maintain three (3) automatic teller or cash dispensing machines or other customer bank communication terminals inside the Building. At all times during the Agreement, KeyCorp will operate and maintain one or more such machines for all Building events. No other Retail Bank with a presence anywhere in the state of Washington shall be allowed to maintain an automatic teller or cash dispensing machine inside the Building.

 D. Rights to Key Arena and KeyCorp Logo Trademarks and Trade names:

 The City's right to use the "KeyArena" and KeyCorp logo, trademarks and trade names under the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall inure solely and exclusively to KeyCorp, and the City shall acquire no goodwill or other interest in them. KeyCorp hereby grants to the City, and to any third party that has been authorized by the City to use the building, and to every such third party's contractors, concessionaires, sublicenses, and agents, the unrestricted license to use the name "KeyArena" for purposes of identification, the provision of directions, the promotion of events and activities of the City or of any such third party at or in the Building. KeyCorp also hereby grants to the City the unrestricted license to use the KeyCorp logo associated with the name "KeyArena" to carry out the City's obligations under this Agreement.

 E. Rights to Consumer Promotions:

 Subject to the Director's approval, KeyCorp is authorized to create trade and consumer promotions utilizing the name "KeyArena".

 F. Right to Cause-Related Promotions:

 Subject to the Director's prior written approval, which will be granted or withheld based upon City requirements regarding political advertising and ballot initiatives in City facilities and any other applicable law or city policy, KeyCorp is authorized to create and integrate cause-related marketing efforts utilizing the name "KeyArena".

 G. Ticketmaster Website:

 The KeyArena name will be used to identify the Building on the Ticketmaster website throughout the Term.

 H. Media Exposure:

 (1) Graphic and Audio Mentions: To the extent that it is within the City's control, references to the Building during each televised, radio, and/or Internet broadcast event from KeyArena shall identify the Building as KeyArena.

 (2) Promotional Announcements: To the extent that it is within the City's control, announcements by local radio for events held within KeyArena that mention the Building shall identify the Building as KeyArena.

 (3) Graphic and Audio Inclusion: All advertising and marketing by Seattle Center, whether done directly or through third party licensees, in support of KeyArena events that mention the Building shall identify the Building as KeyArena.

 (4) Public References to Building: The City and all entities that contract for the use of the Building will identify the Building as KeyArena in official documents, press releases, directional signage, promotional materials, letterhead, media collateral, venue press conference step and repeat banners and the on the face of tickets.

 (5) Presentation of two (2) thirty second KeyCorp video commercials per event, excluding WNBA team/Seattle Storm games, on the Building's closed circuit video network. Video presentations are subject to the Director's approval.

 (6) KeyCorp's name and logo will be included in ring advertising during four (4) thirty second branded advertisements exclusively referring to KeyCorp, subject to the approval of the event promoter, at events that use ring advertising.

 I. In Arena Marketing:

 With the Director's prior approval of any specific proposal, KeyCorp may develop marketing that directly targets suite holders, club seat holders, and other niche audiences at KeyArena events.

 J. Right to KeyArena and KeyCorp Logo Trademarks and Tradenames:

 To prevent any public confusion about the location of events and activities proposed or scheduled to be presented in the Building, for a period of up to one year after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, the City may (i) retain the existing KeyArena signage, including the KeyCorp logo, (ii) identify the Building as the KeyArena, and (iii) upon written consent from Key, refer to the Building as the KeyArena in any mutually agreed upon public information materials, all at no expense to KeyCorp. For a period of one (1) full year after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, KeyCorp will not grant or sell the right to use the name "KeyArena" to any other public performance or entertainment facility in the state of Washington.

 K. Recognition of KeyArena Location at Seattle Center:

 The City has the right to identify the Seattle Center as the location of KeyArena in City produced materials that reference the Building including, but not limited to, signs, copy, playing surfaces, public references and in other locations and situations where appropriate. To the extent reasonably feasible and consistent with KeyCorp purposes, KeyCorp shall include notice in any promotional material imprinted, published or otherwise produced by or on behalf of the KeyCorp that makes reference to KeyArena that the KeyArena is located at the Seattle Center.

 9. Title Sponsorship Fee.

 A. Annual Fee:

 KeyCorp will pay the City an Annual Fee of $300,000 for the rights granted herein, which amount is allocated as follows: Two Hundred Sixteen Thousand and no dollars ($216,000) in consideration of the Title Sponsor rights, and Eighty-Four Thousand and no dollars ($84,000) in consideration for the use and occupancy of Suite #37. The first payment of $300,000 will be due within 30 days of invoice therefor upon execution of the Agreement, and the second annual payment of $300,000 will be due on January 30, 2010. The City shall invoice KeyCorp for the second annual payment prior to the due date. Payment will be due within 30 days of invoice therefor. Payment will be made payable to the "City of Seattle" and sent care of Seattle Center Fiscal Services at the address specified in Section 15.

 B. Delinquent Payments:

 In the event any Annual Fee is not paid by the date it is due and payable, such amount shall be delinquent. Delinquent sums shall bear interest at a rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum; from the date of delinquency to the date the City receives full payment.

 C. No Reduction in Portion of Annual Fee Allocated to Title Sponsorship Rights:

 The Annual Fee payable hereunder is fully earned by the City and payable by KeyCorp irrespective of any cancellation, postponement or inability to schedule Events or any series of Events, for any reason. However, if fewer than fifty-five (55) "Events" are presented in the lower or upper bowl arena portion of the Building during any calendar year of the Agreement, KeyCorp shall be entitled to a pro rata reduction in the portion of the Annual Fee allocated towards Title Sponsor rights. "Events" include any performance, meeting, lecture, or presentation in the Building, whether admission is by ticket or otherwise. Performances or programs that are the same or similar will each count as individual Events so long as the audience is different. By way of example, two performances of the same show on one day will count as two Events, so long as the two performances have separate tickets or audiences. The amount of such reductions shall be equal to $3,927 for each Event less than 55 presented during the calendar year.

 10. Binding Effect: Change of Name of Title Sponsor.

 A. General:

 This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their successors and assigns.

 B. Change of Signage Relating to Building in Event of Change of Name of KeyCorp or Assignment of KeyCorp Title Sponsorships Rights:

 Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, if during the term of this Agreement, the name of KeyCorp is changed because of a merger, consolidation, or other action, or in the event KeyCorp assigns its rights under this Agreement to a third party, then the name of the Building may be changed from "KeyArena" to another name; provided, that any name other than "KeyArena" will be subject to the prior written approval of the City, which approval shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld; provided, further, that no name shall be proposed as the name of the Building that includes any word, number, symbol, or any combination thereof, that either is the same or substantially the same as the legal, business or trade name of any tobacco-related distributor, manufacturer, or product, or of any alcohol or alcohol-related distributor, manufacturer, or product or of any firearms-related distributor, manufacturer, or product. If the City approves any new name proposed for the Building, all references to the "KeyArena" that are provided for herein, including but not limited to signage contemplated in Section 4 hereof, will be changed to the new, approved name for the Building. All work required to effectuate any such name changing will be performed by or through the City. All costs and expenses associated with any such name changing, requested signage changes, including but not limited to City project management expenses, will be paid by KeyCorp within forty-five (45) days after the date of the City's invoice therefore.

 11. Termination.

 A. Defaults & Material Breaches:

 Each of the following shall constitute a breach and material default of this Agreement:

 (1) The failure by the City to reasonably approve a change in the name of the Building to a name that has been proposed by KeyCorp or its successor and is otherwise permitted under Section 10 hereof;

 (2) The failure by KeyCorp to cure a payment default under this Agreement (including the City's right to interest on any such sums that become delinquent);

 (3) Either party's failure to comply with a material term or condition of, or to satisfy a material obligation it has assumed under this Agreement.

 B. Termination for Failure to Correct, Remedy, or Cease Failure or Violation of Agreement Within Reasonable Time After Receipt of Notice Thereof:

 In the Event either party to this Agreement fails to perform any obligation hereunder, or violates any provision of this Agreement, the other party may give notice to such party of such failure and demand the performance of such party's obligations hereunder or compliance with the terms and conditions hereof within a reasonable period after the date of such notice, which period shall not exceed ninety (90) days. In the event the party receiving notice of such failure or violation does not correct, remedy, or cease such failure or violation within the time specified in such notice, the other party may terminate this Agreement, by notice in writing, provided that if the failure or violation cannot reasonably be cured within the time period stated, so long as the defaulting party commences a cure and diligently pursues it to completion, and subject to the reasonable approval by the other party that due diligence has occurred, the other party may not terminate this Agreement. Upon termination, all obligations of the parties hereto that had not been incurred as of the effective termination date, including but not limited to the obligation to pay future Annual Fees, to use and occupancy of Suite #37, to thereafter identify the Building as "KeyArena," and to display the KeyCorp logo in connection therewith, shall terminate.

 C. No Termination Based on Matters Outside of Control of City:

 Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect regardless of the existence of any labor dispute involving or affecting the cancellation of events.

 D. No Termination Based on Expiration or Termination of Separate Advertising Agreement With Building Tenants or Third Party Sponsorship Sales Designee:

 Although KeyCorp may have or will have a separate sponsorship agreement under which KeyCorp is granted advertising and other rights as a principal sponsor of a Building Tenant, all for a term commensurate with the term of this Title Sponsorship Agreement, nothing in that other agreement, as now existing or as hereafter amended, or any action taken with respect thereto, including but not limited to its termination for cause or otherwise, shall be cause for termination of this Agreement.

 E. City Responsible for City's Third Party Sponsorship Sales Designee:

 City shall be responsible to ensure that any third party engaged by the City to sell sponsorships shall comply with KeyCorp's Exclusive Rights per Section 3 of this Agreement.

 F. Remedies Available Upon Termination of Agreement:

 (1) KeyCorp Remedies: In the event that the City's rights under this Agreement are terminated by KeyCorp pursuant to this section, the Annual Fee payable pursuant to Section 9 hereof shall be prorated on the basis of 365 calendar days, and the amount of the Annual Fee that is attributable to the period of time after the effective date of such termination shall be refunded to KeyCorp or its successor or assignee within forty-five (45) days after the effective date of such termination.

 (2) City Remedies: In the event that KeyCorp's rights under this Agreement are terminated by the City pursuant to this section, the City, without any further proceedings, may grant and license the title sponsorship rights to the Building to one or more other persons or entities during any portion of the term remaining under this Agreement had it not been terminated, and receive license fees therefore. Notwithstanding such termination, KeyCorp's liability for the additional Annual Fee to be paid to the City hereunder shall not be extinguished, and KeyCorp shall pay to the City the difference between said annual fee and the sum the City receives for the title sponsorship from such other persons or entities during the period beginning on the date KeyCorp's rights under this Agreement are terminated and ending on the scheduled expiration date of this Agreement. Such payment shall be made within thirty (30) days after the date of the City's invoice to KeyCorp. Such termination and payments shall not relieve KeyCorp from liability to the City for any damages caused by KeyCorp's default and breach and expenses incurred in the re-licensing of the title sponsorship rights with respect to the Building. In the event that KeyCorp's rights under this Agreement are terminated pursuant to this section, the City shall make a good faith effort to obtain the fair market value for the title sponsorship rights that are licensed to any third party or parties during that portion of the term of this Agreement that follows the effective termination of KeyCorp's rights.

 12. Force Majeure; Substantial Damage.

 In the event that either party to this Agreement is unable to perform its obligations hereunder or to enjoy any of its benefits because of the substantial damage or destruction of the Building due to any cause, due to a natural disaster, or action or decree of a governmental body with appropriate jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as a "Force Majeure Event"), the party that has been so affected shall immediately give notice to the other party of such fact and shall do everything possible to resume its performance. Upon the other party's receipt of such notice, each party's obligations hereunder shall be suspended for the period of such Force Majeure Event. If the Building cannot be used due to a Force Majeure Event, the Annual Fee shall be prorated on the basis of 365 calendar days and KeyCorp shall be credited or refunded the amount of the Annual Fee attributable to the time period during which the Building is destroyed or unusable due to damage. If it is highly probable that the Force Majeure Event will last for a period exceeding the Term, either party may terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days written notice to the other.

 13. Indemnification.

 A. KeyCorp will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, its employees and agents from and against all losses, liabilities, claims, costs (including attorneys' fees), actions or damages of any sort whatsoever to the extent arising out of or resulting from any act or omission of KeyCorp, its officers, directors, employees, contractors and agents, including but not limited to KeyCorp's display of sponsorship materials at the Building. In furtherance of these obligations, and only with respect to the City, its employees and agents, KeyCorp waives any immunity it may have or limitation on the amount or type of damages imposed under any industrial insurance, worker's compensation, disability, employee benefit or similar laws to the extent necessary to fufill KeyCorp's obligations under this section. The provisions of this section shall survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 B. The City will defend, indemnify and hold harmless KeyCorp, its employees and agents, from and against all losses, liabilities, claims, costs (including attorneys' fees), actions or damages of any sort whatsoever to the extent arising out of or resulting from any act or omission of the City, its elected officials, directors, employees, contractors and agents, in connection with its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to the construction, installation or maintenance of signs and structural defects at the Building. In furtherance of these obligations, and only with respect to the KeyCorp, its employees and agents, the City waives any immunity it may have or limitation on the amount or type of damages imposed under any industrial insurance, worker's compensation, disability, employee benefit or similar laws to the extent necessary to fufill City's obligations under this section. The provisions of this section shall survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 14. Assignments.

 No assignment of the rights associated with the Title Sponsorship of KeyArena and otherwise granted herein shall be effective without the prior written approval of the Seattle Center Director or President of KeyCorp, as appropriate, whose approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, except where the assignment would involve a change in the name of the Building, in which case the assignment shall also be subject to the provisions of Subsection 10.B.

 15. Notices.

 Any notice or communication to be given by one party to the other under this Agreement must be in writing; and if given by registered or certified mail, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been given and received when a registered or certified letter containing such notice or communication, properly addressed, with postage prepaid, is deposited in the United States mail, but if given otherwise than by registered or certified mail, it shall be deemed to have been given when received by the party to who it is addressed. Such notices or communications shall be delivered or sent to the following respective addresses or to such other addresses as the parties, from time to time, may specify in writing:

 If to the City: Seattle Center Director Seattle Center Department The City of Seattle 305 Harrison Street SeAttle, WA 98109

 If to Key Corp: Attn: Michael Daum, SVP Marketing 127 Public Square, 3rd Floor Cleveland, OH 44114-1305

 16. Amendments.

 No additions to, deletion from, or other modification of any of the provisions hereof shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 17. Applicable Law; Venue.

 This Agreement shall be construed under the Laws of the State of Washington. The venue for any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court of the State of Washington in and for King County.

 18. Director's Authority.

 The term "Director" as used throughout this Agreement in regard to permission, warrant, consent, approval, rights, interpretations, and discretionary matters, shall mean the Seattle Center Director or such official's designee; Provided, that the action of the Director pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official action by any other City Department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation before KeyCorp may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain or exercise any particular right or privilege under this Agreement. Decisions to be made by the Director shall be left to such official's reasonable discretion.

 19. Confidentiality.

 (a) In the event either party gives the other party Confidential Information in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree to keep such information confidential (except as may be required by law, rule or regulation of any governmental authority). "Confidential Information" means all information that is not generally known to the public, such as consumer information, and in which the disclosing party has unique rights, and which information is marked confidential, restricted or proprietary at the time of disclosure by the party having rights in the same.

 (b) KeyCorp acknowledges that the City is a public entity, and as such, is subject to public disclosure laws and statutes, including RCW Chapter 42.56. In the event that the City receives a public disclosure request that includes Confidential Information, the City will immediately notify KeyCorp and will delay disclosing the Confidential Information for ten (10) business days in order to allow KeyCorp to seek a protective order.

 20. Limitation of Liability

 (a) Neither KeyCorp nor the City will be liable for consequential, punitive, special, or incidental damages, unless expressly permitted herein.

 (b) In no event shall either KeyCorp or the City be liable for the opinions, statements or assertions of the other party or any of its employees or agents.

 (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the limitation of liability does not apply to liability that is the result of the indemnification provision.

 22. Captions.

 The title of the articles, sections, and subsections of this Agreement are for convenience only, and do not define or limit the contents.

 23. Waivers.

 No action other than notice by one party to the other specifically stating that such notice has the effect of a waiver shall constitute a waiver of any particular breach or default of such other party. Only the Seattle Center Director shall be authorized to grant a waiver on behalf of the City. No such waiver notice from either party shall waiver the other party's failure to fully comply with any other term, condition, or provision of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any City or KeyCorp officer, employee, or agent may have of any breach or default of, or noncompliance with, such other term, condition, or provision. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of fees or charges for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 24. Cumulative Rights.

 All remedies available at law or in equity to either party for breach of this Agreement are cumulative and may be exercised concurrently or separately, and the exercise of any one remedy shall not be deemed an election of such remedy to the exclusion of other remedies.

 25. Entire Agreement.

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto respecting the subject matter hereof, and there are no understandings or agreements between them respecting the subject matter hereof, written or oral, other than as set forth herein.

 26. Agreement Counterparts.

 This Agreement may be simultaneously executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original having identical legal effect.

 In Witness Whereof, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by having their duly authorized representatives (s) sign his/her/their names (s) in the respective spaces provided below:

 For KEYCORP: For THE CITY OF SEATTLE: By: _______________________ By:______________________ (Signature) (Signature) __________________________ _________________________ (Type or print name of signer) (Type or print name of signer) __________________________ _________________________ (Type or print title of signer) (Type or print title of signer) __________________________ __________________________ (Date) (Date)

 February 17, 2009

```
