

********

**Council Bill Number: 116447**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122930**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting deeds for street and/or alley purposes and easements for sidewalk purposes; establishing, laying off, and widening portions of the following rights-of-way: the alley in H. L. Yesler's Donation Claim Numbers 42 and 47; McGraw Street abutting Block 11, Hunter's Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle; the sidewalk adjoining Block 11, Hunter's Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block F, 4th Addition to the City of Seattle; the sidewalk adjoining Block F, 4th Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 6, Denny-Fuhrman Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 4, Rainier Boulevard Addition to the City of Seattle; NW 100th Street abutting Block 1, S. F. Barker's Home Addition No. 1; the alley in Block 10, Randell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 13, Eastern Addition to the Town of Seattle; the alley in Block 17, C. D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2; S Wolcott Street abutting Blocks 17 and 18, C.D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2; the sidewalk adjoining Block 19, Hill Tract Addition to the City of Seattle; the sidewalk adjoining Lot 2, Acre 1, Tract 30, The Maple Leaf Addition to Green Lake Circle; the alley in Block 14, South Park; the alley in Block 8, The Byron Addition to the City of Seattle; Wolcott Avenue South abutting Blocks 17 and 18, C.D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2; the sidewalk adjoining Block 2, Weedin's Division of Greenlake Addition to Seattle; the alley in Block 51, Boston Co.'s Plat of West Seattle; the alley in Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 9, 2009
   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Burgess, Drago, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 17, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 16, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 2, 2009
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEEDS, EASEMENTS, STREETS, SIDEWALKS, ALLEYS, RIGHT-OF-WAY, DEPARTMENT-OF-TRANSPORTATION-SEATTLE

**Fiscal Note:**116447

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122930](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122930.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE accepting deeds for street and/or alley purposes and easements for sidewalk purposes; establishing, laying off, and widening portions of the following rights-of-way: the alley in H. L. Yesler's Donation Claim Numbers 42 and 47; McGraw Street abutting Block 11, Hunter's Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle; the sidewalk adjoining Block 11, Hunter's Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block F, 4th Addition to the City of Seattle; the sidewalk adjoining Block F, 4th Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 6, Denny-Fuhrman Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 4, Rainier Boulevard Addition to the City of Seattle; NW 100th Street abutting Block 1, S. F. Barker's Home Addition No. 1; the alley in Block 10, Randell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle; the alley in Block 13, Eastern Addition to the Town of Seattle; the alley in Block 17, C. D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2; S Wolcott Street abutting Blocks 17 and 18, C.D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2; the sidewalk adjoining Block 19, Hill Tract Addition to the City of Seattle; the sidewalk adjoining Lot 2, Acre 1, Tract 30, The Maple Leaf Addition to Green Lake Circle; the alley in Block 14, South Park; the alley in Block 8, The Byron Addition to the City of Seattle; Wolcott Avenue South abutting Blocks 17 and 18, C.D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2; the sidewalk adjoining Block 2, Weedin's Division of Greenlake Addition to Seattle; the alley in Block 51, Boston Co.'s Plat of West Seattle; the alley in Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle Land Use Code (Chapter 23.53 of the Seattle Municipal Code) requires that street/alleys and sidewalks adjacent and leading to lots being created, developed, or redeveloped, be improved or brought up to the minimum conditions specified in the Land Use Code and the Seattle Right-of-Way Improvements Manual; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Department of Transportation obtained, on behalf of the City, the necessary rights-of-way from specific property owners listed herein for and in fulfillment of said land use code requirement; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The deed for alley purposes dated February 19, 2008, by PROJECT 1411 LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to the City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington (this is a rerecording of a previous deed to correct the legal description):

 The South 2.4 feet of the East 18 feet of the following described property:

 That portion of H.L. Yesler's Donation Claim Numbers 42 and 47, Section 5, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing at a point, 3.07 chains South of the Sixth Standard Parallel at the corner of Section 32 and 33, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W.M.;

 Thence running South 33 feet; Thence West 120 feet to the true point of beginning;

 Thence West 42 feet; Thence South 126 feet; Thence East 42 feet; Thence North 126 feet to the true point of beginning;

 EXCEPT that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 91025, for the widening of East Fir Street, as provided by Ordinance No. 20451 of the City of Seattle,

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2006-04; a portion of tax parcel number 000760-0126; King County Recording Number 20080222000945)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in the block bounded on the north by E Fir Street, on the south by E Yesler Way, on the east by 15th Avenue, and on the west by 14th Avenue, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 2. The deed for street purposes dated March 4, 2008, by HOWLAND HOMES, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The South 5.00 feet of the following described property;

 Lots 18 and 19, Block 11, Hunter's Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 27, Records of King County, Washington,

 TOGETHER WITH a portion of the East 1/2 of Vacated Birch Avenue N., adjacent to said lots, as vacated under City of Seattle Ordinance 78255,

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-17A; a portion of tax parcel 352890-0770; King County Recording Number 20080304001489)

 is hereby accepted, and McGraw Street and Birch Avenue N abutting Block 11, Hunter's Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the east by 6th Avenue N, on the west by Birch Avenue N, and on the south by McGraw Street, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 3. The easement for public sidewalk purposes dated March 12, 2008, by HOWLAND HOMES, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle an easement for sidewalk purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The North 1.50 feet of the South 6.50 feet of the following described property:

 Lots 18 & 19, Block 11, Hunter's Lake Union Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 27, Records of King County, Washington,

 TOGETHER WITH, a portion of the East 1/2 of Vacated Birch Avenue, adjacent to said lots as vacated under City of Seattle Ordinance Number 78255,

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 The conveyance of this easement for public sidewalk shall be for surface rights or public access only and shall not constitute conveyance of any rights other than those specified in this document. The Grantor shall be responsible for maintenance of the surface and supporting structure of the area of said easement.

 (RW T2007-17B; a portion of tax parcel number 352890-0770; King County Recording Number 20080325001155)

 is hereby accepted, and the sidewalk adjoining Lots 18 and 19, Block 11, Hunter's Lake Union to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the east by 6th Avenue N, on the west by Birch Avenue N, and on the south by McGraw Street, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 4. The deed for alley purposes dated September 4, 2007, by METROCORP LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purpose the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Westerly 0.5 feet of Lot 12, Block 6, Denny-Fuhrman Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 7 of Plats, page 34, Records of King County, Washington,

 Situate in the city of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-28; a portion of tax parcel number 195970-0245; King County Recording Number 20080318000659)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 6, Denny-Fuhrman Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the north by E Edgar Street, on the south by E Roanoke Street, on the east by Boylston Avenue E, and on the west by Franklin Avenue E, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 5. The deed for alley purposes dated December 12, 2007, by WESTERN & DENNY CONDOMINIUMS LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Northeasterly 2.00 feet of the following described property:

 Lots 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, Block F, 4th Addition to the City of Seattle, as laid off by William N. Bell, according to the plat recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 167, in King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT portions of said Lots 3, 4, and 5 condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 154645 for the widening, extending and establishing of Denny Way, as provided by Ordinance No. 42451 of the City of Seattle;

 AND EXCEPT, that portion of said Lots 4 and 5 condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 78943 for the widening, extending and establishing of Western Avenue as provided by Ordinance No. 23040 of the City of Seattle;

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-29: a portion of tax parcel number 069500-0155; King County Recording Number 20080130000327)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block F, 4th Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the northeast by Denny Way, on the southeast by Bay Street, and on the west by Western Avenue, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 6. The easement for public sidewalk purposes dated November 13, 2007, by WESTERN & DENNY CONDOMINIUMS LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle an easement for sidewalk purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 Legal Description of Entire Property:

 Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5, Block "F", 4th Addition to the City of Seattle as laid off by Wm. N. Bell, according to the plat thereof Recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 167, in King County, Washington;

 EXCEPT portions of said Lots 3, 4, and 5, condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 154645 for the widening, extending and establishing of Denny Way, as provided by Ordinance No. 424251 of the City of Seattle;

 AND EXCEPT that portion of said Lots 4 and 5, condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 78943 for the widening, extending and establishing of Western Avenue, as provided by Ordinance No. 23040 of the City of Seattle;

 AND EXCEPT the Northeast 2 feet of portion of said Lots 1, 2, and 3 lying South of Denny Way to be deeded for widening of alley;

 Legal Description of Sidewalk Easement Area: (Western Ave.)

 That portion of the above described entire property lying Southwesterly of the following described line:

 Commencing at the most Southerly corner of the above described entire property;

 Thence N 42 degrees 14' 16" E, along the Southeasterly line thereof, a distance of 2.00 feet to the true point of beginning of said line;

 Thence N 47 degrees 46' 10" W, parallel with the centerline of Western Avenue, a distance of 193.87 feet, more or less, to the Westerly line of the above described entire property, and the terminus of said described line.

 Legal Description of Sidewalk Easement Area: (Denny Way)

 The North 8 feet, as measured parallel with the centerline of Denny Way, of the above described entire property.

 The conveyance of this easement for public sidewalk shall be for surface rights or public access only and shall not constitute conveyance of any rights other than those specified in this document. The Grantor shall be responsible for maintenance of the surface and supporting structure of the area of said easement.

 (RW T2007-29B; a portion of tax parcel number 069500-0155; King County Recording Number 20071219000347)

 is hereby accepted, and the sidewalks adjoining Block "F", 4th Addition to the City of Seattle as laid off by Wm. N. Bell, said block being bounded on the northeast by Denny Way, on the southeast by Bay Street, and on the west by Western Avenue, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 7. The deed for alley purposes dated December 4, 2007, by 1130 Rainier, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Westerly 2.00 feet of Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, Block 4, Rainier Boulevard Addition to the City of Seattle, as per plat recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 59, records of King County,

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-30; a portion of tax parcel numbers 713230-0335, 713230- 0340, 713230-0345, 713230-0350, 713230-0355 & 713230-0365; King County Recording Number 20071205000206)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 4, Rainier Boulevard Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the north by S Charles Street, on the south by S Bush Place, on the east by Hiawatha Place S, and on the west by Rainier Avenue S, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 8. The deed for street purposes dated September 27, 2007, by CP GRANGER, INC., a Washington corporation, conveying to The City of Seattle for street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The North 5.00 feet of the following described property:

 Parcel A, City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 3003770, recorded under King County Recording Number 20070214900009;

 Also known as:

 The North 70.33 feet of Lot 24, Block 1, S. F. Barker's Suburban Home Addition No. 1, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 35 of Plats, page 48, Records of King County, Washington,

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-31; a portion of tax parcel number 053400-0120; King County Recording Number 20071003001615)

 is hereby accepted and NW 100th Street abutting Block 1, S. F. Barker's Home Addition No. 1, said block being bounded on the west by 4th Avenue NW, on the east by 3rd Avenue NW, and on the south by NW 97th Street, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 9. The deed for alley purposes dated August, 28, 2007, by MGT INVESTMENTS, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 1.00 feet of the following described property:

 Lots 5, 6, &7, Block 10, Randell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 89, and as supplemented in Volume 8 of Plats, page 14, Records of King County, Washington,

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-33; a portion of tax parcel 715220-0025; King County Recording Number 20070904001228)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 10, Randell's 2nd Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded by on the north by E Union Street, on the south by E Spring Street, on the east by 35th Avenue, and on the west by 34th Avenue, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 10. The deed for alley purposes dated September 17, 2007, by Pontius Partners, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to the City of Seattle for alley purpose the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 2.00 of Lot 3, Block 13, Eastern Addition to the Town of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof, recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 43, records of King County, Washington,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-36; a portion of tax parcel number 219760-0600; King County Recording No. 20070924000004)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 13, Eastern Addition to the Town of Seattle, said block being bounded on the north by E Spruce Street, on the south by E Fir Street, on the east by 12th Avenue and on the west by 11th Avenue, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 11. The deed for alley purposes dated September 6, 2007, by HOWLAND HOMES, L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Westerly 2.00 feet of Lots 14 through 27, Block 17, C. D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 12 of Plats, page 103, Records of King County, Washington,

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-37; a portion of tax parcel numbers 333650-0090; 333650- 0095; 33650-0100; 336650-0105; 333650-0110; 333650-0115; 333650-0120; 333650-0125; 333650-0130; 333650-0135; 333650-0140; 333650- 0145;333650-0150)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 17, C. D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the east by Wolcott Avenue S and on the south by S Rose Street, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 12. The deed for street purposes dated September 6, 2007, by HOWLAND HOMES, L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The portion of Lots 1 and 2, Block 18, C.D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 12 as of Plats, page 103, Records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the southwest corner of said Lot 1; thence N 04 degrees 59' 57" W, along the west margin of said Lots, 20.50 feet; thence S 48 degrees 18' 34" E, 16.37 feet; thence S 04 degrees 59' 57" E, 4.02 feet; thence N 89 degrees 55' 42" E, 119.83 feet to the east margin of said Lots; thence S 03 degrees 14' 27" E, along said margin, 5.51 feet to the south margin of said Lot 1; thence S 89 degrees 55' 33" W, along said margin, 130.93 feet to the point of beginning.

 AND

 That portion of Lot 27, Block 17, C. D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 12 of Plats, page 103, Records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the southwest corner of said Lot 27; thence N 04 degrees 59' 57" W along the west margin of said lot, 5.02 feet; thence N 89 degrees 55' 33" E, 91.24 feet; thence N 04 degrees 59' 57" W, 3.88 feet; thence N 34 degrees 38'45" E, 14.26 feet to the east margin of said Lot 27; thence S 04 degrees 59' 57E, along said margin, 20.66 feet to the south margin of said Lot 27; thence S 89 degrees 55" 33" W along said margin, 100.37 feet to the point of beginning.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-38; a portion of tax parcel numbers 333650-0160 and 333650- 0150; King County Recording Number 20070918001529)

 is hereby accepted, and Wolcott Avenue S abutting Blocks 17 and 18, C. D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2, said blocks being bounded on the south by S Rose Street, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 13. The easement for public sidewalk purposes dated August 8, 2007, by 17TH AND JACKSON, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle an easement for sidewalk purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The South 1' - 4" of Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15, Block 19, Hill Tract Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 8 of Plats, page 42, Records of King County, Washington:

 situate in the city of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington;

 The conveyance of this easement for public sidewalk shall be for surface rights or public access only and shall not constitute conveyance of any rights other than those specified in this document. The Grantor shall be responsible for maintenance of the surface and supporting structure of the area of said easement.

 (RW T2007-39; a portion of tax parcel number 331950-0701; King County Recording No. 20070904001225)

 is hereby accepted, and the sidewalk adjoining a portion of Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15, Block 19, Hill Tract Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the north by S Main Street, on the South by S Jackson Street, on the east by 18th Avenue S, and on the west by

 17th Avenue S, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 14. The easement for public sidewalk purposes dated November 28, 2007, by RUTH A. WILLIAMS, a married person as her separate estate and LOREN D. WILLIAMS, a married person as his separate estate, and RACHEL E. WILLIAMS, A SINGLE PERSON, conveying to The City of Seattle an easement for sidewalk purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The east 4.00 feet of the west 14.00 feet of the following described property:

 Lot 1 and the north 1/2 of Lot 2, Acre 1, Tract 30, The Maple Leaf Addition to Green Lake Circle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 115, Records of King County, Washington,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 The conveyance of this easement for public sidewalk shall be for surface rights of public access only and shall not constitute conveyance of any rights other than those specified in this document. The Grantor shall be responsible for maintenance of the surface and supporting structure of this area of said easement.

 (RW T2007-40; a portion of tax parcel number 510040-2325; King County Recording Number 20071217001216)

 is hereby accepted, and the sidewalk adjoining a portion of Lot 1 and the north 1/2 of Lot 2, Acre 1, Tract 30, The Maple Leaf Addition to Green Lake Circle, said tract being bounded on the north by NE 90th Street, on the south by NE 89th Street, and on the west by Roosevelt Way NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 15. The deed for alley purposes dated August 27, 2007, by ANNETTE TRAN, a single person, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The south 3.00 feet of the following described property:

 Lot 1 and the west 2 feet of Lot 2, Block 14, South Park, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 4 of Plats, page 87, Records of King County, Washington,

 EXCEPT

 That portion of Lot 1 conveyed to the City of Seattle by Deed recorded under Recording No. 9704230800,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-41; a portion of tax parcel number 788360-2640; King County Recording No. 20071011000968)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 14, South Park, said block being bounded on the north by S Cloverdale Street, on the south by S Donovan Street, and on the west by 7th Avenue S, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section .

 Section 16. The deed for alley purposes dated January 27, 2008, by STEVEN C. COLLINS, an unmarried person, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The Easterly 2.00 feet of Lot 23, Block 8, The Byron Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 6 of Plats, Page 87, Records of King County, Washington,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-43; a portion of tax parcel number 1282300735; King County Recording Number 20080129001478)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 8, The Byron Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the northwest by S Byron Street, on the southeast by S Walden Street, on the southwest by Claremont Avenue S, and on the northeast by Rainier Avenue S, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 17. The deed for street purposes dated September 6, 2007, by HOWLAND HOMES, L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company, conveying to The City of Seattle for street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 That portion of Lots 15, 16 and 17, Block 17, C. D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 12 of Plats, page 103, Records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the northeast corner of said Lot 17; thence S 04 degrees 59' 57" E, along the east margin of said Lot, 13.44 feet; thence N 39 degrees 06' 32" W, 6.44 feet; thence N 04 degrees 59' 57" W, 36.00 feet, thence N 29 degrees 06' 38" E, 6.,44 feet to the east margin of said Lots; thence S 04" 59' 57" E, along said margin, 33.22 feet to the point of beginning,

 AND

 That portion of Lots 10, 11 and 12, Block 18, C.D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 12 of Plats, page 103, Records of King County, described as follows:

 Beginning at the northwest corner of said Lot 10; thence S 04 degrees 59" 57" E along the west margin of said lot, 4.90 feet; thence N 29 degrees 08' 38" E, 6.44 feet; thence N 04 degrees 59' 57" W, 36.00 feet; thence N 39 degrees 06' 32" W, 6.44 feet to the west margin of said Lots; thence S 04 degrees 59' 57" E, along said margin, 41.76 to the point of beginning.

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-44; a portion of tax parcel numbers 333650-0090,-0100, - 0105, -0210,

 -0215,-0200; King County Recording Number 20070918001531)

 is hereby accepted and Wolcott Avenue S abutting Blocks 17 and 18, C. D. Hillman's Atlantic City Addition to the City of Seattle Division No. 2, said blocks being bounded on the south by S Rose Street, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 18. The easement for public sidewalk purposes dated September 28, 2007, by KUK-JIN & KATHY CHOUNG, Husband and Wife, conveying to the City of Seattle an easement for sidewalk purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The West 2.00 feet of Lots 9, 10, 11 & 12, block 2, Weedin's Division of Greenlake Addition to Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 5 of Plats, page 27, Records of King County, Washington:

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 The conveyance of this easement for public sidewalk shall be for surface rights of public access only and shall not constitute conveyance of any rights other than those specified in this document. The Grantor shall be responsible for maintenance of the surface and supporting structure of the area of said easement.

 (RW T2007-45; a portion of tax parcel numbers 922140-0210 & 922140- 0225; King County Recording Number 20071002000014)

 is hereby accepted, and the sidewalk adjoining a portion of Lots 9, 10, 11 and 12, Block 2, Weedin's Division of Greenlake Addition to Seattle, said block being bounded on the north by NE 65th Street, on the south by NE 64th Street, on the east by 9th Avenue NE, and on the west by 8th Avenue NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 19. The deed for alley purposes dated November 20, 2007, by GOLDEN CREST, LLC, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 That portion of Lot 16, Block 51, Boston Co.'s Plat of West Seattle, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 3 of plats, page 19, records of King County, Washington, described as follows:

 0

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot 16; thence N 01 degrees 11' 58" E, 20.00 feet along the East line thereof, thence N 88 degrees 48' 16" W, 2.00 feet to the beginning of a non-tangent curve, concave Southeasterly, having a radius of 25.00 feet (a radial line to said beginning bears S 88 degrees 49' 11" E), thence Southerly and Southwesterly 23.18 feet along said curve through a central angle of 53 degrees 07' 14" to the South line of said Lot 16;

 Thence S 88 degrees 48' 16" E, 11.99 feet along said South line to the point of beginning;

 TOGETHER WITH, the East 2.00 feet of Lots 12 through 15, and the East 2.00 feet of the North 5.00 feet of Lot 16, all in said Block 51,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 (RW T2007-50; a portion of tax parcel numbers 095200-6565, 095200- 6580; King County Recording Number 20071128000420)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 51, Boston Co.'s Plat of West Seattle, said block being bounded on the north by SW Oregon Street, on the south by SW Alaska Street, on the east by

 41st Avenue SW, and on the west by 42nd Avenue SW, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 20. The deed for alley purposes dated November 30, 2007, by ROBERT NIEMANN AND ANGELA M. NIEMANN, Husband and Wife, conveying to The City of Seattle for alley purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 The East 1.00 foot of the following described property:

 The South 13 feet of Lot 47 and all of Lot 48, Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 10 of Plats, page 73, Records of King County, Washington,

 situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington,

 (RW T2007-51; a portion of tax parcel number 6746700670; King County Recording Number 20071219001876)

 is hereby accepted, and the alley in Block 5, Pettit's University Addition to the City of Seattle, said block being bounded on the north by NE 50th Street, on the south by NE 52nd Street, on the east by 12th Avenue NE, and on the west by 11th Avenue NE, is hereby laid off, opened, widened, extended and established upon the portion of land described in this section.

 Section 21. The real properties conveyed by the deeds described above are placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 22. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ___________________, 2009. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 November 8, 2009 Version #2a

```
