

********

**Council Bill Number: 116553**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123025**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, adding a new section 23.45.128 to the Seattle Municipal Code to permit medical service uses as administrative conditional uses in Highrise zones.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 29, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 8, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 8, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 8, 2009
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-PERMITS, FIRST-HILL, HEALTH-CARE-FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**116553

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123025](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123025.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, adding a new section 23.45.128 to the Seattle Municipal Code to permit medical service uses as administrative conditional uses in Highrise zones.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. A new Section 23.45.128 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.45.128 Medical Service Uses

 A. Medical service uses occupying over 4,000 square feet may be permitted in Highrise zones as administrative conditional uses on lots that are at least 25,000 square feet in size, have not been in residential use since January 1, 1989, and are located on a block that abuts a Neighborhood Commercial zone on at least two entire sides of the block (defined for the purpose of this subsection 23.45.128.A as areas bounded by street lot lines).

 B. In order to approve a medical service use, the Director must determine that the medical service use is an expansion of an existing medical service business establishment in the immediate vicinity that is not a major institution.

 C. Design review is required.

 D. The development standards in Sections 23.45.068 through 23.45.076 do not apply to the portion of the structure occupied by medical service uses, which shall meet the following development standards:

 1. The maximum height for the portions of structures containing medical office uses is 108 feet.

 2. No width or depth limits apply to facades or portions of facades that are 45 feet or less in height.

 3. The average of the gross floor area of stories in medical service use above 45 feet in height shall not exceed 60 percent of the area of the lot.

 4. Setbacks

 a. Setbacks shall be required as shown on Table A for 23.45.128:

 Table A for 23.45.128: Setback Requirements for Medical Office Uses

```
<table><tr><td>Elevation of Facade or Portion of Facade from Existing Grade

</td><td>Setback on Street Frontages

</td><td>Setback on Alley Frontages

</td><td>Setback on shared lot lines

</td></tr><tr><td>45' or less

</td><td>7'; average, 5' minimum

</td><td>0

</td><td>7'; average, 5' minimum

</td></tr><tr><td>More than 45' up to 108';

</td><td>10' average, 7' minimum

</td><td>10'

</td><td>15' average, 10' minimum

</td></tr></table> b. If the ground floor of a street facade is in use as a child care center, community center, or commercial use permitted on the ground floor by Section 23.45.110, no setback is required for the portion of the street facade that is 45' in height or less.

 c. When properties abutting the site are developed to the side property line, portions of the proposed development that are 45 feet in height or less may be joined to the abutting structure.

 5. A minimum of 25 percent of the lot area shall be provided as landscaped open space at ground level meeting the development standards of subsection 23.45.074.B. In addition to lot area meeting the development standards of 23.45.074.B, the following areas may be included in the calculation of required ground level open space:

 a. Area in the public right-of-way of a designated green street abutting the lot that is improved according to a plan approved by the Director, in consultation with the Director of the Department of Transportation, except that the Director may waive the requirement that the green street abut the lot and allow the improvements to be made to a green street located in the general vicinity of the project, if such an improvement is determined to be beneficial to the occupants of the project; and

 b. Landscaped area in the public right-of-way that abuts the required open space on the lot, when the landscaping contributes to achievement of the Green Factor score required pursuant to subsection 23.45.128.D.6.

 6. Landscaping that achieves a Green Factor score of .30 or greater, pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 23.86.019, is required.

 7. Parking shall be required as provided in Chapter 23.54. Parking shall be located on the same site as the principal use, except for accessory off-site parking permitted according to Section 23.45.166.

 8. The Director shall determine the location of access to parking. In order to promote pedestrian safety and comfort, the access via an alley is preferred. Where street access is deemed appropriate, due to safety hazards, topography, or other special site conditions, the number of curb cuts and the width of curb cuts, driveways, and garage openings shall be minimized.

 9. No surface area parking shall be provided, and no parking shall be located at or above grade, unless it is separated from all street lot lines by another use.

 10. The preferred access to loading berths shall be from an alley if the lot abuts an alley. Loading berths shall be located so that access to any residential parking is not blocked.

 11. The Director shall determine the location of passenger load zones, based on safety considerations, minimizing conflicts with automobile and pedestrian traffic, reducing impacts on any nearby residential uses, and the efficient operation of the medical service use.

 12. Exterior lighting shall be shielded and directed away from adjacent properties.

 13. Identifying signs shall be permitted according to Chapter 23.55, Signs.

 E. For mixed use structures containing both medical service uses and residential uses, the following development standards also apply:

 1. The maximum width and depth limits in subsections 23.45.068.A and 23.45.068.B apply to any portion of the structure in residential use above 45 feet in height.

 2. Residential amenity areas shall be provided according to the provisions of Section 23.47A.024. Open space required at ground level pursuant to subsection 23.45.128.D.5 may be included as residential amenity area if it meets the applicable development standards of subsection 23.47A.024.B.

 3. No landscaped open space is required in addition to the open space required in subsection 23.45.128.D.5.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Rebecca Herzfeld & Dennis Meier

 Highrise Amendment ORD v5.docx

 June 24, 2009

 Version #5

 Form Last Revised on December 17, 2008 5

 May 14, 2009 Version #3 Proposed Amendment to the Highrise Zone Report and Recommendation

 June 2, 2009

 Introduction

 Councilmember Rasmussen is proposing to amend the provisions of the Highrise zone to permit a medical service use larger than 4,000 square feet in size as an administrative conditional use when it is an expansion of an existing medical service use nearby that is not a major institution. "Medical service use" is the defined term in the Land Use Code for the offices of health care providers such as doctors and dentists. Seattle's Highrise zone currently permits small medical service uses, as well as other commercial uses such as retail, office, and restaurants, only on the ground floor of residential buildings.

 Description of Proposal

 The legislation would add a new section to Subchapter II of Chapter 23.45 of the Land Use Code, which regulates multifamily zones. Subchapter II addresses administrative conditional uses (ACUs). ACUs must be approved by the Director of the Department of Planning and Development (DPD), whose decision is appealable to the City's Hearing Examiner. Uses that are currently permitted as ACUs in multifamily zones include community centers, private schools, religious facilities, and park and pool lots. The DPD Director's decision must consider whether the use will be "materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property in the zone or vicinity in which the property is located", and the Director may impose conditions to mitigate any adverse impacts of the project. In addition, the specific criteria and standards for each type of ACU must be met.

 The proposal would permit medical service uses larger than 4,000 square feet only on large lots on the edges of commercial zones. In addition, to avoid the possibility of medical office uses displacing housing, the lot cannot have been in residential use for over 20 years. The proposed criteria state that the medical service use must be an expansion of an existing medical office nearby, and cannot be part of a major institution. Seattle's Highrise zoning is located on First Hill, which is also the site of several major institutions. See figure 1.

 The purpose of the proposed criteria is to avoid encouraging speculative office development, and to prohibit the expansion of major institutions beyond their adopted overlay boundaries.

 The remainder of the proposed new code section provides development standards for proposed medical service uses. Such uses would be required to go through the design review process, which includes at least two public meetings before the local Design Review Board. Other proposed standards address the permitted height and bulk of the medical office use. The standards are based in part on the DPD's January 2009 recommendations for amending the multifamily chapter of the Land Use Code. For example, landscaping requirements would be met by using the "green factor" system, which provides a menu of landscaping elements to promote attractive and ecologically functional development.

 The proposal would limit the base of a medical services structure to a height of 45 feet. Above that, the size of any story in medical service use would be limited to 60 percent of the area of the lot. The maximum height of a medical service use would be 108 feet (the base height limit for residential uses in Highrise zones is 160 feet, and a height of 240 feet can be achieved through provision of amenities such as open space and affordable housing). A minimum of 25 percent of the lot area would be required to be provided as landscaped open space at ground level, and setbacks would be required at the upper levels of the building. The proposed development standards are intended to limit the bulk of medical service uses while providing some flexibility to design a structure that complements existing neighborhood character. If housing is also provided on the lot, it would be required to meet the Highrise zone requirements for residential uses.

 Recommendation

 The proposed amendment provides existing medical offices not associated with major institutions the opportunity to expand and continue serving their patients and customers while preserving the highrise residential character of First Hill. Staff recommends adoption.

[Map](/~ordpics/116553.gif)

