

********

**Council Bill Number: 116540**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123003**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Office of Professional Accountability (OPA) Auditor; approving a professional services contract between the City and the OPA Auditor; and amending a 2009 budget proviso that restricts spending for those professional services.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 8, 2009
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Rasmussen)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 18, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 10, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 26, 2009
   
**Committee:** Public Safety, Human Services and Education
   
**Sponsor:** BURGESS
   
   
**Index Terms:** POLICE-DEPARTMENT, INTERNAL-INVESTIGATIONS, CITIZEN-PARTICIPATION, CITIZEN-COMPLAINTS, AUDITS

**Fiscal Note:**116540

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123003](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123003.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Office of Professional Accountability (OPA) Auditor; approving a professional services contract between the City and the OPA Auditor; and amending a 2009 budget proviso that restricts spending for those professional services.

 WHEREAS, in approving the 2009 Adopted and 2010 Endorsed Budget, the City Council imposed a proviso requiring Council approval of the professional services contract between the City and the Office of Professional Accountability (OPA) Auditor; and

 WHEREAS, the Council intends to review and approve not only initial contracts with future OPA Auditors but also any contract amendments; and

 WHEREAS, the purpose of the proviso is to ensure that the contract is consistent with the Municipal Code provisions on the OPA Auditor and to provide for Council approval of the financial terms in the contract, and not to create contract terms that are in any way inconsistent with the Municipal Code or that limit the independence of the Auditor within the provisions of the Code; and

 WHEREAS, the Mayor has requested that the Council confirm the appointment of Judge Michael Spearman as the OPA Auditor, and has proposed a professional services contract with Judge Spearman; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council has approved the appointment of Judge Spearman as the OPA Auditor;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The City Council hereby approves the professional services contract between the City and Michael S. Spearman in Attachment 1, labeled "Agreement for Auditing Services."

 Section 2. The budget proviso identified below is amended as follows:

 Department: Finance General

 Green sheet: 2009, #29-1-A-2

 Proviso: None of the money appropriated for 2009 (and none of the money endorsed for 2010) for the Finance General Reserves BCL may be spent for professional services to be provided by the Office of Professional Accountability (OPA) Auditor until the City Council approves a professional services contract by ordinance, and none may be spent for such services subsequent to any amendment to such contract until the City Council approves the amendment.

 BCL: Finance General Reserves

 Section 3. The approval by this ordinance of the professional services contract between the City and Judge Michael Spearman satisfies the proviso in Section 2 until and unless the contract terminates or is amended.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Section 5. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after passage of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2003, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2003. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003. ___________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2003. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 5/19/09 V #1

 ATTACHMENT 1: AGREEMENT FOR AUDITING SERVICES

 SEATTLE POLICE DEPARTMENT

 OFFICE OF PROFESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY AUDITOR

 This AGREEMENT is made between THE CITY OF SEATTLE (the "City") and MICHAEL S. SPEARMAN, Seattle, Washington (the "Auditor") to perform the duties of the Auditor under Seattle Municipal Code Sections 3.28.850-870 (Attachment "A") during the period June 1, 2009 through May 31, 2012.

 Section 1. Scope of Services.

 The Auditor shall perform the duties of the Office of Professional Accountability Auditor as set forth in the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC") Sections 3.28.850-870. The Auditor shall provide semi-annual reports as required by SMC Sections 3.28.855. The first report will be due by December 31, 2009.

 At least once each quarter the Auditor shall meet together with the OPA Director and the OPA Review Board to discuss emerging issues and areas of concern.

 The Auditor, in consultation with the OPA Director and OPA Review Board, will identify substantive policy or procedural areas that will be the subject of enhanced review by the Auditor. These issues shall be addressed by the Auditor in special reports that will be prepared as needed.

 All final reports prepared by the Auditor will be submitted to the Mayor, Police Chief, OPA Director and City Council.

 The OPA Auditor shall deliver preliminary drafts of any reports to the Mayor, OPA Director and Chief of Police for review and comment. The Mayor, OPA Director and Chief of Police shall review and comment on the preliminary report within 10 working days after receipt of the report. The OPA Auditor shall submit the final report within 10 working days after receipt of the Mayor's, Director's and Chief's comments.

 The Auditor shall monitor the progress of all OPA related recommendations being implemented by the police department including the recommendations from the 2007 Police Accountability Review Panel. The Auditor shall report on the implementation status in the regular semiannual reports.

 The Auditor shall, as needed, conduct enhanced reviews of all ongoing investigations by OPA IS, with special attention paid to training and interviewing skills as well as a critical review of outcomes.

 The Auditor shall, as needed, perform in-depth reviews of substantive policies, procedures and/or training that impact police accountability and/or the disciplinary system.

 The Auditor represents that he has the qualities and characteristics required in SMC Section 3.28.850 and that he will faithfully perform the duties of the Auditor. The Auditor is an independent contractor and shall use his best judgment in determining the manner of performance and reporting. The Auditor shall maintain the confidentiality of departmental files and information as required by SMC Section 3.28.870 in performing his duties.

 Section 2. Compensation.

 The City shall compensate the Auditor for satisfactory performance of this agreement at the rate of $160 per hour not to exceed a total of $100,000 for the period of June 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009 and not to exceed a total of $ 143,000 for the period of January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. The maximum compensation levels are dependent on available funding from the city's budget and are subject to change. The maximum level of compensation for 2011 and 2012 will be determined by the budget allocations made by the City Council.

 The Auditor's rate of compensation will be reviewed at the beginning of each calendar year and may be adjusted upon the mutual agreement of the parties.

 If the Auditor requires additional technical or staffing support to produce the required semiannual and special reports, a funding request for these resources can be made to the City. Any approved expenditures would be included under the maximum compensation level for the period in question.

 The Auditor shall submit an Affidavit for work hours performed to: Department of Finance, City of Seattle, Attention: Public Safety Team Lead, 600 Fourth Avenue, Floor 6; P.O. Box 94747; Seattle, Washington 98124-4747.

 The Affidavit shall state the number of hours worked and describe the work performed. The affidavit shall be submitted no later than ten (10) days following the end of each month. Said Affidavits will be supplemented upon request of the City. Payment will be made by warrant about fifteen (15) days after receipt of the Auditor's statement.

 Section 3. City Facilities.

 The Police Department shall, upon request, provide temporary space for the Auditor to conduct his Audit and provide the use of a telephone, if necessary, and shall cooperate with the Audit.

 Section 4. Non-Discrimination / Affirmation Action (SMC Section 20.44.030)

 During the performance of this contract, the Auditor agrees as follows:

 If the Auditor hires employees, the Auditor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, creed, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Auditor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, color, sex, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Auditor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this non-discrimination clause.

 The Auditor will, prior to commencement and during the term of this Agreement, furnish to the Director of the Seattle Office for Civil Rights (as used herein Director means the Director of the Seattle Office for Civil Rights or his/her designee) upon his/her request and on such form as may be provided by the Director therefore, a report of the affirmative action taken by the Auditor in implementing the terms of these provisions, and will permit access to his/her records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Director for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with this provision.

 If, upon investigation, the Director finds probable cause to believe that the Auditor has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provisions, the contracting authority shall give the Auditor an opportunity to be heard, after ten (10) days' notice. If the contracting authority concurs in the findings of the Director, it may suspend the contract and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to the Auditor, pending compliance by the Auditor with the terms of these provisions.

 Failure to comply with any terms of these provisions shall be a material breach of this Agreement.

 The foregoing provisions will be inserted in all subcontracts for work covered by this contract.

 Section 5. Use of Women's and Minority Business Enterprise.

 If this contract generates opportunities for subcontracting, the Auditor shall make every effort to utilize women's business enterprises and minority business enterprises, require that subcontractors do so, and maintain records necessary for monitoring compliance with the provisions of SMC Chapter 20.46, which is incorporated herein by reference. The failure of the Auditor to comply with any of its applicable requirements shall be a material breach of contract.

 Section 6. Audit.

 Upon request, the Auditor shall permit the City to inspect and audit all pertinent books and records of the Auditor, any subAuditor, or any other person or entity that performed work in connection with or related to the Work, at any and all times deemed necessary by the City or Agency, including up to three years after the final payment or release of withheld amounts has been made under this Agreement. Such inspection and audit shall occur in King County, Washington or other such reasonable location as the City selects. The Auditor shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City to make a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof. The Auditor shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the City is a condition of any subcontract, agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to perform work under this Agreement.

 Section 7. Waiver.

 The parties' rights under this Agreement are cumulative. The failure to exercise promptly any right on any occasion does not prevent the exercise of such a right on another occasion. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed or operate as a waiver of any subsequent default. The payment or acceptance of compensation or expenses reimbursement after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 Section 8. Amendment.

 The parties reserve the right to modify or amend this Agreement from time to time as deemed necessary, by mutual agreement. No modification or amendment shall be effective unless written and signed by authorized representatives of the parties.

 Section 9. Termination.

 Either party may terminate this Agreement pursuant to SMC 3.28.850 and upon thirty (30) days written notice or at such time as the City has found a replacement to perform the duties of Auditor, whichever shall occur first. Upon termination of the agreement, the City shall pay the Auditor for all work performed up to the effective date of the termination and the Auditor shall supply the City with all work performed up to that date.

 Section 10. Indemnification.

 As provided under Chapter 4.64 of the Seattle Municipal Code, the City shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the Auditor from all claims, demands, suits, judgments and liabilities (hereinafter "Claim") arising out of the Auditor's performance of his duties pursuant to this Agreement, provided the Auditor shall notify the City as soon as practicable of any such claim and shall fully cooperate with the City in defending against such claim. The indemnification provided herein shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 Section 11. Insurance

 A. Insurance Required: The Auditor shall obtain and thereafter maintain continuously throughout the term of this Agreement, at no expense to the City, the insurance enumerated below. In addition, the Auditor shall obtain and thereafter maintain continuously throughout the term of this Agreement, at no expense to the City, professional liability insurance with appropriate coverage levels for the type of legal work performed. The City reserves the right to require the filing of evidence of insurance coverage to determine the Auditor's compliance with these requirements.

 1. Commercial General Liability Insurance: A policy of commercial general liability insurance, written on an occurrence form, including all the usual coverages known as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability - Products/Completed Operations - Personal/Advertising Injury - Contractual Liability - Independent Contractors Liability - Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability - Fire Damage Legal

 Such policy or policies must provide the following minimum coverage:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage

 $1,000,000 General Aggregate $1,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate $1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury $1,000,000 Each Occurrence $ 100,000 Fire Damage

 Stop Gap/Employers Liability:

 $1,000,000 Each Accident $1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit $1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 Each policy shall be endorsed (by a blanket endorsement or otherwise) to include The City of Seattle, its employees and agents as additional insureds; shall include a "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause, indicating essentially that, except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, the insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought; and shall provide that its limits of liability shall not be cancelled without forty-five (45) calendar days prior written notice to the City, except for cases of non- payment of premiums, in which case prior notice shall not be less than ten (10) calendar days. In addition, the Auditor's insurance shall be primary and non-contributory to any coverage maintained by the City. The limits of such insurance shall not, however, limit the liability of Auditor hereunder. The Auditor shall promptly notify the City when the Auditor becomes aware of any material reduction in the aggregate limits of any insurance coverage required under this Agreement.

 2. Business Automobile Liability Insurance: A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent.

 Such policy or policies must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $ 1,000,000 per accident

 3. Errors and Omissions Liability Insurance: A policy of Errors and Omissions Liability Insurance appropriate to the Auditor's profession. Coverage should be for a professional negligent error, act or omission arising out of the scope of services shown in the Agreement. The policy form may not exclude:

 - Bodily injury or Property damage

 The minimum limit of coverage shall be $1,000,000 per Claim/Aggregate.

 4. Worker's Compensation: Worker's Compensation as required by applicable state law in the jurisdictions in which the Auditor is doing business.

 B. Claims Made Form and Deductibles: If any insurance policy is issued on a "claims made" basis, the retroactive date shall be prior to or coincident with the effective date of this Agreement. The policy shall state that coverage is "claims made," and state the retroactive date. The Auditor shall either maintain "claims made" forms coverage for a minimum of three years following the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, providing the City with a Renewal Certificate of Insurance annually; purchase an extended reporting period ("tail"); or execute another form of guarantee acceptable to the City to assure the Auditor's financial responsibility for liability for services performed.

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed on the required certificate and is subject to approval by the City. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of the Auditor.

 C. Evidence of Insurance: If evidence of insurance coverage is required, the Auditor shall provide the City's Risk Management Administrator with an original standard form ACORD Certificate of Liability Insurance with attached declaration page to verify Errors and Omissions liability coverage, signed by a licensed insurance agent or broker authorized to do business in the State of Washington, showing the insuring company and policy effective dates. The City reserves the right to obtain a copy of any policy required by this Agreement, including all forms and endorsements.

 D. Insurance Policy Rating: All policies shall be issued by a company rated A-: VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington (or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker), and shall be subject to approval by the City.

 E. Self-Insurance: If the Auditor is self-insured for any of the risks for which insurance is required, the Auditor shall so indicate in a letter signed by an authorized representative of the Auditor, indicating whether the self-insurance is actuarially funded and the fund limits, along with an original standard form ACORD Certificate of Liability Insurance signed by a licensed insurance agent or broker authorized to do business in the State of Washington evidencing excess coverage required to meet the requirements of this Agreement. All self-insurance is subject to the City's prior approval, and the City reserves the right to request documentation in addition to that stated in this paragraph to determine the acceptability of any self-insurance.

 F. SubAuditors: The Auditor shall ensure that each of its subAuditors names The City of Seattle, its employees and agents as additional insureds on any liability and property insurance maintained with regard to the Work, and that all insurance policies shall be made available to the City for inspection upon request.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE MICHAEL S. SPEARMAN By __________________________ By ______________________________ Date:_________________________ Date:____________________________

```
