

********

**Council Bill Number: 116505**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123034**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning, amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.41.012, 23.49.178, 23.66.120, 23.66.122, 23.66.124, 23.66.130, 23.66.140, 23.66.150, 23.66.170, 23.76.032, of the Seattle Municipal Code; adding new Sections 23.49.180, and 23.49.181; to implement Comprehensive Plan policies for accommodating growth by permitting additional building height under specified conditions within a defined area of the Pioneer Square Mixed 85-120 zone, to amend applicable provisions of the Pioneer Square Preservation District regulations to allow such development; to allow for a longer term for a master use permit for development under Section 23.49.180 and Section 23.49.181; and to make technical changes.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 13, 2009
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Disqualified from Voting: Drago)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 20, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 20, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** North Lot

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 20, 2009
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, PIONEER-SQUARE, ZONING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Clerk File 309942](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s2=&s3=309942&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CFCF1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CFCF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcfcf1.htm&r=1&f=G)

**Fiscal Note:**116505

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123034](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123034.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to land use and zoning, amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.41.012, 23.49.178, 23.66.120, 23.66.122, 23.66.124, 23.66.130, 23.66.140, 23.66.150, 23.66.170, 23.76.032, of the Seattle Municipal Code; adding new Sections 23.49.180, and 23.49.181; to implement Comprehensive Plan policies for accommodating growth by permitting additional building height under specified conditions within a defined area of the Pioneer Square Mixed 85-120 zone, to amend applicable provisions of the Pioneer Square Preservation District regulations to allow such development; to allow for a longer term for a master use permit for development under Section 23.49.180 and Section 23.49.181; and to make technical changes.

 WHEREAS, the City adopted Pioneer Square Neighborhood Plan goals and policies into the Comprehensive Plan in December 1998; and

 WHEREAS, both residential and employment growth in the Pioneer Square Urban Center Village have lagged behind other Downtown neighborhoods and, if trends continue, will be insufficient to meet Comprehensive Plan growth targets, and

 WHEREAS, the Livable South Downtown Planning Study provided a public process for identifying ways in which South Downtown neighborhoods, including Pioneer Square, could attract sufficient growth to meet Comprehensive Plan housing and employment growth targets and accomplish neighborhood plan goals and policies, including a review of proposals for high-density mixed-use development in Pioneer Square; and

 WHEREAS, the proposed Land Use Code amendments would facilitate new, high density mixed-use development at a location on the edges of the Pioneer Square Preservation District to contribute to the revitalization of Pioneer Square, enhance urban form, and accommodate additional growth without requiring the demolition of historic structures or displacement of existing uses; and

 WHEREAS, the Pioneer Square Preservation Board created Design Guidelines for New Construction on the North Lot, approved by the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods in May of 2007 to provide guidance for development of the Stadium North Lot: and

 WHEREAS, the Pioneer Square Preservation Board reviewed the proposed amendments and voted to endorse an earlier version of the draft amendments on December 17, 2008; and

 WHEREAS, environmental review requirements for this ordinance are satisfied by the analyses provided in Livable South Downtown Planning Study's environmental review documents; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsection C of 23.41.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122670, is amended as follows:

 23.41.004 Applicability

 * * *

 C. Exemptions. The following structures are exempt from design review:

 1. New structures located ~~with~~in special review districts,~~as~~ regulated by Chapter 23.66; design review is not available for an applicant applying for additional building height under the provisions of Section 23.49.180;

 2. New structures ~~with~~in Landmark districts~~as~~ regulated by SMC Title 25, Environmental Protection and Historic Preservation;

 3. New structures that are within the historic character area of the Downtown Harborfront 1 zone~~, as~~ regulated by Section 23.60.704, or that are otherwise required to undergo shoreline design review ~~as regulated by~~pursuant to Chapter 23.60;

 4. New monorail transit facilities that have been subject to review by the Seattle Design Commission; and

 5. New light rail transit facilities that have been subject to review by the Seattle Design Commission.

 Section 2. Section 23.41.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122935, is amended as follows:

 23.41.012 Development standard departures

 A. Departure from Land Use Code requirements may be permitted for new multifamily, commercial, and Major Institution development as part of the design review process. Departures may be allowed if an applicant demonstrates that departures from Land Use Code requirements would result in a development that better meets the intent of adopted design guidelines.

 B. Departures may be granted from any Land Use Code standard or requirement, except for the following:

 1. Procedures;

 2. Permitted, prohibited or conditional use provisions, except that departures may be granted from development standards for required street- level uses;

 3. Residential density limits;

 4. In Downtown zones, provisions for exceeding the base FAR or achieving bonus development as provided in Chapter 23.49;

 5. In Downtown zones, the minimum size for Planned Community Developments as provided in Section 23.49.036;

 6. In Downtown zones, the average floor area limit for stories in residential use in Chart 23.49.058.D.1;

 7. In Downtown zones, the provisions for combined lot developments as provided in Section 23.49.041;

 8. In Downtown Mixed Commercial zones, tower spacing requirements as provided in subsection 23.49.058.E;

 9. Downtown view corridor requirements, provided that departures may be granted to allow open railings on upper level roof decks or rooftop open space to project into the required view corridor, provided such railings are determined to have a minimal impact on views and meet the requirements of the Building Code;

 10. Floor Area Ratios;

 11. Maximum size of use;

 12. Structure height, except that:

 a. Within the Roosevelt Commercial Core building height departures up to an additional 3 feet may be granted for properties zoned NC3-65, (Exhibit 23.41.012.A, Roosevelt Commercial Core);

 b. Within the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan area building height departures may be granted for properties zoned NC3-65, (Exhibit B for 23.41.012, Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan Area). The additional height may not exceed 9 feet, and may be granted only for townhouses that front a mid-block pedestrian connection or a park identified in the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan;

 c. In Downtown zones building height departures may be granted for minor communication utilities as set forth in ~~S~~subsection 23.57.013.B;

d. Within the PSM 85-120 zone in the area shown on Map A for 23.49.180, departures may be granted from development standards that apply as conditions to additional height, except for floor area ratios and provisions for adding bonus floor area above the base FAR.

 13. Quantity of parking required, minimum and maximum parking limits, and minimum and maximum number of drive-in lanes, except that within the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan area required parking for ground level retail uses that abut established mid-block pedestrian connections through private property as identified in the "Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan Design Guidelines, 2000," may be reduced, but shall not be less than the required parking for Pedestrian-designated areas shown in Chart D for Section 23.54.015;

 14. Provisions of the Shoreline District, Chapter 23.60;

 15. Standards for storage of solid-waste containers;

 16. The quantity of open space required for major office projects in Downtown zones as provided in ~~S~~subsection 23.49.016.B;

 17. Noise and odor standards;

 18. Standards for the location of access to parking in Downtown zones;

 19. Provisions of Chapter 23.52, Transportation Concurrency Project Review System;

 20. Provisions of Chapter 23.53, Requirements for Streets, Alleys and Easements, except that departures may be granted from the access easement standards in Section 23.53.025 and the provisions for structural building overhangs in Section 23.53.035;

 21. Definitions; and

 22. Measurements.

 C. Limitations upon departures through the design review process established in subsection 23.41.012.B ~~of this section~~do not limit departures expressly permitted by other provisions of this title or other titles of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 3. Section 23.49.178 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122435, is amended as follows:

 23.49.178 Pioneer Square Mixed, structure height~~.~~

 A. Maximum structure height ~~shall be as~~is the applicable height limit designated on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32, except as provided in this Section 23.49.178.

 B. Rooftop features and certain additions to structures ~~may be permitted~~are allowed to exceed the applicable height limit according to the provisions of ~~S~~subsection 23.66.140.C .

 C. In the PSM ~~one hundred (~~100~~) foot height district~~ zone:

1. Except as expressly allowed in this subsection 23.49.178.C~~no~~a structure shall not exceed by more than ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ feet the height of the tallest structure on the block or the adjacent block front(s)~~, to a maximum of one hundred (100) feet~~; ~~provided that~~

2.~~a~~A structure within which a streetcar maintenance base use has been established may attain a maximum height of ~~one hundred thirty (~~130~~)~~ feet ~~provided that~~if the structure has, in residential or hotel use, gross floor area ~~equivalent~~equal to the gross floor area in the structure above ~~one hundred (~~100~~)~~ feet.

 D. In the ~~one hundred (~~PSM 100~~)~~ to ~~one hundred twenty (~~120~~)~~~~height district~~zone, structure height over ~~one hundred (~~100~~)~~ feet to a maximum of ~~one hundred twenty (~~120~~)~~ feet ~~shall be~~is permitted if a minimum of ~~seventy five (~~75~~)~~ percent of the gross floor area of the structure is in residential use.

 E. ~~In the eighty-five (85) to one hundred twenty (120) foot height district, structure height over eighty-five (85) feet to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) feet shall be permitted if a minimum of seventy-five (75) percent of the gross floor area of the structure is in residential use.~~In the PSM 85-120 zone:  1. The applicable height limit is 85 feet except as provided in subsections 23.49.178.E.2 and 23.49.178.E.3.

 2. The applicable height limit is 120 feet if a minimum of 75 percent of the gross floor area of the structure is in residential use, except as provided in subsection 23.49.178.E.3.

 3. The applicable height limit is 240 feet for structures located within the area identified on Map A for 23.49.180 if the structures comply with the provisions of Section 23.49.180.

 Section 4. A new Section 23.49.180 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is adopted to read as follows:

 23.49.180 Additional height in the Pioneer Square Mixed 85-120 zone

 A. General Intent

 This section applies to the area identified on Map A for 23.49.180 within the Pioneer Square Preservation District if an applicant elects to develop a project using the height limits in Section 23.49.178.E.3. The purpose of this section is to provide added flexibility through an increase in the maximum height limit to promote a high density, mixed use, and mixed income development that can contribute to the vitality of Pioneer Square.

[ Map A to 23.49.180](/~ordpics/116505MapA_23.49.180.gif)

 B. Structure height.

 1. The maximum structure height is 240 feet for a proposed development for which all the following is true:

 a. An amount of floor area in residential use equal to or greater than 2 FAR is to be provided on the lot upon completion of the project. The project applicant shall have entered into an agreement with the City that is recorded against the property prior to issuance of the MUP, in which the owner agrees to provide the amount of residential floor area on the lot specified in Subsection 23.49.180.B.1.a, and agrees that failure to provide the amount of residential floor area before the expiration of the MUP will result in the loss of the ability to use any floor area built above the otherwise applicable height limit.

 b. Provision is made for pedestrian circulation and for mitigation of scale and bulk impacts from the increased height through:

 1) Pedestrian routes providing connections between the Weller Street pedestrian bridge and:

 a) Occidental Avenue S., and

 b) S. King Street; and

 2) An open area extending through the lot aligned with the 2nd Avenue S. right-of-way and meeting the standards of subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c.

 c. The proposed development complies with the standards of subsections 23.49.180.C through 23.49.180.I.

 2. Rooftop features. Rooftop features are allowed to exceed the maximum structure height pursuant to subsection 23.49.008.D.

 C. Lot area. If the applicant uses the height provisions of subsection 23.49.180.B to gain additional height above the otherwise applicable height limit, the entire area identified on Map A for 23.49.180, including any areas provided as open area or setbacks, or dedicated as street right of way, shall be used to determine compliance with applicable provisions of this section and Section 23.49.181.

 D. Location of uses. If the applicant uses the height provisions of subsection 23.49.180.B to gain additional height above the otherwise applicable height limit, uses on the lot with a development using these height provisions are to be located on the lot as follows:

 1. Commercial uses. Commercial uses are to be concentrated in the area with the most direct access to regional transit and where commercial development can buffer residential uses from rail operations at King Street Station.

 2. Residential uses. Residential uses are to be concentrated close to existing housing on adjacent blocks and to contribute to a corridor of housing and amenities along Occidental Ave. S.

 3. Street-level uses. Street-level uses are to be provided along street frontages and the edges of open areas aligned with adjacent street right-of-way.

 E. Floor area ratio (FAR)

 1. Base and Maximum FAR. The base FAR for all uses on a lot, except for those uses expressly exempted, is 4. The maximum FAR for all uses on a lot, except for those uses expressly exempted, is 8.

 2. Limit on non-residential FAR. Non-residential chargeable floor area on a lot may not exceed a FAR of 4.

 3. Affordable housing incentive program. Development that includes residential use may exceed the base FAR to the extent the applicant qualifies for bonus floor area by providing affordable housing according to Section 23.49.181, subject to the FAR limit in subsection 23.49.180.E.1.

4. Exemptions and deductions from FAR calculations

 a. The exemptions and deductions from FAR calculations specified in subsection 23.49.011.B apply, except that residential use is not exempt and is considered chargeable floor area.

 b. In addition to the exemptions from floor area calculations for parking in subsection 23.49.011.B.1.l, enclosed parking provided at or above grade as accessory parking for non-residential uses or as principal use parking replacing the surface spaces existing on the lot on June 25, 1998 is exempt from FAR calculations if it is separated from all streets abutting the lot by another use or is screened according to the provisions of subsection 23.49.180.G.9.

 c. Street-level uses other than residential lobbies are exempt if they meet the requirements of subsection 23.49.180.F.

 F. Street-level use requirements

 1. One or more of the following uses are required at street-level on all street-facing facades and street-level facades facing the open area provided in accordance with the provisions of subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c:

 a. General sales and services;

 b. Human service uses and childcare facilities;

 c. Retail sales, major durables;

 d. Entertainment uses;

 e. Eating and drinking establishments; and

 f. On each street-facing facade or facade facing an open area, up to 20 feet of a residential lobby that provides principal access to residential uses in a structure may be counted as a required street-level use.

 2. General standards

 a. A minimum of 75 percent of each street-facing facade at street- level where street-level uses are required shall be occupied by uses listed in subsection 23.49.180.F.1. The remaining 25 percent of the street-facing facade at street-level may contain other permitted uses and/or pedestrian or vehicular entrances.

 b. Required street-level uses shall be located within 2 feet of the required street-facing facade or the street-level facade facing an open area, in accordance with subsection 23.49.180.G.4.

 c. Except for child care facilities, pedestrian access to street- level uses shall be provided directly from the street or other open area with access to a street. Pedestrian entrances shall be located no more than 3 feet above or below sidewalk grade or at the same elevation as any abutting open area.

 d. Required street-level uses shall be located in a space with a minimum floor-to-floor height of 13 feet.

 e. Required street-level uses shall be located in a space with a minimum depth of 15 feet.

 f. For street-level uses on a street-facing facade, the average width of a business establishment shall be 60 feet or less, and the maximum width of any single business establishment shall be 100 feet. Portions of a business that are separated from the street by another business are not limited in width.

 g. The gross floor area at street-level of any business establishment shall not exceed 10,000 square feet, except that if the business establishment includes a grocery store, the gross floor area at street level shall not exceed 25,000 square feet.

 G. Development standards

 1. Street-level setbacks.

 a. Locations

 1) A street-level setback with an average depth of 10 feet and a minimum depth of 6 feet shall be provided from property lines that do not abut a street.

 2) A street-level setback of at least 9 feet and no more than 12 feet shall be provided from the street property line along Occidental Avenue S.

 b. To qualify as a street-level setback, all portions of a structure must set back at street-level the required distance.

 c. Setback areas may be used for pedestrian routes, vehicular driveways, and to provide landscaping to meet green factor requirements pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.I.

 2. Upper-level setbacks.

 a. The following upper-level setbacks shall be provided:

 1) A minimum setback of 10 feet shall be provided from S. King Street for all portions of a structure above a height of 85 feet for a distance of at least 120 feet measured along S. King Street from the point where the street lot line intersects the eastern lot line of the lot.

 2) A minimum setback of 10 feet shall be provided from S. King Street for all portions of structures above 85 feet in height for a distance of at least 330 feet along S. King Street measured from the intersection with Occidental Avenue S.

 3) An average setback of 50 feet shall be provided from the eastern lot line of the lot for all portions of structures above a height of 85 feet. For the purposes of averaging, only 100 feet in depth of any setback shall be counted.

 4) A minimum setback of 15 feet is provided from Occidental Avenue S. for all portions of structures above 85 feet in height.

 5) A minimum setback of 30 feet is provided from Occidental Avenue S. for portions of structures above 120 feet in height.

 3. Upper-level coverage limits, measured as a percentage of the total area of the lot, apply to portions of structures exceeding specified heights, in accordance with Table A for 23.49.180.

```
<table><tr><td>**Table A for 23.49.180  Upper Level Coverage Limits**

</td></tr><tr><td> 

The maximum permitted lot coverage for all portions of structures within specified height ranges

</td></tr><tr><td>Height range

</td><td>Maximum permitted lot coverage for all portions of structures located at the same height within specified height range 

</td></tr><tr><td>0 - 85 feet

</td><td>No limit, except as required to provide open area pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6

</td></tr><tr><td>85 – 120 feet

</td><td>65%

</td></tr><tr><td>120 -  200 feet

</td><td>50%

</td></tr><tr><td>Greater than 200 feet

</td><td>30%

</td></tr></table> 4. Street facades. Street-facing facades shall be provided on all street frontages. For purposes of this requirement, the street frontage includes the entire length of a street lot line, less any part of the street lot line where open area provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c abuts the street.

 a. Street-facing facade height. The street-facing facades of structures shall have a minimum height of 50 feet for 75 percent of each street frontage. The minimum street-facing facade height for the remaining 25 percent of each street frontage is 35 feet.

 b. Street facade setbacks.

 1) For each street frontage, the street-facing facade shall be built to the street lot line for a minimum of 75 percent of the street frontage. For the remaining street frontage, the street-facing facade may set back from the street lot line to provide for the following:

 a) street-level open area at the intersection of S. King Street and Occidental Avenue S. meeting the standards of subsection 23.49.180.G.6.a; and

 b) architectural treatment of the street-facing facade, including setbacks of portions of the street-facing facade up to a maximum depth of 15 feet, for principal building entrances or for architectural detailing and features of a structure that reflect the surrounding development pattern, such as the sequence of streets and alleys or the massing and articulation of historic structures on opposing block fronts.

 2) Where set back, the street-facing facade is measured from a location other than the street lot line in the following instances:

 a) If a utility easement abutting a street lot line prevents a structure from extending to the street lot line, a street-facing facade setback shall be measured from the abutting utility easement rather than the street lot line.

 b) On Occidental Avenue S., a street-facing facade setback shall be measured from the setback line provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.1.a.2 rather than the street lot line.

 3) The maximum length of any setback area, as measured along the street lot line, shall not exceed 60 feet.

 4) Except as needed to accommodate required access to utility easements, no setback of a street-facing facade is permitted along S. King Street for 60 feet on either side of the intersection with the open area aligned with 2nd Avenue S. provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c.

 5. Facade modulation. For portions of structures exceeding a height of 85 feet, any street-facing facade located within 30 feet of a street lot line that exceeds a length of 120 feet shall be modulated. For the street-facing facade to exceed 120 feet, a portion of the facade shall either project forward of or set back from any other portion of the street facing facade a minimum of 10 feet measured perpendicular to the street property line for a minimum distance of 20 feet measured parallel to the street lot line. Balconies and decks are permitted within the modulated area. Modulated facades are not permitted to extend into required setbacks.

 6. Open area. Open area at ground level shall be provided as follows:

 a. To qualify as open area at ground level, the open area shall be located and configured to allow easy pedestrian access to project occupants from streets or other abutting public spaces, including access for persons with disabilities. The open area shall be open to the sky, except as provided in this subsection 23.49.180G.6.a, and have a minimum horizontal dimension of 15 feet and a minimum area of 600 feet. The following features are exempt from the requirement that the open area be open to the sky:

 1) Features in a surface parking area;

 2) Temporary kiosks and pavilions;

 3) Overhead weather protection attached to abutting facades;

 4) Art;

 5) Seating and tables;

 6) Landscaping; and

 7) Any similar features approved by the Director that contribute to the comfort and use of the space.

 b. Open area at ground level shall be provided at the following locations:

 1) The intersection of Occidental Avenue S. and S. King Street, in the northwestern corner of the lot; and

 2) The intersection of the lot's eastern and southern lot lines, on the southeastern corner of the lot, unless a structure with a street level use is located there.

 c. An open area at ground level with boundaries referred to as "edges" shall be provided in the area established by extending the street lot lines of 2nd Avenue S. through the lot from S. King Street to the southern lot line. The open area and facades abutting it shall meet the following:

 1) For a minimum depth of 20 feet measured from each edge into the open area, the open area must be open for use by pedestrians and for landscaping.

 2) The facades of structures abutting the open area shall have a minimum height of 35 feet and shall not set back more than five feet from the edges of the open area;

 3) For a minimum distance of 120 feet along each edge of the open area, as measured from the S. King Street lot line, an upper level setback with a minimum depth of 15 feet is required for the portion of a structure that exceeds 85 feet in height.

 4) Street-level uses listed in and meeting the standards of subsection 23.49.180.F are required for a minimum of 50 percent of the combined street-level facades facing the open area edges aligned with 2nd Avenue S. Street-level uses listed in and meeting the standards of subsection 23.49.180.F are required for a minimum of 25 percent of the street-level facades facing either edge of the open area.

 d. Open area used to satisfy this section may qualify as common recreation area to the extent permitted by subsection 23.49.010.B.

 7. Facade Transparency Requirements.

 a. For street-facing facades abutting South King Street and Occidental Avenue South and for facades facing the open area provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c, a minimum of 60 percent of the street level facade shall be transparent.

 b. For all other street-level facades, a minimum of 20 percent of the street level facade shall be transparent, except that transparency is not required if the street level use is parking.

 c. To be considered transparent, only clear, non-reflective, non- tinted glass may be used in windows, doors and display windows in that portion of the facade between 2 feet and 8 feet above the sidewalk, and in that portion of the facade, one must be able to view into the structure or into display windows from outside.

 8. Blank Facade Limits.

 a. For all facades abutting South King Street, Occidental Avenue South, and the open area provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c, blank facades shall not exceed 15 feet in width, except that

 1) a blank facade may be increased to 30 feet in width if the Director determines that the facade is sufficiently enhanced by architectural detailing, artwork, landscaping, or similar features that have visual interest; and

 2) the width of a blank facade that includes a garage door may exceed 15 feet but is limited to the width of the driveway plus 5 feet. The total of all blank facade segments, including garage doors, shall not exceed 40 percent of the total width of all facades abutting South King Street, Occidental Avenue South, and the open area provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c.

 b. For all facades other than those specified in subsection 23.49.180.G.8.a, if the street level is occupied by uses other than parking, blank facades shall be limited to segments no more than 30 feet in width. Blank facade width may be increased to 60 feet if the Director determines that the facade is sufficiently enhanced by architectural detailing, artwork, landscaping, or similar features that have visual interest. The width of a blank facade that includes a garage door may exceed 30 feet but is limited to the width of the driveway plus 5 feet. If the street level is occupied by parking, the provisions for screening parking at street level in subsection 23.49.180.G.9.a apply.

 c. Any blank facade shall be separated by transparent areas at least 2 feet wide. Only clear, non-reflective, non-tinted glass is considered to be transparent.

 9. Screening and location of parking. All parking permitted on the lot shall be enclosed within a structure, except that within the open area provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c, surface parking serving abutting structures is permitted.

 a. Parking at street level.

 1) Parking is not permitted at street level within a structure along street frontages and along the open area edges provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c unless separated from the street or open area by other uses, except that garage and loading doors and access to parking need not be separated.

 2) Parking is permitted at street level within a structure along lot lines that do not abut a street, subject to the following requirements:

 a) Parking abutting a lot line shall be screened from view at street-level except that garage and loading doors and permitted access to parking need not be screened.

 b) The facade facing the lot line shall be enhanced by architectural detailing, artwork, landscaping, or similar visual interest features.

 c) If parking is located within a structure at the intersection of the eastern and southern lot lines, separation by another use is required for a minimum distance of 20 feet along one of the intersecting lot lines.

 b. Parking above street level.

 1) On the portion of the lot west of the open area provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c, parking is not permitted above street level along street frontages and along the western edge of the open area unless separated from the street or open area by another use. Parking is permitted above street level along other lot lines for a maximum of four stories.

 2) On the portion of the lot east of the open area provided pursuant to subsection 23.49.180.G.6.c, parking is permitted in portions of a structure above 20 feet in height along S. King Street and in portions of a structure above the first story along other frontages for a maximum of four stories.

 3) For all parking located on stories above street level that is not separated from the street by another use, screening of the parking through materials, fenestration, and other architectural treatments is required. The screening shall be designed as an extension of the primary facade of the structure and to provide visual interest.

 H. LEED requirement. The applicant shall strive to achieve a LEED Gold rating or better, make a commitment acceptable to the Director that the proposed development will earn at least a LEED Silver rating or meet a substantially equivalent standard, and demonstrate compliance with that commitment, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 23.49.020.

 I. Green Factor Requirement. The project shall achieve a green factor score of .30 or greater in accordance with the provisions of Section 23.86.019.

 J. Development standard departures. As a special exception pursuant to Section 23.76.004, the Director may waive or modify those development standards in Section 23.49.180 that would be eligible for departures through the design review process pursuant to Section 23.41.012, if they were applicable to a project subject to that process. The Director shall consult with the Pioneer Square Preservation Board and the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods prior to making a decision on a requested modification or waiver. The Director may grant a waiver or modification only if the Director determines that it will cause the project to better meet the intent of this Section 23.49.180 and the Design Guidelines for New Construction on the North Lot in Pioneer Square, as adopted by the Pioneer Square Preservation Board.

 Section 5. A new Subchapter V for Section 23.49 of the Seattle Municipal Code, is adopted to read as follows:

 23.49.181 Bonus floor area for affordable housing in the PSM 85-120 zone

 A. Purpose; Scope of provisions; State law controlling. This section establishes an affordable housing incentive program for development on lots zoned PSM 85-120 that are subject to FAR limits pursuant to the provisions of Section 23.49.180. Chargeable floor area in addition to the base FAR is allowed for development that includes residential use, to the extent that the applicant qualifies by providing low-income housing as part of the development, in accordance with this section and subject to the provisions of section 23.49.180. In case of any irreconcilable conflict between the terms of this section and the authority granted in RCW 36.70A.540, as it may be amended, the provisions of RCW 36.70A.540, as it may be amended, shall supersede and control. Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, references to RCW 36.70A.540 in this section mean that section in effect on the date as of which the provisions of this title apply to the application for a use permit for the project using the bonus floor area.

 B. Permitting Conditions

 1. Master Use Permit. The Master Use Permit application to establish any bonus floor area under this section shall include a calculation of the total amount of bonus floor area sought and shall identify the quantity and type of affordable housing to be provided to satisfy the conditions to such bonus floor area. The application shall include the proposed location of the affordable housing, including the location or distribution within the proposed building(s). The Director shall, at the time of issuance of any Master Use Permit decision approving any bonus floor area, issue a Type I decision as to the amount of bonus floor area to be allowed and the conditions to such bonus floor area. A declaration signed by the applicant and any other owners of the lot, on a form approved by the Director, specifying the amount of bonus floor area and the conditions, must be executed and recorded as a condition to issuance of the Master Use Permit for a development to include bonus floor area. The declaration may be amended, with the written approval of the Director, if a change in the total bonus floor area to be developed results in adjustment to one or more conditions.

 2. First Building Permit. Prior to issuance, and as a condition to issuance, of the first building permit for a structure using bonus floor area, the applicant and any other owner of the portion of the lot that will include the affordable housing for that bonus floor area shall execute and record an agreement in a form acceptable to the Director of Housing that shall commit to provide that affordable housing, and shall run with the land to bind successors. The applicant shall submit an acceptable agreement, fully signed, as part of the building permit application, and if there is any change in ownership prior to the issuance of the building permit, the new owners shall execute the agreement or an addendum or substitute acceptable to the Director of Housing.

 C. Findings. Pursuant to the authority of RCW 36.70A.540, the City finds that the higher income levels specified in this section, rather than those stated in the definition of "low-income households" in RCW 36.70A.540, are needed to address local housing market conditions in the area to which this section applies.

 D. Defined Terms

 For purposes of this section:

 1. "Affordable housing" means a unit or units of low-income housing provided as a condition to bonus floor area.

 2. "Base FAR" or "base floor area ratio" means a FAR of 4.

 3. "Bonus floor area" means all chargeable floor area allowed in addition to the base FAR.

 4. "Income-eligible households" means:

 a. In the case of rental housing, households with incomes no higher than 80 percent of median income as defined in Section 23.84A.025.

 b. In the case of owner occupancy housing units, households with incomes no higher than the median income as defined in Section 23.84A.025.

 5. "Low-income housing" means housing that serves income-eligible households.

 6. "Net bonus floor area" means gross square footage of bonus floor area, multiplied by an efficiency factor of 80 percent.

 E. Affordable Housing

 1. Amount. An applicant using bonus floor area shall provide an amount of net rentable floor area of low-income housing, applicable to units for sale or rent, equal to at least 17.5 percent of the net bonus floor area obtained.

 2. Serving income-eligible households. For the purposes of this section, a housing unit serves income-eligible households only if either:

 a. For a period of 50 years beginning upon the issuance of a final certificate of occupancy by the Department of Planning and Development for a structure using the bonus floor area for which that affordable housing is provided, the housing is used as rental housing solely for income-eligible households at rent limited so that annual housing costs, including rent and basic utilities, do not exceed 30 percent of 80 percent of median income, and the housing unit and the structure in which it is located are maintained in decent and habitable condition, including basic appliances in the housing unit; or

 b. The unit is sold for owner-occupancy to an income- eligible household at an initial sale price limited so that the annual housing costs, including mortgage principal and interest, real estate taxes, insurance, plus homeowner dues if applicable, are not expected to exceed 35 percent of median income, according to a calculation based on reasonable assumptions and approved by the Director of Housing, and the unit is subject to a recorded instrument satisfactory to the Director of Housing with a term extending until 50 years after the issuance of a final certificate of occupancy by the Department of Planning and Development for the structure using the bonus floor area for which that affordable housing is provided, providing for sales prices on any resale consistent with affordability on the same basis as the initial sale, allowing resales only to income-eligible households, and requiring that upon any resale, the housing unit be in decent and habitable condition, including adequate basic appliances in the housing unit.

 3. Location, size and other requirements. Affordable housing shall be provided on the same lot as the project using the bonus floor area in a range of unit sizes consistent with RCW 36.70A.540. The affordable housing shall comply with all requirements of RCW 36.70A.540.

 4. Time of completion. The affordable housing shall be completed and ready for occupancy at or before the time when a certificate of occupancy is issued for any bonus floor area that is based on the affordable housing and as a condition to any right of the applicant to such a certificate of occupancy.

 5. No Subsidies for affordable housing; exceptions.

 a. In general, and except as may be otherwise required by applicable federal or state law, no bonus floor area may be earned by providing affordable housing if:

 1) Any person is receiving or will receive with respect to the housing any charitable contributions or public subsidies for housing development or operation, including, but not limited to, tax exempt bond financing, low-income housing tax credits, federal loans or grants, City of Seattle housing loans or grants, county housing funds, and State of Washington housing funds; or

 2) The housing is or would be, independent of the requirements for the bonus floor area, subject to any restrictions on the income of occupants, rents or sale prices.

 b. As exceptions to the general rule in subsection 23.49.181.E.5.a:

 1) Affordable housing provided as a condition to bonus floor area may consist wholly or in part of the same units used to satisfy terms under which the lot or a portion thereof was transferred by a public body;

 2) The improvements on the lot may qualify for, and affordable housing provided as a condition to bonus floor area may consist wholly or in part of the same units used to satisfy conditions of, property tax exemptions pursuant to Chapter 5.73 SMC; and

 3) The prohibition on public subsidies for affordable housing does not include Internal Revenue Code Section 45D, New Markets Tax Credits.

 c. The Director of Housing may require, as a condition of any bonus floor area, that the owner of the lot upon which the affordable housing is located agree not to seek or accept any subsidies, other than as described in subsection 23.49.181.E.5.b, related to housing. The Director of Housing may require that such agreement provide for the payment to the City, for deposit in an appropriate sub-fund or account, of the value of any subsidies received in excess of any amounts allowed by such agreement.

 d. As an exception to the restriction on subsidies, the Director of Housing may allow the building or buildings in which the affordable housing is located to be financed in part with subsidies based on determinations that:

 1) the total amount of affordable housing is at least 300 net residential square feet greater than the minimum amount of affordable housing that would be needed to satisfy the conditions of this section;

 2) the public benefit of the affordable housing net of those subsidies, as measured through an economic analysis, exceeds the public benefit from the minimum amount of affordable housing; and

 3) the subsidies being allowed would not be sufficient to leverage private funds for production of the affordable housing, under restrictions required in this section, without additional City subsidy.

 6. Agreements. The Director of Housing is authorized to accept and execute agreements and instruments to implement this section. Issuance of the Master Use Permit, building permit, or certificate of occupancy for the project using the bonus floor area may be conditioned on satisfactory agreements and instruments signed by applicants and other owners.

 7. Reports and fees. The housing owner, in the case of rental housing, shall provide annual reports and pay an annual monitoring fee to the Office of Housing for each affordable housing unit, as specified under Chapter 22.900G. In the case of affordable housing for owner-occupancy, the applicant shall pay an initial monitoring fee to the Office of Housing as specified under Chapter 22.900G, and the recorded resale restrictions shall include a provision requiring payment to the City, on any sale or other transfer of a unit after the initial sale, of a fee in the amount of $500, to be adjusted in proportion to changes in the consumer price index from 2008 to the year in which the sale or transfer is made, for the review and processing of documents to determine compliance with income and affordability restrictions.

 8. Identification of bonus floor area. The floor area that constitutes bonus floor area under this section shall be determined according to the order in which Master Use Permits are issued to establish the chargeable floor area, with the base FAR allocable to the earlier Master Use Permits. Within a structure or structures developed under a single Master Use Permit that involves both base floor area and bonus floor area:

 a. if the complete applications for building permits for construction, not including any permits limited to excavation and shoring, are submitted at different times, then unless otherwise specifically identified in the Master Use Permit application and approved by the Director, the base floor area shall be allocated first to the structure or structures for which the earlier complete building permit applications are submitted; and

 b. if the complete applications for building permits for construction, not including any permits limited to excavation and shoring, are submitted at the same time, then unless otherwise specifically identified in the Master Use Permit application and approved by the Director, the bonus floor area shall be the chargeable floor area, excluding any affordable housing, in the highest stories in the structure or structures, and if only a portion of a story consists of bonus floor area, it shall be allocated to each portion of that story in proportion to its chargeable floor area, excluding any affordable housing, within that story.

 9. Obligation of Owners.

 a. Any owner of bonus floor area shall be in violation of this title if:

 1) any housing units to be provided as affordable housing for that bonus floor area are not timely completed and ready for occupancy, or are not subject to a recorded instrument binding on the owner thereof as provided in this section; or

 2) at any time during the period specified in subsection 23.49.180.E.2, any rental housing unit provided or to be provided under this section for that bonus floor area does not serve income-eligible households; or

 3) any housing unit provided or to be provided as affordable housing for owner occupancy for that bonus floor area under subsection 23.49.181.E.2.b is initially transferred other than in a sale to an income-eligible household, and subject to a recorded instrument, consistent with that subsection.

 b. Any owner of a housing unit provided or to be provided as affordable housing in accordance with this section shall be in violation of this title if either:

 1) for a rental housing unit, at any time during the period specified in subsection 23.49.181.E.2 it does not serve income- eligible households; or

 2) in the case a unit provided or to be provided for owner occupancy, the owner causes or permits the transfer of the unit, or of the right to occupy the unit, or any offer for any transfer, contrary to the terms of a recorded instrument then in effect pursuant to this section.

 10. Rules. The Director, in consultation with the Director of Housing, is authorized to adopt rules to interpret and implement provisions of this section.

 Section 6. Section 23.66.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117430, is amended as follows:

 23.66.120 Permitted uses~~.~~

 A. All uses are permitted outright except those that are specifically prohibited by Section 23.66.122 and those that are subject to special review as provided in Section 23.66.124.

B. Essential Public Facilities. Essential public facilities shall also be reviewed pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

~~B~~C. All uses not specifically prohibited or subject to special review under Section 23.66.124 are permitted as both principal and accessory uses, except~~:1. G~~gas stations, which ~~shall be~~are permitted as accessory uses only in parking garages~~; and~~~~2. Principal use parking garages, which shall be permitted only after special review by the Preservation Board pursuant to Section 23.66.124 of this chapter. Accessory parking garages shall be permitted outright.~~

~~C. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.~~.

Section 7. Section 23.66.122 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122330, is amended as follows:

 23.66.122 Prohibited uses~~.~~

 A. The following uses are prohibited in the ~~entire~~ Pioneer Square Preservation District as both principal and accessory uses:

 Retail ice dispensaries;

 Plant nurseries;

 Frozen food lockers;

 Animal shelters and kennels;

~~Animal health services;~~

~~Pet grooming;~~ Pet daycare, except as permitted as a street level use in subsection 23.49.180.F if an applicant elects to use added height under the provisions of Section 23.49.180:

Automotive sales and service, except gas stations located in parking garages;

 Marine sales and service;

 Heavy commercial services;

 Heavy commercial sales;

 Adult motion picture theaters;

 Adult panorams;

 Bowling alleys;

 Skating rinks;

 Major communication utilities;

 Advertising signs and off-premises directional signs;

 Transportation facilities, except passenger terminals, rail transit facilities, parking garages, and streetcar maintenance bases;

 Outdoor storage;

 Jails;

 Work-release centers;

 General and heavy manufacturing uses;

 Solid waste management;

 Recycling uses; and

 High-impact uses.

 B. Except for the uses listed in subsection 23.66.122.B.2,~~Commercial uses that are~~ automobile-oriented commercial uses are prohibited,~~. Such uses~~ includ~~e~~ing but ~~are~~ not limited to the ~~following:~~automobile-oriented uses listed in subsection 23.66.122.B.1.

1. Examples of prohibited automobile-oriented commercial uses.  a.

Drive-in businesses.~~, except gas stations accessory to parking garages;~~

b~~2~~. Principal and accessory surface parking areas not in existence prior to August 10, 1981~~, except that accessory use surface parking lots may be permitted in Subarea B shown on Map C if the lot satisfies the provisions of SMC Section 23.49.019, Parking quantity, access and screening/landscaping requirements~~.

c. Principal-use parking garages for long-term parking.

~~3.~~ d. Motels.

2. Permitted automobile-oriented uses.

a. Gas stations accessory to parking garages;

b. Accessory-use surface parking in the Subarea B shown on Map C for 23.66.122 and 23.66.150 either  (1) if the accessory-use surface parking is in a location permitted by and complies with the standards contained in Section 23.49.180; or

 (2) if the lot satisfies the provisions of Section 23.49.019,

c. Principal-use parking garages for long-term parking in structures authorized pursuant to subsection 23.49.180; and

d. Accessory-use parking garages .

Section 7. Section 23.66.124 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is amended as follows:

 23.66.124 Uses subject to special review~~.~~

 A. Principal-use parking garages for~~long-term~~short-term  parking ~~in areas south of S. King Street, and principal-use short- term parking garages~~ at any location, except principal use parking garages for short-term parking in structures authorized pursuant to Section 23.49.180, ~~shall~~ require approval of the Department of Neighborhoods Director after review and recommendation by the Preservation Board~~.~~and

~~B. A principal-use parking garage~~ may be permitted if the following conditions are met:

 1. The use will not increase the ambient noise level in existing residences within line of sight of the proposed parking structure; and

 2. Exterior materials, height, wall openings and fenestration will reflect, to the extent possible, the character of the adjoining structures or structures on the adjoining block facing the site; and

 3. Access will comply with the standards ~~provided~~in Section 23.66.170~~of this chapter~~; and

 4. Automobile circulation within the garage will not be visible from the adjoining public streets.

~~C~~B. Uses at~~the~~ street level of approved parking garages ~~shall be~~are limited to those uses permitted in the area, other than parking, to a minimum depth of ~~twenty (~~20~~)~~ feet along all street frontages, and along alleys and malls ~~which~~ that are limited solely to pedestrian use.

 Section 8. Section 23.66.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122311, is amended as follows:

 23.66.130 Street-level uses~~.~~

 A. 1.  Uses at street level in the area designated on Map B~~1~~ for 23.66.130~~shall~~require the approval of the Department of Neighborhoods Director after review and recommendation by the Preservation Board.

2. Street level uses in the PSM 85-120 zone within the area shown on Map A for 23.49.180 are subject to the provisions of subsection 23.49.180.F if an applicant elects to use added height under the provisions of Section 23.49.180. Such street level uses require the approval of the Department of Neighborhoods Director after review and recommendation by the Preservation Board.

B. Preferred Street-level Uses.

 1. Preferred uses at street level must be highly visible and pedestrian oriented. Preferred street-level uses either display merchandise in a manner that contributes to the character and activity of the area, and/or promote residential uses, including but not limited to the following uses:

 a. Any of the following uses under 3,000 square feet in size: ~~A~~ art galleries and other general sales and service uses, restaurants and other eating and drinking establishment uses, and lodging uses;

 b. Theaters.

 2. Accessory parking garages that serve preferred street-level uses on streets or malls, parks or alleys designed for pedestrian uses are also preferred.

 C. Discouraged Street-level Uses.

 1. The following are discouraged at street level in the area designated on Map B~~1~~ for 23.66.130:

 a. Any use occupying more than ~~fifty (~~50~~)~~ percent of any block front;

 b. Any of the following with gross floor area over ~~three thousand (~~3,000~~)~~ square feet: general sales and services uses, eating and drinking establishment uses, and lodging uses;

 c. All other uses with gross floor area over ~~ten thousand (~~10,000~~)~~ square feet;

 d. Professional services establishments or offices that occupy more than ~~twenty (~~20~~)~~ percent of any block front; and

 e. Parking garages that are not accessory to preferred uses.

 2. Discouraged uses may be approved by the Department of Neighborhoods Director after review and recommendation by the Preservation Board if an applicant demonstrates that the proposed use is compatible with uses preferred at street level.

 D. Conditions on Street-level Uses. Approved street level uses in the area designated on Map B~~1~~ for 23.66.130~~shall be~~are subject to the following conditions:

 1. No use may occupy more than ~~fifty (~~50~~)~~ percent of the street-level frontage of a block that is tw~~enty thousand (~~ 20,000~~)~~ square feet or more in area;

 2. Human service uses and personal service establishments, such as hair cutting and tanning salons, may not exceed ~~twenty-five (~~ 25~~)~~ percent of the total street-level frontage of any block front.

 E. The following uses are prohibited at street level in the area designated on Map B~~1~~ for 23.66.130:

 Wholesaling, storage and distribution uses;

 Vocational or fine arts schools;

 Research and development laboratories;

 Radio and television studios;

 Taxidermy shops;

 Appliance repair shops;

 Upholstery establishments; and

 Other similar uses.

 F. The street-level location of entrances and exits of all vehicular-oriented uses, where permitted, shall be approved by the Department of Neighborhoods Director after review and recommendation by the Preservation Board. View-obscuring screening may be required as needed to reduce adverse visual impacts on the immediate area.

 Section 9. Section 23.66.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122935, is amended as follows:

 23.66.140 Height

 A. Maximum Height. Maximum structure height is regulated by Section 23.49.178, Pioneer Square Mixed, structure height~~, and shall be as designated on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32~~.

 B. Minimum Height. No structure shall be erected or permanent addition added to an existing structure ~~which~~that would result in the height of the new structure of less than ~~fifty (~~50~~)~~ feet, except as allowed in the PSM 85-120 zone under the provisions of Section 23.49.180 for the area shown on Map A for 23.49.180. Height of the structure is to be measured from mean street level fronting on the property to the mean roofline of the structure.

 C. Rooftop Features and additions to structures.  1.

 The height limits established for the rooftop features described in this ~~subs~~Section 23.66.140 may be increased by the average height of the existing street parapet or a historically substantiated reconstructed parapet on the building on which the rooftop feature is proposed.

2. For development in the PSM 85-120 zone in the area shown on Map A for 23.49.180 and subject to the provisions of Section 23.49.180, the height limits for rooftop features are provided in subsection 23.49.008.D. The standards contained in subsections 23.66.140.C.1 and 23.66.140.C.4 do not apply to rooftop features on development subject to the provisions of Section 23.49.180.  3.

 The setbacks required for rooftop features may be modified by the Department of Neighborhoods Director, after a sight line review by the Preservation Board to ensure that the features are minimally visible from public streets and parks within 300 feet of the structure.

4. Height limits for rooftop features.

~~1.~~a. Religious symbols for religious institutions, smokestacks and flagpoles may extend up to ~~fifty (~~50~~)~~ feet above the roof of the structure or the maximum height limit, whichever is less, except as regulated in Chapter 23.64 of this Land Use Code, provided that they are a minimum of ~~ten~~~~(~~10~~)~~ feet from all lot lines.

~~2.~~b. For existing structures, open railings, planters, clerestories, skylights, play equipment, parapets and firewalls may extend up to ~~four~~~~(~~4~~)~~ feet above the roof of the structure or the maximum height limit, whichever is less. For new structures, such features may extend up to ~~four~~~~(~~4~~)~~ feet above the maximum height limit. No rooftop coverage limits apply to such features regardless of whether the structure is existing or new.

~~3.~~c. Solar collectors, excluding greenhouses, may extend up to ~~seven (~~7~~)~~ feet above the roof of the structure or the maximum height limit, whichever is less, with unlimited rooftop coverage, provided they are a minimum of ~~ten (~~10~~)~~ feet from all lot lines. For new structures, solar collectors may extend up to ~~seven (~~7~~)~~ feet above the maximum height limit, except as provided in subsection 23.66.140.C~~10 (a)~~4.j.~~(~~1~~) of this section~~, and provided that they are a minimum of ~~ten (~~10~~)~~ feet from all lot lines.

~~4.~~d. The following rooftop features may extend up to ~~eight (~~8~~)~~ feet above the roof or maximum height limit, whichever is less, ~~when~~if they are set back a minimum of ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ feet from the street and ~~three (~~3~~)~~ feet from an alley. They may extend up to ~~twelve (12)~~15 feet above the roof ~~when~~if set back a minimum of ~~thirty (~~30~~)~~ feet from the street. A setback may not be required at common wall lines subject to review by the Preservation Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director. The combined coverage of the following listed rooftop features shall not exceed ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ percent of the roof area:

~~a.~~1) Solar collectors, excluding greenhouses;

~~b.~~2) Stair and elevator penthouses;~~~~~~c.~~3) Mechanical equipment;~~~~~~d.~~4) Minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices, except that height is regulated according to the provisions of Section 23.57.014.

 Additional combined coverage of these rooftop features, not to exceed ~~twenty-five (~~25~~)~~ percent of the roof area, may be permitted subject to review by the Preservation Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director.

~~5.~~e. On structures existing prior to June 1, 1989 and on additions to such structures permitted according to ~~S~~subs ection 23.66.140.C.~~9~~4.i or otherwise, new or replacement mechanical equipment and stair and elevator penthouses may extend up to ~~eight (~~8~~)~~ feet above the elevation of the existing roof or addition, as applicable, when they are set back a minimum of ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ feet from the street and ~~three (~~3~~)~~ feet from an alley; or may extend up to ~~twelve ()~~12~~)~~feet above the elevation of the existing roof or addition, as applicable, ~~when~~if they are set back a minimum of ~~thirty (~~30~~)~~ feet from the street, subject to review by the Preservation Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director. On structures where rooftop features are allowed under ~~this~~subsection 23.66.140. C.4.e~~5~~, the combined coverage of these rooftop features and any other features listed in subsection 23.66.140.C.4.d shall not exceed the limit provided in subsection 23.66.140.C. 4.d~~of this section~~, as it may be increased pursuant to that subsection.

~~6.~~f. Residential and Office Penthouses.

~~a.~~1) Residential penthouses may cover a maximum of ~~fifty (~~50~~)~~ percent of the total roof surface and may extend up to ~~eight (~~8~~)~~ feet above the roof if~~when~~ set back a minimum of ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ feet from the street property line, or ~~twelve (~~12~~)~~ feet above the roof~~when~~if set back a minimum of ~~thirty (~~30~~)~~ feet from the street property line.

~~b.~~2) Office penthouses ~~shall be~~are permitted only ~~when~~if the footprint of the existing structure is greater than ~~ten thousand (~~10,000~~)~~ square feet and the structure is at least ~~sixty (~~60~~)~~ feet in height. When permitted, office penthouses shall be set back a minimum of ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ feet from all property lines and may cover a maximum of ~~fifty (~~50~~)~~ percent of the total roof surface. Office penthouses may extend up to ~~twelve (~~12~~)~~ feet above the roof of the structure and shall be functionally integrated into the existing structure.

~~c.~~3) The combined height of the structure and a residential penthouse or office penthouse, ~~where~~ if permitted, shall not exceed the maximum height limit for that area of the District in which the structure is located.

~~7.~~g. Screening of Rooftop Features. Measures may be taken to screen rooftop features from public view subject to review by the Preservation Board and approval by the Department of Neighborhoods Director. The amount of roof top area enclosed by rooftop screening may exceed the maximum percentage of the combined coverage of rooftop features listed in subsection 23.66.140.C.4.d above. In no circumstances shall the height of rooftop screening exceed ~~fifteen (~~15~~)~~ feet above the maximum height limit or height of an addition permitted according to ~~S~~subsection 23.66.140. C.~~9~~4.i or otherwise, whichever is higher.

~~8.~~h. See Section 23.57.014 for regulation of communication utilities and accessory devices.

~~9.~~i. For a structure that has existed since before June 10, 1985 and is nonconforming as to structure height, an addition to the structure may extend to the height of the roof of the existing structure if ~~(a)~~i) the use of the addition above the limit on structure height applicable under Section 23.49.178 is limited to residential use and ~~(b)~~ii) the addition occupies only all or a portion of the part of a lot that is bounded by an alley on one side and is bounded on at least two sides by walls of the existing structure that are not street-facing facades.

~~10.~~j. Enclosed Rooftop Common Recreation Areas for New Structures.

~~a.~~1)If~~When~~ included on new structures, enclosed rooftop common recreation areas and solar collectors incorporated into those areas and required under this subsection may exceed the maximum height limit by up to 15 feet. The structure must include solar collectors that provide 2 percent or more of the structure's total electrical energy consumption and the structure must meet a Green Factor requirement of ~~0~~.30 or greater, ~~as~~ determined under Section 23.86.019. Each enclosed rooftop common recreation area must include interpretive signage explaining the sustainable features employed on the structure where that area is located. No commercial, residential or industrial use may be established within enclosed common recreation areas allowed to exceed the maximum height limit under this subsection.

~~b.~~2) Elevator penthouses serving an enclosed rooftop common recreation area may exceed the maximum height limit by up to ~~twenty (~~20~~)~~ feet.

~~c.~~3) Enclosed rooftop common recreation areas, mechanical equipment, and elevator and stair penthouses shall not exceed ~~thirty-five percent (~~35~~%)~~percent of the roof area.

~~d.~~4) Enclosed rooftop common recreation areas, mechanical equipment, and elevator and stair penthouses must be set back a minimum of ~~thirty (~~30~~)~~ feet from the street and three ~~(3)~~ feet from the alley. Solar collectors must be set back as provided in subsections 23.66.140.C.~~3~~4.c and  23.66.140.C.4.d~~of this section~~.

~~e.~~5) Owners of structures with enclosed rooftop common recreation areas permitted pursuant to this subsection shall submit to the Pioneer Square Preservation Board, the Director of Neighborhoods and the Director of the Department of Planning and Development an annual report, beginning one year after the date of first occupancy of such structure, documenting compliance with the minimum renewable energy generation and green ~~area~~ factor criteria set forth above.

 D. New Structures. When new structures are proposed in the District, the Preservation Board shall review the proposed height of the structure and make recommendations to the Department of Neighborhoods Director who may require design changes to assure reasonable protection of views from Kobe Terrace Park.

 Section 10. Section 23.66.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is amended as follows:

 23.66.150 ~~Maximum~~Structure setbacks~~.~~ Except as allowed through the provisions of subsection 23.49.180.G for the PSM 85-120 zone in the area shown on Map A for 23.49.180, the m

~~M~~aximum permitted setbacks for structures are:

 A. Structures located within Subarea A on Map C~~1~~ for 23.66.150 shall cover the full width of the lot along street ~~property~~lot lines and shall abut ~~upon~~street lot~~property~~ lines.

 B. Structures located within Subarea B on Map C~~1~~ for 23.66.150 shall abut street lot~~property~~ lines for the full width of the structure's street-facing~~front~~ facade.

 C. For both Subareas, modifications to setback standards may be permitted by the Department of Neighborhoods Director following review and recommendation by the Preservation Board when the following criteria are met:

 1. A larger setback will be compatible with and not adversely affect the streetscape; and

 2. A larger setback will be compatible with other design elements, such as bulk and profile, of the proposed building.

 Section 11. Section 23.66.170 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122054, is amended as follows:

 23.66.170 Parking and access~~.~~

 A. Parking standards in the Pioneer Square Preservation District are set forth in Section~~~~23.49.019~~of this Land Use Code~~.

 B. To mitigate the potential impacts of required ~~accessory parking and~~loading on the District, the Director of Neighborhoods, after review and recommendation by the Preservation Board, may waive or reduce required ~~parking or~~loading if~~in the following circumstances:~~1. After incorporating high-occupancy-vehicle alternatives such as carpools and vanpools, required parking spaces exceed the net usable space in all below-grade floors; or

 2. R

reasonable application of the ~~parking or~~ loading standards will adversely affect the visual character of the District.

 C. ~~When~~If parking is provided it shall be subject to the requirements of Section 23.54.030~~of this Land Use Code~~.

 D. Standards for Location of Access to Parking.

 1. Access to parking and loading from alleys, and from streets~~which~~that  generally run east/west~~,~~ is preferred to access from avenues. ~~When~~If a lot abuts more than one ~~(1 )~~right-of-way, the location of access shall be determined by the Department of Neighborhoods Director in consultation with the Director of Transportation. This determination shall be made according to the traffic classification of the street, depicted on Map D~~1~~ for 23.66.170. Access shall be from rights-of-way classified as follows, from the most to least preferred, except when the Department of Neighborhoods Director, following review and recommendation by the Board, determines that access from the preferred right-of-way would create a hazardous condition: Alleys; Access streets; Class II pedestrian streets- minor arterial; Class II pedestrian streets-principal arterial; Class I pedestrian streets-minor arterial; Class I pedestrian streets-principal arterial; Principal transit street; Green Streets.

 2. Curbcut width and the number of curbcuts permitted per street frontage shall be governed by Section 23.54.030~~of this Land Use Code~~.

 3. The street-level location of entrances and exits of all parking garages, ~~where~~if permitted, shall be permitted only if approved by the Department of Neighborhoods Director after review and recommendation by the Preservation Board. View-obscuring screening may be required as needed to reduce adverse visual impacts on the immediate area.

 Section 12. Section 23.76.032 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 122816, is amended as follows:

 23.76.032 Expiration and renewal of Type I and II Master Use Permits~~.~~

 A. Expiration.

 1. An issued Type I or II Master Use Permit expires three years from the date a permit is approved for issuance as described in Section 23.76.028, except as follows:

 a. Expiration of a Master Use Permit with a shoreline component is governed by WAC 173-27-090.

 b. Expiration of a variance component of a Master Use Permit is governed by the following:

~~(~~1) Variances for access, yards, setback, open space, or lot area minimums granted as part of a short plat or lot boundary adjustment runs with the land in perpetuity as recorded with the Director of the King County Department of Records and Elections.

~~(~~2) Variances granted as separate Master Use Permits pursuant to ~~S~~subsection 23.76.004.G expire three years from the date the permit is approved for issuance as described in Section 23.76.028 or on the effective date of any text amendment making more stringent the development standard from which the variance was granted, whichever is sooner. If a Master Use Permit to establish the use is granted within this period, the variance's expiration date shall be extended until the expiration date established for the use approval.

 c. The time during which litigation is pending related to the Master Use Permit or the property subject to the permit made it reasonable not to submit an application for a building permit, or to establish a use where a building permit is not required, is not included in the three year term of the Master Use Permit.

 d. Master Use Permits with a Major Phased Development or Planned Community Development component established under Section 23.47A.007, 23.50.015 or 23.49.036 expire as follows:

~~(~~1) For the first phase, three years from the date the permit is approved for issuance;

~~(~~2) For subsequent phases, expiration shall be determined at the time of permit issuance.

 e. Temporary or intermittent use permits issued pursuant to Section 23.42.040 expire on the date stated in the permit.

f. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection 23.76.032.A.1.f, Master Use Permits for development pursuant to Sections 23.49.180 and 23.49.181 expire on the date set by the Director in the Master Use Permit decision, which date may be a maximum of 15 years from the date the Master Use Permit is ready to issue. The Director shall consider the complexity of the project, economic conditions of the area in which the project is located, and the construction schedule proposed by the applicant in setting the expiration date. If no expiration date is set in the Master Use Permit decision, the expiration date is three years from the date a permit is approved for issuance.

1) In order for the Director to set the Master Use Permit expiration date, the applicant shall:

a) Submit with the application a site plan showing a level of detail sufficient to assess anticipated impacts of the completed project; and,

b) Submit a proposed schedule for complying with the conditions necessary to gain the amount of extra floor area and the extra height sought for the project

2) The expiration date of the Master Use Permit may be extended past the expiration date set in the Master Use Permit decision or the date established in subsection 23.76.032.A.1.f if:

a) On the expiration date stated in the Master Use Permit decision, a building permit for the entire development has been issued and has not expired, in which case the Master Use Permit shall expire when the building permit expires, or

b) A complete application for a building permit that either is for the entire development proposed pursuant to section 23.49.180 or is for construction to complete the entire development proposed pursuant to section 23.49.180 is:

i) submitted at least 60 days before the expiration date of the Master Use Permit; and

ii) made sufficiently complete to constitute a fully complete building permit application as defined in the Seattle Building Code, or for a highrise structure regulated under Section 403 of the Seattle Building Code, made to include the complete structural frame of the building and schematic plans for the exterior shell of the building, in either case before the expiration date of the Master Use Permit, in which case the Master Use Permit shall expire when the building permit issued pursuant to the application expires or when the application for a building permit is canceled or withdrawn.

 2. On~~At~~ the ~~end of the three year term~~ expiration date determined as provided in subsection 23.76.032.A.1, a Master Use Permit~~s~~ expires unless one of the conditions in ~~subsections a through d of~~ this subsection 23.76.032.A.2 exists:

 a. A building permit is issued before the ~~end of the three year term~~expiration date, or an application for a building permit is:

~~(~~1) submitted at least 60 days before the end of the three year term;

~~(~~2) made sufficiently complete to constitute a fully complete building permit application as defined in the Seattle Building Code, or for a highrise structure regulated under Section 403 of the Seattle Building Code, made to include the complete structural frame of the building and schematic plans for the exterior shell of the building, in either case before the ~~end of the three year term~~expiration date; and

~~(~~3) subsequently issued. In such cases, the Master Use Permit shall be extended for the same term as the building permit is issued. For highrise structures regulated under Section 403 of the Seattle Building Code, the building permit application may be a partial one, provided that it includes the complete structural frame of the building, and schematic plans for the exterior shell of the building.

 b. For projects that do not require a building permit, the use has been established prior to the expiration date of the Master Use Permit and is not terminated by abandonment or otherwise. In such cases the Master Use Permit does not expire.

 c. The Master Use Permit is renewed pursuant to subsection  23.76.004.B.

 d. A Major Phased Development or Planned Community Development component is part of the Master Use Permit, in which case subsection  23.76.004.A.1.d applies.

e. The Master Use Permit was for development subject to Section 23.49.180, in which case the provisions in subsection 23.76.032.A.1.f.1 apply.

 B. Renewal.

 1. The Director shall renew issued Master Use Permits for projects that are in conformance with applicable regulations, including land use and environmentally critical areas regulations, and SEPA policies in effect at the time renewal is sought. Except as provided in subsections  23.76.032.B.2 and 23.76.032.B.3 below, Master Use Permit renewal is for a period of two years. A Master Use Permit shall not be renewed beyond a period of five years from the original date the permit is approved for issuance.~~, except for~~This subsection 23.76.032.B does not apply to the second and subsequent phases of a Master Use Permit with a ~~m~~Major ~~p~~Phased ~~d~~ Development (MPD) component~~, for which this subsection B does not apply~~. The Director shall not renew issued Master Use Permits for projects that are not in conformance with applicable regulations, including land use and environmentally critical areas regulations, or SEPA policies in effect at the time renewal is sought, except for second and subsequent phases of an approved Master Use Permit with a Major Phased Development component ~~for which this subsection B does not apply~~.

 2. If an application for a building permit is:

~~(~~a) submitted at least 60 days before the end of the two year term of renewal;

~~(~~b) made sufficiently complete to meet the requirements of Section 106 of the Seattle Building Code; and

~~(~~c) subsequently issued,

 the Master Use Permit shall be extended for the life of the building permit. For highrise structures regulated under Section 403 of the Seattle Building Code, the building permit application may be a partial one, provided that it includes the complete structural frame of the building, and schematic plans for the exterior shell of the building.

 3. The Director may renew a Master Use Permit for the temporary relocation of police and fire stations issued pursuant to Section 23.42.040 for a period not to exceed 12 months.

 * * *

 Section 13. To the extent that any provision of affordable housing or payment under Section 23.49.181 may be considered a tax, that tax is imposed pursuant to the authority of RCW 36.70A.540.

Section 14. If an application for a Master Use Permit for a project using the height limits in Section 23.49.178.E.3. has not been submitted to the Department of Planning and Development by January 1, 2014, the Department of Planning and Development shall deliver a report to the City Council stating that no MUP has been submitted and recommending any changes DPD believes necessary or appropriate to applicable development regulations..

Section 15. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within 10 days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009, and signed by me in

 open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Version #18 (clean)

