

********

**Council Bill Number: 116561**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123031**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to the City's computer software; removing a budget proviso that restricts an appropriation in the 2009 Adopted Budget of the Department of Information Technology (DoIT); authorizing expenditure of the appropriation for software licenses and related expenses for an e-mail archiving system; and establishing principles for system operations.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 6, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 14, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 14, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 15, 2009
   
**Committee:** Energy and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, COMPUTER-SOFTWARE, COMPUTER-SYSTEMS, RECORDS-MANAGEMENT, ARCHIVES

**Fiscal Note:**116561

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123031](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123031.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to the City's computer software; removing a budget proviso that restricts an appropriation in the 2009 Adopted Budget of the Department of Information Technology (DoIT); authorizing expenditure of the appropriation for software licenses and related expenses for an e-mail archiving system; and establishing principles for system operations.

 WHEREAS, purchase and implementation of an email archiving system will serve the legal and business needs of the City, including responding to litigation discovery requests which increasingly involve e-mails; and

 WHEREAS, purchase and implementation of an email archiving system will facilitate the DoIT's migration of the City's emailing system for its 11,000 employees from Novell GroupWise to Microsoft Exchange/Outlook by reducing the amount of required storage; and

 WHEREAS, the 2009 Adopted Budget and 2010 Endorsed Budget provide $900,000 over the 2009-2010 time period for the purchase and implementation of a City-wide email archiving system; and

 WHEREAS, in adopting the 2009 budget, the City Council passed Green Sheet 134-1-A-1, which includes a budget proviso restricting the expenditure of the $900,000 appropriation in DoIT's 2009 Adopted Budget for purchase and implementation of an e-mail archiving system; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council stated its intention to lift the proviso provided that DoIT and the City Attorney's Office demonstrated to the City Council that the City Clerk's Office and the Legislative Department's information technology staff were actively engaged in the development of the protocols for operation of an e-mail archiving system; and

 WHEREAS, the City has issued a request for information (RFI) to potential e-mail archiving system vendors that includes business requirements, formulated by DoIT, the City Attorney's Office, the City Clerk's Office and the Legislative Department's information technology staff, to ensure that the e-mail archiving system selected will have the capacity and flexibility to implement operating protocols that serve the City Council's and the City's business and legal needs; and

 WHEREAS, once an archiving tool is selected that meets the City's business and legal requirements, DoIT and the City Attorney's Office will actively engage the City Clerk's Office and the Legislative Department's information technology staff in developing protocols for that archiving system that will serve the City Council's and the City's business and legal needs, including protocols that appropriately limit access to each City department's email, preserve the privacy of sensitive records, and install appropriate security measures; and

 WHEREAS, DoIT and the Law Department, in cooperation with the City Clerk's Office and

 the Legislative Department's information technology staff, will present Council with a plan that incorporates operating protocols, once they are developed, that are specifically adapted to the future e-mail archiving system; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. It is hereby determined and declared that DoIT and the City Attorney's Office have been keeping the City Clerk's Office and the Legislative Department's information technology staff actively engaged in developing the business requirements for an e-mail archiving system that contemplate operating protocols for the future system that will appropriately limit access to each City department's email, and that once the system is selected, the City Clerk's Office and the Legislative Department information technology staff will remain actively engaged in developing such operating protocols, specific to the system, that will be incorporated into a plan to be presented to Council.

 Section 2. It is hereby determined and declared that DoIT should be provided the balance of funding, originally subject to a budget proviso imposed by 2009 Green Sheet #134-1-A-1, appropriated by the City Council in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the Department of Information Technology. This funding was and is intended to purchase and implement an e-mail archiving system that includes in its business requirements the capability to incorporate operating protocols that appropriately limit access to each City department's email, and accommodates each City department's email records management and archiving needs, as described in Attachment A to this Ordinance, entitled "Proviso Lift Rationale and Business case for an Enterprise-based email Archiving and E-discovery Tool."

 Section 3. The restriction imposed by the following budget proviso is removed and is no longer a restriction for any purpose including for section 1(b) of Ordinance 122863:

```
<table><tr><td>**Department**

</td><td>**Green Sheet**

</td><td>**Proviso Description**

</td></tr><tr><td>Department of Information Technology

</td><td>#134-1-A-1

</td><td>Of the money appropriated for 2009 for the Department of Information Technology (DoIT) no more than $94,000 may be spent for software licenses for the proposed email archiving system until authorized by future ordinance.  Council anticipates that such authority will not be granted until DoIT and the Law Department:

  1. Demonstrate that the City Clerk’s Office and Legislative Department information technology staff have been actively engaged in the development of protocols for the operation of the system; and
  2. Present a plan to the City Council for the operation of the system that appropriately limits access to each City department’s email, and accommodates email records management and archiving needs.

</td></tr></table> Section 4. DoIT and the City Attorney's Office shall emphasize the following principles in developing final protocols for operations and maintenance of the e-mail archiving system:

 Principle #1: Accountability. The e-mail archiving system should possess adequate functionality to track the frequency and the scope of archival records accessed and should be able to generate regularly-scheduled and as-needed reports on data and records retrieval, including the identity of persons accessing the e-mail archiving system and the records accessed.

 Principle #2: Security. The e-mail archiving system: (i) Should possess adequate functionality to restrict access to departmental and citywide e- mail archives to only those persons authorized to access and retrieve such information, and, (ii) Should include structural components which align and facilitate compliance with the City's records retention, records management and archival requirements, policies and procedures.

 Principle #3: Ownership. DoIT shall manage the operations of the e-mail archiving system and shall be responsible for performing continued maintenance of the e-mail archiving system, which may include system reprogramming and de-bugging, software and operations protocol updates and general system maintenance. The City Attorney's Office shall set, in cooperation with the City Records Manager and DoIT, the policies and protocols governing the use of the system.

 Section 5. DoIT and the City Attorney's Office shall base the final system governance and system operations protocols substantially in the form of the Systems Operations Plan for Email Archiving - e-Discovery Tool, attached as Attachment B to this ordinance.

 Section 6. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after passage of this ordinance and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 (Seal) City Clerk

 Attachments:

[Attachment A: Proviso Lift Rationale and Business case for an Enterprise-based email Archiving and E-discovery Tool](/~ordpics/116561_ata.pdf)

 2) Attachment B: Systems Operations Plan for Email Archiving - e-Discovery Tool.

 USE OF SYSTEM

 Individual users will use this system for archiving emails in compliance with retention laws. Law Department will use this system to assist in litigation. Public Disclosure Officers will use this system to assist in responding to public disclosure requests.

 OWNERSHIP

 The Law Department will own and manage the list of users who have access to the system and the extent of their access.

 ACCESS

 Departmental Access - The database system will be set up such that only a small number of staff can search the database. In most cases those staff will be able to perform searches in their own department, but not to retrieve or view the email records that are responsive to a search. Access to retrieve and view email records will be limited to an even smaller number of staff.

 Citywide Access - The database system will be set up such that only an Assistant City Attorney or City Attorney legal staff will be able to use the system to perform searches on more than one department, except for selected IT staff (described below). As above, a small number of staff will have "search" authority and an even smaller number of staff will have "retrieve" authority.

 Specifically, the Law Department expects four distinct groups of system users:

 1. Individual Users: Users will only have access to their own archived emails. An individual user can not access the archives of another employee unless that employee grants permission.

 2. Law Department: The Assistant City Attorney and legal staff assigned to a particular lawsuit will have access to archives of the departments associated with that lawsuit.

 3. Public Disclosure Officers: Each department will determine whether its PDO will have access to that department's archives.

 4. IT System Administrators: A small and finite group of city-wide system administrators will have access to employee archives, but will not be able to do so unless they reset the employee's password. The employee will have to reset their password to regain access.

 PROTOCOLS

 Regarding the use of this new database system by anyone other than an individual user, the Law Department will establish specific protocols governing when and how searches may be conducted. The Law Department anticipates two programmatic situations and one administrative situation during which the system will be used:

 1. Litigation: The Law Department will authorize attorneys and paralegals to search the archives in response to or in anticipation of a lawsuit (e.g., preparing a complaint or an answer to a complaint, responding to discovery requests or preparing a department witness for deposition or trial). Consistent with its current practice, Law notifies all departments of lawsuits and works with designated employees to defend the department. Searches for relevant records, both hard copy and electronic, are done with the assistance of the impacted department. Searches of relevant departmental archives will only occur with notice to appropriate departmental personnel.

 2. Public Disclosure Requests: The Law Department will work with the three branches of government to determine who (e.g., PDO's) will have access to searches and who will have permission to view the searches on a departmental level. Authority will be granted department by department.

 3. IT System: The Chief Technology Officer and Chief Information Security Officer for the City will determine which level of IT staff will have system administration rights.

 MONITORING

 The system will automatically log every access to the archive system. All archiving tools come with a set of standard audit reports and the ability to develop custom audit reports. These reports will show who conducted searches on whom and what was in the search terms.

 SYSTEM SECURITY

 Any tool selected will be required to provide safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to archives. All security provisions in the system will be reviewed by the Chief Information Security Officer to ensure that they meet the standards in existing City security policies.

 OVERALL MANAGEMENT

 RESPONSIBILITY

 1. DoIT will install and manage operation of the tool.

 2. DoIT will manage system administration, daily operation and installation of upgrades.

 3. Law, together with the City Records Manager, will ensure that the retention and legal use policies for the tool meet all applicable legal requirements, including compliance with the Records Retention Act, the Public Records Act and discovery requirements for litigation.

 4. Sufficient coordination and overlap will exist between the "System Administrator" and "System Manager" to ensure that both technical and functional requirements of the system are met. (Both roles defined below.)

 GOVERNANCE CHARTER AND STEERING COMMITTEE COMPOSITION

 1. DoIT and Law contacted key City departments, including SPD, SCL, SMC and the Council, to participate in formulating the business and technical requirements for the Request for Information (RFI) used to solicit archiving-eDiscovery tool vendors.

 2. The above-referenced departments, and others that have specialized retention and access requirements for email, will be members of the Steering Committee; the Steering Committee will approve protocols set by the Law Department related to access and governance of the tool.

 3. The Steering Committee will issue final Systems Operation Procedures and a Governance Charter no later than December 31, 2009, to set security and operational protocols for the selected tool, after which it will no longer meet.

 4. Upon completion of the final Systems Operation Procedures and Governance Charter, the Steering Committee shall be reconstituted as the System Operations and Governance Committee, maintaining the same membership. The System Operations and Governance Committee will meet regularly to address any functional, operational and policy issues related to the E-mail Archiving System, no fewer than two times per year.

 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

 1. The purchase of licenses and hardware for the next two years will be paid from the existing E-mail Archiving System appropriation in the 2009 Adopted Budget of DoIT.

 2. Annual maintenance fees will be paid by DoIT and charged to each department based an appropriate portion of total licensed users.

 3. Replacement or expanded hardware will be requested as a part of DoIT's annual operating budget request.

 4. Replacement or expanded software will be requested jointly by Law and DoIT as a part of DoIT's annual operating budget request.

 5. Maintenance and operations staffing and expenses, as outlined in the Maintenance and Operations section below, will be absorbed by existing staff in DoIT.

 6. Oversight, monitoring and training staffing and expenses, as outlined in the Oversight and Monitoring section below, will be absorbed to the extent possible by existing staff in Law and the Office of Records Management.

 OVERSIGHT

 1. The Law department will provide oversight and monitor access privileges to the system.

 2. The City Records Manager will provide record retention training for all users of the archive system and will set protocols in compliance with the Record Retention Act including:

 I. Determination of automated retention schedule, function and processes.

 II. Authorization of purge activities in accordance with the governance and operations charter.

 3. The Law Department shall designate a System Manager to coordinate changes to user permissions and access control with the System Administrator.

 MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS

 1. DoIT will provide staff for Operations and Maintenance of the system.

 2. DoIT will designate a System Administrator and backup.

 3. The System Administrator will be responsible for operation of the following key functions:

 a. User permissions and access control

 b. Daily backup

 c. Ensuring automated processes conform to functional requirements

 d. System maintenance and operation

 4. The System Administrator will attend Steering Group meetings and provide guidance and consultation related to systems operations.

 LAW E-mail Archiving Proviso Lift ORD

 Attachment B, Version #7

 4

