

********

**Council Bill Number: 116542**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123005**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to the sale and redevelopment of the former Public Safety Building block; authorizing the execution of amendments to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the Civic Square Project Agreement, and other related documents necessary to continue implementation of the sale and redevelopment of such property, as previously authorized by Ordinance 122612.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 8, 2009
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Rasmussen)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 18, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 10, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 26, 2009
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** PUBLIC-SAFETY-BUILDING, DEVELOPMENT-ACTIVITIES, DOWNTOWN

**Fiscal Note:**116542

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123005](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123005.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to the sale and redevelopment of the former Public Safety Building block; authorizing the execution of amendments to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the Civic Square Project Agreement, and other related documents necessary to continue implementation of the sale and redevelopment of such property, as previously authorized by Ordinance 122612.

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 122612, passed in December 2007, authorized the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department to execute agreements with Triad Civic Center LLC ("Triad") for the sale and redevelopment of the former Public Safety Building site (the "Site"), consistent with the City's redevelopment goals under the Civic Center Master Plan vision for civic public open space, private development, underground parking, and pedestrian access to the Metro/Sound Transit tunnel; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to the agreements, Triad has developed a design for the Civic Square and adjacent office and residential tower and has submitted a Master Use Permit application for the project, and obtained approval of the project design in 2008 by the combined Downtown Design Review Board and Seattle Design Commission; and

 WHEREAS, the approved project design successfully addresses the City's goals for redevelopment of the Site, but current cost estimates based upon the completed Schematic Design and Master Use Permit application package reviewed and approved by the combined Downtown Design Review Board and Seattle Design Commission demonstrate the need to increase the development cost cap; and

 WHEREAS, regional and global economic conditions have negatively impacted the real estate market and made it infeasible to pursue the project in the time frame outlined in the original agreements; and

 WHEREAS, the City and Triad have proposed to revise the agreements to provide for the future construction of the approved project design with no investment of additional funds by the City; and

 WHEREAS, the City and Triad remain committed to the project and propose that the amendments to the agreements revise the development schedule to position the project to move forward at the earliest possible moment when the local real estate market recovers;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department or designee is authorized to execute the First Amendment to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as "Attachment A," and the First Amendment to the Seattle Civic Square Project Agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as "Attachment B."

 Section 2. The Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department or designee is further authorized to revise the Reciprocal Easement Agreement and the Master Lease, previously authorized by Ordinance 122612, consistent with the amendments authorized by this Ordinance.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after its passage but prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ___________________, 2009. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachments: Attachment A. First Amendment to the Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Attachment B. First Amendment to the Seattle Civic Square Project Agreement Exhibit 1 to Attachment B (Design Documents and Performance Specification) Part 1 of 4: Master Use Permit Set - March 2008 Part 2 of 4: Design Review Board Submittal - November 2008 Part 3 of 4: Schematic Design Report - January 2009 (pp. 42, 50-59, 61-73, 77) Part 4 of 4: Schematic Design Project Specification - March 2009 Exhibit 2 to Attachment B (Development Schedule)

 May 19, 2009 Version #3

 ATTACHMENT A:

 FIRST AMENDMENT TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("Amendment") is made and entered into as of the June __, 2009, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation (the "Seller") and TRIAD CIVIC CENTER LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("Purchaser").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS Purchaser and Seller have entered into that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of February 19, 2008 (the "Agreement"); and

 WHEREAS Purchaser and Seller desire to amend certain provisions of the Agreement, all upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Amendment;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 IN CONSIDERATION of the respective agreements hereinafter set forth, Seller and Purchaser do each hereby covenant and agree with the other as follows:

 1. AMENDMENT. The Agreement is amended as follows:

 a. Section 2 (a)(iii). Section 2(a)(iii) of the Agreement is deleted and the following is substituted:

 (iii) At Closing, Purchaser shall pay to Seller in cash (the "Cash Payment") the remainder of the Minimum Purchase Price after crediting toward the payment of the Minimum Purchase Price (a) the Earnest Money to the extent that any funds have been deposited (and if no funds have been deposited as a result of the magnitude of the Civic Square Design Costs, then there will be no Earnest Money credit toward the Minimum Purchase Price), (b) the Extension Payments, if applicable, and (c) the Civic Square Cost Cap (as defined in the Civic Square Agreement). If the combined amounts of the Earnest Money, Extension Payments and Civic Square Cost Cap exceed the Minimum Purchase Price, then at Closing (but only if Closing occurs) those portions of the Earnest Money and Extension Payments that exceed the difference between the Minimum Purchase Price and the Civic Square Cost Cap shall be returned to Purchaser. Along with the Cash Payment (if any), and as a portion of the Minimum Purchase Price due at Closing, Purchaser shall also pay to Seller an amount equal to the accrued interest on the Cash Payment at the rate of 5.02% per annum (non-compounded) from the date Purchaser is required to adjust Earnest Money under subsection (ii) above until Closing (the "Interest Adjustment"). A portion of the Cash Payment plus the Interest Adjustment shall be paid to Seller and such amount (if applicable) shall constitute the Civic Square Cost Contingency to be used in accordance with the terms of the Civic Square Agreement.

 b. Section 2(a)(iv). The following is added to the end of Section 2(a)(iv) of the Agreement:

 If the combined amount of the actual costs of design and construction of the Civic Square and the Civic Square Contribution Amount of $3,000,000 exceeds the amount of the Note, Purchaser shall pay the excess costs of design and construction of the Civic Square in accordance with the requirements of the Civic Square Agreement.

 c. Section 2(b). The provisions of Section 2(b) of the Agreement are deleted. Seller and Purchaser agree that any proceeds from new market tax credits under Section 45D of the Internal Revenue Code shall be the sole property of Purchaser. All other references to the Supplemental Payment in the Agreement are hereby deleted.

 d. Section 10(h). Section 10(h) of the Agreement is deleted.

 e. Section 11(c). Section 11(c) of the Agreement is deleted and the following is substituted:

 (c) Termination by Expiration of Time. Closing shall occur on or before the later of December 31, 2013, or thirty (30) days following the issuance of all permits necessary for the development of Purchaser's proposed project, provided that Purchaser has timely made application for such permits in accordance with the terms of the Civic Square Agreement (the "Expiration Date"), subject to the extension rights provided in this Section 11(c).

 (i) Purchaser may extend the Expiration Date for two (2) periods of one (1) year each so long as the following conditions have been satisfied:

 (1) For the first extension, Purchaser must (a) provide written notice to Seller of Purchaser's election to extend the Expiration Date not later than June 30, 2013, and (b) together with the written notice, deposit with Title Company One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) (the "First Extension Payment").

 (2) For the second extension, Purchaser must (a) have validly extended the Expiration Date under subsection (1) above, (b) provide written notice to Seller of Purchaser's election to extend the Expiration Date not later than June 30, 2014, and (c) together with the written notice, deposit with Title Company One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) (the "Second Extension Payment", and collectively with the First Extension Payment, the "Extension Payments").

 (3) The Extension Payments made by Purchaser pursuant to items (1) and (2) above (a) shall be in consideration for the extension of the Expiration Date; (b) shall not be considered as part of the Earnest Money; (c) shall be paid to the Title Company to be held in an interest bearing account until Closing or until the termination of the Agreement (with all interest thereon considered part of the Extension Payments); and (d) shall not be refundable to the Purchaser. The Extension Payments made by Purchaser pursuant to items (1) and (2) above shall be applicable to the Minimum Purchase Price (and returned to Purchaser to the extent provided in Section 2(a)(iii) above) if Purchaser completes the purchase of the Property prior to the Expiration Date, as extended, and otherwise shall be released to Seller at the same time as Seller is entitled to a release of the Earnest Money.

 (4) Commencing January 1, 2010, and on each January 1st thereafter until the earlier of Closing or the Expiration Date, as extended, Purchaser shall contribute to Seller, or a non-profit group designated by Seller, Forty Thousand Dollars ($40,000.00) for the purpose of creating and maintaining a public display of art on the fencing surrounding the Property.

 (ii) Purchaser has no right to extend the Closing beyond the later of December 31, 2015 or thirty (30) days following the issuance of all permits necessary for the development of Purchaser's proposed project (provided that Purchaser has timely made application for all such permits in accordance with the terms of the Civic Square Agreement).

 f. Section 11(d). Section 11(d) of the Agreement is deleted and the following substituted:

 (d) Effect of Extension.

 (i) If Closing has not occurred by July 30, 2010, the Construction Cost Cap (as defined in the Civic Square Agreement) shall increase by the same amount as the percentage increase of the Building Cost Index for Seattle, as published monthly by the Engineering News Record (the "BCI Index") measured from the value of the published BCI Index immediately preceding July 30, 2010 and the value of the published BCI Index immediately preceding the Date of Closing.

 (ii) If Closing has not occurred by July 30, 2009, the Civic Square Contribution Amount paid by Purchaser pursuant to the Reciprocal Easement Agreement shall increase in an amount equal to the percentage increase in the CPI from July 30, 2009, until the Closing Date, and shall thereafter increase commencing five (5) years following the commencement of the obligation to make payments of the Civic Square Contribution Amount, and each five (5) years thereafter, in an amount equal to the percentage increase in the CPI during such five (5) year periods.

 g. Section 12(b). The first sentence of Section 12(b) of the Agreement is deleted and the following is substituted:

 (b) The parties shall conduct an escrow Closing pursuant to this Section 12 on either (i) the date selected by Purchaser upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to Seller after all permits necessary for the construction of Purchaser's proposed project have been issued and each of the conditions to Closing set forth in this Agreement and the Civic Square Agreement have been satisfied or waived, or (ii) on such other earlier date designated by Purchaser upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to Seller (provided the Seller's Closing Conditions have been satisfied or waived by Seller), provided that under all circumstances Closing must occur on or before the Expiration Date ( the date upon which Closing is to occur shall be referred to as the "Closing Date").

 2. DEFINITIONS. For all purposes of this Amendment, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context other wise requires, (a) the terms defined in this Amendment have the meanings assigned to them and (b) all capitalized terms not defined in this Amendment shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Civic Square Agreement.

 3. EFFECT OF AMENDMENT. Except as modified by this Amendment, the Agreement remains in full force and effect as originally stated. Purchaser and Seller each represent and warrant to the other that there exists no defense or claim to their respective obligations under the Agreement, as amended.

 [Remainder of page intentionally left blank. Signatures on following page]

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed as of the day and year first above written.

 SELLER: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation By: __________________________ Its: _________________________

 PURCHASER: Triad Civic Center LLC, a Washington limited liability company

 By: __________________________ Frederick W. Grimm Its: Manager

 Ver. 2

 ATTACHMENT B: FIRST AMENDMENT TO SEATTLE CIVIC SQUARE PROJECT AGREEMENT

 THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO SEATTLE CIVIC SQUARE PROJECT AGREEMENT ("Amendment") is made and entered into as of the June __, 2009, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation (the "City") and TRIAD CIVIC CENTER LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("Triad").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS the City and Triad have entered into that certain Seattle Civic Square Project Agreement dated as of February 19, 2008 (the "Agreement"); and

 WHEREAS the City and Triad desire to amend certain provisions of the Agreement, all upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Amendment;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 IN CONSIDERATION of the respective agreements hereinafter set forth, the City and Triad do each hereby covenant and agree with the other as follows:

 1. AMENDMENT. The Agreement is amended as follows:

 a. Section 4.2.2.a: Section 4.2.2.a of the Agreement is deleted and the following is substituted:

 a. Schematic Design. The design documents and the performance specification attached hereto as Schedule 4.2.2 shall constitute the "Schematic Design." The Schematic Design has been reviewed and approved by the City and Triad, except to the extent that compliance of the Project with zoning regulations and codes affecting the work remains to be confirmed.

 b. Section 4.2.5. The fourth full paragraph of Section 4.2.5 of the Agreement (which commences with the phrase "Notwithstanding the foregoing, . . .") is hereby deleted in its entirety. The following is added to Section 4.2.5:

 As of the completion of the Schematic Design, City and Triad agree that the Cost Estimate is $22,600,000.00. If the estimated cost of construction of the Civic Elements shown in the Schematic Design exceeds the Construction Cost Cap, as adjusted in accordance with the Purchase and Sale Agreement, as amended, then Triad may initiate a redesign of the Civic Elements so that the cost of construction does not exceed the Construction Cost Cap, as adjusted. Triad shall have no right to initiate a redesign of the Civic Elements if the Cost Estimate does not exceed the Construction Cost Cap, as adjusted or following the commencement of construction of the Civic Elements.

 c. Section 5.4. The first three full paragraphs of Section 5.4 are deleted and the following substituted:

 5.4 Civic Square Development Costs, Cost Cap. Triad and the City have mutually agreed upon a total design, development and construction cost cap applicable to the City's contribution towards the development of the Civic Elements to Substantial Completion of $22,000,000 (the "Civic Square Development Cost Cap") and an agreed present value of the Civic Square Contribution Amounts to be paid by Triad of $3,000,000 (the "Contribution Value"), resulting in a total cost towards the City's contribution to the construction, development and funding of the Civic Square of $25,000,000 (the "Civic Square Cost Cap"). The Civic Square Development Cost Cap (and the Civic Square Cost Cap) shall increase only (a) upon the approval of the City, or (b) in the event development costs for the Civic Elements increase due to a City Delay or a City-Initiated Change Order. The Civic Square Cost Cap does not include the costs of tenant improvements for the Civic Square Retail Space, which will be paid separately by Triad in accordance with the terms of the Master Lease.

 Triad agrees and guarantees to the City that Triad shall pay all costs to design, construct and develop the Civic Elements to Substantial Completion in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and consistent with the Approved Construction Documents (the "Development Costs") to the extent such Development Costs exceed the Civic Square Development Cost Cap.

 Triad and the City further agree that cost cap for the actual construction of the Civic Elements is $22,600,000.00, which amount is subject to increase in accordance with the Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "Construction Cost Cap"). Triad shall have the right to initiate a redesign of the Civic Elements in accordance with Section 4.2.5 of this Agreement only if a future Cost Estimate exceeds this Construction Cost Cap.

 For the sole purpose of clarification of the intent of the City and Triad, and the elimination of doubt, the parties acknowledge that the current actual estimate of the costs to design and construct the Civic Elements to Substantial Completion is $25,100,000, of which $2,500,000 has been allocated to design and other soft costs and $22,600,000 has been allocated to construction costs (and represents both the current Cost Estimate and the Construction Cost Cap). These amounts exceed the current Civic Square Development Cost Cap by $3,100,000. Triad has agreed to pay all Development Costs in excess of the Civic Square Development Cost Cap, and thus based upon current estimates Triad will be responsible for the $3,100,000 by which the actual Development Costs exceed the Civic Square Development Cost Cap. The parties also acknowledge that Development Costs up to the amount of the Note under the Purchase and Sale Agreement will be offset against payments due under the Note as provided in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

 Triad and the City further agree that in determining the Construction Cost Cap, an amount equal to 10% of the total estimated Development Costs will be allocated towards the design and other Soft Costs associated with the development of the Civic Elements (and thus not included in determining the Construction Cost Cap).

 2. EXHIBIT B. Exhibit B to the Agreement is replaced with Exhibit B attached to this Amendment. The dates set forth in Exhibit B shall be extended to the extent that the Expiration Date is extended in accordance with the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

 3. EXHIBIT H. Exhibit H to the Agreement (the Master Retail Lease), is amended as follows:

 a. Term. The Term of the Lease is modified to provide that the Tenant shall have two (2) renewal options of five (5) years each. During each option term, the Annual Minimum Rent shall be the same as during the initial ten-year term of the Lease; provided, however, if the closing of the transaction contemplated under that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of February 19, 2008, as amended, entered into by Landlord and Tenant has not been completed by December 31, 2013, then the Annual Minimum Rent for the second renewal term shall increase by an amount equal to the percentage increase in the CPI published immediately prior to the commencement of the first renewal term in relation to the CPI published immediately prior to the commencement of the second renewal term. "CPI" shall refer to the Revised Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers (All Items) U.S. Cities Average (1982-4=100), presently published by the United States Department of Labor. Tenant shall exercise the options by providing written notice to Landlord not less than one (1) year prior to the expiration of the Lease.

 b. Construction Allowance. All references to the Allowance to be paid by Landlord in connection with the construction of tenant improvements shall be deleted. Tenant shall be solely responsible for the payment of all costs associated with tenant improvements, and Landlord shall have no obligation to contribute any sum toward the construction of tenant improvements.

 4. DEFINITIONS. For all purposes of this Amendment, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context other wise requires, (a) the terms defined in this Amendment have the meanings assigned to them and (b) all capitalized terms not defined in this Amendment shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

 5. EFFECT OF AMENDMENT. Except as modified by this Amendment, the Agreement remains in full force and effect as originally stated. Purchaser and Seller each represent and warrant to the other that there exists no defense or claim to their respective obligations under the Agreement, as amended.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed as of the day and year first above written.

 CITY: The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation By: _________________ Its: __________________

 TRIAD: Triad Civic Center LLC, a Washington limited liability company By: _______________ Frederick W. Grimm Its: Manager

 EXHIBIT 1 TO ATTACHMENT B: SCHEDULE 4.2.2.

 Civic Square Design Documents and Performance Specification

 Document Index

 The following Design Documents are attached hereto and incorporated herein:

 1. Master Use Permit (MUP) Set - March 2008 2. Design Review Board (DRB) Submittal - November 2008 3. Schematic Design (SD) Report - January 2009 Pages: 42, 50-59, 61-73, 77 4. Schematic Design Project Specification - January 2009

 Notes/Clarification:

 i. SD pg 56 - Water Feature material labeled "cast-in-place concrete" - should be Ocean Pearl Slate Slab.

 ii. SD pg 59, DRB pg 101 - Inconsistency in material labeled "Stone Seating Step" and "Salvaged Seattle Cobblestone."

 iii. SD pgs 56 & 61, DRB pgs 101, 113, 115, & 118 - Inconsistency in vertical Water Feature back material labeled "Salvaged Seattle Cobblestone," "Concrete," and "Ocean Pearl Slate Slab." All exposed Water Feature materials (including west stair Water Feature) to be Ocean Pearl Slate.

 iv. DRB pg 104, MUP A1803 - West Retail Plaza roof level decking material inconsistently represented. (North portion decking material to be wood per Landscape drawings.)

 v. SD pg 65, DRB pg 101 - Material for steps unclear. Material for steps to be granite as per MUP Landscape drawings.

 Infrastructure Requirements

 The purpose of this document is to outline some of the fundamental performance/infrastructure requirements for the Civic Square Plaza and Retail spaces. The City of Seattle and Triad (the Parties) agree that the performance requirements outlined herein are important in achieving the Parties' mutual objectives and vision for the Civic Square.

 I. CIVIC SQUARE OBJECTIVES AND VISION

 The Parties agree that the objectives and vision of the Civic Square and connected Plaza Retail can be described to include the following:

 The City intends to establish and provide a beautiful and vibrant public space that meets community needs, conforms to the Civic Center Master Plan, complements and extends the City Hall Plaza across Fourth Avenue, creates an open space for recreation, diverse civic and cultural gatherings, events, activities and comparable uses, encourages public visits to and familiarity with Seattle's civic center, promotes pedestrian and transit-oriented transportation downtown, and provides a convenient and appealing link to the Third Avenue Metro Tunnel.

 The City further intends and expects that the Civic Square Plaza will feature and promote diverse programming and services, in addition to serving as a place of public gathering and enjoyment. The Civic Square is intended to provide a fully-functioning public plaza capable of hosting and accommodating large numbers of daily pedestrian visitors and a wide range of events and activities, including, for example: diverse tent-based shows and displays, farmer's markets, flower shows, jewelry shows, food/culinary events, community group events, civic-oriented fairs, displays and events, weekday shows and lunch events, recycling fairs, events based on a wide range of themes, including sustainable communities, cultural and holiday events, neighborhood awareness, museum shows, art and music, pre-shows and pre-openings supporting other Seattle events, parade starts or finishes, regional festivals, sports celebrations, and stage performances for a wide range of audience sizes, including plaza-wide audiences and smaller events, including weddings.

 In addition, the Parties intend and agree that the Civic Square Plaza Retail is designed to facilitate and contribute to activating the Civic Square Plaza, and to enhancing a vibrant, interesting, and inviting environment featuring diverse activities, products and services through the interaction between Plaza Retail activities and the space provided by the public Plaza to which it is connected.

 II. PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS

 The Parties shall work together collaboratively to design and implement effective, well-functioning infrastructure components that promote the Civic Square Objectives and Vision.

 A. Civic Square Plaza - The parties shall work cooperatively to accomplish the following:

 1. Space Design. Finalize a design consistent with the existing MUP and SD that balances event management, unprogrammed uses, and operation and maintenance needs with aesthetic considerations.

 2. Production Support. Provide utilities, especially electrical connections, to allow easy use by event planners. Provide infrastructure and freight access that allows reasonable movement of materials and equipment, including event tents, to and from the Plaza.

 3. Interactive Technologies. Explore opportunities to create interactive and on-site promotion support, for example through installation of networked video touch screens or other information- distributing or entertainment technologies. Provide utility infrastructure that could support such an option.

 4. Promotion. Explore opportunities to install electronic display signage that would promote events in the plaza, for example an LED signage at the wall above Metro access escalator or other suitable location.

 5. Audio. Seek to resolve conflicting recommendations regarding the benefits for an d seek opportunities to provide sound system that can be heard throughout the Plaza for the majority of events. Provide utility infrastructure that will support audio systems for the larger anticipated music or performance events.

 6. Lighting. Provide lighting adequate to light central Plaza and stage areas reasonably sufficient for most events with aim of minimizing need for use of additional cabling/extension cords during events. Explore using Plaza light poles as supplemental power sources for events.

 7. Storage. Provide reasonable amount of parking garage storage with adequate freight access to enable event planners to regularly move and use event tents, portable stages and similar equipment.

 8. Potable Water. Provide potable water spigot(s) and associated drains at locations reasonably determined to accommodate Plaza events, including food-related events, along with operations and maintenance needs.

 9. Power. Provide power adequate to accommodate Plaza events, with minimum power capacity as follows:

 a. 500-amp, 3-phase, 208V service

 b. (14) 20-amp, 120V waterproof outlets

 10. Cable Run. Provide protected cable run from suitable audio mixer location(s) to stage area. Consider installing conduit or hard-wired panel to provide sufficient input/output capacity for most concert events.

 B. South Plaza Retail:

 1. South Plaza Retail Building roof level shall have appropriately functioning access for maintenance.

 2. The Parties shall cooperate to design appropriate access for a functional commercial kitchen with appropriate interior access to permit the operation of a restaurant in the South Plaza Retail Building. Design shall be reviewed by an appropriate retail or restaurant expert to confirm adequate functionality.

 C. West Plaza Retail:

 1. West Plaza Retail shall have reasonable freight access from loading dock to a freight elevator. At least one Plaza Retail elevator shall be specified and sized as necessary to serve as a freight elevator for Plaza Retail operations.

 2. West Plaza Retail mezzanine shall have appropriate ADA access.

 D. Additional:

 1. South and West Plaza Retail Buildings shall have access to appropriate staff restroom facilities.

 2. Bicycle storage and shower facilities shall have appropriate ingress and egress (ADA and life safety).

 EXHIBIT 2 TO ATTACHMENT B:

 TO SEATTLE CIVIC SQUARE PROJECT AGREEMENT

 Development Schedule

 June 26, 2007 Early Design Guidance Meeting I August 28, 2007 Early Design Guidance Meeting II August 28, 2007 First Cost Estimate for Civic Elements November 13, 2007 Early Design Guidance Meeting III November 30, 2007 Second Cost Estimate for Civic Elements April 15, 2008 MUP Application Submittal April 15, 2008 SEPA Submittal June 2009 - October 2012 Preparation of Design Development Drawings; resolution of any MUP appeals October 1, 2012 Commence Preparation of Construction Drawings June 30, 2013 Building Permit Application (to be complete in accordance with industry standards so as to permit the City to process building permits within normal  processing time periods)

 15 Working Days Following Permit Issuance for Construction Commencement (excavation and shoring)

 32 Months Following Commencement of Construction for Substantial Completion (34 months if Garage includes a P-7 and P-8 parking level)

 * In connection with the preparation of the Design Development Documents and the Construction Drawings, the City will have review and approval rights at 35% complete, 65% complete and 95% complete in accordance with and as provided by Section 4.2 of the Agreement.

 Ver. 2

[Exhibit 1 to Attachment B - Design Documents and Performance Specification, part 1](/~ordpics/116542Ex1ToAtBpt1.pdf)

 This file is a 155 MB PDF document, requiring Adobe Acrobat or equivalent program to view.

[ Exhibit 1 to Attachment B - Design Documents and Performance Specification, part 2](/~ordpics/116542Ex1ToAtBpt2.pdf)

 This file is a 232 MB PDF document, requiring Adobe Acrobat or equivalent program to view.

[ Exhibit 1 to Attachment B - Design Documents and Performance Specification, part 3](/~ordpics/116542Ex1ToAtBpt3.pdf)

 This file is a 7.91 MB PDF document, requiring Adobe Acrobat or equivalent program to view.

[ Exhibit 1 to Attachment B - Design Documents and Performance Specification, part 4](/~ordpics/116542Ex1ToAtBpt4.pdf)

 This file is a 3.05 MB PDF document, requiring Adobe Acrobat or equivalent program to view.

```
