

********

**Council Bill Number: 116517**
   
**Ordinance Number: 122975**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's 2005 - 2008 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development; authorizing the submittal of an application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for funds from the Homelessness Prevention Fund allocated in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which shall include an amendment to the 2008 Action Plan for the 2005-2008 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development; authorizing acceptance of grant funds from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and execution of related agreements; increasing appropriations in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the Human Services Department; and ratifying and confirming prior acts; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed as amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 11, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 14, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 14, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 4, 2009
   
**Committee:** Housing and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-HOUSING-AND-URBAN-DEVELOPMENT, COMMUNITY-DEVELOPMENT-BLOCK-GRANTS, APPROPRIATION, SOCIAL-SERVICES, COMMUNITY-DEVELOPMENT, SHELTERS, HOMELESS, AIDS, GRANTS, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, US-GOVERNMENT, PLANNING, HOUSING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Clerk File 310160

**Fiscal Note:**116517

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 122975](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_122975.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City's 2005 - 2008 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development; authorizing the submittal of an application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for funds from the Homelessness Prevention Fund allocated in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which shall include an amendment to the 2008 Action Plan for the 2005-2008 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development; authorizing acceptance of grant funds from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and execution of related agreements; increasing appropriations in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the Human Services Department; and ratifying and confirming prior acts; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the United States Congress has authorized $1.5 billion in the Homelessness Prevention Fund ("HPF") and established the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program ("HPRP") as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"); and

 WHEREAS, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") has directed each eligible recipient of these HPF funds to submit an application for the funds via an amendment to its 2008 Action Plan for its Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 122550, passed November 13, 2007, adopted the City of Seattle's 2008 Update to the City's 2005-2008 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development ("Consolidated Plan") and the 2008 Action Plan as a component thereof; authorized the submission of the Update to the Consolidated Plan to HUD; and thereby applied for funds available from HUD for community development, human services, economic development, and housing; and

 WHEREAS, HUD approved the 2008 Update to the Consolidated Plan, and the City has subsequently modified the 2008 Action Plan;

 WHEREAS, HUD has allocated $4,993,052 to the City of Seattle from these HPF funds; and

 WHEREAS, the Mayor has proposed an amendment to the 2008 Action Plan of the Consolidated Plan in the form required by HUD to reflect the activities the City proposes to implement with the HPF funds in accordance with HPRP guidelines, referred to in this ordinance as "the Amendment"; and has requested that the City Council adopt the Amendment and authorize its submission to HUD; and

 WHEREAS, the 2009 Adopted Budget must be increased for the Human Services Department to reflect the funding of the activities proposed in the Amendment; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Seattle City Council adopts the revisions to the 2008 Table of Proposed Projects of the 2005 - 2008 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development ("Consolidated Plan"), attached hereto as Attachment 1, and the amendment to the 2008 Action Plan of the Consolidated Plan, attached hereto as Attachment 2, for the purposes and subject to the conditions, limitations and potential amendments as set forth in this ordinance. Attachment 2 is referred to as "the Amendment." No existing projects are deleted or changed by this ordinance.

 Section 2. The Mayor and the Director of Human Services ("the Director") and their designees are authorized to submit the Amendment, together with any necessary supplementary material, to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") as the application by the City for new Homelessness Prevention Fund ("HPF") funds under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"); to represent the City in seeking HUD approval of the Amendment; to make and submit to HUD such modifications to the Amendment or the Consolidated Plan as HUD may require, provided that no substantial policy changes are involved; to request waivers of requirements in order to expedite use of funds; and to sign and deliver on behalf of the City such assurances and certifications as may be necessary to obtain HUD approval. The Director is further authorized to make such technical and conforming changes to the Amendment and the Consolidated Plan as he or she may deem reasonably necessary; and to amend the Amendment and the Consolidated Plan if necessary or appropriate under federal regulations to reflect funding of specific activities or changes in activities that are consistent with the policies and priorities established in the Consolidated Plan. The Director shall notify the Council of all changes or amendments to the Consolidated Plan. Any substantial amendment, as defined by the adopted Citizen Participation Plan in the Consolidated Plan, as amended, shall be approved by the Council by ordinance or resolution.

 Section 3. The Mayor or his designee is authorized to enter into an agreement for financial assistance from HUD for the HPF funds under ARRA in the amount of $4,993,052. The Mayor or his designee is authorized to execute and deliver for and on behalf of The City of Seattle such agreements and certifications as may be necessary to accept the financial assistance. HPF funds, when received, shall be deposited into the Human Services Operating Fund (16200). The Mayor or his designee is further authorized to execute and deliver such other documents relating to the agreements as may be required in connection therewith. The agreements and such other documents shall be in form and content consistent with the City Charter and other applicable law.

 Section 4. The appropriation for the following item in the 2009 Budget is increased from the fund shown, as follows:

```
<table><tr><td>**Item**

</td><td>**Fund Name and Number**

</td><td>**Department**

</td><td>**Budget Control Level**

</td><td>**Amount**

</td></tr><tr><td>4.1

</td><td>Human Services Operating Fund (16200)

</td><td>Human Services

</td><td>Emergency and Transitional Services (H30ET)

</td><td>$4,993,052

</td></tr><tr><td> 

</td><td>Total

</td><td> 

</td><td> 

</td><td>$4,993,052

</td></tr></table> provided, however, that none of the money appropriated in item 4.1 may be spent to implement the three Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Programs until the Chair of the City Council's Housing and Economic Development Committee files with the City Clerk the Chair's certification that the Human Services Department has provided, to the Housing and Economic Development Committee, program guidelines, program budgets, and draft Requests for Proposals for the three Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Programs funded by this ordinance.

 This budget proviso is effective as a restriction on the purposes for which the appropriation in item 4.1 is made. Use of any amount of this appropriation in violation of any condition specified by the proviso, whether by transfer pursuant to SMC Chapter 5.08 or by any other means, is prohibited.

 Section 5. The allocations set forth in the Amendment and in Attachment 1 do not constitute appropriations or modify the amounts of any existing appropriations. Those allocations and the appropriations in this ordinance are not final funding decisions. The authority of the respective City departments and offices to implement the activities set forth in the Amendment and in the 2008 Table of Proposed Projects, as amended, is subject to a final determination by the appropriate office or department after completion of any necessary review under HUD regulations and environmental and related laws. The adoption of the Amendment and Attachment 1 is not intended to confer any legal rights or entitlements on any persons, groups or entities. This ordinance does not commit the City to continue funding for the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Programs funded with HPF under ARRA, once this federal funding is exhausted.

 Section 6. Submission of the application to HUD and execution of agreements and certifications, as authorized in Sections 2 and 3, pursuant to the authority of this ordinance, and after passage but prior to the effective date of this ordinance, are ratified and confirmed.

 Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: City of Seattle American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Amendment to the 2008 Table of Proposed Projects

 Attachment 2: Substantial Amendment to the Consolidated Plan 2008 Action Plan for the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program (HPRP)

 Michael Look/tr

 HSD HPRP ORD

 May 6, 2009

 version #7

 1

 This Amendment to the 2008 Table of Proposed Projects in the 2008 Update to the 2005 - 2008 Consolidated Plan for Housing and Community Development ("Consolidated Plan") presents the City of Seattle's spending plan for the City's allocated share of Homelessness Prevention Fund ("HPF") funds under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"), pursuant to a separate Action Plan amendment being submitted to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") in the form required by HUD ("HPF Amendment"). The projects shown in this amendment are added to the existing 2008 Table of Proposed Projects, subject to the terms of the HPF Amendment and its approval by HUD, and to any conditions or modifications required or approved by HUD. The City's allocation for HPF is $4,993,052. The projects in this Amendment to the Table of Proposed Projects are consistent with the intent of ARRA and the City's Consolidated Plan, and complementary to other City projects.

 NOTE: The contents of this Table and Consolidated Plan are not intended to confer any legal rights or entitlements on any persons, groups, or entities, including those named as intended recipients of funds or as program beneficiaries. The terms of this Amendment are subject to amendment and to the effect of applicable laws, regulations and ordinances. Statements of numerical goals or outcomes are for the purpose of measuring the success of programs and policies and do not impose a legal obligation on the City to achieve the intended results. Actual funding of particular programs and projects identified in this Table is subject to completion of various further actions, some of which involve discretionary determinations by the City or others. These include HUD approval of the HPF Amendment; reviews and determinations under environmental and related laws; and results of bidding and contracting processes.

 ARRA 2009 Activity HUD CDBG ARRA 2009 ESG HOPWA HOME Amendment Matrix HPF Total codes

 2: Human Services Department

 243: Tenant Stabilization

 243 tbd Rapid Re-Housing for Homeless 05Q $750,000 $750,000 100 Individuals (tbd) Provide funding to one or more community-based non-profit service agencies for financial assistance, housing relocation and stabilization services to ensure that homeless individuals move quickly into permanent housing. Performance indicator: 140 individuals Start date: September 30, 2009 - Completion: June 30, 2012

 243 tbd Rapid Re-Housing for Homeless 05Q $735,000 $735,000 200 Families (city-wide) Provide funding to one or more community-based non-profit service agencies for financial assistance, housing relocation and stabilization services to ensure that homeless households with dependent children move quickly into permanent housing. Performance indicator: 100 families Start date: September 30, 2009 - Completion: June 30, 2012

 243 tbd Homelessness Prevention 05Q $3,201,000 $3,201,000 300 (city-wide) Provide funding to one or more community-based non-profit service agencies to provide outreach and engagement, housing relocation and stabilization services and financial assistance for households and individuals at imminent risk of homelessness. Performance indicator: 1,000 households Start date: September 30, 2009 - Completion: June 30, 2012

 243 tbd HPF Administration, HMIS, 21A $307,052 $307,052 400 Evaluation (700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5800) Over the three-year period of funding, provide for HMIS data collection, evaluation and general program administration and accountability reporting. Start date: May 1, 2009 - Completion: September 30, 2012

 243: Tenant Stabilization Subtotal $4,993,052 $4,993,052

 24: Community Services Subtotal $4,993,052 $4,993,052

 2: Human Services Department $4,993,052 $4,993,052 Subtotal

 FUND TOTALS $4,993,052 $4,993,052

 ATTACHMENT 2

 Substantial Amendment to the Consolidated Plan 2008 Action Plan for the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program (HPRP)

 Grantees eligible to receive funds under the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program (HPRP) are required to complete a substantial amendment to their Consolidated Plan 2008 Action Plan. This form sets forth the required format for this substantial amendment. A completed form is due to HUD within 60 days of the publication of the HUD HPRP notice.

 To aid grantees in meeting this submission deadline, the HPRP Notice reduces the requirement for a 30-day public comment period to no less than 12 calendar days for this substantial amendment. With this exception, HPRP grantees are required to follow their Consolidated Plan's citizen participation process, including consultation with the Continuum of Care (CoC) in the appropriate jurisdiction(s). Grantees are also required to coordinate HPRP activities with the CoC's strategies for homeless prevention and ending homelessness. To maximize transparency, HUD strongly recommends that each grantee post its substantial amendment materials on the grantee's official website as the materials are developed.

 A complete submission contains the following three documents:

 1) A signed and dated SF-424,

 2) A completed form HUD-40119 (this form), and

 3) Signed and dated General Consolidated Plan and HPRP certifications.

 For additional information regarding the HPRP program, visit the HUD Homelessness Resource Exchange (www.hudhre.info). This site will be regularly updated to include HPRP resources developed by HUD and its technical assistance providers.

 The information collection requirements contained in this application have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520). This agency may not collect this information, and you are not required to complete this form, unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

 Information is submitted in accordance with the regulatory authority contained in each program rule. The information will be used to rate applications, determine eligibility, and establish grant amounts.

 Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to be 16 hours, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. This information is required to obtain benefits. To the extent that any information collected is of a confidential nature, there will be compliance with Privacy Act requirements. However, the substantial amendment to the Consolidated Plan 2008 Action Plan does not request the submission of such information.

 Warning: HUD will prosecute false claims and statements. Conviction may result in criminal and/or civil penalties. (18 U.S.C. 1001, 1010, 1012; 31 U.S.C. 3729, 3802)

 A. General Information

<table><tr><td>**Grantee Name**

</td><td>The City of Seattle

</td></tr><tr><td>**Name of Entity or Department Administering Funds**

</td><td>Human Services Department

</td></tr><tr><td>**HPRP Contact Person**
   
 (person to answer questions about this amendment and HPRP)

</td><td> 

Michael Look

</td></tr><tr><td>**Title**

</td><td>CDBG Administrator

</td></tr><tr><td>**Address Line 1**

</td><td>700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5800 (office address)

</td></tr><tr><td>**Address Line 2**

</td><td>P.O. Box 34215   (mailing address)

</td></tr><tr><td>**City, State, Zip Code**

</td><td>Seattle, WA  98124-4215

</td></tr><tr><td>**Telephone**

</td><td>(206) 615-1717

</td></tr><tr><td>**Fax                            **

</td><td>(206) 621-5003

</td></tr><tr><td>**Email Address                      **

</td><td>michael.look@seattle.gov

</td></tr><tr><td>**Authorized Official**
   
 (if different from Contact Person)

</td><td> 

Alan Painter

</td></tr><tr><td>**Title**

</td><td>Director, Human Services Department

</td></tr><tr><td>**Address Line 1**

</td><td>700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5800

</td></tr><tr><td>**Address Line 2**

</td><td>P.O. Box 34215

</td></tr><tr><td>**City, State, Zip Code**

</td><td>Seattle, WA  98124-4215

</td></tr><tr><td>**Telephone**

</td><td>(206) 684-0146

</td></tr><tr><td>**Fax                            **

</td><td>(206) 233-5119

</td></tr><tr><td>**Email Address         **

</td><td>alan.painter@seattle.gov

</td></tr><tr><td>**Web Address where this Form is Posted**

</td><td> 

[http://seattle.gov/humanservices/](http://seattle.gov/humanservices/)

</td></tr></table><table><tr><td>**Amount Grantee is Eligible to Receive***

</td><td>**$ 4,993,052**

</td></tr><tr><td>**Amount Grantee is Requesting**

</td><td>**$ 4,993,052**

</td></tr></table>*Amounts are available at http://www.hud.gov/recovery/homelesspreventrecov.xls  B. Citizen Participation and Public Comment

 1. Briefly describe how the grantee followed its citizen participation plan regarding this proposed substantial amendment (limit 250 words).

 Response:

 The City of Seattle has developed a detailed Citizen Participation Plan that contains the City's policies and procedures for public involvement in the Consolidated Plan process, including any substantial amendments, as required by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The proposed substantial amendment for Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program (HPRP) funding has followed the Citizen Participation Plan requirements outlined in the City of Seattle's 2009-2012 Consolidated Plan, approved by Seattle's Mayor and City Council in November 2008.

 Consistent with this Citizen Participation Plan, the City has provided community members with a reasonable opportunity to comment on the substantial amendment. The process for participation and public comment included public notice announced in the Daily Journal of Commerce and notices posted online at the Human Services Department and the Seattle Recovery website (www.recovery.seattle.gov).

 The public comment period for this substantial amendment was reduced to at least twelve (12) days, as allowed by HUD for the HPRP program. The public comment period concluded with a public hearing held by the Seattle City Council on May 6, 2009.

 2. Provide the appropriate response regarding this substantial amendment by checking one of the following options:

 Grantee did not receive public comments.

 Grantee received and accepted all public comments.

 Grantee received public comments and did not accept one or more of the comments.

 3. Provide a summary of the public comments regarding this substantial amendment. Include a summary of any comments or views not accepted and the reasons for non-acceptance.

 Response:

 Comments from May 6, 2009 Public Hearing on the Substantial Amendment for HPRP funding Seattle City Council Housing & Economic Development Committee

 * Sharon Lee, Director of the Low Income Housing Institute, recommended that the stimulus funds be used to assist low-income residents in exiting affordable housing properties who are having trouble paying rent. Funds would help residents avoid loss of housing. Many residents are experiencing difficulty paying rents and may need assistance to remain stable in low-income housing.

 In addition, Ms. Lee encouraged the City to provide funding for hygiene services for homeless individuals provided by programs like The Urban Rest Stop.

 HSD responded that Seattle's HPRP allocation plan includes funds for homelessness prevention that could assist households residing in affordable housing projects who meet eligibility requirements.

 Funding of hygiene centers is not an eligible activity allowed by the HPRP.

 * There were no other comments specific to the proposed Substantial Amendment received at the Public Hearing.

 Comments Received by Human Service Department Staff on May 6, 2009

 * A representative from the Housing Justice Project of the King County Bar Association inquired about the percentage of HPRP funds that would be used for legal assistance to households who are at risk of eviction.

 HSD will issue a Notice of Funding Availability and solicit Request for Investments (RFI) with HPRP funding to prevent households from becoming homeless. Funding amounts available for specific services will be identified in the RFI.

 C. Distribution and Administration of Funds

 Reminder: The HPRP grant will be made by means of a grant agreement executed by HUD and the grantee. The three-year deadline to expend funds begins when HUD signs the grant agreement. Grantees should ensure that sufficient planning is in place to begin to expend funds shortly after grant agreement.

 1. Check the process(es) that the grantee plans to use to select subgrantees. Note that a subgrantee is defined as the organization to which the grantee provides HPRP funds.

 Competitive Process

 Formula Allocation

 Other (Specify: Limited funding allocations for existing eviction prevention service providers in 2009, for sole source procurement for information and referral services are proposed, and for unique opportunities that capitalize on leveraged funding resources to promote rapid rehousing and prevention. See narrative below.)

 2. Briefly describe the process(es) indicated in question 1 above (limit 250 words).

 Response:

 Competitive Process: Seattle will primarily allocate HPRP funds through Request for Investment (RFI) processes. RFI processes will be open and competitive, consistent with City policies and procedures, including public notice of available funds and posting of materials at the Seattle Human Services Department (HSD) website (www.seattle.gov/humanservices).

 Current Providers: In order to expedite use of HPRP funds and to provide immediate assistance to households at-risk of homelessness, the City of Seattle proposes to allocate up to $200,000 to agencies already under contract with HSD to provide eviction prevention and housing stabilization services. These service providers were selected in a competitive RFI process in 2007. Agencies that can demonstrate capacity to utilize these additional resources consistent with HPRP guidelines and with HSD requirements may receive a formula based allocation to provide services from September 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009.

 Funding allocations for homelessness prevention services for 2010-2012 will be through a competitive RFI process.

 Sole Source: Seattle's HPRP program includes a centralized information line and specialized services for benefit referrals uniquely provided by single agencies. This component warrants sole source allocation processes. HSD follows Seattle Department of Executive Administration policies and procedures for sole source allocations.

 Unique Opportunity to Leverage HPRP Resources: In addition, the HSD Director will direct funding allocations to particular subgrantees for unique, specific program activities where opportunities exist to leverage resources, expedite the effective use of time-limited HPRP funding, and quickly respond to immediate needs of homeless households.

 3. Briefly describe the process the grantee plans to use, once HUD signs the grant agreement, to allocate funds available to subgrantees by September 30, 2009, as required by the HPRP Notice (limit 250 words).

 Response:

 The Seattle Human Services Department (HSD) will allocate and award HPRP funds to subgrantees by September 30, 2009. As described above, HSD plans to allocate funds through a combination of competitive Request for Investment (RFI) processes and through limited special funding allocations, consistent with City procurement policies and procedures.

 HSD has well-established procedures that ensure open access and competitive funding allocation processes. The City defines the investment results for specific HPRP strategies and requests proposals from eligible agencies. Requests for funding are reviewed for eligibility and rated based on criteria specified in the RFI. The Director of the Human Services Department will receive recommendations from the RFI review process and make funding decisions for projects and services. HSD has protocols for any appeals from applicants on funding decisions.

 HSD is planning RFI processes to begin by Summer 2009 with funding allocations scheduled to meet the prescribed HUD timeframes. The RFI processes will begin in advance of HUD's anticipated signing of the grant agreement, with funding allocations subject to HUD's approval of the grant agreement.

 The HSD Homelessness Intervention and Block Grant Administration Division will manage HPRP funding contracts with agencies. Planning and contract specialists within this division are working with the department's grants management, finance and HMIS staff to prepare appropriate service agreements, contract documents and reporting systems to specifically respond to HPRP requirements.

 4. Describe the grantee's plan for ensuring the effective and timely use of HPRP grant funds on eligible activities, as outlined in the HPRP Notice. Include a description of how the grantee plans to oversee and monitor the administration and use of its own HPRP funds, as well as those used by its subgrantees (limit 500 words).

 Response:

 The Homelessness Intervention and Block Grant Administration Division of Seattle Human Services Department (HSD) is responsible for overseeing and monitoring administrative and program activities for all Seattle HPRP funds. HSD successfully and effectively manages millions of dollars from federal and local funding sources each year. HSD allocates and monitors funding from the HUD Community Development Block Grant, Emergency Shelter Grant, HOME, and Housing Opportunity for Persons with AIDS programs totaling $21 million each year. An additional $10 million annually from the McKinney-Vento Continuum of Care program is administered and monitored by HSD staff.

 HSD's procurement, contracting, financial and accounting policies, procedures and systems are well established. The department is experienced using HUD's Integrated Disbursement and Information System (IDIS) and provides information through Safe Harbors, our local Homeless Management Information System (HMIS).

 In preparation for the HPRP grant award, City staff has developed program plans, participated in local and national discussions and reviewed HUD program guidelines and reporting requirements. HSD's allocation processes will effectively target and utilize funding, consistent with HUD policy, local priorities and needs. HSD Senior Contract Specialists who have experience managing federally funded HUD programs will monitor all HPRP funding contracts with subgrantees. Staff resources will support efficient HPRP administration, data management, and support to subgrantees with program implementation, quality data collection, reporting and evaluation.

 In addition, a City interdepartmental team with representatives from the Mayor's Office of Policy and Management, the Department of Finance, the Office of Housing, and the Human Services Department has been created and meets regularly to track program development, implementation, performance results, and reporting for HPRP funds. The City of Seattle will report to HUD on the HPRP funding, activities and performance. The City will also post progress and performance reports on the City of Seattle's website devoted to Reinvestment and Recovery Act programs and funding (www.recovery.seattle.gov).

 D. Collaboration

 1. Briefly describe how the grantee plans to collaborate with the local agencies that can serve similar target populations, which received funds under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 from other Federal agencies, including the U.S. Departments of Education, Health and Human Services, HohOMHomeland Security, and Labor (limit 250 words).

 Response:

 The City of Seattle Office of Policy and Management (OPM) has created a number of Recovery Act teams bringing together staff across City departments to collaborate and coordinate program planning efforts and to leverage and maximize resources and services available through federal stimulus program investments. The Human Services Recovery Act team includes lead staff from the Human Services Department and Office of Housing responsible for HPRP planning and implementation.

 Potential collaboration with other agencies receiving ARRA funds through federal agencies:

 * City staff is collaborating with other local HPRP grantees, including King County and suburban jurisdictions, on program design and leveraging of resources from local public and private funders to support prevention and rapid re-housing initiatives.

 * HSD is exploring ways to link HPRP programs with Department of Labor funding available for Workforce Investment Act (WIA) employment and training programs. The Seattle/King County Workforce Development Council manages local funds.

 * The City participates on the local FEMA Advisory Board responsible for shelter and food funding. HPRP funding will be coordinated with these resources, as appropriate.

 * HPRP funding may be linked with Department of Justice/Office of Violence Against Women funding, if awarded under a competitive process to agencies in Seattle/King County. A proposed employment/training and support services project for women transitioning from homelessness into stable housing is being developed with assistance through HPRP.

 2. Briefly describe how the grantee plans to collaborate with appropriate Continuum(s) of Care and mainstream resources regarding HPRP activities (limit 250 words).

 Response:

 The City of Seattle works collaboratively with King County and in partnership with more than 60 community-based organizations to support the Continuum of Care programs and services in Seattle and King County. Regional Ten-Year Plan to End Homelessness strategies guide the Continuum of Care funding allocations. These principles and strategies are also the foundation for all proposed HPRP activities.

 In 2008, Continuum of Care agencies successfully leveraged a total of more than $50 million in a variety of services that are integral to programs assisting homeless individuals and families. These resources include mental health and substance abuse counseling, medical and dental care, reduced fare Metro bus tickets and reduced cost or free meal programs. Leveraged resources also include one-time construction costs for new projects and the value of new buildings. The contributions represent local government dollars, state and federal resources, as well as private investment and donations.

 The City of Seattle is a founding member of the Committee to End Homelessness/King County (CEH), the oversight and planning body responsible for implementation of the regional Ten-Year Plan to End Homelessness. The CEH Governing Board, Interagency Council and Funders Group ensure effective resource coordination of federal, local and philanthropic investments consistent with goals and objectives of the Ten- Year Plan. The City of Seattle has representatives participating on all of these working and advisory CEH groups.

 3. Briefly describe how HPRP grant funds for financial assistance and housing relocation/stabilization services will be used in a manner that is consistent with the grantee's Consolidated Plan (limit 250 words).

 Response:

 Ending Homelessness is one of the overarching goals of the City of Seattle's Consolidated Plan: "The City of Seattle and its partners are committed to ending homelessness. Through its grants and contracts with community-based organizations, the City invests in services to prevent homelessness and to help homeless people access and retain permanent, affordable housing."

 The HPRP proposed allocations are consistent with the primary strategies outlined in the Consolidated Plan and the regional Ten-Year Plan to End Homelessness.

 The five primary strategies are:

 * Prevent people from becoming homeless;

 * Build or acquire more affordable housing and move people rapidly from homelessness to housing with integrated services;

 * Increase the efficiency of the existing system that serves homeless people;

 * Build and sustain the public and political will to end homelessness;

 * Measure and report outcomes.

 E. Estimated Budget Summary

 HUD requires the grantee to complete the following table so that participants in the citizen participation process may see the grantee's preliminary estimated amounts for various HPRP activities. Enter the estimated budget amounts for each activity in the appropriate column and row. The grantee will be required to report actual amounts in subsequent reporting.

<table><tr><td>**HPRP Estimated Budget Summary**

</td></tr><tr><td>** **

</td><td>**Homelessness Prevention**

</td><td>**Rapid            Re-housing**

</td><td>**Total Amount Budgeted**

</td></tr><tr><td>Financial Assistance1

</td><td>$          2,770,000

</td><td>$             955,000

</td><td>$          3,725,000

</td></tr><tr><td>Housing Relocation and Stabilization Services2

</td><td>$             431,000

</td><td>$             530,000

</td><td>$             961,000

</td></tr><tr><td>**Subtotal **
   
 (add previous two rows)

</td><td>**$          3,201,000**

</td><td>**$          1,485,000**

</td><td>**$          4,686,000**

</td></tr></table><table><tr><td>Data Collection and Evaluation3

</td><td>$                57,400

</td></tr><tr><td>Administration (up to 5% of allocation)

</td><td>$              249,652

</td></tr><tr><td>**Total HPRP Amount Budgeted4**

</td><td>**$           4,993,052**

</td></tr></table> 1Financial assistance includes the following activities as detailed in the HPRP Notice: short-term rental assistance, medium-term rental assistance, security deposits, utility deposits, utility payments, moving cost assistance, and motel or hotel vouchers.

 2Housing relocation and stabilization services include the following activities as detailed in the HPRP Notice: case management, outreach, housing search and placement, legal services, mediation, and credit repair.

 3Data collection and evaluation includes costs associated with operating HUD-approved homeless management information systems for purposes of collecting unduplicated counts of homeless persons and analyzing patterns of use of HPRP funds.

 4This amount must match the amount entered in the cell on the table in Section A titled "Amount Grantee is Requesting."

 F. Authorized Signature

 By signing this application, I certify (1) to the statements contained in the list of certifications and (2) that the statements herein are true, complete, and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I also provide the required assurances and agree to comply with any resulting terms if I accept an award. I am aware that any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or claims may subject me to criminal, civil, or administrative penalties. (U.S. Code, Title 218, Section 1001)

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Signature/Authorized Official Date

 \_\_Director, Human Services Department\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Title

 Substantial Amendment to the Consolidated Plan 2008 Action Plan for the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program (HPRP)

 3 HUD-40119

 OMB Approval Number: 2506-0180

 (Expiration Date: 9/30/2009)

 1 HUD-40119

