

********

**Council Bill Number: 116589**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123049**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Neighborhoods; authorizing implementation of certain Neighborhood Matching Fund projects in 2009, and specifying that 2009 appropriations for the Neighborhood Matching Subfund shall carry forward automatically to future budget years.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 27, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 30, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 28, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** July 20, 2009
   
**Committee:** Planning, Land Use and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** CLARK
   
   
**Index Terms:** NEIGHBORHOOD-MATCHING-FUND, GRANTS, ARTS, PLAYGROUNDS-AND-PLAYFIELDS, COLUMBIA-CITY, DELRIDGE, SOUTH-PARK, SEWARD-PARK, WEST-SEATTLE, GENESEE, LAKE-UNION, BEACHES, SCHOOLS, CAPITOL-HILL, INTERNATIONAL-DISTRICT, WOODLAND-PARK, DOCKS

**Fiscal Note:**116589

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123049](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123049.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Neighborhoods; authorizing implementation of certain Neighborhood Matching Fund projects in 2009, and specifying that 2009 appropriations for the Neighborhood Matching Subfund shall carry forward automatically to future budget years.

 WHEREAS, Resolution 27709 established a Neighborhood Planning and Assistance Program, including a Neighborhood Matching Fund and a Citywide Review Team, to provide support for neighborhood improvement activities, leveraging citizen contributions and volunteer hours for a variety of neighborhood-based planning, development, and improvement projects; and

 WHEREAS, Resolution 27965, and subsequent revisions, set forth the City of Seattle's Neighborhood Matching Fund Application and Review Guidelines; and

 WHEREAS, in the 2009 budget $3,829,693 was appropriated for the Neighborhood Matching Subfund, including $1,295,563 for Large Projects funding; and

 WHEREAS, $64,023 of the amount appropriated for the 2008 Neighborhood Matching Fund Subfund and allocated to Large Projects funding was not awarded and, therefore, carried forward automatically;

 WHEREAS, the Mayor and Citywide Review Team are recommending identical Neighborhood Matching Fund Large Projects for funding; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Department of Neighborhoods (hereinafter "Department") is hereby authorized to proceed with implementation of the following Large Projects as provided below:

```
<table><tr><td>**Neighborhood Matching Fund Projects**

</td><td>**Authorized Allocation From NMF**

</td></tr><tr><td>Capacity Building: Columbia City Gallery

</td><td>$28,230

</td></tr><tr><td>Multimedia Resource and Training Institute Enabling Communities

</td><td>$45,000

</td></tr><tr><td>The Northlake Wharf

</td><td>$50,000

</td></tr><tr><td>Homeless Place of Remembrance

</td><td>$54,849

</td></tr><tr><td>Wayfinding for a Walkable Delridge

</td><td>$54,849

</td></tr><tr><td>Kimball:  Creating a Global Learning Community

</td><td>$60,000

</td></tr><tr><td>West Woodland Playfield Renovation

</td><td>$63,750

</td></tr><tr><td>CSN Broadcast Media

</td><td>$67,210

</td></tr><tr><td>The Artists Collaborative of Southeast Seattle

</td><td>$71,737

</td></tr><tr><td>Renovation and Upgrading of SE Seattle Senior Center

</td><td>$75,000

</td></tr><tr><td>The ALL ACCESS After-school Arts Program

</td><td>$77,200

</td></tr><tr><td>Improving International Children's Park

</td><td>$79,700

</td></tr><tr><td>Car-free Club Entry & Community Plaza at the North Seattle Boys & Girls Club

</td><td>$80,000

</td></tr><tr><td>Polish Home Expansion & Remodeling

</td><td>$80,000

</td></tr><tr><td>Concord Elementary Outdoor Renovation

</td><td>$88,200

</td></tr><tr><td>Waterway 18 Enhancement

</td><td>$90,000

</td></tr><tr><td>Community Action Research and Empowerment (CARE)

</td><td>$95,100

</td></tr><tr><td>Junction Plaza Park Development

</td><td>$98,761

</td></tr><tr><td>Seward Park Playground Improvement Foundation

</td><td>$100,000

</td></tr><tr><td>**Total LPF Awards**

</td><td>**$1,359,586**

</td></tr></table> Expenditures may be made for the above projects upon vouchers drawn by the Department Director from funds allocated for the Neighborhood Matching Subfund. The Department can encumber funds in the amounts allocated.

 Section 2. The Department shall have the authority to administer the City's public works contracting process and execute contracts for any Neighborhood Matching Fund public works projects to which funds are allocated by this Ordinance. Any public works contracts must comply with state and local law requirements. The Department is authorized to enter into agreements with public and private entities to implement the projects listed in Section 1. In the case of an agreement with a private entity, the agreement shall specifically describe the public benefit received by the City.

 Section 3. The Department is hereby authorized to reallocate funds in the Neighborhood Matching Fund Subfund allocated above among the projects identified in Section 1 of this ordinance as necessary, provided that the sum of such changes shall not exceed One Hundred and Fifty thousand Dollars ($150,000), and further provided that the Mayor or his designee notify in writing the Chair of the Planning, Land Use, and Neighborhoods Committee of the City Council of the nature of and reasons for the reallocation.

 Section 4. Appropriations made from the Neighborhood Matching Subfund shall not lapse and shall be carried over each year until fully expended, abandoned or reappropriated to other authorized activities.

 Section 5. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Hazel Bhang-Barnett/PL

 DON 2009 Large Projects Ordinance

 June 25, 2009

 Version 1a

 Form Last Revised on December 17, 2008 1

