

********

**Council Bill Number: 116558**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123017**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy; authorizing the purchase, for park, open space, and recreation purposes, of real property commonly known as a portion of the former University Heights Elementary School, located at 5031 University Way Northeast, authorizing acceptance of the deed, and making appropriations, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 22, 2009
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Harrell)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 25, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 24, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 15, 2009
   
**Committee:** Finance and Budget
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT, COMMUNITY-CENTERS SCHOOL-DISTRICT-1

**References/Related Documents:** Related: CB 116557

**Fiscal Note:**116558

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123017](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123017.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy; authorizing the purchase, for park, open space, and recreation purposes, of real property commonly known as a portion of the former University Heights Elementary School, located at 5031 University Way Northeast, authorizing acceptance of the deed, and making appropriations, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 proposed the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails, and Zoo Levy ("2000 Parks Levy") to provide funding for, among other things, property acquisitions and park improvements identified by neighborhood and community groups; and

 WHEREAS, the voters of Seattle approved the 2000 Parks Levy on November 7, 2000; and

 WHEREAS, the 2000 Parks Levy program includes an Acquisition and Development Opportunity Fund ("Opportunity Fund"), making available up to Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) to fund acquisition and development projects not identified for funding in the remainder of the program; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 established the Parks and Green Spaces Levy Oversight Committee ("Oversight Committee"), with responsibilities to include adopting evaluation criteria and recommending Opportunity Fund awards to the Superintendent, Mayor, and City Council; and

 WHEREAS, the Oversight Committee conducted an extensive public process regarding acquisition and development projects to be funded in the first cycle of the Opportunity Fund; and

 WHEREAS, the Oversight Committee recommended first-cycle awards for property acquisitions in multiple locations, including the University District; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120869 accepted the recommendations of the Oversight Committee and authorized the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to conduct planning activities for any or all of the parcels recommended by the Oversight Committee, including the University District; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Public Schools Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Facilities Master Plan designating the former University Heights Elementary School ("University Heights") "Non- essential (Surplus)" and setting up a procedure for its sale; and

 WHEREAS, the University Heights Center for the Community Association ("UHCCA"), the master tenant at University Heights, has executed a purchase and sale agreement with Seattle School District No. 1 for purchase of the entire property; and

 WHEREAS, the City has an opportunity to purchase the southeast portion of the University Heights property ("Property") via a Partial Assignment and Assumption of Purchase and Sale Agreement for University Heights Elementary School and Consent of Seller, whereby UHCCA will assign its rights to acquire the Property, together with certain obligations pertaining to the Property, to the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Property meets the criteria established in Seattle's Parks and Recreation Comprehensive Plan and Seattle's Parks and Recreation Plan 2000, as well as the Parks and Recreation 2006 Development Plan and Gap Analysis; and

 WHEREAS, the 2000 Parks Levy program includes a Neighborhood Park Development fund to "create a community open space on the south side of University Heights", which will provide funding for future development of the Property;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent"), or his designee, is authorized, on behalf of the City of Seattle, to acquire real property commonly known as a portion of the former University Heights Elementary School property, located at the southeast corner of 50th Ave NE and NE University Way for a purchase price not to exceed Two Million Three Hundred Eight Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($2,308,000.00), substantially in accordance with the terms of the Partial Assignment and Assumption of Purchase and Sale Agreement for University Heights Elementary School and Consent of Seller attached hereto as Exhibit 1 ("Agreement"). The legal description of the real property (referred to hereafter as the "Property") is as follows: Lots 10 through 13, inclusive, Block 6, University Heights, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, page 41, in King County, Washington; TOGETHER WITH vacated alley contained within said Block 6, as vacated by City of Seattle Ordinance No. 8361; EXCEPT the East 10 feet of said Block 6 taken for the widening of University Way by City of Seattle Ordinance no. 55773; AND EXCEPT that portion of Lot 13 conveyed to the City of Seattle for street purposes by deed recorded under Recording Number 20010801001604. Situate in the County of King, State of Washington.

 Section 2. The Superintendent or his designee is authorized to execute such documents as he deems necessary or desirable including, without limitation, such consents, approvals, extensions of time and minor amendments of the Agreement as he shall deem appropriate to carry out the intent of this ordinance and to incur necessary costs and expenses to accomplish acquisition of the Property consistent with this ordinance. Upon delivery of the bargain and sale deed for the Property, the Superintendent or his designee is authorized to accept the deed on behalf of the City by attaching to the deed his written acceptance thereof, and to record the same. The Property shall be accepted for park, open space, and recreation purposes, and placed under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation.

 Section 3. To pay for the Property and for necessary related costs and expenses, the appropriation for the following in the 2009 Adopted Budget is increased from the funds shown, as follows:

 Fund Department Capital Improvement Program: Amount Program (Number)

 2000 Parks Parks and 2000 Parks Levy - Opportunity $2,394,000 Levy Fund Recreation Fund - Acquisition (K723007) (33850)

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and taken after passage of this ordinance, but prior to the effective date, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of all the members of the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ___________________, 2009. _________________________________ President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009. _________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009. ____________________________________ City Clerk

 Exhibit 1: Partial Assignment and Assumption of Purchase and Sale Agreement for University Heights Elementary School and Consent of Seller

 5/21/09 Version #1a

 PARTIAL ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION OF PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT FOR UNIVERSITY HEIGHTS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

 AND

 CONSENT OF SELLER

 This Partial Assignment and Assumption of Purchase and Sale Agreement for University Heights Elementary School (this "Partial Assignment") is made this ___ day of ___________, 2009, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a Washington State municipal corporation, acting by and through the Department of Parks and Recreation ("Parks") and UNIVERSITY HEIGHTS CENTER FOR THE COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ("University Heights Center"), a Washington nonprofit corporation.

 RECITALS

 A. University Heights Center has agreed to purchase real property commonly known as the University Heights Elementary School Campus from The Seattle School District Number 1 ("Seller") under a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated April 30, 2009 (the "PSA").

 B. Section 7.1.1 of the PSA provides that University Heights Center may request that Seller convey a portion of the real property to the City of Seattle.

 C. Section 13.13 of the PSA requires University Heights Center to obtain Seller's written consent prior to assignment of any right, title or interest in the PSA.

 D. Subject to certain conditions, the City wishes to purchase directly from the Seller a portion of the property that is commonly known as the University Heights Elementary School Campus.

 E. With the consent of Seller, University Heights Center wishes to accommodate the City's desire to purchase directly from the Seller by partially assigning its rights, interests and obligations under the PSA to the City in order to complete the conveyance of certain property to the City and to clarify the mutual obligations and rights under the PSA.

 In consideration of the mutual obligations and promises herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the City and University Heights Center agree as follows:

 DEFINITIONS

 Unless otherwise defined in this Partial Assignment, all capitalized terms will have the same meaning they are given in the PSA.

 "Lease" means the lease agreement between Seattle School District Number 1 and University Heights Center for use and possession of the real property that is the subject of the PSA, including the Park Property.

 "Park Property" means a portion of the real property commonly known as the University Heights Elementary School Campus located at 5031 University Way N.E., Seattle, Washington, and legally described on Exhibit A, attached and incorporated by reference, including all rights, easements, and improvements appurtenant to the property.

 "Partial Assignment" means this Partial Assignment and Assumption of Purchase and Sale Agreement for University Heights Elementary School between the City and University Heights Center.

 "Phase I Property" means the real property legally described on Exhibit A-1 of the PSA.

 "Phase II Property" means the real property legally described on Exhibit A-2 of the PSA.

 "PSA" means the Purchase and Sale Agreement, including all exhibits, dated April 30, 2009, between The Seattle School District Number 1, as Seller, and University Heights Center for the Community Association, as Buyer, attached as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference.

 Section 1 ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION

 1.1 Assignment of Rights. With the consent of Seller as evidenced below, effective as of the earlier of the Phase I Closing Date (as defined in the PSA) or the actual date of the Phase I Closing (defined in the PSA), University Heights Center assigns to the City the right to purchase the Park Property and the benefit of all rights accruing to Buyer under the PSA with respect to the Park Property, unless expressly stated otherwise in this Partial Assignment. This Partial Assignment expressly excludes any rights associated with the Lease, the purchase and sale of portions of Phase I Property that are not Park Property, and the purchase and sale of the Phase II Property.

 1.2 Assumption of Rights and Obligations. Subject to the conditions set forth in this Partial Assignment, effective as of the earlier of the Phase I Closing Date (as defined in the PSA) or the actual date of the Phase I Closing (defined in the PSA) the City accepts the partial assignment of rights described in Section 1.1 above and assumes the obligations of the Buyer under the PSA only with respect to the Park Property and only as expressly provided in this Partial Assignment. This assumption of rights and obligations expressly excludes any rights or obligations associated with the Lease, the purchase and sale of portions of Phase I Property that are not Park Property, and the purchase and sale of the Phase II Property.

 1.3 Retention of Rights and Obligations Under PSA. Nothing in this Partial Assignment shall be deemed to release University Heights Center from its obligations under the PSA, except for those obligations that have been expressly assumed by the City under this Partial Assignment.

 Section 2 PURCHASE PRICE, EARNEST MONEY AND PAYMENT TERMS

 2.1 Purchase Price. The purchase price for the Park Property is Two Million, Three Hundred and Eight Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($2,308,000.00) ("Park Property Purchase Price").

 2.2 Earnest Money. University Heights Center retains all rights and obligations with respect to the earnest money deposit under the PSA.

 2.3 Payment Terms. Subject to the conditions set forth in this Partial Assignment, the City will pay Seller the Park Property Purchase Price through Escrow Agent, in cash or other immediately available funds at the Phase I Closing (as defined in the PSA). University Heights Center remains solely responsible for the balance of the purchase price and all additional consideration (including any restrictive use covenants) due to Seller from Buyer under the PSA. In the event that Buyer is entitled to a credit for early closing, pursuant to Subsection 2.2.1 of the PSA, the credit shall be allocated exclusively to Buyer.

 Section 3 CITY'S CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

 The City's obligations under this Partial Assignment are subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions, which are for the benefit of the City and may be waived only in writing by the City. If any condition is not satisfied or waived prior to the Phase I Closing, then this Partial Assignment shall terminate, and the parties shall have no further rights or obligations under this Partial Assignment except the obligations under Section 15 below.

 3.1 Buyer's Financing Contingency for Phase I Property. University Heights Center shall have obtained an extension of the Phase I Financing Contingency set forth in Subsection 3.1.1 of the PSA to no earlier than July 10, 2009 and, with the prior consent of the City, shall have timely notified Seller of satisfaction of the Phase I Financing Contingency.

 3.2 Title. On the date of the Phase I Closing, Title Company shall be irrevocably committed to issuing to the City an ALTA owner's policy of title insurance, dated as of the date of the Phase I Closing and insuring the City in the amount of the Park Property Purchase Price against loss or damage by reason of defect in the City's title to the Park Property subject only to the printed exclusions and general exceptions appearing in the policy form and those special exceptions described in Exhibit C attached hereto and incorporated herein or accepted by the City in writing (collectively the "Permitted Exceptions").

 3.3 Warranties. The representations and warranties of University Heights Center in this Partial Assignment shall be true and correct in all respects as of the Phase I Closing.

 3.4 Ordinances. On or before the date of the Phase I Financing Contingency, as extended, two ordinance shall have been passed by the Seattle City Council and signed by the Mayor: (a) one authorizing the transaction described in this Partial Assignment and appropriating funds as necessary to complete this transaction, and (b) one authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agency service agreement with University Heights Center and removing a budget proviso that restricted an appropriation in the 2008 Adopted Budget contingent upon execution of such agreement.

 3.5 Execution. On or before the Phase I Closing, this Partial Assignment shall have been signed by an authorized representative of the City and University Heights Center, and an authorized representative of Seller shall have consented to this Partial Assignment by executing the Consent below.

 Section 4 LIMITATIONS ON ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION OF WARRANTIES AND INDEMNIFICATION

 4.1 Seller's Warranties. University Heights Center assigns to the City all benefits and rights flowing from Seller's representations and warranties in Subsection 4.1 of the PSA to the extent applicable to the Park Property.

 4.2 Buyer's Warranties. The City assumes and affirms for its own behalf, the representations and warranties to Seller under Subsection 4.2 of the PSA only with respect to the City's purchase of the Park Property and subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3 of this Partial Assignment.

 4.3 As-Is Provision in the PSA. With respect to the acknowledgements in Subsection 4.3 of the PSA, the City will only be responsible for inspections, investigations, studies or evaluations of the Park Property, and accepts no responsibility for evaluating any other property to be conveyed under the PSA. The City accepts the disclaimers and warranties that flow from Seller to Buyer under Subsection 4.3 of the PSA to the extent applicable to the Park Property. Additionally, University Heights Center and the City acknowledge that neither party has made representations or warranties to the other regarding the condition of any of the property to be conveyed under the PSA except as expressly otherwise provided in this Partial Assignment.

 4.4 Indemnity.

 4.4.1 Seller's Indemnity Obligations. Subject to Section 10, the City will have the benefit of and the right to enforce Seller's indemnity obligations to Buyer under Subsection 4.4 of the PSA if the indemnity obligation arises from inaccuracy of warranties of Seller with respect to the Park Property or if Seller's obligation to Buyer arises under the PSA Subsection 7.2 or Subsection 12 with respect to the Park Property.

 4.4.2 City's Indemnity Obligations. The indemnity obligations of Buyer under Subsection 4.4 of the PSA are assumed by the City only as follows: (i) the City assumes Buyer's indemnity obligation resulting from any inaccuracy of City's warranties in Section 4.2 of this Partial Assignment, and (ii) the City assumes Buyer's indemnity obligations with respect to the Buyer's warranties under Section 4.2 of the PSA only to the extent arising from any City act or omission with respect to the Park Property after the Phase I Closing. The City does not assume any liability or indemnity obligation arising under the Lease or liability or indemnity obligations arising from any act or omission of University Heights Center or with respect to property owned or purchased by University Heights Center.

 4.5 Insurance. The insurance obligations under Subsection 4.5 of the PSA are inapplicable to the Park Property and are not included in this Partial Assignment.

 Section 5 POSSESSION AND INTERIM ACTIONS

 Buyer's rights and obligations under Subsections 5.1 and 5.5 of the PSA are expressly excluded from this Partial Assignment. Buyer's rights and obligations under Subsections 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 are assigned to and assumed by the City to the extent applicable to the Park Property.

 Section 6 TITLE

 University Heights Center and the City intend that the City will have all rights of Buyer under Section 6 of the PSA to the extent applicable to the Park Property; provided, however, that the City does not accept all exceptions to title accepted by University Heights and the City's obligations under this Partial Assignment are expressly conditioned upon satisfaction of the title conditions described in Section 3.2 of this Partial Assignment. The City understands and acknowledges that it will be responsible for any increase in the title insurance premium resulting from the issuance by the Title Company of two separate owner's policies of title insurance for the Phase I Property.

 Section 7 CLOSING OF SALE

 7.1 City's Rights and Obligations at Closing. Subject to fulfillment of the City's conditions precedent set forth in Section 3 of this Partial Assignment, the City will be a party to the Phase I Closing and will have all rights and obligations of Buyer at the Phase I Closing to the extent applicable to the Park Property with the following exceptions:

 (a) The Restrictive Covenant Agreement is not applicable to the Park Property. The City will not execute or deliver the Restrictive Covenant Agreement at the Phase I Closing and the Park Property shall not be subject to the Restrictive Covenant Agreement.

 (b) Any increase to the Phase I Purchase Price arising out of an extension to the Phase I Closing Date, as contemplated in 7.1.3 of the PSA, shall be paid for by the party (either the City or University Heights Center) whose acts or omissions resulted in the need for a delay of the Phase I Closing Date. If an extension to the Phase I Closing Date is necessitated by the acts or omissions of both parties, then the increase in the Phase I Purchase Price shall be borne by both parties proportionately based upon the ratio of the Park Property Purchase Price to the Phase I Purchase Price. University Heights Center shall not extend the Phase I Closing Date unless it has identified and will have available (or, if additional funds are to come from the City, has received confirmation that the City that it will have available) funds to pay any and all increases in the Phase I Purchase Price.

 (c) University Heights Center and the City agree and intend that the sale of the Park Property will close simultaneously with the sale of the remaining Phase I Property. As a result, neither the City nor University Heights Center will unilaterally exercise the right to close the purchase and sale of the Park Property or the Phase I Property upon Buyer notification as described in Subsection 7.1.5 of the PSA and will only exercise the right by joint notification to Seller. If either (i) University Heights Center has not fulfilled its obligations under the PSA required as a condition to Closing, or (ii) the City has not fulfilled its obligations under this Partial Assignment required as a condition to Closing, Seller shall not be obligated to close on either the Phase 1 Property or the Park Property, unless or until both University Heights Center and the City have fulfilled their respective obligations.

 (d) University Heights Center and the City acknowledge and agree that the City's rights and obligations under Subsection 7.3 of the PSA are only with respect to the Park Property and that with respect to the $100,000 cap on expense reimbursement for out-of-pocket costs incurred for ownership and operation of the Park Property, the City shall be entitled to reimbursement of its actual costs and expenses unless the aggregate of the City's and University Heights Center's expenses exceed the $100,000 cap, in which case the City shall be entitled to its proportionate share of the $100,000 based upon the ratio of the Park Property Purchase Price to the Phase I Purchase Price and, if the Phase II Closing has occurred, the Phase II Purchase Price.

 (e) The City's share of Buyer's costs at the Phase I Closing, described in Subsection 7.5.2 of the PSA, are limited to the Park Property Purchase Price, the increased cost of title insurance resulting from the issuance of two separate owner's policies, recording fees attributable to the deed for the Park Property to the city, the $5.00 State Technology Fee and $5.00 Affidavit Processing Fee on the Real Estate Excise Tax Affidavit, and the increased cost of escrow fees (if any) resulting from the City's acquisition of the Park Property.

 (f) The City shall have no rights or obligations related to the Closing of the Phase II Property or the Lease or license agreement between the Seller and University Heights Center.

 7.2 Escrow Instructions. This Partial Assignment is intended to be a supplement to Buyer's escrow instructions to Escrow Agent. University Heights and the City agree to cooperate if additional instructions to the Escrow Agent are needed in order to complete the purchase of the Park Property under the terms of this Partial Assignment.

 7.3 Liabilities Not Assumed. Buyer's rights to defense and indemnification from Seller under Subsection 7.7 of the PSA are included in this Partial Assignment to the extent liens, claims, loss or liability (including attorneys' fees and costs) arise out of any leases or other contracts entered into by Seller with respect to the Park Property prior to the Phase I Closing. The City assumes Buyer's obligations to Seller under Subsection 7.7 of the PSA only to the extent the obligation under that Subsection arises from any leases or other contracts entered into by the City with respect to the Park Property after the Phase I Closing.

 Section 8 CONDITIONS TO CLOSING

 The City accepts the Buyer and Seller conditions to the Phase I Closing set forth in Section 8 of the PSA, subject to the fulfillment of, and as modified by, the City's conditions precedent set forth in Section 3 of this Partial Assignment.

 Section 9 DEFAULT; REMEDIES

 9.1 Buyer Default and Seller's Remedies. The City and University Heights Center acknowledge and agree that all obligations concerning Buyer default and Seller's remedies pursuant to Subsection 9.1 of the PSA are the responsibility of University Heights Center and the City shall have no obligation to contribute any funds to University Heights Center or to Seller.

 9.2 Seller Default and Buyer's Remedies. In the event of Seller's default, the City and University Heights Center agree to select a mutually acceptable remedy and neither shall exercise any of the available remedies without the consent of the other. In the event of election of termination of the PSA, University Heights Center shall be entitled to recovery of its Earnest Money deposit and University Heights Center and the City shall be entitled to reimbursement of their actual costs and expenses unless the aggregate of the City's and University Heights Center's expenses exceed the $100,000 cap set forth in Section 9.2(a) of the PSA, in which case University Heights Center shall be reimbursed its actual costs and expenses, and if University Heights Center's actual costs and expenses are less than $100,000, the City shall be entitled to reimbursement for its actual costs and expenses, up to an amount equal to the difference between University Heights Center's reimbursement and the $100,000 cap. In no event shall Seller be responsible for payment of any amount in excess of the $100,000 cap set forth in Section 9.2(a) of the PSA.

 Section 10 POST CLOSING CLAIM LIMITATIONS

 University Heights Center and the City intend that the City will have all rights of Buyer under Section 10 of the PSA with respect to the Park Property. University Heights Center and the City shall cooperate to the extent any claim under Section 10 of the PSA affects both the Park Property and the balance of the Phase I Property. The City shall be entitled to recover for its actual claims unless the aggregate of the City's and University Heights Center's claims exceed the $100,000 cap, in which case the $100,000 cap shall be allocated based upon the ratio of actual damages to each of the parties. In no event shall Seller be responsible for payment of any amount in excess of the $100,000 cap set forth in Section 10 of the PSA. City Comment: Revised language is acceptable.

 Section 11 UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK

 The City will have no responsibility for the decommissioning of the underground storage tank on the Phase I Property, and University Heights Center will remain solely responsible for performing Buyer's obligations under Section 12 of the PSA. University Heights Center agrees to require the underground storage tank decommissioning contractor to indemnify the City and list the City as additional insured on its insurance certification. University Heights Center assigns to the City all Buyer's rights to indemnification from Seller for any liability, damages, costs, or expenses that may arise out of the presence of fuel in, on or around the Park Property as a result of leaking from the tank, including the abatement of hazardous materials required by any public agency (but not costs of removal of the tank itself) for a period of 25 years from the Phase I Closing Date. The provisions of this Section and the City's rights as Buyer under Subsection 12 of the PSA shall survive the Phase I Closing.

 Section 12 Notices

 The City will comply with the requirements in Subsection 13.2 of the PSA with respect to notices. Additionally, all demands, statements and communications required under this Partial Assignment or under the terms of the PSA will be delivered to the City at the address set forth below. Any notice received by Seller from University Heights Center under the PSA shall be deemed to be notice from each of University Heights Center and the City, collectively as buyers under the PSA and the Partial Assignment, and Seller may conclusively rely on such notice as being from both parties. University Heights Center shall give no notice to Seller without approval of the City.

 To City, Buyer of Park Property:

 Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 800 Maynard Avenue South, 3rd Floor

 Seattle, WA 98134

 Telephone: (206) 233-3879

 Facsimile: (206) 233-7038

 Attn: Lise Ward

 Section 13 Warranties of University Heights Center

 University Heights Center represents and warrants to the City that the PSA is in full force and effect, that the copy of the PSA attached hereto as Exhibit B is a true and correct copy, that the PSA has not been modified in any respect, that University Heights Center and Seller are not in default in the performance of any of their respective obligations under the PSA, that the Park Property is not subject to any contracts, leases, tenancies, agreements or rights of persons in possession (written or oral) except the Lease, any rights the City of Seattle Department of Neighborhoods may have with respect to a shed existing on the Park Property, agreements with University Heights Center members permitting them to use parking spaces on the Park Property and an oral agreement with the Neighborhood Farmers Market Alliance regarding the operation of the University District Farmer's Market, all of which shall be terminated no later than the Phase I Closing Date, that no work on or for the benefit of the Park Property has been started or completed within the past 90 days, and that University Heights will not enter into any contracts, leases, tenancies, or agreements, written or oral, affecting the Park Property.

 Section 14 Entire Agreement; Conflict; Exculpation from Liability; Exhibits

 14.1 Entire Agreement. This Partial Assignment, including all exhibits, contains the entire understanding between the parties and supersedes any prior understanding or agreement between them with respect to the subject matter herein. No amendment or supplement to this Partial Assignment will be valid or effective unless made in writing and executed by all parties.

 14.2 Conflict. In the event of a conflict between this Partial Assignment and the PSA, the terms of the PSA shall control. Nothing in this Partial Assignment shall be deemed to modify the Seller's rights or obligations under the PSA.

 14.3 Exculpation from Liability. Neither the Seller's Superintendent nor any Board member, officer, direction, agent, employee, affiliate or trustee of Seller shall have any personal liability of any kind or nature, nor shall the City have the right to receive any judgment or otherwise recover against the assets of the aforesaid, under or arising out of or in any way relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated under this Agreement. The City hereby waives for itself and anyone who may claim by, through or under the City any and all rights to sue or recover on account of any alleged personal liability or to receive any judgment or otherwise recover against the assets of the Superintendent of Seller and any Board member, officer, director, agent, employee, affiliate or trustee of Seller.

 14.4 Exhibits. The following exhibits are attached and incorporated into this Partial Assignment:

 Exhibit A Legal Description of Park Property

 Exhibit B Purchase and Sale Agreement for University Heights Elementary School between University Heights Center for the community Association and the Seattle Public School District Number 1 dated April 30, 2009.

 Exhibit C Permitted Exceptions

 Section 15 Termination

 In the event of termination of this Partial Assignment, University Heights Center shall immediately notify Seller and shall withdraw its request, under Subsection 7.1.1 of the PSA, that Seller convey the Park Property to the City. The obligations under this Section 15 shall survive termination of this Partial Assignment. In no event shall a termination of this Partial Assignment be deemed to be a termination or waiver of any of University Heights Center's obligations under the PSA.

 (SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE)

 CITY

 The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation

 By: _______________________________________ Date: _____________

 Timothy A. Gallagher

 Superintendent, Parks and Recreation

 UNIVERSITY HEIGHTS CENTER:

 University Heights Center for the Community Association,

 a Washington nonprofit corporation

 ____________________________________________ Date: _____________

 By _____________________

 Its ______________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ___ day of _________, 2009, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _________________, to me known to be the __________Superintendent of Parks and Recreation of the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 ________________________________________

 (Type or Print Name)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at ______________________________

 My Commission expires on _________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ___ day of _________, 2009, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _________________, to me known to be the _________________ of University Heights Center for the Community Association, a Washington nonprofit corporation, the nonprofit corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said nonprofit corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 ________________________________________

 (Type or Print Name)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at ______________________________

 My Commission expires on _________________

 CONSENT OF SELLER

 By signature below, Seller The Seattle Public School District Number 1 consents to the foregoing Partial Assignment and Assumption of Purchase and Sale Agreement for the University Heights Elementary School, under the terms and conditions set forth herein. Seller agrees to include the City in all notices to Buyer that are required under the PSA. Additionally, in keeping with the intentions in Section 7.1.1 of the PSA, Seller acknowledges University Heights Center's request that a portion of the Phase I Property be conveyed to the City and agrees to convey the Phase I Property by two separate bargain and sale deeds. The real property legally described in Exhibit A to this Partial Assignment will be conveyed by bargain and sale deed to the City of Seattle. The remaining Phase I Property will be conveyed by bargain and sale deed to the University Heights Center for the Community Association. The individual executing this consent on behalf of Seller is authorized to approve and consent to this Partial Assignment without further approval by the School Board, and such consent is binding on Seller.

 The Seattle Public School District Number 1

 a Washington municipal corporation

 ______________________________________ Date: _____________

 By Ronald J. English

 Its Deputy General Counsel and Property Manager

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ___ day of _________, 2009, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _________________, to me known to be the Deputy General Counsel and Property Manager of the Seattle Public School District Number 1, a Washington municipal corporation, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL hereto affixed the day and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 ________________________________________

 (Type or Print Name)

 [SEAL] Notary Public in and for the State of Washington

 Residing at ______________________________

 My Commission expires on _________________

 EXHIBIT A

 Legal Description

 Lots 10 through 13, inclusive, Block 6, University Heights, an addition to the City of Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 9 of Plats, Page 41, records of King County, Washington; EXCEPT that portion of Lots 13 and 14 conveyed to the City of Seattle for street purposes by deed recorded under Recording No. 20010801001604.

 Situated in the County of King, State of Washington.

 Page 14 of 15

[Exhibit B to Exhibit 1 - Purchase and Sale Agreement dated April 30, 2009; and Exhibit C to Exhibit 1 - Permitted Exceptions ](/~ordpics/116558ExBToEx1.pdf)

```
