

********

**Council Bill Number: 116606**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123066**
********

 AN ORDINANCE amending budget provisos that restrict spending of an appropriation for a Public Engagement Portal Initiative in the Department of Information Technology's 2009 Adopted Budget.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 10, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 17, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 17, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 3, 2009
   
**Committee:** Energy and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, FINANCE, DEPARTMENT-OF-INFORMATION-TECHNOLOGY, CITIZEN-PARTICIPATION

**Fiscal Note:**116606

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123066](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123066.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending budget provisos that restrict spending of an appropriation for a Public Engagement Portal Initiative in the Department of Information Technology's 2009 Adopted Budget.

 WHEREAS, in adopting the 2009 Budget, the City Council passed Green Sheet 133-1-B-1, which included one budget proviso restricting the expenditure of $175,000 in 2009 that was appropriated to the Department of Information Technology for the Citizen Engagement Portal Initiative (now referred to as the My.Seattle.Gov Public Engagement Portal Initiative), and a second proviso prohibiting the expenditure of such funds until authorized by future ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council stated that it would consider lifting the budget proviso prohibiting the expenditure of funds for the Public Engagement Portal Initiative upon receipt of an initial, high-level proposal for how the Initiative will be implemented and how the funding will be spent; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Information Technology has submitted an initial, high-level project proposal (Attachment 1) that will provide the same features of single sign on, customizable web page, and surveying tool with a reduced expenditure of $50,000 in 2009; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Information Technology has satisfied the direction set forth in the Council's 2009 budget provisos and requests that they be amended to allow the expenditure of $50,000 for the Public Engagement Portal Initiative; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The following 2009 budget provisos as adopted by Ordinance 122863 are amended as follows:

```
<table><tr><td>**Item**

</td><td>**Department**

</td><td>**Green Sheet**

</td><td>**Proviso**

</td><td>**Budget Control Level**

</td></tr><tr><td>1.1

</td><td>Department of Information Technology

</td><td>133-1-B-1

</td><td>“Of the appropriation for 2009 for the Department of Information Technology’s (DoIT’s) Office of Electronic Communications BCL, $175,000 is appropriated (and of the amount endorsed for 2010, $175,000 is expected to be appropriated) solely for the Public ((Citizen)) Engagement Portal Initiative and may be spent for no other purpose.”

</td><td>Office of Electronic Communications (D4400)

</td></tr><tr><td>1.2

</td><td>Department of Information Technology

</td><td>133-1-B-1

</td><td>“Of the money appropriated for 2009 for the Department of Information Technology’s (DoIT’s) Office of Electronic Communications BCL, $125,000 (($175,000)) may not be spent for the Public ((Citizen)) Engagement Portal Initiative until authorized by future ordinance.  ((Council anticipates that such authority will not be granted until DoIT provides an initial, high-level proposal for how this Initiative will be implemented and how this funding will be spent.))”

</td><td>Office of Electronic Communications (D4400)

</td></tr></table>..TX: Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after passage of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.  Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: My.Seattle.Gov - Public Engagement Portal Initiative High Level Proposal

 Gary Gibson/BB / Martha Lester

 DoIT Customer Service Portal-My Seattle Gov Proviso Ord.doc

 July 6, 2009

 Version #9

 1 My.Seattle.Gov - Public Engagement Portal Initiative High Level Proposal

 (as required by proviso in 2009 City Council Budget Action (Green Sheet) 133-1-B-1)

 1. The Department of Information Technology's Citywide Web Team (CWT) will, with the cooperation of City departments, develop a Public Engagement Portal, which is a personalized version of Seattle.gov that allows users to select the City web services that are most important to them and display those services in the way they choose.

 2. The Public Engagement Portal will be called My.Seattle.Gov.

 3. Fundamental features of My.Seattle.Gov include Single Sign-On (SSO), which will provide users the ability to log in once to access a wide range of services available on Seattle.gov, and on-line surveying, which will provide a means of receiving public input online and in a cost-effective manner.

 4. The CWT will work closely with the Constituent Relationship Management (CRM) system's development team (in the Department of Executive Administration) to ensure that My.Seattle.Gov and CRM are compatible and tightly integrated.

 5. Other services proposed to be offered via the My.Seattle.Gov portal:

 * Utility bill payment and billing/use information

 * Payment of taxes and fees

 * Applications and payments for permits, classes, facilities reservations, etc.

 * Customizable access to Seattle.gov informational services like My Neighborhood Map, City Events Calendar, News Releases, Weather, Seattle Channel Video, podcasts & RSS feeds, and others

 6. Integrating the My.Seattle.Gov portal with City web applications will, in many cases, require modifications to the existing systems. The CWT expects to launch the initial version My.Seattle.Gov, with selected offering of services, in the second quarter of 2010. Additional services will be added as they are modified to be compatible with the My.Seattle.Gov portal.

 7. The amount of Public Engagement Portal funding under proviso is $175,000 in 2009. Of this, $125,000 is designated to fund a new IT Professional-A position. The Citywide Web Team's subsequent research indicates that there are several products on the market which will make the development of My.Seattle.Gov less complex and time consuming, without compromising the scope of services proposed. Thus, the Department of Information Technology believes that the additional IT Professional-A position will not be required and requests that Council lift the proviso solely for the remaining $50,000 for 2009 to be used for software, licensing, project management and consultant services.

 Gibson / Lester

 DoIT CSP Proviso Ord ATT 1

 July 6, 2009

 Version 3

