

********

**Council Bill Number: 116695**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123165**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment; authorizing the Mayor to sign and execute a memorandum of understanding between the City of Seattle and certain City unions, and a memorandum of understanding between the City of Seattle and the Seattle Municipal Court and certain City unions, both memoranda establishing a furlough program in 2010; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 23, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 3, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 1, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 19, 2009
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** RECESSIONS, ECONOMIC-CONDITIONS, LABOR-UNIONS, CITY-EMPLOYEES, BUDGET, COLLECTIVE-BARGAINING

**Fiscal Note:**116695

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123165](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123165.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to City employment; authorizing the Mayor to sign and execute a memorandum of understanding between the City of Seattle and certain City unions, and a memorandum of understanding between the City of Seattle and the Seattle Municipal Court and certain City unions, both memoranda establishing a furlough program in 2010; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the City is experiencing revenue shortfalls due to the national economic crisis and is required to make substantial cuts to its 2010 operating budget; and

 WHEREAS, the City has identified furloughs as a way to reduce its operating costs and mitigate the number of layoffs required to balance its budget in 2010; and

 WHEREAS, the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Ship Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and Helpers, Local 104; the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades District Council #5; the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, Lodge 160, Local 289; Inlandboatmen's Union of the Pacific; the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, Local 17; the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 117; the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 46; the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry, Local 32; the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 763; the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 286; the Seattle Police Dispatchers' Guild; the UNITE Hotel Employees & Restaurant Employees, Local 8; the Public Service & Industrial Employees, Local 1239; the Washington State Council of County and City Employees, Local 21; the Joint Crafts Council; the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of the United States and Canada, Local 15; the Sheet Metal Workers International Association, Local 66; the Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters; and the Seattle Municipal Court Marshals' Guild, International Union of Police Associations, Local 600 formed a coalition, herein referred to as the "Coalition of City Unions" to collectively negotiate wages, health care, retirement and other conditions of employment with the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the City entered into discussions with the Coalition of City Unions and the parties agreed to amend their collective bargaining agreements to establish a furlough program for 2010; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Personnel Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Mayor is hereby authorized for and on behalf of the City of Seattle to sign and/or execute the memorandum of understanding between the City and certain unions within the Coalition of City Unions substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1 and identified as "Memorandum of Understanding by and between the City of Seattle and the Coalition of City Unions."

 Section 2. As requested by the Personnel Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Mayor is hereby authorized for and on behalf of the City of Seattle to sign and/or execute the memorandum of understanding between the City and the Seattle Municipal Court and certain unions within the Coalition of City Unions operating in the Seattle Municipal Court, substantially in the form attached hereto as Attachment 2 and identified as "Memorandum of Understanding by and between City of Seattle, the Seattle Municipal Court and Teamsters, Local 763 - Municipal Court, I.F.P.T.E. Local 17 - Municipal Court Probation, Seattle Municipal Court Marshals Guild."

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachments

 Attachment 1: Memorandum of Understanding by and between the City of Seattle and the Coalition of City Unions

 Attachment 2: Memorandum of Understanding by and between City of Seattle, the Seattle Municipal Court and Teamsters, Local 763 - Municipal Court, I.F.P.T.E. Local 17 - Municipal Court Probation, Seattle Municipal Court Marshals Guild

 Mark McDermott/David Bracilano/sb

 PERS Coalition 2010 Furloughs ORD

 September 15, 2009

 Version #3

 Attachment 1: Memorandum of Understanding by and between the City of Seattle and the Coalition of City Unions

 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

 By and between

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 And

 THE COALITION OF CITY UNIONS

 This Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") is entered into between the City of Seattle ("City") and the individual unions that are signatory to this MOU that are also members of the Coalition of City Unions ("Coalition"). Collectively, the City and the Coalition shall be known as "the Parties."

 The Parties agree to amend their collective bargaining agreements to incorporate the following terms and conditions:

 I. 2010 Furloughs

 1) Scope. All employees who are members of unions that are signatory to this Agreement shall participate in furloughs, except for certain employees whose job titles and positions the Parties have identified as exceptions. The Parties shall convene a labor-management meeting prior to the first furlough in order to reach agreement on exceptions or alternatives to Schedule A or B.

 Scheduled furlough days may not be cancelled or rescheduled except in the event of an emergency with the approval of the Mayor's Office. If this occurs the employee shall schedule a different furlough day in the same or subsequent pay period in which the furlough occurs on the day before or after their weekend. Work performed on the previously scheduled furlough day shall not be paid overtime except as required by applicable collective bargaining agreement or the FLSA.

 2) Total Furlough Hours. Full-time employees subject to furloughs shall each take a number of unpaid furlough days totaling eighty (80) hours (or a pro-rated equivalent for part-time employees) in 2010.

 3) Scheduling of Furlough Days. Scheduling of furlough days shall be determined by the City on a department or work unit basis, and will be according to operational need. Employees will be assigned furlough dates in 2010 on either Schedule A or Schedule B, as scheduled by their departments, to equal a total of eighty (80) hours (pro-rated for part- time employees). Employees on alternative schedules shall schedule furlough days in order to equal a total of eighty (80) hours (e.g., employees on 4/10s shall take eight (8) furlough days of ten (10) hours each). For employees on alternative work schedules whose regular day off falls on a furlough day, furloughs shall be scheduled during the same payroll week in which the furlough occurs, with the department head's approval.

 Schedule A Schedule B

 Friday, January 15, 2010 Tuesday, January 19, 2010

 Friday, February 12, 2010 Tuesday, February 16, 2010

 Friday, March 12, 2010 Monday March 15, 2010

 Friday, April 9, 2010 Monday, April 12, 2010

 Friday, May 28, 2010 Tuesday, June 1, 2010

 Friday, July 2, 2010 Tuesday, July 6, 2010

 Friday, August 6, 2010 Monday, August 9, 2010

 Friday, September 3, 2010 Tuesday, September 7, 2010

 Friday, October 8, 2010 Monday, October 11, 2010

 Thursday, December 23, 2010 Monday, December 27, 2010

 4) Leave Accrual. Furlough days will accrue sick leave and vacation time. However, furlough hours may not count towards the hours thresholds used to determine vacation accrual rates. The value of such accrued leave will either be accrued as earned or will be loaded into employees' leave balances by the end of 2010.

 5) Holidays. Furlough hours will not affect employee holiday pay or holiday benefits.

 6) Personal Holidays. Furlough hours will count towards the hours threshold used to determine the number of personal holidays received.

 7) Wage Exemption. Employees whose pay is less than eighteen dollars ($18.00) an hour may opt to use paid vacation, personal holidays, or compensatory time during their absence for a furlough day.

 8) Retirement. The City and employees will not make contributions into the retirement system for furlough days, nor will employees receive service credit for retirement for furlough days.

 An employee assigned to a work group subject to furloughs who plans to retire by December 31, 2012, shall be permitted to use vacation or compensatory time on furlough dates, provided he or she submits a written notice of intent to retire to his or her Human Resources unit no later than December 31, 2010. Should such employee not retire by December 31, 2012, the employee shall return payment for the leave used on furlough days to the City either by pay or deduction of equivalent vacation or compensatory hours.

 9) Health Insurance and Other Benefits. Medical, dental, vision and any other insured benefits coverage shall not be impacted by the furloughs.

 10) Personnel Processes. Furloughs will not count as a break in service and shall not impact seniority, step placement, probationary periods and trial service periods.

 11) Temporary Employees and Volunteers. Temporary employees and volunteers shall not be assigned to perform work to cover the time loss associated with furloughs.

 12) The Parties will use their labor-management committees as a forum for discussion and resolution of implementation issues associated with furloughs.

 II. Contracting Out and Span of Control. The City agrees to convene labor-management meetings with unions signatory to this Agreement to review the City's 2010 budgetary process relating to contracting out and span of control issues. One purpose of the City's review is intended to reduce or eliminate the practice of contracting out of work that can be performed by the City employees to further reduce the need for employee layoffs or reductions of work hours.

 III. Reinstatement and Project Hire. The length of time an employee may remain on the reinstatement list for a position from which he or she was laid off in 2009 or 2010 shall increase from one (1) year to two (2) years. The length of time that an employee may participate in Project Hire for an employee laid off in 2009 or 2010 shall increase from one (1) year to two (2) years.

 IV. Other Terms and Conditions.

 1) The Parties may reopen and negotiate the terms of this MOU by mutual agreement.

 2) To the extent that collective bargaining agreements, City procedures, rules or guidelines conflict with this MOU, this MOU shall prevail.

 3) Any dispute regarding the interpretation and/or application of this MOU shall be addressed pursuant to the terms of the applicable Union's grievance procedure, provided that if more than one Union has the same or similar dispute, the grievances shall be consolidated.

 4) It is the intent of this agreement to mitigate layoffs of Coalition union members signatory to this agreement.

 SIGNED this _______ day of ______________ 2009.

 Executed under the Authority

 of Ordinance No. _________

 FOR THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 _____________________ ____________________ __________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mark M. McDermott David Bracilano

 Mayor Personnel Director Labor Relations Director

 FOR THE COALITION OF CITY UNIONS

 _________________________________

 Fernando Arevalo, Business Representative

 I.U. Painters and Allied Trades,

 District Council #5

 ________________________________

 Scott Best, President

 Seattle Police Dispatchers' Guild

 __________________________________

 David Barnhart, Business Representative

 Boilermakers Union, Local 104

 __________________________________

 Melody Coffman, Business Representative

 IAMAW, Local 289

 __________________________________

 Dennis Conklin, Regional Director

 Inland Boatmen's Union of the Pacific

 _________________________________

 David A. Grage, Secretary-Treasurer

 Teamsters, Local 763 (JCC)

 __________________________________

 Joseph Bowen Jeffers, III

 P.S.I.E., Local 1239 Security Officers

 __________________________________

 Patti Kieval, Union Representative

 I.F.P.T.E., Local 17 - IT, PTA

 __________________________________

 Janet Lewis, Business Representative

 I.B.E.W., Local 46

 __________________________________

 John L. Masterjohn, Business Manager

 P.S.I.E., Local 1239 and Local 1239 Security Officers (JCC); Local 1239 Recreation Unit

 __________________________________

 Jeff Frazier, Business Representative

 I.U. Operating Engineers, Local 286

 __________________________________

 Adrienne Thompson, Union Representative

 I.F.P.T.E., Local 17 - PTA

 __________________________________

 Bill Dennis, Staff Representative

 W.S.C.C.C.E., Locals 21 and 21P

 __________________________________

 Diana Douglas, Union Representative

 I.F.P.T.E., Local 17 - PTA

 __________________________________

 Ethan Fineout, Staff Representative

 W.S.C.C.C.E., Local 21Z

 __________________________________

 Marty Fox, Business Representative

 Sheet Metal Workers, Local 66

 __________________________________

 Ian Gordon, Business Representative

 P.S.I.E., Local 1239 Rec Unit

 __________________________________

 Guadalupe Perez, Union Representative

 I.F.P.T.E., Local 17 - PTA

 __________________________________

 Rick Sawyer, Secretary, Treasurer

 H.E.R.E., Local 8

 __________________________________

 Jeff Skillman, Business Representative

 Pacific Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters

 __________________________________

 Tracey A. Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer

 Teamsters, Local 117 JCC Unit, Admissions Unit, Community Service Officers & Evidence Warehousers

 __________________________________

 William J. Wickline, Business Representative

 I.A.T.S.E., Local 15

 ________________________________

 Marty Yellam, Business Representative

 U.A. Plumbers and Pipefitters, Local 32

 ________________________________

 Joe McGee, Executive Director

 I.F.P.T.E., Local 17

 Attachment 2: Memorandum of Understanding by and between City of Seattle, the Seattle Municipal Court and Teamsters, Local 763 - Municipal Court, I.F.P.T.E. Local 17 - Municipal Court Probation, Seattle Municipal Court Marshals Guild

 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

 By and between

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 THE SEATTLE MUNICIPAL COURT

 And

 TEAMSTERS, LOCAL 763 - MUNICIPAL COURT

 I.F.P.T.E. LOCAL 17 - MUNICIPAL COURT PROBATION

 SEATTLE MUNICIPAL COURT MARSHALS GUILD

 This Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") is entered into between the City of Seattle and the Seattle Municipal Court ("Court") and the individual unions that are signatory to this MOU that are also members of the Coalition of City Unions ("Coalition"). Collectively, the Court, the City, and the unions shall be known as "the Parties."

 The Parties agree to amend their collective bargaining agreements to incorporate the following terms and conditions:

 I. 2010 Furloughs

 1) Scope. All employees who are members of unions that are signatory to this Agreement shall participate in furloughs, except for certain employees whose job titles and positions the Parties have identified as exceptions. The Parties shall convene labor-management meetings prior to the first furlough in order to reach agreement on exceptions or alternatives to the furlough schedule.

 Scheduled furlough days may not be cancelled or rescheduled except in the event of an emergency with the approval of the Court Administrator. If this occurs the employee shall schedule a different furlough day in the same or subsequent pay period in which the furlough occurs on the day before or after their weekend. Work performed on the previously scheduled furlough day shall not be paid overtime except as required by applicable collective bargaining agreement or the FLSA.

 2) Total Furlough Hours. Full-time employees subject to furloughs shall each take a number of unpaid furlough days totaling eighty (80) hours (or a pro-rated equivalent for part-time employees) in 2010.

 3) Scheduling of Furlough Days. Scheduling of furlough days shall be determined by the Court on a department or work unit basis, and will be according to operational need. Employees will be assigned furlough dates in 2010, as scheduled by their departments, to equal a total of eighty (80) hours (pro-rated for part-time employees). Employees on alternative schedules shall schedule furlough days in order to equal a total of eighty (80) hours (e.g., employees on 4/10s shall take eight (8) furlough days of ten (10) hours each). Furlough days will generally be scheduled on "premium days," which are the work days preceding and following City holidays, and on other available Fridays throughout 2010.

 The Court agrees to discuss how furlough days will be scheduled in labor- management meetings by bargaining unit, including how employee requests for furlough dates may be considered. Employees will not be required to take more than one furlough day within two consecutive pay periods. Furlough dates will be set by the end of 2009.

 Premium days are identified as follows:

 January 4

 January 15 and 19

 February 12 and 16

 May 28 and June 1

 July 2 and 6

 September 3 and 7

 November 12

 November 24 and 29

 December 23 and 27

 December 30

 Other available Friday furlough dates include:

 January 8, 22, 29

 February 5, 19, 26

 March 5, 12, 19, 26

 April 2, 9, 16, 23, 30

 May 7, 14, 21

 June 4, 11, 18, 25

 July 9, 16, 23, 30

 August 6, 13, 20, 27

 September 10, 17, 24

 October 1, 8, 15, 22, 29

 November 5, 19

 December 3, 10, 17

 4) Leave Accrual. Furlough days will accrue sick leave and vacation time. However, furlough hours may not count towards the hours thresholds used to determine vacation accrual rates. The value of such accrued leave will either be accrued as earned or will be loaded into employees' leave balances by the end of 2010.

 5) Holidays. Furlough hours will not affect employee holiday pay or holiday benefits.

 6) Personal Holidays. Furlough hours will count towards the hours threshold used to determine the number of personal holidays received.

 7) Wage Exemption. Employees whose pay is less than eighteen dollars ($18.00) an hour may opt to use paid vacation, personal holidays, or compensatory time during their absence for a furlough day.

 8) Retirement. The City and employees will not make contributions into the retirement system for furlough days, nor will employees receive service credit for retirement for furlough days.

 An employee assigned to a work group subject to furloughs who plans to retire by December 31, 2012, shall be permitted to use vacation or compensatory time on furlough dates, provided he or she submits a written notice of intent to retire to his or her Human Resources unit no later than December 31, 2010. Should such employee not retire by December 31, 2012, the employee shall return payment for the leave used on furlough days to the City either by pay or deduction of equivalent vacation or compensatory hours.

 9) Health Insurance and Other Benefits. Medical, dental, vision and any other insured benefits coverage shall not be impacted by the furloughs.

 10) Personnel Processes. Furloughs will not count as a break in service and shall not impact seniority, step placement, probationary periods and trial service periods.

 11) Temporary Employees and Volunteers. Temporary employees and volunteers shall not be assigned to perform work to cover the time loss associated with furloughs.

 12) The Parties will use their labor-management committees as a forum for discussion and resolution of implementation issues associated with furloughs.

 II. Contracting Out and Span of Control. The Court agrees to participate in labor-management meetings convened by the City as appropriate with unions signatory to this Agreement to review the City's 2010 budgetary process relating to contracting out and span of control issues. One purpose of the City's review is intended to reduce or eliminate the practice of contracting out of work that can be performed by the City employees to further reduce the need for employee layoffs or reductions of work hours.

 III. Reinstatement and Project Hire. The length of time an employee may remain on the reinstatement list for a position from which he or she was laid off in 2009 or 2010 shall increase from one (1) year to two (2) years. The length of time that an employee may participate in Project Hire for an employee laid off in 2009 or 2010 shall increase from one (1) year to two (2) years.

 IV. Other Terms and Conditions.

 1) The Parties may reopen and negotiate the terms of this MOU by mutual agreement.

 2) To the extent that collective bargaining agreements, City or Court procedures, rules or guidelines conflict with this MOU, this MOU shall prevail.

 3) Any dispute regarding the interpretation and/or application of this MOU shall be addressed pursuant to the terms of the applicable Union's grievance procedure, provided that if more than one Union has the same or similar dispute, the grievances shall be consolidated.

 4) It is the intent of this agreement to mitigate layoffs of Coalition union members signatory to this agreement.

 SIGNED this _______ day of ______________ 2009.

 Executed under the Authority

 of Ordinance No. _________

 FOR THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE MUNICIPAL COURT

 __________________________ _________________________

 The Honorable Edsonya Charles Gregory J. Nickels,

 Presiding Judge Mayor

 FOR PARTICIPATING MEMBERS OF THE COALITION OF CITY UNIONS

 _________________________________

 David A. Grage, Secretary-Treasurer

 Teamsters, Local 763 (JCC)

 __________________________________

 Chris Hamlin, President

 Marshals Guild

 __________________________________

 Adrienne Thompson, Union Representative

 I.F.P.T.E., Local 17 - Municipal Court Probation

 __________________________________

 Joe McGee, Executive Director

 I.F.P.T.E., Local 17

```
