

********

**Council Bill Number: 116658**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123121**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation to execute a lease amendment between the City of Seattle and Fu Quan, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, for property located at 800 Maynard Avenue South.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 5, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 8, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 8, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 21, 2009
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, DEPARTMENT-OF-PARKS-AND-RECREATION, OFFICE-FACILITIES, INTERNATIONAL-DISTRICT

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 121748 ](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=121748&s2=&s5=&Sect4=and&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBOR1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CBOR&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbor1.htm&r=0&f=S)

**Fiscal Note:**116658

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123121](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123121.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation to execute a lease amendment between the City of Seattle and Fu Quan, LLC, a Washington limited liability company, for property located at 800 Maynard Avenue South.

 WHEREAS, since 1998, staff from the Department of Parks and Recreation have occupied leased space at the building known as the RDA Building at 800 Maynard Avenue South; and

 WHEREAS, in 2005 Ordinance 121748 authorized a new five-year lease with MLMA, LLC, for 24,153 square feet in the RDA Building and 26 parking spaces; and

 WHEREAS, in 2005 Fu Quan, LLC purchased the RDA Building from MLMA, LLC, and assumed all of its rights and obligations under the terms of the lease; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation continues to require the space at the RDA Building for its operations; and

 WHEREAS, the City has concluded negotiations resulting in an amendment to extend the current lease for an additional three-year term at a lower rental rate and with provisions to terminate the lease or expand the occupied space at the City's option; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation and recommended by the Mayor, the Superintendent or designee is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, a lease amendment with Fu Quan, LLC, substantially in the form of "Attachment 1" attached hereto, and providing for the City of Seattle's tenancy and occupancy of a portion of the real property located at 800 Maynard Avenue South in Seattle.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal) Version #3

 Attachment 1: First Amendment to Lease Between Fu Quan, LLC, and the City of Seattle

 FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE

 Between

 FU QUAN, LLC

 and

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 THIS FIRST AMENDMENT ("First Amendment"), dated, for reference purposes only, __________, 2009, is entered into by and between FU QUAN, LLC (successor in interest to MLMA, LLC), a Washington limited liability company ("Landlord") and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation, ("City"). Landlord and the City are also referred to as the "Parties" herein.

 A. RECITALS

 This First Amendment is made with reference to the following facts and

 objectives:

 I. On or about November 23, 2004, the City and MLMA, LLC entered into a lease agreement (the "Lease") whereby the City leased the Premises (consisting of 23,083 square feet of office space and 1,070 square feet of storage space and 26 parking spaces as described in the Lease) located at 800 Maynard Avenue South in Seattle, Washington.

 II. On or about October 28, 2005, MLMA, LLC and FU QUAN, LLC entered into an Assignment and Assumption of Lease whereby MLMA, LLC assigned, and FU QUAN, LLC assumed the rights and obligations under the Lease and FU QUAN, LLC thereby became the Landlord under the terms of the Lease.

 III. The Landlord and the City desire to extend the term of the Lease and provide the City with expansion and termination options, as well as modify other portions of the Lease pursuant to the Parties' mutual agreement.

 Therefore, for the mutual promises, covenants, and consideration stated herein, the Parties agree to extend and amend the Lease as follows:

 B. AMENDMENT, TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 1. EFFECTIVE DATE: The terms of this First Amendment shall become effective (the "Effective Date") upon the full execution and delivery of this First Amendment or December 1, 2009, whichever occurs last in time.

 2. TERM: The Expiration Date of the Lease shall be extended until November 30, 2012.

 3. RENT: Upon the Effective Date, the monthly rent schedule for the Premises shall be as follows:

```
<table><tr><td>

Effective Date - 11/30/2010

</td><td>$25,968.38 ($13.50/SF/Year)

</td><td>$579.58 ($6.50/SF/Year)

</td><td>$2,340.00 ($90.00/space)

</td><td>

$28,887.96

</td></tr><tr><td>

12/1/2010 - 11/30/2011

</td><td>$27,411.06 ($14.25/SF/Year)

</td><td>$579.58 ($6.50/SF/Year)

</td><td>$2,340.00 ($90.00/space)

</td><td>

$30,330.64

</td></tr><tr><td>

12/1/2011 – 11/30/2012

</td><td>$28,853.75 ($15.00/SF/Year)

</td><td>$579.58 ($6.50/SF/Year)

</td><td>$2,340.00 ($90.00/space)

</td><td>

$31,773.33

</td></tr></table> 4. RENEWAL OPTION: The City shall have the right to extend the term of the Lease for an additional four (4) year period ("Extension Period") upon providing written notice to the Landlord not later than May 31, 2012.

 5. RENEWAL RENT: Should the term of the Lease be extended as provided herein, at the commencement of the extension period the rent shall be adjusted to the then current market rate, with consideration given for market concessions to tenants, for similar office space in the Pioneer Square and International District sub-markets.

 The parties shall have thirty (30) days after the Landlord receives the extension notice in which to agree on the rent for the Extension Period. If the parties agree on the rent for the Extension Period during that thirty (30) day period, they shall immediately execute an amendment to the Lease stating the rent.

 If the parties are unable to agree on the rent for the Extension Period within that period, then within ten (10) days after the expiration of that period each party, at its cost and by giving notice to the other party, shall appoint a licensed real estate appraiser with at least five (5) years full-time commercial appraisal experience in the Seattle, Washington, area to appraise and set the rent for the Extension Period. If a party does not appoint an appraiser within the ten (10) day period and the other party has given notice of the name of its appraiser, the single appraiser appointed shall be the sole appraiser and shall set the rent for the Extension Period. If the two appraisers are appointed by the parties as stated in this paragraph, they shall meet promptly and attempt to set the rent for the Extension Period. If the two appraisers are unable to agree within thirty (30) days after the second appraiser has been appointed, they shall select a third appraiser meeting the qualifications stated in this paragraph within ten (10) days after the last day the two appraisers are given to set the annual rent. If they are unable to agree on the third appraiser, one meeting those qualifications shall be appointed by Judicial Dispute Resolution in accordance with its rules. The third appraiser, however selected, shall be paid in advance by the Landlord and the City, one-half share each, and shall be a person who has not previously acted in any capacity for either party, unless the parties otherwise agree.

 Within ten (10) days after the selection of the third appraiser, the third appraiser shall select one of the two appraisals as the appraisal that most accurately reflects current market rate for rental of similar space in the Pioneer Square and International District sub-markets, which shall then become the rent for the Extension Period, payable in equal monthly installments in advance on the first day of each calendar month thereof.

 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the appraisers shall exclude from their valuations the reasonable value of any leasehold improvements made by the City to the Premises, which value shall in no event be less than the unamortized costs of such improvements on the City's books as of the date the appraisers determine the value of the Premises.

 6. TERMINATION OPTION: The City shall have the right to terminate the Lease ("Termination Option") at any time upon providing not less than one hundred eighty (180) days prior written notice to Landlord. In the event the City exercises the Termination Option with an effective termination date prior to December 1, 2011, the City shall pay to Landlord a termination fee equal to one (1) month's office rent, excluding Operating Costs, at the time notice of such termination is given. Further, regardless of the effective date, in the event the City exercises the Termination Option, the City shall reimburse Landlord for the unamortized cost of the leasing commissions and Tenant Improvements, as described in Section 12 below, related to this First Amendment. Amortization of the leasing commissions and Tenant Improvement costs shall be calculated over a thirty-six (36) month period, beginning December 1, 2009, and using an eight percent (8%) annual interest rate.

 In the event the City exercises its Expansion Option A below, the City's Termination Option will be waived. If the City exercises Expansion Option B below, the Termination Option will remain in full force and effect and will apply to the entire Premises as expanded under Option B.

 7. EXPANSION OPTION A: Throughout the term of the Lease, the City shall have an ongoing right to lease 14,408 rentable square feet of additional space ("Expansion Option A") located in Suite 100 of the Building ("Expansion Space A"). The City shall exercise the expansion option by providing the Landlord with written notice of the City's intent to exercise its Expansion Option A not less than one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the date the City requires possession of Expansion Space A. The Landlord shall provide the City with access to Expansion Space A for purposes of conducting tenant improvements not more than one hundred twenty (120) days following Tenant's notice to Landlord. Option Space A contains furniture as shown on the attached Exhibit A and the City shall have the right, at no cost, to use the furniture in the event Expansion Option A is exercised. Further, Expansion Space A shall also include, at the City's option, up to two thousand (2,000) square feet of additional storage space in the basement of the Building.

 In the event the City exercises Expansion Option A, Expansion Space A shall become a part of the Premises and all other terms of the lease or any amendments shall apply to Expansion Space A.

 8. EXPANSION OPTION B: Throughout the term of the Lease, the City shall have an ongoing right to lease up to 18,202 rentable square feet of additional space ("Expansion Option B") located in Suites 208, 400, 401, 403 and the basement office space in the Building ("Expansion Space B") provided such Expansion Space B is not under a lease agreement with another tenant at the time the City requires possession. The City shall exercise the option by providing the Landlord with written notice of the City's intent to exercise its Expansion Option B, which notice shall specify the suite number(s) and the approximate square footage of the Expansion Space B the City will lease. The City shall take possession of that portion of Expansion Space B within ninety (90) days of the date such notice is given or the date Expansion Space B becomes available. Landlord shall provide the City with written notice if it is negotiating a letter of intent with another prospective tenant for any portion of Expansion Space B. Further, Landlord shall provide the City with written notice of a fully executed letter of intent between the Landlord and a prospective tenant, such notice to include a full list of available space within the Building and space that will become available in the following twelve (12) months, and the City shall have ten (10) business days to exercise Expansion Option B for that space or Landlord shall have the right to move forward with lease negotiations with the prospective tenant. In the event the Landlord and the prospective tenant do not finalize a lease, the City shall still have its Expansion Option B with respect to that space. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the City shall have the right to exercise Expansion Option B at multiple times for different portions of Expansion Space B in accordance with the terms of this Section 8.

 In the event the City exercises Expansion Option B, the portion of Expansion Space B taken by the City shall become a part of the Premises and all other terms of the lease or any amendments shall apply to Expansion Space B.

 9. CONDITION OF EXPANSION SPACE: In the event the City exercises either Expansion Option A or Expansion Option B above, the Landlord shall have the carpets professionally cleaned and the walls painted at Landlord's expense prior to delivery to the City.

 10. EXPANSION PARKING: In the event the City exercises either Expansion Option A or Expansion Option B, the City shall have the right, at its option, to lease up to an additional twenty-six (26) parking spaces (the "Additional Parking") in the parking lot adjacent to the Building. The rental for such Additional Parking shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per space per month. The City shall have the right to terminate its lease of the Additional Parking at any time upon providing not less than ninety (90) days written notice to the Landlord.

 11. EXPANSION RENT: The rental rate for any Expansion Space A or Expansion Space B taken by the City shall be at the same rental rate as the Premises as described in Section 3 above.

 12. TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: Within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date, Landlord shall professionally clean the carpets and touch up the paint within the Premises to cover any marks on the walls. Landlord shall take all reasonable steps to minimize the disruption to the City's operations in the Premises, including but not limited to coordinating the work with the City and performing the work outside of normal business hours. Further, within thirty (30) days of the execution of this First Amendment, the Landlord shall select an independent contractor acceptable to the City to conduct an inspection of the existing mechanical systems for the Building servicing the Premises. Landlord shall perform any repairs or improvements recommended by the contractor up to a maximum expenditure of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The Landlord shall, at its sole cost and expense, and even if not recommended by the contractor, rebalance, rezone, and adjust the existing HVAC system servicing the Premises to provide a reasonable level of comfort for the occupants of the Premises. All work to be performed by the Landlord in this Section 11 shall collectively be referred to as the "Tenant Improvements".

 13. CITY'S SHARE: The meaning of the term "City's Share," as defined in Section 7.B.3 of the Lease, shall be changed to thirty-three and nine tenths percent (33.9%) and is based upon the office portion of the Premises divided by the total amount of office space in the Building. In the event the City exercises Expansion Option A or Expansion Option B, the City's Share shall be adjusted accordingly.

 14. EXISTING TERMS: All of the terms and conditions of the Lease shall continue in full force and effect as written except as expressly modified by this First Amendment. This First Amendment is hereby incorporated and made a part of the Lease. Further, any capitalized terms not defined in this First Amendment shall be as defined in the Lease.

 {SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS}

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this instrument the day and year indicated below.

 TENANT:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Timothy A. Gallagher

 Superintendent - Department of Parks and Recreation

 Date of Signature:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Authorizing Ordinance: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 LANDLORD:

 FU QUAN, LLC

 (Successor in interest to MLMA, LLC)

 By: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Name: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Title: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Date of Signature:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for Tenant)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2009, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Timothy Gallagher, known to me to be the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the entity that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said entity, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

 STATE OF )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for Lessor)

 COUNTY OF )

 On this day of , \_\_\_\_\_\_, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of , duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, to me known to be the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, the entity that executed the foregoing Lease Amendment as Lessor; and acknowledged to me that he/she signed the same as the free and voluntary act and deed of said entity for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and that he/she was authorized to execute said Lease for said entity.

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that the person appearing before me and making this acknowledgment is the person whose true signature appears on this document.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the day and year in this certificate above written.

 \_\_

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of residing at

 My commission expires \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

 EXHIBIT A

[Diagram showing furniture layout in Expansion Space A](/~ordpics/116658_at1_exa.gif)

