

********

**Council Bill Number: 116641**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Multifamily Housing Property Tax Exemption Program, amending Sections 5.73.060 and 5.73.065 of the Seattle Municipal Code to provide for administrative approval of Multifamily Housing Property Tax Exemption contracts instead of requiring Council action, approving forms of contracts, and providing for annual application reports.

**Status:** Retired
   
**Note:** Retired by [ Resolution 31289](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=31289&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=0&f=S) on March 28, 2011.

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 8, 2009
   
**Committee:** Housing and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** MULTI-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL-AREAS, PROPERTY-TAXES, TAXES, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING, COMMUNITY-DEVELOPMENT, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 121415, 121915, 122730

**Fiscal Note:**116641

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Multifamily Housing Property Tax Exemption Program, amending Sections 5.73.060 and 5.73.065 of the Seattle Municipal Code to provide for administrative approval of Multifamily Housing Property Tax Exemption contracts instead of requiring Council action, approving forms of contracts, and providing for annual application reports.

 WHEREAS, Chapter 5.73 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 121415 and amended by Ordinances 121915 and 122730, implements Chapter 84.14 of the Revised Code of Washington concerning tax exemption for qualified multifamily housing; and

 WHEREAS, Chapter 5.73 requires owners of qualifying projects approved by the Director of Housing to enter into a contract with the City, containing the terms and conditions of the limited tax exemption, with each contract subject to separate approval by City Council by resolution; and

 WHEREAS, the Washington State Legislature approved amendments to RCW Chapter 84.14 in 2007 that clarified that contracts may be approved by an administrative official instead of the governing authority;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 5.73.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is amended as follows:

 Section 5.73.060 Application review - Issuance of conditional certificate - Denial -Appeal - Recording of contract.

 A. The Director shall approve or deny an application under this chapter within ninety (90) days after a complete application is submitted to the Director.

 B. If the application is approved, the ~~applicant~~Owner shall enter into a contract with the City~~, subject to approval by resolution of the City Council,~~ containing the terms and conditions and eligibility for exemption under this chapter. ~~The City Council's resolution to approve the applicant's contract with the City shall be adopted within one hundred twenty (120) days of the Director's receipt of a complete application.~~

 C. The Director is authorized to cause to be recorded, or to require the ~~applicant or~~~~o~~Owner to record, in the real property records of the King County Department of Records and Elections, the contract or such other document(s) as will identify such terms and conditions of eligibility for exemption under this chapter as the Director deems appropriate for recording, including the affordability requirements under this chapter.

 D. ~~Upon Council approval of the contract,~~Following execution of the contract by the Owner and the City, the Director ~~shall execute the contract as approved by the City Council, and~~ shall issue a conditional certificate of acceptance of tax exemption. The conditional certificate shall expire three (3) years from the date of approval unless an extension is granted as provided in this chapter.

 E. If the application is denied, the Director shall state in writing the reasons for the denial and send notice of denial to the ~~applicant's~~Owner's last known address within ten days of the denial.

 F. An ~~applicant~~Owner may appeal the Director's denial of the application by filing an appeal to the City Council with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days of receipt of the denial. The appeal before the City Council will be based on the record before the Director, and the Director's decision will be upheld unless the ~~applicant~~Owner can show that there is no substantial evidence in the record to support the Director's decision. The City Council's decision on appeal is final.

 Section 2. Section 5.73.065 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 121415, is amended as follows:

 Section 5.73.065 Amendment of contract.

 A. An Owner may seek an amendment of the contract ~~approved by the City Council~~ by submitting a request in writing to the Director at any time within three (3) years of the date ~~of the Council's approval~~ of the contract.

~~B. The Director shall have authority to approve amendments to the contract between the Owner and the City that are within the scope and intent of the initial contract approved by the City Council. Amendments that are not reasonably within the scope and intent of the initial approved contract, as determined by the Director, shall be submitted to the City Council for approval by resolution.~~

~~C. An Owner seeking amendments to the approved contract, which in the sole discretion of the Director require approval by the City Council, shall pay to the City an amendment application fee of $750.00. If the City Council denies the amendment, the City will retain that portion of the fee attributable to its own administrative costs and refund the balance, if any, to the Owner.~~

~~D~~B. The date for expiration of the Conditional Certificate shall not be extended by contract amendment unless~~:~~ 1. All the conditions for extension set forth in Section 5.73.070 are met; or

 2. The conditions set forth in Section 5.73.070 A and B are met and the City Council specifically approves the extension

the Director determines that all the conditions set forth in Section 5.73.070 are met.

 Section 3. The Director of Housing (Director) shall use contracts substantially in the form of Attachment A for multifamily rental projects and substantially in the form of Attachment B for multifamily owner- occupied projects.

 Section 4. In addition to the annual reports on Multifamily Housing Property Tax Exemption Program (Program) activity required by Section 2 of Ordinance 121415, the Director of Housing shall provide to the City Council application reports no later than September 30 of each year the Program is in effect, beginning in 2010. The application reports shall list all new project applications approved by the Director during the previous one-year period, the number of market rate and affordable units by unit sizes, projected market rate and affordable rents and sales prices by unit sizes, market rate rent and sales price information for all projects in the same geographic area(s) as the Multifamily Housing Property Tax Exemption projects listed in the application report, and the estimated tax impact on Seattle taxpayers.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment A: Form of Contract for Multifamily Rental Projects

 Attachment B: Form of Contract for Multifamily Owner-occupied Projects

 Amy Gray/ASG

 OH MFTE Ordinance

 August 27, 2009

 Version #3

 Attachment A: Form of Contract for Multifamily Rental Projects

 Attachment A

 MULTIFAMILY HOUSING LIMITED PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION AGREEMENT

 (Rental Projects)

 THIS MULTIFAMILY HOUSING LIMITED PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into on the date signed below between________________, a _______________________, referred to as "Owner," and The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, referred to as "City".

 RECITALS

 A. Owner applied for a limited property tax exemption as provided for in Chapter 84.14 RCW and Chapter 5.73 SMC for new multifamily rental housing [(add if applicable:) as part of a mixed-use development] ("Multifamily Housing") in the _______________________ Residential Targeted Area, and the Director of Housing ("Director") has approved the application; and

 B. Owner has submitted to the City preliminary site plans and floor plans for the Multifamily Housing to be constructed [(add if applicable:) as part of a mixed-use project] ("Project") on property situated at __________________________ in Seattle, Washington, and described more specifically as follows:

 hereafter referred to as the "Property"; and

 3. Owner is the owner of the Property; and

 4. No existing rental housing building that contained four or more occupied dwelling units was demolished on the Property within eighteen (18) months prior to Owner's submission of its application for limited property tax exemption; and

 5. The City has determined that the Multifamily Housing will, if completed, occupied, and owned as proposed, satisfy the requirements for a final certificate of tax exemption

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein, City and Owner do mutually agree as follows:

 1. Conditional Certificate of Acceptance of Tax Exemption.

 The City agrees to issue a conditional certificate of acceptance of tax exemption ("Conditional Certificate"), which will expire three (3) years from the date of this Agreement unless extended by the Director as provided in SMC 5.73.070. Owner understands and agrees that this Agreement and the Conditional Certificate pertain to rental housing and that in the event that individual residential units within the Multifamily Housing are sold, this Agreement will automatically terminate, and any Conditional Certificate issued pursuant to this Agreement is void. For purposes of this Agreement, a sale will be deemed to have occurred when an instrument transferring title to an occupant or proposed occupant of an individual residential unit is recorded.

 2. Agreement to Construct Multifamily Housing.

 a. Owner agrees to construct the Project on the Property, including the Affordable Units, substantially as described in the site plans, floor plans, and elevations attached hereto as Attachment A, subject to such modifications as may be required to comply with applicable codes and ordinances, including the design review process. In no event shall Owner provide fewer than four (4) new dwelling units designed for Permanent Residential Occupancy as part of the Project. At least fifty percent (50%) of the space in each building of the Project must be devoted to Permanent Residential Occupancy.

 b. Owner agrees to comply with all applicable zoning requirements, land use regulations, and building and housing code requirements contained or incorporated in SMC Titles 22, 23, and 25. Owner further agrees that execution of this Agreement by the Director, or issuance of a Conditional Certificate by the City pursuant to SMC Chapter 5.73 in no way constitutes approval of proposed improvements on the Property with respect to applicable provisions contained or incorporated in SMC Titles 22, 23, and 25 or obligates the City to approve proposed improvements.

 c. Owner agrees that the Multifamily Housing will be completed within three (3) years from the date of this Agreement, unless extended by the Director for cause as provided in SMC 5.73.070.

 3. Agreement to Provide Affordable Housing.

 a. Owner agrees that, for the entire period of time for which the Multifamily Housing receives a tax exemption, a certain minimum number of the residential units in the Project shall be Affordable Units. Affordable Units means residential units rented at an Affordable Rent (defined below) to Income Eligible Occupants. In accordance with SMC 5.73.040 B.1. a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of all the units in the Project shall be rented to tenants whose Household Annual Income is at or below eighty percent (80%) of Median Income for studio and one-bedroom units and ninety percent (90%) of Median Income for two-bedroom or larger units. For purposes of this Agreement, Affordable Rent means that the annual rent plus tenant paid utilities for the unit do not exceed 30% of the percentage of Median Income designated by this subsection. Median Income means annual family median income for the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, as published from time to time by HUD. Income Eligible Occupants means that the Household Annual Income at initial occupancy of the Affordable Unit is no greater than the percentage of Median Income designated by this subsection. Household Annual Income is defined in subsection b.(2) below.

 b. Owner is responsible for verifying the income of households occupying Affordable Units no later than the date of initial occupancy.

 (1) Prospective tenants of Affordable Units shall be advised of the definition of Household Annual Income at the time they are provided with an application for tenancy.

 (2) For purposes of this Agreement, Household Annual Income means the aggregate annual income of all persons over eighteen (18) years of age residing within the same household for a period of at least one month and shall be calculated for prospective tenants by projecting the income anticipated to be received over the twelve-month period following the date of initial occupancy, based on the prevailing rate of income of each person at the time of income verification, which shall be no more than six (6) months prior to the date of initial occupancy.

 (3) Documentation of tenant income eligibility for Affordable Units shall be obtained by Owner or Owner's agent and maintained on file for audit or inspection through the term of the tenancy, and for one (1) calendar year thereafter. Documentation shall include, at a minimum, an application signed by the prospective tenant declaring monthly or annual income, and certifying that the information thereon is correct, and evidence of current income.

 c. Owner agrees to make good faith efforts to rent all vacant Affordable Units. Owner shall comply with all applicable fair housing and nondiscrimination laws, ordinances and regulations.

 d. Owner agrees to rent Affordable Units only pursuant to a form lease or rental agreement prepared by Owner. Owner shall provide a copy of the form of lease currently in use to the City promptly upon any request by the City. The form lease or rental agreement shall comply with all applicable laws; shall not include any provisions prohibited by applicable laws or regulations; shall prohibit subletting or assignment of the lease without the express written approval of Owner, which approval shall not be granted by Owner if the result would be any violation of the requirements of this Agreement to provide affordable housing; and shall state that information about the affordable housing requirements pursuant to SMC Chapter 5.73 is available from the City's Office of Housing.

 e. Owner agrees that the mix and configuration of the Affordable Units shall be substantially proportional to the mix and configuration of the total housing units in the Project provided that units with the same number of bedrooms shall be combined into a single category for the purpose of compliance with this provision. If the Project contains more than one building, Owner agrees that all of the Affordable Units will not be located in the same building.

 f. Owner agrees that the Affordable Units shall have substantially the same level of interior fixtures and quality of finish as the other housing units in the Project.

 4. Requirements for Final Certificate of Tax Exemption.

 Owner may, upon completion of the Multifamily Housing and upon issuance by the City of a temporary or permanent certificate of occupancy, request a Final Certificate. The request shall be in writing directed to the City's Office of Housing and be accompanied by all of the following:

 a. A statement of expenditures made with respect to each housing unit in the Project and the total expenditures made with respect to the entire Project.

 b. A description of the completed work and a statement of qualification for the exemption.

 c. Documentation that the Multifamily Housing was completed within the required three-year period or any authorized extension and in compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

 d. Information regarding Owner's compliance with the affordability requirements in SMC 5.73.040 and this Agreement, which shall include all of the following:

 (1) Identification of all Affordable Units, whether rented or held vacant to be rented by Income Eligible Occupants.

 (2) Rents (or offering rents, as applicable) for all Affordable Units.

 (3) A copy of the application form used for rental of Affordable Units.

 (4) A copy of the form of lease or rental agreement to be used for Affordable Units.

 e. Any such further information that the Director deems necessary or useful to evaluate eligibility for the Final Certificate.

 5. Agreement to Issue Final Certificate.

 The City agrees to file a Final Certificate with the King County Assessor within forty (40) days of submission of all materials required by Section 4, if Owner has:

 a. successfully completed the Multifamily Housing in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and SMC Chapter 5.73; and

 b. filed a request for a Final Certificate with the City's Office of Housing and submitted the materials described in Section 4 above; and

 c. paid to the City a fee in the amount of $150.00 to cover the Assessor's administrative costs; and

 d. met all other requirements provided in SMC Chapter 5.73 for issuance of the Final Certificate.

 6. Annual Certification.

 Within thirty (30) days after the first anniversary of the date the City filed the Final Certificate with the King County Assessor and each year thereafter for a period of twelve (12) years, Owner agrees to file a certification or declaration with the Director, verified upon oath or affirmation, with respect to the accuracy of the information provided therein, containing the following:

 a. a statement of the occupancy and vacancy of the Multifamily Housing during the previous year; and

 b. a statement that the Multifamily Housing has not changed use since the date of filing of the Final Certificate; and

 c. a statement that the Multifamily Housing continues to be in compliance with this Agreement and the requirements of SMC Chapter 5.73; and

 d. a description of any improvements or changes to the Project made after the filing of the Final Certificate or the previous annual certification; and

 e. information and documentation sufficient to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director, compliance with the affordability requirements of SMC 5.73.040 B. and this Agreement, which shall, at minimum, include the following:

 (1) identification of each Affordable Unit, and any substitution of Affordable Units during the previous year; and

 (2) for each Affordable Unit that was initially occupied or that had a change of tenancy during the previous year, the date of each tenant's initial occupancy, the household size and Household Annual Income of each tenant household at initial occupancy, and the rent charged at initial occupancy; and

 (3) for any Affordable Units with turnover during the previous calendar year, the date on which any tenancy was terminated, and the time during which the unit remained vacant; and

 (4) the current contract rent on the anniversary date of the Final Certificate for each Affordable Unit.

 7. No Violations for Duration of Exemption.

 For the duration of the limited tax exemption granted under SMC Chapter 5.73, Owner agrees that the Project and the Property will have no violations of applicable zoning requirements, land use regulations, and building and housing code requirements contained in SMC Titles 22, 23, and 25 for which the City's Department of Planning and Development or its functional successor shall have issued a notice of violation, citation or other notification that is not resolved by a certificate of compliance, certificate of release, withdrawal, or another method that proves either compliance or that no violation existed, within the time period for compliance, if any, provided in such notice of violation, citation or other notification or any extension of the time period for compliance granted by the Director of the Department of Planning and Development.

 8. Notification of Transfer of Interest or Change in Use.

 Owner, of itself and its successors and assigns, agrees to notify the Director within thirty (30) days of any transfer of ownership interest in the Project or the Property. Owner, for itself and its successors and assigns, further agrees to notify the Director and the King County Assessor within sixty (60) days of any change of use of any or all of the Multifamily Housing to another use. Owner, for itself and its successors and assigns, acknowledges that such a change in use may result in cancellation of the limited tax exemption and imposition of additional taxes, interest and penalties pursuant to State law.

 9. Cancellation of Exemption - Appeal.

 a. The City reserves the right to cancel the limited tax exemption if at any time the Multifamily Housing no longer complies with the terms of this Agreement or with the requirements of SMC Chapter 5.73 of RCW Chapter 84.14, or for any other reason no longer qualifies for a limited tax exemption.

 b. If the limited tax exemption is canceled for non-compliance, Owner, for itself and its successors and assigns, acknowledges that State law requires that an additional real property tax is to be imposed in the amount of: (1) the difference between the tax paid and the tax that would have been paid if it had included the value of the non-qualifying improvements, dated back to the date that the improvements became non- qualifying; (2) a penalty of 20% of the difference calculated under (1) of this subsection b.; and (3) interest at the statutory rate on delinquent property taxes and penalties, calculated from the date the tax would have been due without penalty if the improvements had been assessed without regard to the exemptions provided by RCW Chapter 84.14 and SMC Chapter 5.73. Owner acknowledges, for itself and its successors and assigns, that, pursuant to RCW 84.14.110, any additional tax owed, together with interest and penalty, become a lien on the Property and attach at the time of any change of use of any or all of the Multifamily Housing or at the time that all or any portion of the Multifamily Housing no longer meets applicable requirements, and that the lien has priority to and must be fully paid and satisfied before a recognizance, mortgage, judgment, debt, obligation, or responsibility to or with which the Property may become charged or liable. Owner further acknowledges, for itself and its successors and assigns, that RCW 84.14.110 provides that any such lien may be foreclosed in the manner provided by law for foreclosure of liens for delinquent real property taxes.

 c. Upon determining that a limited tax exemption is to be canceled, the Director, on behalf of the Council, shall notify the owner of the Property by certified mail, return receipt requested. The owner of the Property may appeal the determination in accordance with RCW 84.14.110 and SMC 5.73.110.

 10. Amendments.

 No modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be made unless mutually agreed upon by the parties in writing and unless in compliance with the provisions of SMC 5.73.065.

 11. Binding Effect.

 The provisions, covenants, and conditions contained in this Agreement are binding upon the parties hereto and their legal heirs, representatives, successors, assigns, and subsidiaries and are intended to run with the land.

 12. Recording of Agreement.

 The Director shall cause to be recorded, or require Owner to record, in the real property records of the King County Department of Records and Elections, this Agreement and any other documents as will identify such terms and conditions of eligibility for limited tax exemption as the Director deems appropriate for recording, including requirements under SMC Chapter 5.73 relating to affordability.

 13. Audits and Inspection of Records.

 Owner understands and agrees that the City has the right to audit or review appropriate records to assure compliance with this Agreement and SMC Chapter 5.73 and to perform evaluations of the effectiveness of the Multifamily Tax Exemption program. Owner agrees to make appropriate records available for review or audit upon seven (7) days' written notice by the City.

 14. Notices.

 All notices to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when hand-delivered within normal business hours, when actually received by facsimile transmission, or two business days after having been mailed, postage prepaid, to the parties hereto at the addresses set forth below, or to such other place as a party may from time to time designate in writing.

 OWNER: Name

 Street Address

 City, State, Zip Code

 Phone: ______________ Fax: ___________ Attention:

 CITY: City of Seattle

 Office of Housing

 700 Fifth Avenue, #5700

 PO Box 94725

 Seattle, Washington 98124-4725

 Phone: (206) 684-0721 Fax: (206) 233-7117

 Attention: Director

 15. Defined Terms.

 All capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement are defined in SMC Chapter 5.73.

 16. Severability.

 In the event that any term or clause of this Agreement conflicts with applicable law, such conflict shall not affect other terms of this Agreement that can be given effect without the conflicting terms or clause, and to this end, the terms of the Agreement are declared to be severable.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the dates indicated below.

 CITY: OWNER: The City of Seattle __________________,

 a _____________________

 By:______________ By: ____________________ Adrienne E. Quinn, Director of Housing Its _____________________

 Date: Date:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , ____, personally appeared before me Adrienne E. Quinn, to me known to be the Director of Housing of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the date and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 Print name:_______________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My Commission expires ___________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , ______, personally appeared before me ________________, to me known to be the _______________________ of ________________________________, a __________________ that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said ___________________________ for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and on oath stated that ___ was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the date and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 Print name:_______________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My Commission expires ___________

 Attachment B: Form of Contract for Multifamily Owner-occupied Projects

 Attachment B

 MULTIFAMILY HOUSING LIMITED PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION AGREEMENT

 (Owner-occupied Affordable Units)

 THIS MULTIFAMILY HOUSING LIMITED PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into on the last date signed below between _______________________, a _____________, referred to as "Owner," and The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, referred to as "City".

 RECITALS

 A. Owner has applied for a limited property tax exemption as provided for in Chapter 84.14 RCW and Chapter 5.73 SMC for new, owner-occupied Affordable Units of multifamily housing in the ____________________________ residential targeted area, and the Director of Housing has approved the application.

 B. Owner has submitted to the City preliminary site plans and floor plans for the multifamily mixed-use project ("Project"), which includes the Affordable Units, to be constructed on property situated at ________________________in Seattle, Washington, and legally described as follows:

 hereafter referred to as the "Property".

 C. Owner is the owner of the Property.

 D. No existing rental housing building that contained four or more occupied dwelling units was demolished on the Property within eighteen (18) months prior to Owner's submission of its application for limited property tax exemption.

 E. The City has determined that the Affordable Units will, if completed, occupied, and owned as proposed, satisfy the requirements for a Final Certificate of Tax Exemption.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein, City and Owner do mutually agree as follows:

 1. Conditional Certificate of Acceptance of Tax Exemption.

 Subject to City Council approval of this Agreement and Owner's execution of this Agreement, City agrees to issue a Conditional Certificate of Acceptance of Tax Exemption ("Conditional Certificate"), which will expire three (3) years from the date of this Agreement unless extended by the Director as provided in SMC 5.73.070.

 2. Construction.

 a. Owner agrees to construct the Project on the Property, including the Affordable Units, substantially as described in the site plans, floor plans, and elevations attached hereto as Attachment A, subject to such modifications as may be required to comply with applicable codes and ordinances, including the design review process. In no event shall Owner provide fewer than four (4) new dwelling units designed for permanent residential occupancy as part of the Project. At least fifty percent (50%) of the space in each building of the Project must be devoted to permanent residential occupancy.

 b. Owner agrees to comply with all applicable zoning requirements, land use regulations, and building and housing code requirements contained or incorporated in SMC Titles 22, 23, and 25 pertaining to the Project or the Property. Owner further agrees that execution of this Agreement by the Director of Housing, or issuance of a Conditional Certificate by the City pursuant to SMC Chapter 5.73 in no way constitutes approval of proposed improvements on the Property with respect to applicable provisions contained or incorporated in SMC Titles 22, 23, and 25 or obligates the City to approve proposed improvements.

 c. Owner agrees to complete the Project within three years from the date of this Agreement, unless extended by the Director of Housing for cause as provided in SMC 5.73.070.

 3. Affordable Units.

 a. Owner has identified the Affordable Units on Attachment B. Each Affordable Unit shall be subject to the conditions and restrictions set forth for Affordable Units in this Agreement.

 b. Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, that for the tax exemption period each Affordable Unit shall be sold to and occupied by person(s) with Household Annual Income at the time of sale no greater than one hundred percent (100%) of Median Income for studio and one- (1bedroom units and one hundred twenty percent (120%) of Median Income for two- (2bedroom and larger units.

 c. Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, during the tax exemption period to inform prospective purchasers of Affordable Units of the affordability requirements and applicable definitions of Median Income and Household Annual Income at the time they are provided with a form of purchase and sale agreement. Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, during the tax exemption period to verify the income of households purchasing Affordable Units no later than the date of sale. For the purposes of this Agreement, a sale occurs when the instrument transferring title to the Affordable Unit is recorded. Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, to maintain documentation of income eligibility for Affordable Units on file for audit or inspection through the tax exemption period, and for one calendar year thereafter.  Documentation shall include, at a minimum, an application signed by the prospective purchaser(s) declaring Household Annual Income, and certifying that the information thereon is correct, and evidence of current income. Legal successors to Owner's interest in the Project prior to the initial sale of the Affordable Units, the initial purchaser(s) of any Affordable Unit, and each subsequent purchaser of an Affordable Unit during the tax exemption period are successors and assigns of Owner for purposes of this Agreement.

 d. Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns, during the tax exemption period to sell the Affordable Units at a sales price established and adjusted periodically by the Director of Housing.

 e. Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, during the tax exemption period to comply with all applicable fair housing and nondiscrimination laws, ordinances and regulations.

 4. Requirements for Final Certificate of Tax Exemption.

 Owner may, upon completion of the Project and upon issuance by the City of a temporary or permanent certificate of occupancy, request a Final Certificate of Tax Exemption for the Affordable Units. The request shall be in writing directed to the City's Office of Housing and shall be accompanied by the following:

 a. a statement of expenditures made with respect to each housing unit in the Project and the total expenditures made with respect to the entire Project;

 b. a description of the completed work and a statement of qualification of the Affordable Units for either the eight- (8year or twelve- (12year limited tax exemption, as provided in SMC 5.73.090;

 c. documentation that the Project was completed within the required three- (3 year period or any authorized extension and in compliance with the terms of this Agreement;

 d. information regarding Owner's compliance with the affordability requirements in SMC 5.73.040 and this Agreement, which shall include the following:

 (1) identification of all Affordable Units,

 (2) selling prices (or asking prices, as applicable) for all Affordable Units,

 (3) documentation of Household Annual Income for purchasers of Affordable Units, and

 (3) a copy of the purchase and sale agreement used for sale of Affordable Units;

 e. any such further information that the Director of Housing deems necessary or useful to evaluate eligibility for the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption; and

 f. payment of One Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150) to the City to cover the King County Assessor's administrative costs.

 5. Agreement to Issue Final Certificate.

 The City agrees to file a Final Certificate of Tax Exemption with the King County Assessor within forty (40) days of Owner's written request for a Final Certificate of Tax Exemption to the Office of Housing, if the City determines that Owner has:

 a. completed the Project in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, SMC Chapter 5.73 and RCW Chapter 84.14;

 b. submitted all information and documentation described in Section 4 above or requested by the Director of Housing;

 c. paid to the City a fee in the amount of One Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150) to cover the King County Assessor's administrative costs; and

 d. met all other requirements provided in SMC Chapter 5.73 and RCW Chapter 84.14 for issuance of the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption.

 6. Annual Certification.

 Within thirty (30) days after the first anniversary of the date the City filed the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption and each year thereafter for the applicable tax exemption period, Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, to file a certification or declaration with the Director of Housing, verified upon oath or affirmation, with respect to the accuracy of the information provided therein, containing the following:

 a. a statement of the occupancy and vacancy of the Affordable Units during the previous year;

 b. a statement that the Affordable Units have not changed use since the date of filing of the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption;

 c. a statement that the Affordable Units continue to be in compliance with this Agreement, the requirements of SMC Chapter 5.73 and the requirements of RCW Chapter 84.14;

 d. a description of any improvements or changes to the Affordable Units made after the filing of the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption or the previous certification; and

 e. information and documentation sufficient to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director of Housing, compliance with the affordability requirements of SMC 5.73.040 and this Agreement.

 7. No violations for Duration of Exemption.

 For the duration of the limited tax exemption granted under SMC Chapter 5.73, Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, that the Affordable Units and the Property will have no violations of applicable zoning requirements, land use regulations, and building and housing code requirements contained in SMC Titles 22, 23, and 25 for which the Department of Planning and Development or its functional successor shall have issued a notice of violation, citation or other notification that is not resolved by a certificate of compliance, certificate of release, withdrawal, or another method that proves either compliance or that no violation existed, within the time period for compliance, if any, provided in such notice of violation, citation or other notification or any extension of the time period for compliance granted by the Director of the Department of Planning and Development.

 8. Notification of Transfer of Interest or Change in Use.

 Owner agrees to notify the Director of Housing within thirty (30) days of any transfer of Owner's ownership interest in the Project or the Property. Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, during the tax exemption period to notify the Director of Housing within thirty (30) days of any transfer of ownership interest in the Affordable Units. Owner further agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, to notify the Director of Housing and the King County Assessor within sixty (60) days of any change of use of any Affordable Unit to another use. Owner acknowledges, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, that such a change in use may result in cancellation of the tax exemption for one or all of the Affordable Units and imposition of additional taxes, interest and penalties for one or all of the Affordable Units pursuant to State law.

 9. Cancellation of Exemption - Appeal.

 a. The City reserves the right to cancel the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption for an Affordable Unit if at any time the Affordable Unit no longer complies with the terms of this Agreement or with the requirements of SMC Chapter 5.73 or RCW Chapter 84.14, or for any other reason no longer qualifies for an exemption.

 b. Owner acknowledges, for itself, its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, that eligibility for twelve (12) years of limited tax exemption requires that at least twenty percent (20%) of all the housing units in the Project must qualify for the tax exemption for the entire twelve- (12year period. If because of change of use or other non-compliance, fewer than twenty percent (20%) of the housing units qualify for limited tax exemption, then the remaining qualifying units shall only be eligible for limited tax exemption for eight (8) years. If fewer than twenty percent (20%) of the housing units qualify for tax exemption after the eighth (8th) anniversary of issuance of the Final Certificate of Tax Exemption, then the exemption shall be immediately cancelled with respect to all the Affordable Units.

 c. If the limited tax exemption for an Affordable Unit is canceled, Owner acknowledges, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, that State law requires that an additional real property tax is to be imposed in the amount of: (1) the difference between the tax paid and the tax that would have been paid if it had included the value of the non-qualifying improvements, dated back to the date that the improvements became non-qualifying; (2) a penalty of twenty percent (20%) of the difference calculated under (1) of this paragraph; and (3) interest at the statutory rate on delinquent property taxes and penalties, calculated from the date the tax would have been due without penalty if the improvements had been assessed without regard to the exemptions provided by RCW Chapter 84.14 and SMC Chapter 5.73. Owner acknowledges, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, that pursuant to RCW 84.14.110 any additional tax owed on an Affordable Unit, together with interest and penalty, becomes a lien on the Affordable Unit and attaches at the time an Affordable Unit no longer qualifies for tax exemption, and that the lien has priority to and must be fully paid and satisfied before a recognizance, mortgage, judgment, debt, obligation, or responsibility to or with which the Affordable Unit may become charged or liable. Owner further acknowledges, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, that RCW 84.14.110 provides that any such lien may be foreclosed in the manner provided by law for foreclosure of liens for delinquent real property taxes.

 d. Upon determining that a tax exemption is to be canceled, the Director of Housing, on behalf of the City Council, shall notify the owner(s) of the affected Affordable Unit(s) by certified mail, return receipt requested. The owner(s) may appeal the determination in accordance with SMC 5.73.110 C, as it may be amended from time to time.

 10. Amendments.

 No modification of this Agreement shall be made unless mutually agreed upon by the City and the Owner or its successors or assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, as applicable, in writing and unless in compliance with the provisions of SMC 5.73.065.

 11. Binding Effect.

 The provisions, covenants, and conditions contained in this Agreement are binding upon the parties hereto and their legal heirs, representatives, successors, assigns, and subsidiaries and are intended to run with the Affordable Units for the applicable limited tax exemption period.

 12. Recording of Agreement.

 The Director of Housing shall cause to be recorded, or require Owner to record, in the real property records of the King County Department of Records and Elections, this Agreement and any other documents as will identify such terms and conditions of eligibility for exemption as the Director deems appropriate for recording, including requirements under SMC Chapter 5.73 relating to affordability.

 13. Audits and Inspection of Records.

 Owner understands and agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, that the City has the right to audit or review appropriate records to assure compliance with this Agreement, SMC Chapter 5.73 and RCW Chapter 84.14 and to perform evaluations of the effectiveness of the Multifamily Housing Property Tax Exemption program. Owner agrees, for itself and its successors and assigns with respect to the Affordable Units, during the tax exemption period and one (1) year thereafter to make appropriate records concerning the Property, the Project and the Affordable Units available for review or audit upon seven (7) days' written notice by the City.

 14. Notices.

 All notices to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when hand-delivered within normal business hours, when actually received by facsimile transmission, or two (2) business days after having been mailed, postage prepaid, to the parties hereto at the addresses set forth below, or to such other place as a party or its successor or assign may from time to time designate in writing.

 OWNER:

 Name

 Street Address

 City, State, Zip Code

 Phone ___________Fax ____________

 Attention:

 CITY: City of Seattle

 Office of Housing

 700 Fifth Avenue, #5700

 PO Box 94725

 Seattle, Washington 98124-4725

 Phone: (206) 684-0721 Fax: (206) 233-7117

 Attention: Director

 15. Defined Terms.

 All capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement are defined in SMC Chapter 5.73.

 16. Severability.

 In the event that any term or clause of this Agreement conflicts with applicable law, such conflict shall not affect other terms of this Agreement that can be given effect without the conflicting terms or clause, and to this end, the terms of the Agreement are declared to be severable.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the dates indicated below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE OWNER

 _______________________ a ______________________

 By:________________________ By: _________________

 Adrienne E. Quinn, Its: __________________

 Director of Housing

 Date:______________________ Date: ______________

 Attachments:

 Attachment A: Site Plans, Floor Plans and Elevations of________________

 Attachment B: Identification of Affordable Units

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , ______, personally appeared before me Adrienne E. Quinn, to me known to be the Director of Housing of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the date and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 Print name:_______________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My Commission expires ___________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , ______, personally appeared before me ________________, to me known to be the _______________________ of ________________________________, a __________________ that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said __________________________ for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and on oath stated that ___ was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal the date and year first above written.

 ________________________________________

 Print name:_______________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at

 My Commission expires ___________

```
