

********

**Council Bill Number: 116601**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123073**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to an exchange of restrictions on the use of property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation to grant the United States of America a Declaration of Restrictions limiting the use of the Crown Hill School property to public park and recreation purposes in exchange for the release of certain deed restrictions applicable to Building 11 in Warren G. Magnuson Park.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 17, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 26, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 20, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 3, 2009
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEEDS, PARKS, MAGNUSON-PARK, SCHOOLS, CROWN-HILL, RECREATIONAL-FACILITIES, RECREATIONAL-ACTIVITIES

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 122814](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s2=&s3=&s4=122814&s5=&Sect4=and&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBOR1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CBOR&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbor1.htm&r=0&f=S), [Ordinance 122890](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s2=&s3=&s4=122890&s5=&Sect4=and&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBOR1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=CBOR&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbor1.htm&r=0&f=S)

**Fiscal Note:**116601

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123073](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123073.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to an exchange of restrictions on the use of property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation to grant the United States of America a Declaration of Restrictions limiting the use of the Crown Hill School property to public park and recreation purposes in exchange for the release of certain deed restrictions applicable to Building 11 in Warren G. Magnuson Park.

 WHEREAS, on March 17, 1999, the United States Government conveyed to the City of Seattle, 93.1 acres of real property ("Magnuson Park Property"), as more fully described in the Quitclaim Deed dated March 17, 1999, and recorded in King County Recorder's Office in File No. 9905041194, King County, Washington; and

 WHEREAS, the Magnuson Park Property, including Building 11, was conveyed to the City of Seattle upon the express condition, imposed by the National Park Service, that it was to be used and maintained for public park and recreational purposes in perpetuity, as expressly set forth in paragraphs 1 through 7 of the Quitclaim Deed; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 122814 authorized the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation to enter into a Lease Agreement with Building 11 LLC (the "Lease") for the purpose of renovating Building 11; and

 WHEREAS, the Lease allows a portion of Building 11 to be used for commercial uses, such as office space, conditioned upon the use being excepted from the Quitclaim Deed restrictions; and

 WHEREAS, a release from the restrictions that Building 11 be used exclusively for public park and recreation purposes is necessary for commercial uses to be located in the building; and

 WHEREAS, the National Park Service has agreed to release Building 11 from the Declaration of Restrictions that limits the property to public park and recreation purposes, on the condition that the City impose the same restrictions on property of equal or greater value; and

 WHEREAS, DPR hired an independent appraiser who has determined the economic value of Building 11; and

 WHEREAS, the City has acquired land known as the Crown Hill School property whose value is greater than the value of Building 11; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council agrees that a similar Declaration of Restrictions should be imposed on the Crown Hill School property; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Seattle Parks and Recreation (the "Superintendent") is hereby authorized to execute and accept, for and on behalf of the City, a Deed of Release from the United States of America ("USA") in a form substantially similar to Attachment 1 to this ordinance. The Superintendent is further authorized to make minor deletions and revisions as may be required by the USA so long as the Superintendent determines that the revisions are for accuracy and are in the best interest of the City.

 Section 2. For and on behalf of the City, the Superintendent is authorized to execute and grant the USA a Declaration of Restrictions in a form substantially similar to Attachment 2 to this ordinance, promising to use and maintain the real property commonly known as Crown Hill School property, legally described on Exhibit A to Attachment 2, exclusively for public park and recreation purposes. The Superintendent is further authorized to make minor deletions and revisions as may be required by the USA so long as the Superintendent determines that the revisions are for accuracy and are in the best interest of the City.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Deed of Release

 Attachment 2: Declaration of Restrictions

 Chip Nevins

 DPR Magnuson Covenant Transfer 09 ORD

 7/9/09

 Version # 6

 Form Last Revised on December 17, 2008 3

 Recording requested by:

 When recorded mail to:

 __________________________________________________________________________ ____

 SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE FOR RECORDER'S USE

 Portion, Former Naval Station Puget Sound (Sand Point)

 City of Seattle, Magnuson Park - Building 11

 DEED OF RELEASE

 This Deed of Release (this "Release") is from THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, acting by and through the undersigned Regional Director, Pacific West Region, National Park Service, under and pursuant to the power and authority contained in the provisions of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (63 Stat. 377), as amended (the "Act"), and regulations and orders promulgated thereunder (hereinafter designated "Grantor"), to City of Seattle ("Grantee"), and its assigns.

 Recitals:

 A. On March 17, 1999, Grantor conveyed to Grantee, pursuant to authority delegated by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior, and as authorized by the Act and regulations and orders promulgated thereunder, 93.1 acres of real property, more or less, located in Seattle, Washington (the "Sand Point Property"), as more fully described in the Quitclaim Deed dated March 17, 1999, and recorded in King County Recorder's Office in File No. 9905041194, King County, Washington (the "Quitclaim Deed").

 B. The Magnuson Park Property was conveyed to Grantee upon the express condition that the Magnuson Park Property was to be used exclusively for public park and recreational purposes and certain restrictions were expressly set forth as paragraphs 1 through 7 of the Quitclaim Deed (collectively, the "Restrictions").

 C. Subsequent to the said conveyance of March 17, 1999, Grantee sought to convey a long-term lease to a private entity, for the purpose of expanding recreational opportunities and programs and allowing for commercial uses, such as office space, in the Building 11 property, which Building property is more fully described on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Exchange Property"), and to obtain a release of the said condition that the Exchange Property was to be used exclusively for public park and recreation purposes, in exchange for which Grantee would acquire other real property, as more fully described in Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof, consisting of 74,537.1 square feet, more or less, known as the Crown Hill School Property and located at 9250 14th Ave NW Seattle, Washington (the " Crown Hill School Property ") and would impose a condition that the Crown Hill School Property be used exclusively for public park and recreation purposes, as required pursuant to the Act.

 D. The Exchange Property is contained within the Sand Point Historic District and is subject to the Historic Resource Covenant (paragraph 13) of the March 17, 1999, Quitclaim Deed. This covenant remains in force, and the Grantee agrees to maintain the Exchange Property in accordance with the Historic Preservation Covenant attached as Exhibit C to said Quitclaim Deed ("Historic Preservation Covenant").

 E. Grantor and Grantee wish to make the Crown Hill School Property available to be used exclusively for public park and recreation purposes.

 F. The Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to release the Exchange Property from the Restrictions if certain conditions are met, which authority has been redelegated to the Director of the National Park Service and the Regional Directors of the National Park Service.

 G. The United States Navy has advised the National Park Service in a message dated 12/17/2008, that it concurs with releasing all Restrictions set forth in the Quitclaim Deed placed upon the Exchange Property for public park and recreational purposes.

 NOW, THEREFORE, the said Regional Director, acting on behalf of the United States of America, does hereby release the Exchange Property from the Restrictions placed upon it in the Quitclaim Deed paragraphs 1 through 7. All other covenants in the Quitclaim Deed, including the Historic Resource Covenant, remain in force. The Restrictions being released are intended only to amend the Quitclaim Deed as to the requirement that the Exchange Property be used exclusively for public park and recreational purposes. This Release does not affect, and the Exchange Property remains subject to, all legal easements, leases, agreements, rights- of-way, historic resources covenants, and other restrictions.

 Grantee hereby agrees to maintain the Exchange Property in accordance with the Historic Preservation Covenant.

 As long as Grantee continues to own both the Sand Point Property and the Exchange Property, Grantee may use and may authorize others to use reasonable routes through the Sand Point Property to access the Exchange Property, provided that the Grantor shall have the right to approve such access routes, and provided further that Grantor may condition its approval in order to protect the use of the remainder of the Sand Point Property for public park and recreation purposes or to insure compliance with any of the other Restrictions that remain on the Sand Point Property.

 In the event that (a) Grantee intends to convey the Exchange Property to another entity, (b) Grantor intends to exercise its right to revert the Sand Point Property, (c) Grantee seeks to transfer the Sand Point Property to another entity with Grantor's approval, or (d) any other conveyance of the Sand Point Property or the Exchange Property is contemplated, the Grantor shall have the right to require that appropriate permanent access easements be established as part of any such conveyance in order to provide access through the Exchange Property and the Sand Point Property for the benefit of the other property, under such terms and conditions and in such locations as the Grantor may determine in its sole discretion.

 In consideration of the release of the Exchange Property from the Restrictions, Grantee has on this same day entered into a Declaration of Restrictions with the United States of America, acting by and through the Secretary of the Interior, whereby Grantee will pledge certain rights and interests in the Crown Hill School Property to the United States of America, acting by and through the Secretary of the Interior. The form of the Declaration of Restrictions is attached as Exhibit C to this Release.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Grantor has caused this Deed or Release to be executed in its name and on its behalf on this the ________ day of _____________________, 200____.

 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

 Acting by and through the Secretary of the Interior

 By ______________________________________

 Jonathan B. Jarvis

 Regional Director, Pacific West Region

 National Park Service

 CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

 STATE OF CALIFORNIA

 COUNTY OF ALAMEDA

 On ____________________ before me, _____________________________________,

 (Name, Title of Officer)

 personally appeared ____________________________________________________________

 who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

 I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal.

 ___________________________________________ (Seal)

 (Signature of Notary Public)

 The foregoing conveyance is hereby accepted and the undersigned agrees, by this acceptance, to assume and be bound by all the obligations, conditions, covenants and agreements therein contained.

 CITY OF SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

 By ____________________________

 Date __________________________

 CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 On this _____ day of ______________, 2009, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared TIMOTHY A. GALLAGHER, known to me to be the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 EXHIBIT A

 Exchange Property

 That portion of Parcel 1-A (Assessor's Parcel No. 0225049062) as described and depicted on Record of Survey No. 20000906900018 records of King County, Washington, as follows;

 Commencing at the most southeasterly corner of said Parcel 1-A, thence N 0 degrees 01'44" W along the boundary of said parcel a distance of 295.51', thence S 89 degrees 59'52" W a distance of 197.27' to the southeast corner of a building known as 'Building 11' and the True Point of Beginning:

 Thence counterclockwise along the outer face of said building, the following courses;

 N 00 degrees 00'08" W 153.42'

 S 89 degrees 59'52" W 2.60'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 162.42'; S 89 degrees 59'52" W 15.67'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 81.33'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 15.67'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 150.50'; S 89 degrees 59'52" W 12.50'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 16.33'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 12.50'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 83.67'; S 89 degrees 59'52" W 54.83'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 13.83'; S 89 degrees 59'52" W 19.75'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 487.92'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 21.27'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 35.92'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 17.00'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 76.33'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 4.67'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 16.83'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 13.25'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 16.83'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 21.00' to the True Point of Beginning.

 Exhibit B

 Crown Hill School Property

 Parcel Y of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment 3009678 also described as:

 That portion of the West one-half of the Northeast one-quarter of the Northwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 36, Township 26 North, Range 3 East W.M., COMMENCING at the northwest corner of said subdivision, Thence South 88 degrees 38'37" East along the north line of said subdivision a distance of 30.00 feet, Thence South 01 degrees 12'52" West along a line that is 30 feet east of and parallel with the west line of said subdivision a distance of 450.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence continuing South 01 degrees 12'52" West along said line a distance of 212.62 feet to the centerline of vacated NW 92nd Street, Thence South 88 degrees 46'30" East along said centerline of vacated NW 92nd Street a distance of 112.52 feet to the northwesterly margin of Holman Road NW, Thence North 54 degrees 12'15" East along said northwesterly margin a distance of 199.72 feet to an intersection with the west line of the east 30.00 feet of said subdivision as established by the City of Seattle Ordinance No. 87198, Thence North 01 degrees 10'05" East along said west line of the east 30 feet a distance of 252.75 feet, Thence North 88 degrees 38'37" West parallel with the north line of said subdivision a distance of 163.80 feet, Thence South 01 degrees 12'52" West parallel with the westerly line of said subdivision a distance of 161.00 feet, Thence North 88 degrees 38'37" West parallel with the north line of said subdivision a distance of 108.00 feet to the TPOB.

 TOGETHER WITH a 10 foot easement over Parcel X for maintenance and repair, per Joint Use Agreement, of a portion of the existing storm drain system which is depicted on Seattle School District No. 1, Crown Hill Elementary School Mechanical Plan M-5 dated 3-08-48 and on page 3 of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 3009678.

 SUBJECT TO a 10 foot easement for maintenance and repair, per Joint Use Agreement, of a portion of the existing storm drain system which is depicted on Seattle School District No.1, Crown Hill Elementary School Mechanical Plan M-5 dated 3-08-48 and on page 3 of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 3009678.

 SUBJECT TO an easement for pedestrian and maintenance use, being a strip of land over the northerly 8 feet of the westerly 155 feet of Parcel Y as established in City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 8903346.

 SUBJECT TO a utility reservation over the south 30.00 feet of said property, which south 30.00 feet is also known as the north 30.00 feet of NW 92nd St as vacated by King County on March 11, 1946 in County Commissioners Volume 44 page 143.

 ALSO SUBJECT TO a pedestrian overpass easement as established by City of Seattle Ordinance No. 93644.

 ALSO SUBJECT TO an easement for a waterline over the north 10 feet of the south 15 feet of said property, per record No. 4832852.

 Exhibit C

 Form of the Declaration of Restrictions

 This Declaration of Restrictions is made by and between the CITY OF SEATTLE, a Municipal Corporation ("Grantor"), and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, acting by and through the Regional Director, Pacific West Region, National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior ("Grantee"), pursuant to the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (63 Stat. 377), as amended (the "Act"), and regulations and orders promulgated thereunder.

 Recitals:

 A. Grantor is the owner of 74,537.1 square feet of real property known as the Crown Hill School Property and located at 9250 14th Ave NW Seattle, Washington, as more fully described on Exhibit B (the " Crown Hill School Property").

 B. This Declaration of Restrictions is made in consideration of the Deed of Release dated of even date herewith between Grantee and Grantor relative to Building 11, 59,206 square feet of real property, more or less, located in a portion of Magnuson Park, 7777 62nd Avenue NE, Seattle, Washington, and more fully described on Exhibit A ("Exchange Property").

 C. Grantor has agreed to impose on the Crown Hill School Property, for the benefit of Grantee and its successors and assigns, restrictive covenants to ensure that the Crown Hill School Property will be permanently used solely for park and recreational purposes.

 Agreement:

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Grantor does hereby declare, covenant, and agree, for itself and its successors and assigns, that the said Crown Hill School Property shall hereafter and perpetually be held and conveyed subject to the following conditions and restrictions, to-wit:

 1. The Crown Hill School Property shall be used and maintained exclusively for public park and recreational purposes in perpetuity as set forth in the program of utilization and plan contained in Grantor's application submitted to Grantee by Grantor on October 29, 2008 (the "Program of Utilization"), which program and plan may be amended from time to time at the written request of either the Grantor or Grantee, with the written concurrence of the other party, and such amendments will be added to and become a part of the original application.

 2. The Grantor shall, within 6 months of the date of this Declaration of Restrictions, erect and maintain a permanent sign or marker near the point of principal access to the Crown Hill School Property indicating that the Crown Hill School Property is a park or recreation area and has been acquired in substitution for property acquired from the Federal Government through the Base Closure Community and Homeless Assistance Act, for use by the general public.

 3. The Crown Hill School Property shall not be sold, leased, assigned or otherwise disposed of except to another eligible governmental agency that the Secretary of the Interior approves in writing. Any such disposition shall assure the continued use and maintenance of the Crown Hill School Property for public park or public recreational purposes subject to the same terms and conditions in this Declaration of Restrictions. Any mortgage, lien, or any other encumbrance not wholly subordinate to the interest of the Grantee in this Declaration of Restrictions shall constitute an impermissible disposal. However, this provision shall not preclude the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns from using revenue or other bonds related to the use of the Crown Hill School Property to the extent that such bonds shall not in any way restrict, encumber, or constitute a lien on the Crown Hill School Property. Furthermore, this provision shall not preclude the Grantor from providing related recreation facilities and services compatible with the approved application though concession agreements, permits, and licenses entered into with third parties, provided prior concurrence to such agreements is obtained in writing from the National Park Service.

 4. All funds generated on the Crown Hill School property through concession agreements, use permits, or other fees generated by activities on the property shall be used only for the implementation of an approved Program of Utilization or the operation of park and recreation facilities and programs on the property. After the Program of Utilization is fully implemented, and as long as the property is properly and sufficiently operated and maintained, the revenue may be used only for other public park and recreational purposes operated by the Grantor. Any revenue received by the Grantor which is generated through the operation of the property shall be listed and accounted for in its biennial reports to the National Park Service.

 5. From the date of this Declaration of Restrictions, the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns, shall submit biennial reports to the Secretary of the Interior, setting forth the use made of the Crown Hill School Property and any revenue generated from its operation during the preceding two-year period, and other pertinent data establishing its continuous use for the purposes set forth above, for ten consecutive reports or as further determined by the Secretary of the Interior.

 6. Grantor further covenants and agrees for itself, its heirs, successors and assigns, that:

 (1) any use, operation, program or activity on or related to the Crown Hill School Property will be conducted in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations relating to nondiscrimination, including but not limited to the following laws and regulations as such may be amended from time to time:

 (a) the regulations of the U.S. Department of the Interior at 43 CFR Part 17,

 (b) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,

 (c) Title III of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975,

 (d) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and

 (e) the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968;

 (2) this covenant shall be subject in all respects to the provisions of said laws and regulations;

 (3) the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns, will promptly take and continue to take such action as may be necessary to effectuate this covenant;

 (4) the United States shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of this covenant;

 (5) the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns, will

 (a) obtain from each other person (any legal entity) who, through contractual or other arrangements with the Grantor, its heirs, successors or assigns, is authorized to provide services or benefits on or in connection with the Crown Hill School Property, a written agreement pursuant to which such other person shall, with respect to the services or benefits which he is authorized to provide, undertake for himself the same obligations as those imposed upon the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns, by this covenant, and

 (b) furnish a copy of such agreement to the Secretary of the Interior or his successor or assign;

 (6) this covenant shall run with the land hereby conveyed, and shall in any event, without regard to technical classification or designation, legal or otherwise, be binding to the fullest extent permitted by law and equity for the benefit of, and in favor of the Grantee and enforceable by the Grantee against the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns; and

 (7) the Grantee shall have a right of access to, and entrance upon, the Crown Hill School Property in order to determine compliance with the terms of this conveyance.

 7. The Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns, shall indemnify, defend, protect, save and hold harmless the Grantee, its employees, officers, attorneys, agents, and representatives from and against any and all debts, duties, obligations, liabilities, law suits, claims, demands, causes of action, damages, losses, costs, and expenses (including without limitation attorneys' fees and expenses, consultant fees and expenses, expert fees and expenses, and court costs) arising out of any claim for personal injury or property damage (including death, illness, or loss of or damage to real or personal property or economic loss) that relates to the Grantor's failure to comply with the terms of this Declaration of Restrictions or from the use or occupancy of the Crown Hill School Property by the Grantor, it heirs, successors, assigns, transferees, or agents.

 8. In the event that there is a breach by the Grantor, its heirs, successors or assigns, of any of the covenants, conditions, restrictions, and agreements set forth herein, whether caused by the legal or other inability of the Grantor, its, successors or assigns, to perform said covenants, conditions, restrictions, or agreements, the Grantee will give written notice, with a reasonable time stated therein, for the elimination, rectification, or commencement and diligent completion of cure of said breach. In the event Grantee, its successors or assigns, fails to commence or cure such breach within the designated time frame set forth in the written notice, Grantor, for itself, its successors and assigns, covenants and agrees that Grantee shall be entitled to the following alternative remedies which shall be available to Grantee at its sole option and in its sole discretion:

 a. Grantor, or its successors and assigns, shall deliver to Grantee a general warranty deed to the Crown Hill School Property and shall allow Grantee the immediate right to reenter and take possession of the Crown Hill School Property. Final acceptance of such deed shall be at the sole option of the Grantee.

 b. In the event Grantor, its successors and assigns, fails to comply with the remedy provided in Section 8(a) above, Grantor, for itself and its successors and assigns covenants and agrees that Grantee shall have the right to prosecute and complete a Quiet Title and Ejectment action, or other reasonably equivalent appropriate action, in a federal court of competent jurisdiction against Grantor, its successors and assigns and any other party-in-interest to the Crown Hill School Property so that Grantee can acquire title and possession of the Crown Hill School Property.

 c. Until Grantee acquires and accepts title and possession to the Crown Hill School Property at its sole option and in accordance with the terms of Section 8(a) or 8(b) above, Grantor, for itself and its successors and assigns, covenants and agrees to be fully responsible to provide protection to and maintenance of said property at all times until such time as the title is actually accepted by the Grantee, including the period of any notice of intent to exercise Grantee's rights. Such protection and maintenance shall, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed by the Federal Management Regulation in 41 CFR 102-75.690 as such may be amended.

 9. The failure of the Grantee to require in any one or more instances complete performance of any of the conditions or covenants shall not be construed as a waiver or relinquishment of such future performance, but obligation of the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns, with respect to such future performance shall continue in full force and effect.

 10. The National Park Service and any representative it may so delegate shall have the right of entry upon the Crown Hill School Property at all reasonable times to conduct inspections of the Crown Hill School Property for the purposes of evaluating the Grantor's compliance with the terms and conditions of this Declaration of Restrictions.

 11. The covenants, conditions, and restrictions set forth herein are intended to be covenants running with the land in accordance with all applicable law and shall burden and run with the Crown Hill School Property and every part thereof or interest therein, and shall be binding on Grantor, its heirs, successors, assigns, and every successor in interest to all or any part of the property, and shall benefit Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns. All restrictions and conditions contained herein are for the sole benefit of the United States of America and may be modified or abrogated by the Secretary of the Interior, or his successor in function, as provided by the Act.

 To indicate their agreement to the provisions contained in this Declaration of Restrictions, Grantor and Grantee have caused this instrument to be executed by their duly authorized representatives effective as of _______________ ___, 2009.

 Grantor:

 City of Seattle, Washington

 By

 CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON

 COUNTY OF KING

 On ____________________ before me, _____________________________________,

 (Name, Title of Officer)

 personally appeared ____________________________________________________________

 who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

 I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of Washington that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal.

 ___________________________________________ (Seal)

 (Signature of Notary Public)

 Grantee:

 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

 Acting by and through the Secretary of the Interior

 By ____________________________________

 Jonathan B. Jarvis

 Regional Director, Pacific West Region

 National Park Service

 Date

 CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

 STATE OF CALIFORNIA

 COUNTY OF ALAMEDA

 On ____________________ before me, _____________________________________,

 (Name, Title of Officer)

 personally appeared ____________________________________________________________

 who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

 I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal.

 ___________________________________________ (Seal)

 (Signature of Notary Public)

 FNP: dsiegenthaler:dps:(510)817- 1324:4/22/09:\\inppwro01\private\grants\flpp\wa\seattle\magnuson park\bldng 11 exchange\deed of release - magnuson park bldng 11 4-22- 09.doc

 Attachment 1

 DPR Magnuson Covenant Transfer 09 ORD

 Version 4

 Portion, Naval Station Puget Sound (Sand Point) Page 13 of 13

 City of Seattle, Magnuson Park DPR Magnuson Covenant Transfer

 DPR Magnuson Covenant Transfer 09 ORD

 Attachment 2

 Recording Requested

 When Recorded, Return To:

 Grantor: The City of Seattle, a Washington State Municipal Corporation

 Grantee: The United States of America, acting by and through the U.S. Department of the Interior

 Abbreviated Legal Description:

 Declaration of Restrictions

 This Declaration of Restrictions is made by and between the CITY OF SEATTLE, a Municipal Corporation ("Grantor"), and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, acting by and through the Regional Director, Pacific West Region, National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior ("Grantee"), pursuant to the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (63 Stat. 377), as amended (the "Act"), and regulations and orders promulgated thereunder.

 Recitals:

 A. Grantor is the owner of 74,537.1 square feet of real property known as the Crown Hill School Property and located at 9250 14th Ave NW Seattle, Washington, as more fully described on Exhibit A (the "Crown Hill School Property").

 B. This Declaration of Restrictions is made in consideration of the Deed of Release dated of even date herewith between Grantee and Grantor relative to Building 11, 59,206 square feet of real property, more or less, located in a portion of Magnuson Park, 7777 62nd Avenue NE, Seattle, Washington, and more fully described on Exhibit B ("Exchange Property").

 C. Grantor has agreed to impose on the Crown Hill School Property, for the benefit of Grantee and its successors and assigns, restrictive covenants to ensure that the Crown Hill School Property will be permanently used solely for park and recreational purposes.

 Agreement:

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Grantor does hereby declare, covenant, and agree, for itself and its successors and assigns, that the said Crown Hill School Property shall hereafter and perpetually be held and conveyed subject to the following conditions and restrictions, to-wit:

 1. The Crown Hill School Property shall be used and maintained exclusively for public park and recreational purposes in perpetuity as set forth in the program of utilization and plan contained in Grantor's application submitted to Grantee by Grantor on October 29, 2008 (the "Program of Utilization"), which program and plan may be amended from time to time at the written request of either the Grantor or Grantee, with the written concurrence of the other party, and such amendments will be added to and become a part of the original application.

 2. The Grantor shall, within 6 months of the date of this Declaration of Restrictions, erect and maintain a permanent sign or marker near the point of principal access to the Crown Hill School Property indicating that the Crown Hill School Property is a park or recreation area and has been acquired in substitution for property acquired from the Federal Government through the Base Closure Community and Homeless Assistance Act, for use by the general public.

 3. The Crown Hill School Property shall not be sold, leased, assigned or otherwise disposed of except to another eligible governmental agency that the Secretary of the Interior approves in writing. Any such disposition shall assure the continued use and maintenance of the Crown Hill School Property for public park or public recreational purposes subject to the same terms and conditions in this Declaration of Restrictions. Any mortgage, lien, or any other encumbrance not wholly subordinate to the interest of the Grantee in this Declaration of Restrictions shall constitute an impermissible disposal. However, this provision shall not preclude the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns from using revenue or other bonds related to the use of the Crown Hill School Property to the extent that such bonds shall not in any way restrict, encumber, or constitute a lien on the Crown Hill School Property. Furthermore, this provision shall not preclude the Grantor from providing related recreation facilities and services compatible with the approved application though concession agreements, permits, and licenses entered into with third parties, provided prior concurrence to such agreements is obtained in writing from the National Park Service.

 4. All funds generated on the Crown Hill School property through concession agreements, use permits, or other fees generated by activities on the property shall be used only for the implementation of an approved Program of Utilization or the operation of park and recreation facilities and programs on the property. After the Program of Utilization is fully implemented, and as long as the property is properly and sufficiently operated and maintained, the revenue may be used only for other public park and recreational purposes operated by the Grantor. Any revenue received by the Grantor which is generated through the operation of the property shall be listed and accounted for in its biennial reports to the National Park Service.

 5. From the date of this Declaration of Restrictions, the Grantor, its heirs, successors and assigns, shall submit biennial reports to the Secretary of the Interior, setting forth the use made of the Crown Hill School Property and any revenue generated from its operation during the preceding two-year period, and other pertinent data establishing its continuous use for the purposes set forth above, for ten consecutive reports or as further determined by the Secretary of the Interior.

 6. Grantor further covenants and agrees for itself, its heirs, successors, and assigns, that:

 (1) any use, operation, program, or activity on or related to the Crown Hill School Property will be conducted in compliance with all federal laws and regulations relating to nondiscrimination, including but not limited to the following laws and regulations as such may be amended from time to time:

 (a) the regulations of the U.S. Department of the Interior at 43 CFR Part 17,

 (b) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,

 (c) Title III of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975,

 (d) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and

 (e) the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968;

 (2) this covenant shall be subject in all respects to the provisions of said laws and regulations;

 (3) the Grantor, its heirs, successors, and assigns, will promptly take and continue to take such action as may be necessary to effectuate this covenant;

 (4) the United States shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of this covenant;

 (5) the Grantor, its heirs, successors, and assigns, will

 (a) obtain from each other person (any legal entity) who, through contractual or other arrangements with the Grantor, its heirs, successors, or assigns, is authorized to provide services or benefits on or in connection with the Crown Hill School Property, a written agreement pursuant to which such other person shall, with respect to the services or benefits which he is authorized to provide, undertake for himself the same obligations as those imposed upon the Grantor, its heirs, successors, and assigns, by this covenant, and

 (b) furnish a copy of such agreement to the Secretary of the Interior or his successor or assign;

 (6) this covenant shall run with the land hereby conveyed, and shall in any event, without regard to technical classification or designation, legal or otherwise, be binding to the fullest extent permitted by law and equity for the benefit of, and in favor of the Grantee and enforceable by the Grantee against the Grantor, its heirs, successors, and assigns; and

 (7) the Grantee shall have a right of access to, and entrance upon, the Crown Hill School Property in order to determine compliance with the terms of this conveyance.

 7. The Grantor, its heirs, successors, and assigns, shall indemnify, defend, protect, save, and hold harmless the Grantee, its employees, officers, attorneys, agents, and representatives from and against any and all debts, duties, obligations, liabilities, law suits, claims, demands, causes of action, damages, losses, costs, and expenses (including without limitation attorneys' fees and expenses, consultant fees and expenses, expert fees and expenses, and court costs) arising out of any claim for personal injury or property damage (including death, illness, or loss of or damage to real or personal property or economic loss) that relates to the Grantor's failure to comply with the terms of this Declaration of Restrictions or from the use or occupancy of the Crown Hill School Property by the Grantor, it heirs, successors, assigns, transferees, or agents.

 8. In the event that there is a breach by the Grantor, its heirs, successors, or assigns, of any of the covenants, conditions, restrictions, and agreements set forth herein, whether caused by the legal or other inability of the Grantor, its, successors or assigns, to perform said covenants, conditions, restrictions, or agreements, the Grantee will give written notice, with a reasonable time stated therein, for the elimination, rectification, or commencement and diligent completion of cure of said breach. In the event Grantee, its successors or assigns, fails to commence or cure such breach within the designated time frame set forth in the written notice, Grantor, for itself, its successors, and assigns, covenants and agrees that Grantee shall be entitled to the following alternative remedies which shall be available to Grantee at its sole option and in its sole discretion:

 a. Grantor, or its successors and assigns, shall deliver to Grantee a general warranty deed to the Crown Hill School Property and shall allow Grantee the immediate right to reenter and take possession of the Crown Hill School Property. Final acceptance of such deed shall be at the sole option of the Grantee.

 b. In the event Grantor, its successors and assigns, fails to comply with the remedy provided in Section 8(a) above, Grantor, for itself and its successors and assigns covenants and agrees that Grantee shall have the right to prosecute and complete a Quiet Title and Ejectment action, or other reasonably equivalent appropriate action, in a federal court of competent jurisdiction against Grantor, its successors, and assigns and any other party-in-interest to the Crown Hill School Property so that Grantee can acquire title and possession of the Crown Hill School Property.

 c. Until Grantee acquires and accepts title and possession to the Crown Hill School Property at its sole option and in accordance with the terms of Section 8(a) or 8(b) above, Grantor, for itself and its successors and assigns, covenants and agrees to be fully responsible to provide protection to and maintenance of said property at all times until such time as the title is actually accepted by the Grantee, including the period of any notice of intent to exercise Grantee's rights. Such protection and maintenance shall, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed by the Federal Management Regulation in 41 CFR 102-75.690 as such may be amended.

 9. The failure of the Grantee to require in any one or more instances complete performance of any of the conditions or covenants shall not be construed as a waiver or relinquishment of such future performance, but obligation of the Grantor, its heirs, successors, and assigns, with respect to such future performance shall continue in full force and effect.

 10. The National Park Service and any representative it may so delegate shall have the right of entry upon the Crown Hill School Property at all reasonable times to conduct inspections of the Crown Hill School Property for the purposes of evaluating the Grantor's compliance with the terms and conditions of this Declaration of Restrictions.

 11. The covenants, conditions, and restrictions set forth herein are intended to be covenants running with the land in accordance with all applicable law and shall burden and run with the Crown Hill School Property and every part thereof or interest therein, and shall be binding on Grantor, its heirs, successors, assigns, and every successor in interest to all or any part of the property, and shall benefit Grantee and Grantee's heirs, successors and assigns. All restrictions and conditions contained herein are for the sole benefit of the United States of America and may be modified or abrogated by the Secretary of the Interior, or his successor in function, as provided by the Act.

 To indicate their agreement to the provisions contained in this Declaration of Restrictions, Grantor and Grantee have caused this instrument to be executed by their duly authorized representatives effective as of _______________ ___, 2009.

 Grantor:

 City of Seattle, Washington

 By

 CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss. (Acknowledgement for Grantor, The City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______________, 2009, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared TIMOTHY GALLAGHER, known to me to be the Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above written.

 [Signature] [Printed Name]

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at .

 My commission expires ______________.

 Grantee:

 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

 Acting by and through the Secretary of the Interior

 By ____________________________________

 Jonathan B. Jarvis

 Regional Director, Pacific West Region

 National Park Service

 Date

 CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

 STATE OF CALIFORNIA

 COUNTY OF ALAMEDA

 On ____________________ before me, _____________________________________,

 (Name, Title of Officer)

 personally appeared ____________________________________________________________

 who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

 I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal.

 ___________________________________________ (Seal)

 (Signature of Notary Public)

 Exhibit A

 Crown Hill School Property

 Parcel Y of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment 3009678 also described as:

 That portion of the West one-half of the Northeast one-quarter of the Northwest one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 36, Township 26 North, Range 3 East W.M., COMMENCING at the northwest corner of said subdivision, Thence South 88 degrees 38'37" East along the north line of said subdivision a distance of 30.00 feet, Thence South 01 degrees 12'52" West along a line that is 30 feet east of and parallel with the west line of said subdivision a distance of 450.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence continuing South 01 degrees 12'52" West along said line a distance of 212.62 feet to the centerline of vacated NW 92nd Street, Thence South 88 degrees 46'30" East along said centerline of vacated NW 92nd Street a distance of 112.52 feet to the northwesterly margin of Holman Road NW, Thence North 54 degrees 12'15" East along said northwesterly margin a distance of 199.72 feet to an intersection with the west line of the east 30.00 feet of said subdivision as established by the City of Seattle Ordinance No. 87198, Thence North 01 degrees 10'05" East along said west line of the east 30 feet a distance of 252.75 feet, Thence North 88 degrees 38'37" West parallel with the north line of said subdivision a distance of 163.80 feet, Thence South 01 degrees 12'52" West parallel with the westerly line of said subdivision a distance of 161.00 feet, Thence North 88 degrees 38'37" West parallel with the north line of said subdivision a distance of 108.00 feet to the TPOB.

 TOGETHER WITH a 10 foot easement over Parcel X for maintenance and repair, per Joint Use Agreement, of a portion of the existing storm drain system which is depicted on Seattle School District No. 1, Crown Hill Elementary School Mechanical Plan M-5 dated 3-08-48 and on page 3 of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 3009678.

 SUBJECT TO a 10 foot easement for maintenance and repair, per Joint Use Agreement, of a portion of the existing storm drain system which is depicted on Seattle School District No.1, Crown Hill Elementary School Mechanical Plan M-5 dated 3-08-48 and on page 3 of City of Seattle Lot Boundary Adjustment No. 3009678.

 SUBJECT TO an easement for pedestrian and maintenance use, being a strip of land over the northerly 8 feet of the westerly 155 feet of Parcel Y as established in City of Seattle Short Subdivision No. 8903346.

 SUBJECT TO a utility reservation over the south 30.00 feet of said property, which south 30.00 feet is also known as the north 30.00 feet of NW 92nd St as vacated by King County on March 11, 1946 in County Commissioners Volume 44 page 143.

 ALSO SUBJECT TO a pedestrian overpass easement as established by City of Seattle Ordinance No. 93644.

 ALSO SUBJECT TO an easement for a waterline over the north 10 feet of the south 15 feet of said property, per record No. 4832852.

 EXHIBIT B

 Exchange Property

 That portion of Parcel 1-A (Assessor's Parcel No. 0225049062) as described and depicted on Record of Survey No. 20000906900018 records of King County, Washington, as follows;

 Commencing at the most southeasterly corner of said Parcel 1-A, thence N 0 degrees 01'44" W along the boundary of said parcel a distance of 295.51', thence S 89 degrees 59'52" W a distance of 197.27' to the southeast corner of a building known as 'Building 11' and the True Point of Beginning:

 Thence counterclockwise along the outer face of said building, the following courses;

 N 00 degrees 00'08" W 153.42'

 S 89 degrees 59'52" W 2.60'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 162.42'; S 89 degrees 59'52" W 15.67'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 81.33'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 15.67'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 150.50'; S 89 degrees 59'52" W 12.50'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 16.33'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 12.50'; N 00 degrees 00'08" W 83.67'; S 89 degrees 59'52" W 54.83'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 13.83'; S 89 degrees 59'52" W 19.75'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 487.92'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 21.27'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 35.92'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 17.00'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 76.33'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 4.67'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 16.83'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 13.25'; S 00 degrees 00'08" E 16.83'; N 89 degrees 59'52" E 21.00' to the True Point of Beginning.

 Form Last Revised on December 31, 2007 1 DPR Magnuson Covenant Transfer 09 ORD Attachment 2

```
