

********

**Council Bill Number: 116716**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123177**
********

 AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital improvement program and position modifications, for the City of Seattle for 2010; creating a barrier fund; creating positions exempt from civil service; and finding that 2010 General Fund contributions to the Park and Recreation Fund exceed the requirements set forth under Article XI, Section 3 of the City Charter; all by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 23, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 3, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 1, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 2, 2009
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** GODDEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUDGET, CAPITAL-IMPROVEMENT-PROGRAM

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Resolution 24964 ](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=24964&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESN1&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RES3&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresn1.htm&r=0&f=S)

**Fiscal Note:**116716

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123177](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123177.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ____________

 AN ORDINANCE adopting a budget, including a capital improvement program and position modifications, for the City of Seattle for 2010; creating a barrier fund; creating positions exempt from civil service; and finding that 2010 General Fund contributions to the Park and Recreation Fund exceed the requirements set forth under Article XI, Section 3 of the City Charter; all by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.030, the Mayor submitted the proposed budget for 2010 to the City Council; and

 WHEREAS, the Mayor submitted a list of proposed position modifications as part of the 2010 Proposed Budget; and

 WHEREAS, by Resolution 24964, the City Council adopted the concept of implementing the City's Capital Improvement Program through appropriations in budgets adopted annually to the greatest extent feasible; and

 WHEREAS, the proposed budget for 2010 includes certain appropriations for capital programs that are described in the 2010-2015 Proposed Capital Improvement Program; and

 WHEREAS, the City's 2010-2015 Capital Improvement Program, in conjunction with the Capital Facilities, Utility and Transportation Elements of the Comprehensive Plan, is in accordance with the State Growth Management Act; and

 WHEREAS, to streamline and facilitate the accounting process, the City is changing the way it processes the General Fund contribution to the Park and Recreation Fund, while continuing to maintain contribution levels to the Park and Recreation Fund in excess of the requirements established under Article XI, Section 3 of the City Charter; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. (a) In accordance with RCW 35.32A.050, the City Council has modified the proposed budget submitted by the Mayor.

 (b) The expenditure allowances for the budget control levels in Attachment A to this ordinance, as restricted by the budget provisos included in Clerk File (C.F.) 310223, are adopted and shall constitute the appropriations for the City's annual budget for 2010.

 (c) The expenditure allowance for each budget control level in Attachment A may be used only for the purpose listed in Attachment A for that budget control level, unless transferred pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Chapter 5.08. Each budget control level listed in Attachment A is a "budget item" as that term is used in SMC Section 5.08.020. Use of any amount of any appropriation restricted by one or more of the provisos in C.F. 310223for any other purpose than that stated, or for any purpose expressly excluded, or in violation of any condition specified by proviso, whether by transfer pursuant to SMC Section 5.08.020 or by any other means, is prohibited.

 (d) Unspent funds for the Executive Department Office of Housing's Low-Income Housing Fund 16400 Budget Control Level appropriated by Section 1(b) shall carry forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by ordinance.

 (e) Unspent funds for the Pike Place Market Renovation Budget Control Level appropriated by Section 1(b) shall carry forward to subsequent fiscal years until they are exhausted or abandoned by ordinance.

 (f) The revenue estimates for 2010 contained in the Mayor's 2010 Proposed Budget, filed in C.F. 310221, as modified by the changes of the City Council in C.F. 310223, are adopted.

 Section 2. The 2010-2015 Proposed Capital Improvement Program submitted by the Mayor, filed in C.F. 310222, as modified by the changes of the City Council in C.F. 310223, is adopted as the City's six-year Capital Improvement Program ("CIP").

 Section 3. (a) The officer and employee position modifications in Attachment B, including the creation of some positions exempt from civil service, as modified by the City Council changes in Attachment D, Part 1, are adopted effective January 1, 2010.

 (b) The officer and employee position abrogations in Attachment C, as modified by the City Council changes in Attachment D, Part 2, are adopted effective March 2, 2010.

 (c) The City by enacting Ordinance 122982 established a position list that became effective as of January 1, 2009. Subsection 3(a) of this ordinance modifies that list. It is anticipated that the Personnel Department will submit a proposed list of the City's regular positions for each department or office as of January 1, 2010, to the City Council for possible action in early 2010. The proposed list should reflect (i) the modifications made in Subsection 3(a) of this ordinance that take effect on January 1, 2010; (ii) the reclassifications of regular positions made by the Personnel Director from January 1, 2009, through December 31, 2009; and (iii) the creation, modification, or abrogation of regular positions by ordinances effective from January 1, 2009, through December 31, 2009. Abrogations taking effect on March 2, 2010, under Section 3(b) shall be reflected in a subsequent position list that will be created for each department or office as of January 1, 2011.

 Section 4. (a) Subject to the conditions in Section 1 above, the appropriation of money in the budget adopted by this ordinance, for a budget control level that includes a program or project assigned a project identification number in the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP, constitutes authority for the designated City department, commission, or office (after compliance with the State Environmental Policy Act) to acquire personal property; obtain options to acquire real property; negotiate to acquire right-of-way and other real property interests; prepare plans and designs; demolish, construct, make improvements; and obtain any ancillary services, including, without limitation, planning, engineering, design, appraisal, escrow, title insurance, construction, inspection, environmental audits, and remediation appraisals or other reviews; all in order to carry out the project or program substantially as described in the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP. Each department may obtain the authorized services or property using City staff or by contract as authorized in Section 6 below. Where projects or programs are identified in the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP to be carried out by other entities wholly or in part with City funds, the appropriation constitutes authority to provide such funds to such other entities for such purposes, subject to applicable laws and ordinances.

 (b) None of the appropriations in the 2010 Adopted Budget may be spent on capital projects or programs unless the projects or programs are specifically identified and assigned a project identification number in the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP or are added to the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP by a future amending ordinance. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, spending on the planning, acquisition, construction, reconstruction, repair, replacement, rehabilitation, or improvement of streets, roads, highways, sidewalks, street and road lighting systems, traffic signals, bridges, domestic water systems, storm and sanitary sewer systems, parks, recreational facilities, law enforcement facilities, fire protection facilities, trails, libraries, administrative or judicial facilities, river or waterway flood control projects, or power transmission or generation facilities.

 (c) Without future Council authorization by ordinance, expenditures in 2010 on any project or program identified and assigned a project identification number in the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP for Seattle City Light, Seattle Public Utilities, or the Seattle Department of Transportation, other than expenditures pursuant to unspent capital appropriations carried forward from 2009 into 2010, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.080 and allocated to the same project or program, shall not exceed by more than $1,000,000 the amount shown as the Appropriations Total in the 2010 column for that project or program. The Department of Finance shall certify to the Chair of the City Council Finance and Budget Committee a list of those unspent capital appropriation or allocation amounts not subject to the expenditure restriction imposed by this subsection by May 1, 2010. The list shall include the project identification number and the dollar amount by project or program not subject to the expenditure restriction, at minimum. The Chair of the City Council Finance and Budget Committee shall then file this certification with the City Clerk.

 (d) Moneys appropriated from funds, subfunds, accounts, and subaccounts in which are deposited the proceeds derived from the issuance of bonded obligations shall be expended only in accordance with the terms, conditions, and restrictions of ordinances authorizing such obligations and establishing the respective funds.

 (e) The 2010-2015 Adopted CIP is part of the 2010 Adopted Budget and identifies, among other projects, those capital projects funded wholly or in part from the proceeds of the taxes authorized in RCW 82.46.010 and/or RCW 82.46.035, and/or from the proceeds of bonds, for the repayment of which tax revenues under RCW 82.46.010 have been pledged. Such taxes are intended to be in addition to other funds that may be reasonably available for such capital projects.

 (f) The portions of the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP pertaining to Seattle City Light and Seattle Public Utilities, as those portions of the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP may be amended from time to time, are adopted as systems or plans of additions to, and betterments and extensions of, the facilities, physical plants, or systems of Seattle City Light and Seattle Public Utilities, respectively.

 (g) The City's Director of Finance and Director of Executive Administration are authorized to draw and pay the necessary warrants or checks and to make any necessary transfers among funds and accounts.

 (h) Except as limited by this Section or by Section 1 above or by any other ordinance, the funds appropriated in the 2010 Adopted Budget shall be subject to transfer for use with other projects as provided in SMC Chapter 5.08.

 Section 5. The Mayor or, at the Mayor's request, the head of the department that is designated to carry out a project for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, is authorized to submit applications as may be deemed appropriate to the United States of America, or any of its departments, and the State of Washington, or any of its departments, for financial assistance in carrying out the authorized projects included in the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP; to make for and on behalf of the City all assurances, promises, representations, and consent to suit, and/or covenants to comply with any applicable regulations of the United States relating to implementation of the projects; to act in connection with the applications as the authorized representative of the City; to provide additional information as may be required; and to prepare plans for implementation of terms and conditions as may accompany financial assistance, provided that the submission of an application shall not result in the making of a contract, in incurring of any indebtedness, or in the acceptance of moneys imposing any duties or obligations upon the City except as shall be authorized by this or other ordinance.

 Section 6. The Director of Transportation, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, the Director of the Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs, the Director of Finance, the Superintendent of City Light, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, the Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department, the Director of Executive Administration, the City Librarian, the Chief Technology Officer, and the Director of the Seattle Center Department are authorized to negotiate for and enter into non-public works contracts, within their appropriation authority, to obtain property and services authorized in Section 4 to carry out those capital projects and programs included in the 2010-2015 Adopted CIP and assigned to their respective departments or offices.

 Section 7. A new barrier fund entitled the Transit Benefit Subfund of the General Fund is created in the City Treasury.

 (a) The purpose of the Transit Benefit Subfund is to support the ongoing provision of commute trip transit subsidies to the employees of the City of Seattle.

 (b) The Transit Benefit Subfund shall receive authorized associated revenues including, but not limited to, interfund transfers; revenues from federal, state, county, or other grants or transfers; private funding, donations or gifts; and other monies as authorized by ordinance.

 (c) The Director of Executive Administration is responsible for administering the Transit Benefit Subfund. The Director of Finance is authorized to create other Accounts or Subaccounts as may be needed to implement the Subfund's purpose and intent as established by this ordinance.

 Section 8. The Mayor and City Council find that the General Fund's 2010 contribution to the Park and Recreation Fund exceeds the requirements established in Article XI, Section 3 of the City Charter.

 Section 9. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If one or more of the provisions of this ordinance shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, the provision shall be severed from the rest of the ordinance and all other provisions shall remain valid.

 Section 10. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a two-thirds vote of all the members of the City Council the _____ day of ________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ________________, 2009. _____________________________________ President _____________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ________________, 2009. _____________________________________ Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ________________, 2009. _____________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: Expenditure Allowances By Budget Control Level

 Attachment B: Position Modifications in the 2010 Proposed Budget Effective January 1, 2010 (Excluding Changes Reflected in the "Budget Errata" Submitted by the Department of Finance to the City Council)

 Attachment C: Filled Position Abrogation List in the 2010 Proposed Budget Effective March 2, 2010

 Attachment D: City Council Changes to Position Modification List in the 2010 Proposed Budget (Including Changes Reflected in the "Budget Errata" Submitted by the Department of Finance to the City Council)

 November 17, 2009 v21 t

 Attachment A: Expenditure Allowances By Budget Control Level

 Fund Department BCL Code BCL Name BCL Purpose Adopted 2010 Expenditure Allowance

 2000 Parks Department 33850-K724 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 137,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 40 and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on (33850-CIP) funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by the 2000 Parks Levy Fund dollars (Fund 33850).

 2003 Fire Fleets and 34440-A1FL Neighborhood The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget 3,830,000 Facilities Facilities 1 Fire Stations Control Level (BCL) is to replace and renovate fire Subfund Department (34440-CIP) stations and other emergency response facilities as part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy program. This BCL is funded by 2003 Fire Facilities Fund dollars (Fund 34440).

 2003 LTGO Seattle 34800-S03P Facility The purpose of the Facility Infrastructure 727,000 Capital Center 02 Infrastructure Renovation and Repair Budget Control Level (BCL) is Project Renovation and to provide for seismic improvements, roof repair and Fund Repair replacement, and other infrastructure improvements (34800-CIP) to facilities on the Seattle Center campus. This BCL is funded by 2003 LTGO Bond dollars (Fund 34800).

 2005 LTGO Department 31032-K724 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 1,285,000 Capital of Parks and 40 and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Project Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on Fund (31032-CIP) funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by the 2005 LTGO Capital Project Fund dollars (Fund 31032).

 2006 LTGO Department 34900-K724 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 70,000 Capital of Parks and 40 and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Projects Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on Fund (34900-CIP) funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by 2006 LTGO Bond dollars (Fund 34900).

 2007 Department 35100-K724 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 241,000 Multipurpose of Parks and 40 and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet LTGO Bond Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on Fund (35100-CIP) funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by 2007 LTGO Bond dollars (Fund 35100).

 2007 Seattle 35100-S940 Monorail The purpose of the Monorail Improvements Budget 553,000 Multipurpose Center 3 Improvements Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the renovation LTGO Bond (35100-CIP) of the Seattle Center Monorail, including the two Fund trains, the two stations and the guideways that run in between. This BCL is funded by LTGO bond dollars (Fund 35100).

 2008 Fleets and 35200-A1FL Neighborhood The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget 700,000 Multipurpose Facilities 1 Fire Stations Control Level (BCL) is to replace and renovate fire LTGO Bond Department (35200-CIP) stations and other emergency response facilities as Fund part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy program. This BCL is funded by 2008 LTGO Bond dollars (Fund 35200).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Neighborhood The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy- Neighborhood 300,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 010 Park Park Acquisition Budget Control Level (BCL) is to Recreation Acquisition provide for neighborhood park acquisitions (33860-CIP) identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Green Space The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Green Space 1,050,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 011 Acquisition Acquisitions Budget Control Level (BCL) is to Recreation (33860-CIP) provide for green space park acquisitions identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Neighborhood The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Neighborhood 3,850,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 020 Parks and Parks and Playgrounds Budget Control Level (BCL) is Recreation Playgrounds to improve and address safety issues at playgrounds (33860-CIP) throughout the city identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Cultural The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Cultural 2,000,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 021 Facilities Facilities Budget Control Level (BCL) is to support Recreation (33860-CIP) the development or restoration of cultural facilities identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Playfields The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Playfields 5,020,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 022 (33860-CIP) Budget Control Level (BCL) is to support the Recreation development or restoration of playfields identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Major Parks The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Major Parks 760,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 023 (33860-CIP) Budget Control Level (BCL) is to support the Recreation development or restoration of major neighborhood parks identified in the 2008 Parks Levy. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Forest & Stream The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Forest & Stream 1,950,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 030 Restoration Restoration Budget Control Level (BCL) is to support Recreation (33860-CIP) the work of the Green Seattle Partnership in leveraging work of the Cascade Land Conservatory to re-establish healthy urban forests on City-owned property. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Community Food The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - P-Patch 500,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 031 Gardens Development Budget Control Level (BCL) is to acquire Recreation P-Patches and develop new community gardens or P-Patches on (33860-CIP) existing City-owned properties. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Shoreline The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Shoreline 100,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 032 Access Access Budget Control Level (BCL) is to develop Recreation (33860-CIP) existing City-owned street ends to provide publicly accessible shoreline. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Opportunity The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Opportunity 25,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 040 Fund Fund Acquisition Budget Control Level (BCL) is to Recreation Acquisition provide funding for acquisition projects identified (33860-CIP) by neighborhood and community groups. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).

 2008 Parks Department 33860-K720 Opportunity The purpose of the 2008 Parks Levy - Opportunity 175,000 Levy Fund of Parks and 041 Fund Fund Development Budget Control Level (BCL) is to Recreation Development provide funding for development projects identified (33860-CIP) by neighborhood and community groups. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860).

 2008 Parks Seattle T2000 Support to The purpose of the Support to Multi-Purpose Trails 3,500,000 Levy Fund Department Multi-Purpose Budget Control Level (BCL) is to appropriate funds of Trails from the 2008 Parks Levy Fund to the Transportation Transportation Operating Fund to support specific trail projects. This BCL is funded by the 2008 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33860).

 2010 Department DEBTISSUE Debt Issuance The purpose of the Debt Issuance Costs Budget 905,400 Multipurpose of Executive Costs Control Level is to create the appropriation LTGO Bond Administration authority to pay debt issuance costs related to the Fund 2010 Multipurpose Limited Tax General Obligation (LTGO) Debt Issuance.

 2010 Department 35400-K722 Golf Projects The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control 863,000 Multipurpose of Parks and 53 (35400-CIP) Level (BCL) is to provide for Golf-related capital LTGO Bond Recreation Projects. This BCL is funded by 2010 LTGO Bond Fund dollars (Fund 35400).

 2010 Fleets and 35400-A1FL Neighborhood The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget 7,000,000 Multipurpose Facilities 1 Fire Stations Control Level (BCL) is to replace and renovate fire LTGO Bond Department (35400-CIP) stations and other emergency response facilities as Fund part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Levy program. This BCL is funded by 2010 LTGO Bond dollars (Fund 35400).

 Arts Executive VA140 Arts Account The purpose of the Arts Account Budget Control Level 3,679,474 Account (BCL) is to invest in Seattle's arts and cultural community to keep artists living and working in Seattle, to build community through arts and cultural events, and to increase arts opportunities for youth. The BCL appropriates the Office's admission tax set-aside which, in 2010, is increased to 75 percent of Admission Tax revenues.

 Beach Department 61500-K724 Docks/Piers/ The purpose of the 25,000 Maintenance of Parks and 47 Floats/Seawalls/ Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Trust Fund Recreation Shorelines Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the (61500-CIP) rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and shorelines. This BCL is funded by Beach Maintenance Trust Fund dollars (Fund 61500).

 Bond Department DEBTBIRF Bond Interest The purpose of the Bond Interest and Redemption 1,815,150 Interest of Executive and Redemption Budget Control Level is to create legal and Administration appropriation authority for debt service payments to Redemption be made through the Bond Interest and Redemption Fund (BIRF) from outside sources.

 Cable Department D160B Cable Fee The purpose of the Cable Fee Support to Information 7,795,316 Television of Support to Technology Fund Budget Control Level is to authorize Franchise Information Information the transfer of resources from the Cable Television Subfund Technology Technology Fund Franchise Subfund to the Department of Information Technology's Information Technology Fund. These resources are used by the Department for a variety of programs consistent with Resolution 30379.

 Cable Department D160C Cable Fee The purpose of the Cable Fee Support to Library Fund 190,000 Television of Support to Budget Control Level is to authorize the transfer of Franchise Information Library Fund resources from the Cable Television Franchise Subfund Technology Subfund to the Seattle Public Library's Operating Fund. The Library uses these resources to pay for and maintain computers available to the public.

 City Light Seattle City SCL100 Office of The purpose of the Office of the Superintendent 3,123,480 Fund Light Superintendent Budget Control Level is to assemble high-level staff to assure the effective delivery of reliable electric power in an environmentally sound manner, and enable the Superintendent to focus on the utility's broad departmental policy direction and leadership, its financial health, and stakeholder relations.

 City Light Seattle City SCL210 Power Supply The purpose of the Power Supply O&M Budget Control 60,738,167 Fund Light O&M Level is to provide clean, safe, economic, efficient, reliable sources of electric power for City Light customers.

 City Light Seattle City SCL220 Conservation The purpose of the Conservation Resources and 46,167,558 Fund Light Resources and Environmental Affairs O&M Budget Control Level is to Environmental see that the utility generates and delivers energy Affairs O&M in a manner that is environmentally responsible, and to design and implement demand-side measures that offset the need for additional generation resources to meet the Utility's load.

 City Light Seattle City SCL250 Power Supply & The purpose of the Power Supply & Environmental 46,263,834 Fund Light Environmental Affairs - CIP Budget Control Level is to provide and Affairs - CIP maintain the physical generating plant required to meet the electrical needs of City Light customers, provide the physical plant and grounds needed by the utility, and comply with license and regulatory requirements.

 City Light Seattle City SCL310 Distribution The purpose of the Distribution Services Budget 61,625,166 Fund Light Services Control Level is to provide reliable electricity to customers through cost-effective operation and maintenance of City Light's overhead and underground distribution systems, substations, and transmission systems.

 City Light Seattle City SCL320 Customer The purpose of the Customer Services Budget Control 26,880,122 Fund Light Services Level is to provide outstanding customer care and service through efficient, accurate metering and billing, and effective customer account management.

 City Light Seattle City SCL350 Customer The purpose of the Customer Services and Energy 110,902,133 Fund Light Services and Delivery - CIP Budget Control Level is to provide Energy Delivery for the installation, maintenance, rehabilitation - CIP and/or replacement of transmission lines, substations, distribution feeders, transformers, services connections, and meters to meet customer demand. This Budget Control Level's capital program coordinates the utility's plant improvements with the efforts of other agencies involved in the  implementation of large projects such as the Alaskan Way Viaduct and Seawall Replacement, North Downtown redevelopment, and Sound Transit light rail.

 City Light Seattle City SCL400 Human Resources The purpose of the Human Resources Budget Control 6,544,319 Fund Light Level is to help City Light be a safe, high performance organization through excellence in safety, organizational development and training, employee and management services, and labor relations.

 City Light Seattle City SCL500 Financial The purpose of the Financial Services - O&M Budget 28,928,871 Fund Light Services - O&M Control Level (BCL) is to foster City Light's financial health through prudent planning, risk mitigation, and financial discipline. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically-disadvantaged businesses, including women and minority firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 City Light Seattle City SCL550 Financial The purpose of the Financial Services - CIP Budget 6,391,563 Fund Light Services - CIP Control Level is to rehabilitate and replace the utility's information technology infrastructure, such as servers and routers, and fund the development of large software applications.

 City Light Seattle City SCL700 Purchased Power The purpose of the Purchased Power Budget Control 405,347,045 Fund Light Level is to acquire power, transmission, and other services associated with wholesale power purchases in a cost-effective manner to meet the day-to-day electricity needs of City Light's retail customers.

 City Light Seattle City SCL800 General The purpose of the General Expenses Budget Control 65,765,573 Fund Light Expenses Level is to budget, track, and monitor the expenses of the utility that, for the most part, are not directly attributable to a specific organizational unit. These expenditures include insurance, bond issue costs, bond maintenance fees, audit costs, Law Department legal fees, external legal fees, employee benefits (medical and retirement costs), industrial insurance costs, general claims costs, and services  provided by the City's internal services departments through the central cost allocation mechanism.

 City Light Seattle City SCL810 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service Budget Control Level 150,692,659 Fund Light is to meet principal repayment and interest obligations on funds borrowed to meet City Light's capital expenditure requirements.

 City Light Seattle City SCL820 Taxes The purpose of the Taxes Budget Control Level is to 70,245,290 Fund Light calculate and pay City Light's legally required tax payments for state, city, and local jurisdictions. This Budget Control Level includes funding for franchise contract payments negotiated with local jurisdictions in City Light's service territory.

 Community Human 6HSD10 Human Services The purpose of the Human Services Department Budget 6,234,046 Development Services Department Control Level is to find and fund solutions for Block Grant Department human needs so low-income, vulnerable residents in Fund greater Seattle can live and thrive. HSD contracts with community-based human service providers and administers programs to see that residents of Seattle and King County have access to homeless shelters, transitional housing, and other emergency services.

 Community Human 6XD10 Office of The purpose of the Office of Economic Development 5,003,675 Development Services Economic Budget Control Level is to help create and maintain Block Grant Department Development healthy businesses, thriving neighborhoods, and Fund community organizations to contribute to a robust economy that will benefit all Seattle residents and future generations.

 Community Human 6XZ10 Office of The purpose of the Office of Housing Budget Control 2,762,293 Development Services Housing Level is to provide opportunities for residents to Block Grant Department thrive by investing in and promoting the development Fund and preservation of affordable housing.

 Cumulative Department 2CCE0-1 1998B Capital The purpose of the 1998B Capital Facilities 3,017,550 Reserve of Executive Facilities Refunding REET I Budget Control Level is to pay debt Subfund - Administration Refunding REET service on 1998 Series B Limited Tax General REET I I Obligation bonds, which were issued to refund bonds Subaccount issued in 1992 at lower interest rates. (00163)

 Cumulative Department 00163-K724 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 600,000 Reserve of Parks and 40 and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Subfund - Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on REET I (00163-CIP) funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's Subaccount capital expenditure requirements and to provide (00163) funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Department 00163-K724 Parks The purpose of the Parks Infrastructure Budget 350,000 Reserve of Parks and 41 Infrastructure Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Subfund - Recreation (00163-CIP) rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Parks REET I infrastructure. This BCL is funded by REET I Subaccount dollars (Fund 00163). (00163)

 Cumulative Department 00163-K724 Citywide and The purpose of the Citywide and Neighborhood 325,000 Reserve of Parks and 49 Neighborhood Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide Subfund - Recreation Projects funds for the acquisition, development, and REET I (00163-CIP) rehabilitation of neighborhood parks and green Subaccount spaces. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund (00163) 00163).

 Cumulative Department 00163-K729 West Point The purpose of the West Point Treatment-Mitigation 808,000 Reserve of Parks and 820 Treatment Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide Subfund - Recreation Mitigation BCL improvements to Discovery Park as part of the West REET I (00163-CIP) Point Settlement Agreement. This BCL is funded by Subaccount REET I dollars (00163). (00163)

 Cumulative Department 2UU51 Tenant The purpose of the Tenant Relocation Assistance 113,000 Reserve of Planning Relocation Program REET I Budget Control Level is to allow the Subfund - and Assistance City to pay for relocation assistance to low income REET I Development Program REET I tenants displaced by development activity, as Subaccount authorized by SMC 22.210 and RCW 59.18.440. (00163)

 Cumulative Fleets and 00163-A1FL Neighborhood The purpose of the Neighborhood Fire Stations Budget 6,651,000 Reserve Facilities 1 Fire Stations Control Level (BCL) is to replace and renovate fire Subfund - Department (00163-CIP) stations and other emergency response facilities as REET I part of the Fire Facilities and Emergency Response Subaccount Levy program. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (00163) (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S03P Campuswide The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and 270,000 Reserve Center 01 Improvements Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Subfund - and Repairs improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, REET I (00163-CIP) including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, Subaccount open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility (00163) improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S03P Facility The purpose of the Facility Infrastructure 57,000 Reserve Center 02 Infrastructure Renovation and Repair Budget Control Level (BCL) is Subfund - Renovation and to provide for seismic improvements, roof repair and REET I Repair replacement, and other infrastructure improvements Subaccount (00163-CIP) to facilities on the Seattle Center campus. This BCL (00163) is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-S03P Utility The purpose of the Utility Infrastructure Budget 30,000 Reserve Center 03 Infrastructure Control Level (BCL) is to provide for repair, Subfund - (00163-CIP) replacement and renovation of utilities at Seattle REET I Center, including chilled water and steam lines, Subaccount electrical equipment, and communication lines. This (00163) BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Seattle 2SC10 CRS REET I The purpose of the CRS REET I Support to McCaw Hall 200,000 Reserve Center Support to Fund Budget Control Level is to appropriate Subfund - McCaw Hall Fund resources from REET I to the McCaw Hall Fund to REET I support major maintenance work on McCaw Hall. This Subaccount appropriation meets the intent of a memorandum of (00163) agreement between Seattle Center and McCaw Hall to share equally the major maintenance needs of the McCaw Hall performance facility, and to deposit all shared funding into an interest-bearing reserve  (fund 11434). Any capital projects related to the expenditure of this reserve are listed in Seattle Center's Capital Improvement Program.

 Cumulative Seattle 00163-B301 Library Major The purpose of the Library Major Maintenance Budget 830,000 Reserve Public 111 Maintenance Control Level is to provide major maintenance to Subfund - Library (00163-CIP) Library facilities, which include the Central REET I Library and all branch libraries, to help ensure Subaccount building integrity and improve functionality for (00163) patrons and staff. This BCL is funded by REET I dollars (Fund 00163).

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 292,000 Reserve of Parks and 40 and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Subfund - Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on REET II (00161-CIP) funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's Subaccount capital expenditure requirements and to provide (00161) funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is supported by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Parks The purpose of the Parks Infrastructure Budget 475,000 Reserve of Parks and 41 Infrastructure Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Subfund - Recreation (00161-CIP) rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Parks REET II infrastructure. This BCL is funded by REET II Subaccount dollars (Fund 00161). (00161)

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Forest The purpose of the Forest Restoration Budget Control 911,000 Reserve of Parks and 42 Restoration Level (BCL) is to protect and restore Parks and Subfund - Recreation (00161-CIP) Recreation's forest habitat and to mitigate future REET II environmental impacts. This BCL is funded by REET Subaccount II dollars (Fund 00161). (00161)

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Building The purpose of the Building Component Renovations 1,215,000 Reserve of Parks and 44 Component Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and Subfund - Recreation Renovations replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their REET II (00161-CIP) components. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars Subaccount (Fund 00161). (00161)

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Ballfields/Athle The purpose of the Ballfields/Athletic Courts/Play 320,000 Reserve of Parks and 45 tic Courts/Play Areas Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Subfund - Recreation Areas the rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and REET II (00161-CIP) Recreation's ballfields, athletic courts, and play Subaccount areas. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund (00161) 00161).

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Pools/Natatorium The purpose of the Pools/Natatorium Renovations 720,000 Reserve of Parks and 46 Renovations Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Subfund - Recreation (00161-CIP) rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and REET II Recreation's pools. This BCL is funded by REET II Subaccount dollars (Fund 00161). (00161)

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Docks/Piers/Floa The purpose of the 657,000 Reserve of Parks and 47 ts/ Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Subfund - Recreation Seawalls/Shoreli Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the REET II nes (00161-CIP) rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Subaccount Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and (00161) shorelines. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161).

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Seattle The purpose of the Seattle Aquarium Projects Budget 800,000 Reserve of Parks and 48 Aquarium Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Subfund - Recreation Projects rehabilitation, replacement, and addition of Seattle REET II (00161-CIP) Aquarium buildings, exhibits, and other structures. Subaccount This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund 00161). (00161)

 Cumulative Department 00161-K724 Citywide and The purpose of the Citywide and Neighborhood 755,000 Reserve of Parks and 49 Neighborhood Projects Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide Subfund - Recreation Projects funds for the acquisition, development, and REET II (00161-CIP) rehabilitation of neighborhood parks and green Subaccount spaces. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund (00161) 00161).

 Cumulative Department 00161-K728 Parks Upgrade The purpose of the Parks Upgrade Program Budget 508,000 Reserve of Parks and 61 Program - CDBG Control Level (BCL) is to provide minor capital Subfund - Recreation (00161-CIP) improvements to low income area parks throughout the REET II City. This BCL is funded by REET II dollars (Fund Subaccount 00161). (00161)

 Cumulative Seattle 2ECM0 CRS REET II The purpose of the CRS REET II Support to 7,976,000 Reserve Department Support to Transportation Budget Control Level is to Subfund - of Transportation appropriate funds from REET II to the Transportation REET II Transportation Operating Fund to support specific capital programs, Subaccount or in the case of the Debt Service Program, (00161) appropriate funds to pay debt service costs directly from the REET II Subaccount.

 Cumulative Seattle CRS-StVac- CRS Street The purpose of the CRS Street Vacation Support to 700,000 Reserve Department SDOT Vacation Transportation Budget Control Level is to Subfund - of Support to appropriate funds from the CRS Street Vacation Street Transportation Transportation Subaccount to the Transportation Operating Fund to Vacation support specific capital programs. Subaccount (00169)

 Cumulative Department 00164-K722 Golf Projects The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control 579,000 Reserve of Parks and 53 (00164-CIP) Level (BCL) is to provide for Golf related capital Subfund - Recreation Projects. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164). Subaccount (00164)

 Cumulative Department 00164-K724 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 153,000 Reserve of Parks and 40 and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Subfund - Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on Unrestricted (00164-CIP) funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's Subaccount capital expenditure requirements and to provide (00164) funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Department 00164-K724 Parks The purpose of the Parks Infrastructure Budget 250,000 Reserve of Parks and 41 Infrastructure Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Subfund - Recreation (00164-CIP) rehabilitation, replacement and addition of Parks Unrestricted infrastructure. This BCL is funded by CRS Subaccount Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164). (00164)

 Cumulative Department 00164-K724 Forest The purpose of the Forest Restoration Budget Control 90,000 Reserve of Parks and 42 Restoration Level (BCL) is to protect and restore Parks and Subfund - Recreation (00164-CIP) Recreation's forest habitat and to mitigate future Unrestricted environmental impacts. This BCL is funded by CRS Subaccount Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164). (00164)

 Cumulative Department 00164-K724 Building The purpose of the Building Component Renovations 1,110,000 Reserve of Parks and 44 Component Budget Control Level (BCL) is to rehabilitate and Subfund - Recreation Renovations replace Parks and Recreation's buildings and their Unrestricted (00164-CIP) components. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted Subaccount dollars (Fund 00164). (00164)

 Cumulative Department 00164-K724 Docks/Piers/ The purpose of the 98,000 Reserve of Parks and 47 Floats/Seawalls/ Docks/Piers/Floats/Seawalls/Shorelines Budget Subfund - Recreation Shorelines Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the Unrestricted (00164-CIP) rehabilitation and replacement of Parks and Subaccount Recreation's docks, piers, floats, seawalls and (00164) shorelines. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Department 2UU50-DC Design The purpose of the Design Commission - CRS-UR Budget 374,000 Reserve of Planning Commission - Control Level is to support the Design Commission, Subfund - and CRS-UR which advises the Mayor, City Council, and City Unrestricted Development departments on the design of capital improvements Subaccount and other projects that shape Seattle's public (00164) realm. The goals of the Commission are to see that public facilities and projects within the city's right-of-way incorporate design excellence, that City projects achieve their goals in an economical  manner, and that they fit the City's design goals.

 Cumulative Department 2UU50-TA Tenant The purpose of the Tenant Relocation Assistance 74,000 Reserve of Planning Relocation Program - CRS-UR Budget Control Level is to allow Subfund - and Assistance the City to pay for relocation assistance to Unrestricted Development Program - low-income tenants displaced by development Subaccount CRS-UR activity, as authorized by SMC 22.210 and RCW (00164) 59.18.440.

 Cumulative Executive V2ACGM Artwork The purpose of the Artwork Conservation - OACA - 187,000 Reserve Conservation - CRS-UR Budget Control Level is to support the Arts Subfund - OACA - CRS-UR Conservation Program, which is administered by the Unrestricted Office of Arts & Cultural Affairs. This program Subaccount provides professional assessment, conservation, (00164) repair, routine and major maintenance, and relocation of artwork for both the City's approximately 400-piece, permanently sited art collection and the approximately 2,700-piece portable artwork collection. The entire collection is an asset to the City, and while major maintenance is generally not required for the new artwork entering the collection, professional routine care  and responses to vandalism are necessary to protect this investment.

 Cumulative Fleets and 00164-A1GM Preliminary The purpose of the Preliminary Engineering Budget 225,000 Reserve Facilities 4 Engineering Control Level (BCL) is to conduct engineering Subfund - Department (00164-CIP) studies helping plan capital projects in general Unrestricted government facilities. This BCL is funded by CRS Subaccount Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164). (00164)

 Cumulative Fleets and 00164-A516 Garden of The purpose of the Garden of Remembrance Budget 22,000 Reserve Facilities 47 Remembrance Control Level (BCL) is to provide City support for Subfund - Department (00164-CIP) replacing components of the memorial located at the Unrestricted Benaroya Concert Hall. This BCL is funded by CRS Subaccount Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164). (00164)

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-S03P Campuswide The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and 105,000 Reserve Center 01 Improvements Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Subfund - and Repairs improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, Unrestricted (00164-CIP) including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, Subaccount open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility (00164) improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-S940 Monorail The purpose of the Monorail Improvements Budget 806,000 Reserve Center 3 Improvements Control Level (BCL) is to provide for the renovation Subfund - (00164-CIP) of the Seattle Center Monorail, including the two Unrestricted trains, the two stations and the guideways that run Subaccount in between. This BCL is funded by CRS Unrestricted (00164) dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-S990 Public The purpose of the Public Gathering Space 50,000 Reserve Center 2 Gathering Space Improvements Budget Control Level (BCL) is to Subfund - Improvements provide for major maintenance and improvements to Unrestricted (00164-CIP) meeting rooms, exhibition spaces, and public Subaccount gathering spaces at Seattle Center. This BCL is (00164) funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Seattle CRS-U-SDOT CRS-U Support The purpose of the CRS-U Support to Transportation 1,135,000 Reserve Department to Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds from Subfund - of Transportation CRS Unrestricted Sub-account to the Transportation Unrestricted Transportation Operating Fund to support specific capital programs. Subaccount (00164)

 Cumulative Seattle 00164-B401 Preliminary The purpose of the Preliminary Engineering and 201,000 Reserve Public 111 Engineering and Planning Budget Control Level (BCL) is to fund the Subfund - Library Planning development of design, engineering, cost estimates, Unrestricted (00164-CIP) and long-term capital planning for major maintenance Subaccount and improvement of Library facilities. This BCL is (00164) funded by CRS Unrestricted dollars (Fund 00164).

 Cumulative Fleets and 00168-A1AP Asset The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Civic Core 300,000 Reserve Facilities 1 Preservation - Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace components Subfund, Department Civic Core of Civic Core buildings at the end of their useful Asset (00168-CIP) lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities dollars (Fund Subaccount 00168). - Fleets and Facilities (00168)

 Cumulative Fleets and 00168-A1AP Asset The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Seattle 2,220,000 Reserve Facilities 2 Preservation - Municipal Tower Budget Control Level (BCL) is to Subfund, Department Seattle replace components of the Seattle Municipal Tower at Asset Municipal Tower the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded Preservation (00168-CIP) by CRS Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Subaccount Facilities dollars (Fund 00168). - Fleets and Facilities (00168)

 Cumulative Fleets and 00168-A1AP Asset The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Shops and 720,000 Reserve Facilities 4 Preservation - Yards Budget Control Level (BCL) is to replace Subfund, Department Shops and Yards components of shop and yard facilities at the end of Asset (00168-CIP) their useful lives. This BCL is funded by CRS Asset Preservation Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Facilities Subaccount dollars (Fund 00168). - Fleets and Facilities (00168)

 Cumulative Fleets and 00168-A1AP Asset The purpose of the Asset Preservation - Public 480,000 Reserve Facilities 6 Preservation - Safety Facilities Budget Control Level (BCL) is to Subfund, Department Public Safety replace components of public safety facilities at Asset Facilities the end of their useful lives. This BCL is funded Preservation (00168-CIP) by CRS Asset Preservation Subaccount - Fleets and Subaccount Facilities dollars (Fund 00168). - Fleets and Facilities (00168)

 Cumulative Department 2CR60 Revenue The purpose of the Revenue Stabilization Reserve 16,480,000 Reserve of Executive Stabilization Budget Control Level is to transfer resources from Subfund, Administration Reserve the Revenue Stabilization Account of the Cumulative Revenue Reserve Subfund to the General Subfund or other Stabilizatio funds supporting the City's general government n Account services. These appropriations are implemented as (00166) operating transfers from the Revenue Stabilization Account to the funds or subfunds they support.

 Drainage Seattle C333B Protection of The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 4,757,062 and Public Beneficial Uses Protection of Beneficial Uses Budget Control Level, Wastewater Utilities a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage Fund revenues, is to make improvements to the City's drainage system to reduce the harmful effects of stormwater runoff on creeks and receiving waters by improving water quality and protecting or enhancing habitat.

 Drainage Seattle C350B Sediments The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 2,732,244 and Public Sediments Budget Control Level, a Capital Wastewater Utilities Improvement Program funded by drainage and Fund wastewater revenues, is to restore and rehabilitate natural resources in or along Seattle's waterways.

 Drainage Seattle C360 Combined Sewer The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 24,171,960 and Public Overflows Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Budget Control Level, Wastewater Utilities a Capital Improvement Program funded by drainage and Fund wastewater revenues, is to plan and construct large infrastructure systems, smaller retrofits, and green infrastructure for CSO control.

 Drainage Seattle C370 Rehabilitation The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 6,484,079 and Public Rehabilitation Budget Control Level, a Capital Wastewater Utilities Improvement Program funded by drainage and Fund wastewater revenues, is to rehabilitate or replace existing drainage and wastewater assets in kind, to maintain the current functionality of the system.

 Drainage Seattle C380 Flooding, Sewer The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 25,053,790 and Public Back-up, and Flooding, Sewer Back-up, and Landslides Budget Wastewater Utilities Landslides Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded Fund by drainage and wastewater revenues, is to plan, design and construct systems aimed at preventing or alleviating flooding and sewer backups in the City of Seattle, protecting public health, safety, and property. This program also protects SPU drainage and wastewater infrastructure from landslides, and  makes drainage improvements where surface water generated from City rights-of-way contributes to landslides.

 Drainage Seattle C410B-DW Shared Cost The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 16,205,574 and Public Projects Shared Cost Projects Budget Control Level, a Wastewater Utilities Drainage and Wastewater Capital Improvement Program, Fund is to implement the Drainage and Wastewater Utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds benefiting the Utility.

 Drainage Seattle C510B-DW Technology The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 4,044,631 and Public Technology Budget Control Level, a Capital Wastewater Utilities Improvement Program, is to make use of recent Fund technology advances to increase the Drainage and Wastewater Utility's efficiency and productivity.

 Drainage Seattle N000B-DW General Expense The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 191,882,360 and Public General Expense Budget Control Level is to Wastewater Utilities appropriate funds to pay the Drainage and Wastewater Fund Utility's general expenses.

 Drainage Seattle N100B-DW Administration The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 1,942,076 and Public Administration Budget Control Level is to provide Wastewater Utilities overall management and policy direction for Seattle Fund Public Utilities and, more specifically, for the Drainage and Wastewater Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services to the entire Department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and  Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including women- and minority-owned firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 Drainage Seattle N300B-DW Customer The purpose of the Drainage and Wastewater Utility 7,174,417 and Public Service Customer Service Budget Control Level is to provide Wastewater Utilities customer service in the direct delivery of essential Fund programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.

 Drainage Seattle N400B-DW Other Operating The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control 46,279,706 and Public Level is to fund the Drainage and Wastewater Wastewater Utilities Utility's operating expenses for Engineering Fund Services, Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and Utility Systems Management programs.

 Educational Department IL100 Early Learning The purpose of the Early Learning Budget Control 4,147,226 & of Level is to increase access for low-income families Developmenta Neighborhoods to higher quality and more extensive educational l Services child care, and to expand the number of current Fund early childhood education programs to allow children to enter Seattle's schools ready to learn.

 Educational Department IL200 Family Support The purpose of the Family Support and Family 3,037,293 & of and Family Involvement Budget Control Level is to provide Developmenta Neighborhoods Involvement culturally relevant family support services and l Services community resources in schools, and to create Fund authentic partnerships among schools, parents, and communities.

 Educational Department IL300 Support for The purpose of the Support for High-Risk Middle and 1,307,430 & of High-Risk High School Age Youth Budget Control Level is to Developmenta Neighborhoods Middle and High provide intensive services to middle and high school l Services School Age age youth to reduce risk factors that affect their Fund Youth ability to achieve academically and complete school.

 Educational Department IL400 Out-of-School The purpose of the Out-of-School Time Budget Control 2,876,622 & of Time Level is to provide safe and academically focused Developmenta Neighborhoods after-school programs for middle and elementary l Services school students. Fund

 Educational Department IL500 Student Health The purpose of the Student Health Budget Control 4,022,176 & of Level is to maintain the existing infrastructure of Developmenta Neighborhoods school-based health services to reduce l Services health-related barriers to learning and academic Fund achievement.

 Educational Department IL600 Crossing Guards The purpose of the Crossing Guards Budget Control 400,000 & of Level is to provide safe transit corridors for Developmenta Neighborhoods students. l Services Fund

 Educational Department IL700 Administration The purpose of the Administration and Evaluation 738,641 & of and Evaluation Budget Control Level is to see that Levy funds are Developmenta Neighborhoods used effectively and achieve their intended goals. l Services Fund

 Educational Department IL800 Middle School The purpose of the Middle School Support Budget 1,442,265 & of Support Control Level is to provide early intervention Developmenta Neighborhoods services to middle school students to improve their l Services ability to achieve academically and to complete Fund school.

 Employees' Employees' R1E00 Employees' The purpose of the Employees' Retirement Budget 11,910,581 Retirement Retirement Retirement Control Level is to manage and administer retirement System Fund System assets and benefits.

 Firefighters Firefighters R2F01 Firefighters The purpose of the Firefighters Pension Budget 21,243,500 Pension Pension Pension Control Level is to provide benefit services to Fund eligible active and retired firefighters.

 Fleets and Fleets and 50300-A1GM General The purpose of the General Government Facilities - 3,500,000 Facilities Facilities 1 Government General Budget Control Level (BCL) is to execute Fund Department Facilities - capital projects in general government facilities. General This BCL is funded by Fleets and Facilities Fund (50300-CIP) dollars (Fund 50300).

 Fleets and Fleets and A1000 Administration The purpose of the Administration Budget Control 3,906,540 Facilities Facilities Level is to provide executive leadership and a range Fund Department of planning and support functions, including policy and strategic analysis, budget development and monitoring, financial analysis and reporting, accounting services, information technology services, human resource services, office administration, and central departmental services such as contract review and legislative coordination. These functions promote solid business systems, optimal resource allocation, and compliance with Citywide financial, technology, and personnel policies.

 Fleets and Fleets and A2000 Fleet Services The purpose of the Fleet Services Budget Control 42,638,533 Facilities Facilities Level is to provide fleet vehicles to City Fund Department departments; assess and implement environmental initiatives related to both the composition of the City's fleet and the fuels that power it; actively manage and maintain the fleet; procure and distribute fuel; and operate a centralized motor pool. The goal of these functions is to create and support an environmentally responsible and  cost-effective Citywide fleet that helps all City departments carry out their work as efficiently as possible.

 Fleets and Fleets and A3000 Facility The purpose of the Facility Operations Budget 67,381,858 Facilities Facilities Operations Control Level is to manage most of the City's Fund Department general government facilities, including the downtown civic campus, police precincts, fire stations, shops and yards, and several parking facilities. Functions include property management, environmental analysis, implementation of environmentally sustainable facility investments, facility maintenance and repair, janitorial services, security services, and event scheduling. The Facility Operations team is also responsible for warehouse, real estate, and mail services throughout the City. These functions promote well-managed, clean, safe, and highly efficient buildings and grounds that house City employees and serve the public.

 Fleets and Fleets and A3100 Technical The purpose of the Technical Services Budget Control 2,997,886 Facilities Facilities Services Level is to plan and administer FFD's Capital Fund Department Improvement Program. This division attempts to ensure that the City develops high-quality and environmentally sustainable capital facilities for City staff and functions.

 Fleets and Fleets and A4000 Judgment and The Judgment and Claims Budget Control Level pays 477,386 Facilities Facilities Claims for judgments, settlements, claims, and other Fund Department eligible expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.

 General Civil V1C00 Civil Service The purpose of the Civil Service Commission Budget 221,282 Subfund Service Commission Control Level is threefold: 1) to provide employees Commission and departments with a quasi-judicial process wherein they can appeal disciplinary actions and alleged violations of the City Charter, personnel code, or other personnel rules; 2) to submit legislation and recommendations to the Mayor and City Council intended to improve the City's personnel system; and 3) to investigate allegations  of political patronage so the City's hiring process conforms to the merit system set forth in the City Charter.

 General Department C8100 Executive The purpose of the Executive Management Budget 2,576,293 Subfund of Executive Management Control Level is to provide executive direction and Administration leadership; strategic, financial and operational planning; risk management and human resource services; and administrative support so that Department managers, staff, and other decision-makers can make informed decisions on how to best serve City customers.

 General Department C8200 Financial The purpose of the Financial Services Budget Control 8,434,576 Subfund of Executive Services Level is to perform financial transactions, provide Administration financial reporting, and receive and disburse funds so that the City remains fiscally solvent.

 General Department C8400 Business The purpose of the Business Technology Budget 9,998,664 Subfund of Executive Technology Control Level is to plan, strategize, develop, Administration implement, and maintain business technologies to support the City's business activities.

 General Department C8500 Revenue and The purpose of the Revenue and Consumer Affairs 5,281,344 Subfund of Executive Consumer Budget Control Level is to administer and enforce Administration Affairs the City's license and tax codes for Seattle residents with the goal that budget expectations are met and consumer protection standards are upheld.

 General Department C8600 Seattle Animal The purpose of the Seattle Animal Shelter Budget 3,423,443 Subfund of Executive Shelter Control Level is to provide enforcement, animal Administration care, and spay and neuter services in Seattle to control pet overpopulation and foster public safety.

 General Department C8700 Contracting and The purpose of the Contracting Budget Control Level 3,377,226 Subfund of Executive Purchasing (BCL) is to anticipate and meet customer contracting Administration Services and purchasing needs; provide education throughout the contracting process; administer policy and law; implement the City's various social objectives in contracting; and provide fair, thorough, and responsive service to customers so they can meet their business needs in an affordable and timely manner. This BCL also supports the efforts and  services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically-disadvantaged businesses, including women and minority firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 General Department CZ000 Finance The purpose of the Finance Budget Control Level is 5,109,720 Subfund of Finance to develop and monitor the budget, issue and manage debt, establish financial policies and plans, and implement overall financial controls for the City. The department also oversees policy on City taxes, investments, accounting and related activities.

 General Department I3100 Director's The purpose of the Director's Office Budget Control 1,353,594 Subfund of Office Level is to provide executive leadership, Neighborhoods communications, and operational support for the entire department. The Director's Office also includes Historic Preservation, which provides technical assistance, outreach, and education to the general public, owners of historic properties, government agencies, and elected officials to identify, protect, rehabilitate, and re-use historic  properties.

 General Department I3200 Customer The purpose of the Customer Service and Operations 3,276,609 Subfund of Service and Budget Control Level is to provide information, Neighborhoods Operations referral services, and coordination of City services to community members, and to provide financial, human resources, facilities, office management, and information technology services to the Department's employees to serve customers efficiently and effectively.

 General Department I3300 Community The purpose of the Community Building Budget Control 3,142,112 Subfund of Building Level is to deliver technical assistance, support Neighborhoods services, and programs in neighborhoods to strengthen local communities, engage residents in neighborhood improvement, leverage resources, and complete neighborhood-initiated projects.

 General Department I3800 Customer The purpose of the Customer Service Bureau is to 686,631 Subfund of Service Bureau assist Seattle residents in accessing services, to Neighborhoods resolve complaints, and to provide appropriate and timely responses from City government.

 General Department I4100 Youth Violence The purpose of the Youth Violence Prevention Budget 3,305,007 Subfund of Prevention Control Level is to help reduce juvenile violent Neighborhoods crimes.

 General Ethics and V1T00 Ethics and The purpose of the Ethics and Elections Budget 611,220 Subfund Elections Elections Control Level is threefold: 1) to audit, Commission investigate, and conduct hearings regarding non-compliance with, or violations of, Commission-administered ordinances; 2) to advise all City officials and employees of their obligations under Commission-administered ordinances; and 3) to publish and broadly distribute information about the City's ethical standards, City election campaigns,  campaign financial disclosure statements, and lobbyist disclosure statements.

 General Executive VJ100 Jail Services The purpose of the Jail Services Budget Control 18,476,852 Subfund Level is to provide for the booking, housing, transporting, and guarding of City inmates, as well as day check-in services for pre-trial defendants and sentenced offenders, other alternatives to confinement, and for the lease of a courtroom in the King County jail. The jail population, for which the City pays, are adults charged with or convicted of misdemeanor crimes alleged to have been committed  within the Seattle city limits.

 General Executive VJ500 Indigent The purpose of the Indigent Defense Services Budget 5,425,163 Subfund Defense Control Level is to secure legal defense services, Services as required by state law, for indigent people facing criminal charges in Seattle Municipal Court.

 General Executive X1000 Office of The purpose of the Office of Sustainability and 1,416,103 Subfund Sustainability Environment Budget Control Level is to develop, and Environment communicate, implement, and monitor the City's Environmental Action Agenda (EAA) and lead the City's Climate Protection and Green Seattle initiatives.

 General Executive X1A00 Office of the The purpose of the Mayor's Office Budget Control 3,691,788 Subfund Mayor Level is to provide honest, accessible leadership to residents, employees, and regional neighbors of the City of Seattle that is clear and responsible in an environment that encourages ideas, civic discourse, and inclusion for the entirety of the City's diverse population, creating an even better place to live, learn, work, and play.

 General Executive X1D00 Office of The purpose of the Office of Economic Development 6,178,757 Subfund Economic Budget Control Level is to provide vital services to Development individual businesses and economic development leadership to support a strong local economy, thriving neighborhood business districts, and broadly-shared prosperity.

 General Executive X1G00 Intergovernmenta The purpose of the Intergovernmental Relations 2,116,946 Subfund l Relations Budget Control Level is to promote and protect the City's federal, state, regional, and international interests by providing strategic advice, representation, and advocacy to, and on behalf of, City elected officials on a variety of issues. These include: federal and state executive and legislative actions; issues and events relating to the City's international relations; and  jurisdictional issues involving King County, suburban cities, and regional governmental organizations.

 General Executive X1R00 Civil Rights The purpose of the Civil Rights Budget Control Level 2,253,988 Subfund is to work toward eliminating discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations, contracting, and lending in Seattle through enforcement, and policy and outreach activities. The Office seeks to encourage and promote equal access and opportunity, diverse participation, and social and economic equity. In addition, the Office is responsible for directing the Race & Social Justice Initiative, leading other City departments to design and implement programs which eliminate institutionalized racism.

 General Executive X1X00 Policy and The purpose of the Policy and Management Budget 0 Subfund Management Control Level is to provide policy assessment support to the Mayor and Council on major policy issues facing the City, and oversee progress on major projects and initiatives.

 General Finance 2QA00 Appropriation The purpose of the Appropriation to General Fund 31,313,710 Subfund General to General Fund Subfunds and Special Funds Budget Control Level is Subfunds and to appropriate General Subfund resources, several of Special Funds which are based upon the performance of certain City revenues, to bond redemption or special purpose funds. These appropriations are implemented as operating transfers to the funds, subfunds, or accounts they support.

 General Finance 2QD00 Reserves The purpose of the Reserves Budget Control Level is 26,021,387 Subfund General to provide appropriation authority to those programs for which there is no single appropriate managing department, or for which there is some Council and/or Mayor desire for additional budget oversight.

 General Finance 2QE00 Support to The purpose of the Support to Operating Funds Budget 292,196,267 Subfund General Operating Funds Control Level is to appropriate General Subfund resources to support the operating costs of line departments that have their own operating funds. These appropriations are implemented as operating transfers to the funds or subfunds they support.

 General Finance 2QF00 Support to The purpose of the Support to Community Development 165,000 Subfund General Community Budget Control Level is to appropriate General Development Subfund resources for services or capital projects that are not directly administered by a City department.

 General Law J1100 Administration The purpose of the Administration Budget Control 1,344,167 Subfund Department Level is to collectively recruit, train, evaluate, and retain qualified personnel who reflect the community and can effectively complete their assigned tasks, operate and maintain computer systems that enable department personnel to effectively use work-enhancing technology, and promote the financial integrity of the Department.

 General Law J1300 Civil Law The purpose of the Civil Law Division Budget Control 9,978,477 Subfund Department Level is to provide legal advice to the City's policy-makers, and to defend and represent the City, its employees, and officials before a variety of county, state, and federal courts and administrative bodies.

 General Law J1500 Public and The purpose of the Public and Community Safety (PCS) 6,903,426 Subfund Department Community Division Budget Control Level includes prosecuting Safety ordinance violations and misdemeanor crimes, maintaining case information and preparing effective case files for the court appearances of prosecuting attorneys, and assisting and advocating for victims of domestic violence throughout the court process.

 General Legislative G1100 Legislative The purpose of the Legislative Department Budget 12,183,308 Subfund Department Department Control Level is to set policy, enact City laws, approve the City's budget, provide oversight of City departments, and conduct operational and administrative activities in an efficient and effective manner to support the mission of the Department.

 General Office of VG000 Office of City The purpose of the Office of City Auditor is to 1,167,987 Subfund City Auditor Auditor provide unbiased analyses, accurate information, and objective recommendations to assist the City in using public resources equitably, efficiently, and effectively in delivering services to Seattle residents.

 General Office of V1X00 Office of The purpose of the Office of Hearing Examiner Budget 555,745 Subfund Hearing Hearing Control Level is to conduct fair and impartial Examiner Examiner hearings in all subject areas where the Seattle Municipal Code grants authority to do so (there are currently more than 50 subject areas) and to issue decisions and recommendations consistent with applicable ordinances.

 General Personnel N1000 Employment and The purpose of the Employment and Training Budget 2,734,690 Subfund Department Training Control Level is to provide staffing services, employee-development opportunities, mediation, and technical assistance to all City departments so the City can meet its hiring needs efficiently, maintain legal compliance, and help organizations and employees accomplish the City's work in a productive and cost-effective manner. This Budget Control Level includes the Police and Fire Exams,  Employment, Supported Employment, Equal Employment Opportunity, Alternative Dispute Resolution, and Career Quest units.

 General Personnel N2000 Employee Health The purpose of the Employee Health Services Budget 2,930,479 Subfund Department Services Control Level is to provide quality, cost-effective employee health care and other benefits, workers' compensation benefits, and safety services to maintain and promote employee health and productivity, and to provide a competitive non-cash compensation package. This program also includes administration of the Seattle Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust.

 General Personnel N3000 Citywide The purpose of the Citywide Personnel Services 3,102,567 Subfund Department Personnel Budget Control Level is to establish Citywide Services personnel rules and provide human resources systems, policy advice, information management, finance and accounting services, contingent work force oversight, and expert assistance to departments, policymakers, and employees so the City can accomplish its business goals in a cost-effective manner. This program includes Policy Development,  Information Management, Finance and Accounting, Temporary Employment Services, and other internal support services.

 General Personnel N4000 City/Union The purpose of the City/Union Relations and 3,151,691 Subfund Department Relations and Classification/ Compensation Services Budget Control Class/Comp Level is to support the City's efforts to fairly Services manage and compensate its diverse work force. City/Union Relations staff provide technical and professional labor-relations services to policymakers and management staff of all City departments. The Class/Comp staff develop personnel rules, pay programs, perform compensation analysis,  and provide classification services and organizational consultation to all City departments.

 General Public V1S00 Public Safety The mission and purpose of the Public Safety Civil 141,914 Subfund Safety Civil Civil Service Service Commission is to implement, administer, and Service Commission direct a civil service system for sworn personnel of Commission the Seattle Fire and Police Departments.

 General Seattle Fire F1000 Administration The purpose of the Administration Budget Control 14,274,271 Subfund Department Level is to allocate and manage available resources, provide management information, and provide dispatch and communication services needed to achieve the Department's mission.

 General Seattle Fire F2000 Risk Management The purpose of the Risk Management Budget Control 2,608,784 Subfund Department Level is to recruit and train uniformed staff, reduce injuries by identifying and changing practices that place firefighters at greater risk, and providing services to enhance firefighter health and wellness.

 General Seattle Fire F3000 Operations The purpose of the Operations Budget Control Level 133,107,809 Subfund Department is to provide emergency and disaster response capabilities for fire suppression, emergency medical needs, hazardous materials, weapons of mass destruction, and search and rescue.

 General Seattle Fire F5000 Fire Prevention The purpose of the Fire Prevention Budget Control 6,991,897 Subfund Department Level is to provide Fire Code enforcement to help prevent injury and loss from fire and other hazards.

 General Seattle M2000 Court The purpose of the Court Operations Budget Control 14,707,890 Subfund Municipal Operations Level is to hold hearings and address legal Court requirements for defendants and others who come before the Court. Some proceedings are held in formal courtrooms and others in magistrate offices, with the goal of providing timely resolution of alleged violations of City ordinances and misdemeanor crimes committed within the Seattle city limits.

 General Seattle M3000 Court The purpose of the Court Administration Budget 6,036,129 Subfund Municipal Administration Control Level is to provide administrative controls, Court develop and provide strategic direction, and provide policy and program development.

 General Seattle M4000 Court The purpose of the Court Compliance Budget Control 5,991,535 Subfund Municipal Compliance Level is to help defendants understand the Court's Court expectations and to assist them in successfully complying with court orders.

 General Seattle P1000 Chief of Police The purpose of the Chief of Police Program is to 4,394,876 Subfund Police lead and direct department employees and to provide Department policy guidance and oversee relationships with the community, so the department can provide the City with professional, dependable, and respectful public safety services.

 General Seattle P1300 Office of The purpose of the Office of Professional 1,838,297 Subfund Police Professional Accountability Budget Control Level is to help to Department Accountability provide oversight so that complaints involving department employees are handled in a thorough, professional, and expeditious manner, to retain the trust and confidence of employees and the public.

 General Seattle P1600 Deputy Chief of The purpose of the Deputy Chief of Staff Budget 25,270,512 Subfund Police Staff Control Level is to oversee the organizational Department support and legal functions of the Department to help achieve its mission. The Deputy Chief of Staff Budget Control Level includes the Chief of Administration who oversees the Records and Files, Data Center and Public Request Programs, which had been their own Budget Control Levels in prior budgets. The Deputy Chief of Staff Budget Control  Level was known as the Deputy Chief of Administration in previous budgets.

 General Seattle P1800 Deputy Chief The purpose of the Deputy Chief Operations Budget 435,005 Subfund Police Operations Control Level is to oversee the operational Department functions of the Department so the public receives public safety services that are dependable, professional, and respectful. The Deputy Chief Operations Budget Control Level oversees the five Precincts and associated personnel.

 General Seattle P3400 Special The purpose of the Special Operations Budget Control 39,162,103 Subfund Police Operations Level is to deploy specialized response units in Department emergencies and disasters. The Bureau provides crowd control, special event, search, hostage, crisis, and water-related support to monitor and protect critical infrastructure to protect lives and property, aid the work of uniformed officers and detectives, and ensure the safety of the public.

 General Seattle P6000 Patrol The purpose of the Patrol Operations Administration 1,124,013 Subfund Police Operations Budget Control Level is to provide oversight and Department Administration direction to Patrol Operations, including the Department's five precincts, with the goal of ensuring that personnel are properly trained, supervised, and equipped to perform their jobs effectively.

 General Seattle P6100 West Precinct The purpose of the West Precinct Patrol Budget 27,772,643 Subfund Police Patrol Control Level is to provide the full range of public Department safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the West Precinct, so that they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P6200 North Precinct The purpose of the North Precinct Patrol Budget 29,193,957 Subfund Police Patrol Control Level is to provide the full range of public Department safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the North Precinct, so that they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P6500 South Precinct The purpose of the South Precinct Patrol Budget 16,454,757 Subfund Police Patrol Control Level is to provide the full range of public Department safety and order maintenance services with the goal of keeping residents of, and visitors to, the South Precinct, safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P6600 East Precinct The purpose of the East Precinct Budget Control 21,895,517 Subfund Police Level is to provide the full range of public safety Department and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the East Precinct, so they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P6700 Southwest The purpose of the Southwest Precinct Patrol Budget 14,803,482 Subfund Police Precinct Patrol Control Level is to provide the full range of public Department safety and order maintenance services to residents of, and visitors to, the Southwest Precinct, so they can be safe in their homes, schools, businesses, and the community at large.

 General Seattle P7000 Criminal The purpose of the Criminal Investigations 6,999,891 Subfund Police Investigations Administration Budget Control Level is to direct and Department Administration support the work of employees in the Criminal Investigations Bureau by providing oversight and policy guidance, and technical support so these employees can execute their job duties effectively and efficiently. The program includes the Internet Crimes against Children and Human Trafficking section and the Crime Gun Initiative analyst.

 General Seattle P7100 Violent Crimes The purpose of the Violent Crimes Investigations 6,676,514 Subfund Police Investigations Budget Control Level is to apply a broad range of Department professional investigative skills and crime scene investigation techniques to homicide, assault, robbery, bias crimes, missing persons, extortion, threat and harassment, and gang-related cases, in order to hold offenders accountable, prevent further harm to victims, and promote public safety.

 General Seattle P7700 Narcotics The purpose of the Narcotics Investigations Budget 4,675,360 Subfund Police Investigations Control Level is to apply a broad range of Department professional investigative skills to interdict narcotics activities affecting the community and region to hold offenders involved in these activities accountable and to promote public safety.

 General Seattle P7800 Special The purpose of the Special Investigations Budget 4,071,223 Subfund Police Investigations Control Level is to apply a broad range of Department professional investigative and analytical skills toward investigating and interdicting vehicle theft, fraud, forgery, and financial exploitation cases; vice crimes and organized crime activities in the community; and toward identifying and describing crime patterns and trends with the goals of holding offenders involved in these activities accountable  and to provide public safety.

 General Seattle P7900 Special Victims The purpose of the Special Victims Budget Control 5,736,729 Subfund Police Level is to apply a broad range of professional Department investigative skills to cases involving family violence, sexual assault, child, and elder abuse, and custodial interference with the goals of holding offenders accountable, preventing additional harm to victims, and providing public safety.

 General Seattle P8000 Field Support The purpose of the Field Support Administration 32,308,996 Subfund Police Administration Budget Control Level is to provide policy direction Department and guidance to the employees and programs in the Department, so they can execute their responsibilities effectively and efficiently. The Field Support Administration Budget Control Level now includes the Communications, Information Technology and Human Resources Programs; which were separate Budget Control Levels in prior budgets.

 Group Term Personnel NA000 Group Term Life The purpose of the Group Term Life Budget Control 936,608 Life Department Level is to provide appropriation authority for the Insurance City's group term life insurance, long-term Subfund disability insurance, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance.

 Health Care Personnel NM000 Health Care The purpose of the Health Care Budget Control Level 149,160,068 Subfund Department is to provide for the City's medical, dental, and vision insurance programs; the Flexible Spending Account; the Employee Assistance Program; and COBRA continuation coverage costs. The City is self-insured and re-insured for some medical plans, and carries insurance for other medical plans and for all dental and vision plans.

 Housing Executive XZ600 Office of The purpose of the Office of Housing Operating Fund 4,658,408 Operating Housing 16600 Budget Control Level is to fund the Fund Operating Fund Department's administration activities. 16600

 Human Human H20YD Youth The purpose of the Youth Development and Achievement 9,988,731 Services Services Development and Budget Control Level is to provide services to youth Operating Department Achievement to support their developmental needs, and facilitate Fund their ability to gain the skills and assets necessary to grow into healthy, successful adults and contributing members of the community.

 Human Human H30CF Community The purpose of the Community Facilities Budget 664,521 Services Services Facilities Control Level is to provide technical assistance and Operating Department capital funding to community-based human service Fund organizations to help the organizations plan and develop facility projects to improve the quality, capacity, and efficiency of service delivery. (Note: This function is primarily funded by Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) revenues, which are appropriated in the CDBG budget, not in  the HSD budget).

 Human Human H30ET Emergency and The purpose of the Emergency and Transitional 28,738,224 Services Services Transitional Services Budget Control Level is to provide Operating Department Services emergency and transitional services and permanent Fund housing to homeless and low-income people in Seattle, so they have a safe place to rest, nutritious food, and a path to stable, permanent housing.

 Human Human H40DV Domestic and The purpose of the Domestic and Sexual Violence 4,860,027 Services Services Sexual Violence Prevention Budget Control Level is to provide Operating Department Prevention leadership and coordination of City and community Fund strategies, education, and training to improve response to, and prevention of, violence against women and children.

 Human Human H50LA Leadership and The purpose of the Leadership and Administration 7,856,326 Services Services Administration Budget Control Level is to provide leadership and Operating Department support to the Human Services Department, the City Fund of Seattle, and the community, with the goal of seeing that human services are responsive to community needs, are delivered through effective and accountable systems, economic disparity is decreased, and racism and other oppressions are dismantled.

 Human Human H60AD Area Agency on The purpose of the Area Agency on Aging Budget 67,683,311 Services Services Aging Control Level is to provide a network of community Operating Department support that improves choice, promotes independence, Fund and enhances quality of life for older people and adults with disabilities.

 Human Human H60SS Self-Sufficiency The purpose of the Self-Sufficiency Budget Control 2,107,085 Services Services Level is to provide utility and other discount Operating Department programs and employment opportunities for seniors Fund and adults with disabilities to improve their ability to remain economically independent.

 Human Human H70PH Public Health Beginning in 2005, all funding previously directed 11,147,191 Services Services Services to Public Health - Seattle and King County was moved Operating Department to the Human Services Department (HSD). To reduce Fund administrative costs and see that its public health investments are consistent with City policy direction, the City enters into outcome-based contracts with community-based agencies, Public Health, and the King County Department of Community and Human Services for services. HSD advises the  City on public health policy, manages health-related contracts, and serves as a regional liaison to Public Health - Seattle and King County. Public health services currently supported by City funds are: - Primary care medical, dental, and specialty services, and access to health insurance for at-risk and vulnerable populations; - Health care for teens in Seattle's public schools; - Health care for homeless individuals and families; - HIV/AIDS prevention and care programs; - Programs to provide access to chemical and dependency services; - Programs to reduce the disparities in health among the Seattle population; and - Public health nursing care home visits to give mothers and babies a healthy start in life.

 Human Human H80EL Early Learning The purpose of the Early Learning and Family Support 14,761,266 Services Services and Family Budget Control Level is to provide children and Operating Department Support families access to affordable, culturally relevant, Fund high-quality care and education, out-of-school time activities, citizenship assistance, advocacy, leadership development, and other family support resources so that parents can maintain or achieve economic self-sufficiency and children will gain the necessary skills and assets to be healthy,  successful in school, and contributing members of the community. This replaces the Childhood Development and Early Development Budget Control Level.

 Industrial Personnel NR500 Industrial The purpose of the Industrial Insurance Budget 18,538,510 Insurance Department Insurance Control Level is to provide for medical, wage Subfund replacement, pension and disability claims related to occupational injuries and illnesses, occupational medical monitoring, workplace safety programs, and related expenses. Since 1972, the City of Seattle has been a self-insured employer as authorized under state law. The Industrial Insurance Subfund receives payments from City departments to pay for  these costs and related administrative expenses.

 Information Department D1100 Finance and The purpose of the Finance and Administration Budget 2,532,015 Technology of Administration Control Level is to provide human resources, Fund Information contracting, finance, budget, and accounting Technology services (planning, control, analysis, and consulting) to the Department.

 Information Department D2200 Technology The purpose of the Technology Leadership and 2,296,067 Technology of Leadership and Governance Budget Control Level is to provide Fund Information Governance departments with strategic direction and Technology coordination on technology for their respective investment decisions.

 Information Department D3300 Technology The purpose of the Technology Infrastructure Budget 44,253,397 Technology of Infrastructure Control Level is to build and operate the City's Fund Information corporate communications and computing assets so Technology that the City can manage information more effectively, deliver services more efficiently, and make well-informed decisions.

 Information Department D4400 Office of The purpose of the Office of Electronic 7,322,749 Technology of Electronic Communications Budget Control Level is to operate Fund Information Communications the Seattle Channel, Cable Office, Web sites, and Technology related programs so that technology delivers services and information to residents, businesses, visitors, and employees in an effective way.

 Judgment/ Department CJ000 Judgment Claims The purpose of the Judgment Claims - General Budget 17,500,000 Claims of Executive - General Control Level is to provide for the payment of legal Subfund Administration claims and suits brought against the City government. The subfund receives appropriations from the General Subfund and the utilities to pay for the judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses expected in the following year. Unused balances, if any, may reduce the contributions required in succeeding years. General  Fund-supported departments with 2% or more of historical Judgment/Claims costs make premium payments to the subfund directly from their budgets. Finance General covers premiums for departments with less than 2% of historical Judgment/Claims costs. Utilities pay their actual expenses as incurred through this budget control level.

 KeyArena Seattle 00138-S03P Campuswide The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and 739,000 Settlement Center 01 Improvements Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Proceeds and Repairs improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, Fund (00138-CIP) including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is supported by resources from the City's settlement with the Sonics (Fund 00138).

 KeyArena Seattle 00138-S03P KeyArena The purpose of this Budget Control Level is to 500,000 Settlement Center 04 (00138-CIP) maintain and enhance the KeyArena facility. This Proceeds BCL is supported by resources from the City's Fund settlement with the Sonics (Fund 00138).

 Library Seattle B1ADM Administrative The purpose of Administrative Services is to support 8,435,625 Fund Public Services the delivery of library services to the public. Library

 Library Seattle B2CTL City The purpose of the City Librarian's Office is to 2,481,198 Fund Public Librarian's provide leadership for the Library in the Library Office implementation of policies and strategic directions set by the Library Board of Trustees.

 Library Seattle B4PUB Library The purpose of Library Services is to provide 40,053,117 Fund Public Services services, materials and programs that benefit and Library Division are valued by Library patrons. Library Services maintains the Library's data processing infrastructure in order to provide information access and Library materials to all patrons.

 Low-Income Executive XZ-R1 Low-Income The purpose of the Low-Income Housing Fund 16400 40,227,072 Housing Housing Fund Budget Control Level is to fund multi-family housing Fund 16400 production, and to support homeownership and sustainability.

 McCaw Hall Seattle 11434-S030 McCaw Hall The purpose of the McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund 400,000 Capital Center 3 Maintenance Budget Control Level (BCL) is to develop an Asset Reserve Fund Preservation Plan for McCaw Hall and fund capital (11434-CIP) investments in the facility. This BCL is supported by resources from the McCaw Hall Maintenance Fund (Fund 11434).

 Municipal Executive 2VMAO Municipal Arts The purpose of the Municipal Arts Fund Budget 2,754,882 Arts Fund Fund Control Level (BCL) is to fund the Public Art program which develops engaging art pieces and programs for City facilities, and maintains the City's existing art collection. The BCL appropriates revenues from the Municipal Arts Fund (MAF), of which most come from the City's One Percent for Art program, a program that invests one percent of eligible capital funds in public art.

 Neighborhood Department 2IN00 Neighborhood The purpose of the Neighborhood Matching Fund Budget 3,692,228 Matching of Matching Fund Control Level is to support local grassroots actions Subfund Neighborhoods within neighborhoods. The Neighborhood Matching Fund provides funding to match community contributions of volunteer labor, donated professional services or materials, or cash, to implement neighborhood-based self-help projects.

 Park and Department 10200-K722 Golf Projects The purpose of the Golf Projects Budget Control 23,000 Recreation of Parks and 53 (10200-CIP) Level (BCL) is to provide for Golf-related capital Fund Recreation Projects. This BCL is funded by Park and Recreation Fund dollars (Fund 10200).

 Park and Department 10200-K724 Debt Service The purpose of the Debt Service and Contract 709,000 Recreation of Parks and 40 and Contract Obligation Budget Control Level (BCL) is to meet Fund Recreation Obligation principal repayment and interest obligations on (10200-CIP) funds borrowed to meet Parks and Recreation's capital expenditure requirements and to provide funds for centrally allocated contracting services. This BCL is funded by Park and Recreation Fund dollars (Fund 10200).

 Park and Department K310C Swimming, The purpose of the Swimming, Boating, and Aquatics 7,954,102 Recreation of Parks and Boating, and Budget Control Level is to provide a variety of Fund Recreation Aquatics structured and unstructured water-related programs and classes so participants can enjoy and develop skills in a range of aquatic activities.

 Park and Department K310D Recreation The purpose of the Recreation Facilities and 23,085,635 Recreation of Parks and Facilities and Programs Budget Control Level is to manage and staff Fund Recreation Programs the City's neighborhood community centers and Citywide recreation facilities and programs, which allow Seattle residents to enjoy a variety of social, athletic, cultural, and recreational activities.

 Park and Department K320A Facility and The purpose of the Facility and Structure 12,902,754 Recreation of Parks and Structure Maintenance Budget Control Level is to repair and Fund Recreation Maintenance maintain park buildings and infrastructure so that park users can have structurally sound and attractive parks and recreational facilities.

 Park and Department K320B Park Cleaning, The purpose of the Park Cleaning, Landscaping, and 24,976,578 Recreation of Parks and Landscaping, Restoration Budget Control Level is to provide Fund Recreation and Restoration custodial, landscape, and forest maintenance and restoration services in an environmentally sound fashion to provide park users with safe, useable, and attractive park areas.

 Park and Department K320C Seattle The purpose of the Seattle Conservation Corps Budget 4,207,028 Recreation of Parks and Conservation Control Level is to provide training, counseling, Fund Recreation Corps and employment to homeless and unemployed people so that they acquire skills and experience leading to long-term employment and stability.

 Park and Department K350A Seattle The purpose of the Seattle Aquarium Budget Control 10,723,934 Recreation of Parks and Aquarium Level is to provide exhibits and environmental Fund Recreation educational opportunities that expand knowledge of, inspire interest in, and encourage stewardship of the aquatic wildlife and habitats of Puget Sound and the Pacific Northwest.

 Park and Department K350B Woodland Park In December 2001, the City of Seattle, by Ordinance 6,386,314 Recreation of Parks and Zoo 120697, established an agreement with the non-profit Fund Recreation Woodland Park Zoological Society to operate and manage the Woodland Park Zoo beginning in March 2002. The Department's budget includes the City's support for Zoo operations. The purpose of the Zoo is to provide care for animals and offer exhibits, educational programs, and appealing visitor amenities so Seattle residents and visitors have the  opportunity to enjoy and learn about animals and wildlife conservation.

 Park and Department K370C Planning, The purpose of the Planning, Development, and 6,987,283 Recreation of Parks and Development, Acquisition Budget Control Level is to acquire, Fund Recreation and Acquisition plan, design, develop and coordinate the construction of new, and the improvement of existing, parks and related facilities to benefit the citizens of Seattle and the City's guests. This includes providing engineering and technical services to solve maintenance and operational problems, and preserving open spaces through a combination of direct purchases, transfers and consolidations of City-owned lands, voluntary conservation measures, and developing resolutions to property encroachment issues.

 Park and Department K380A Judgment and The Judgment and Claims Budget Control Level pays 1,641,680 Recreation of Parks and Claims for judgments, settlements, claims, and other Fund Recreation eligible expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.

 Park and Department K390A Finance and The purpose of the Finance and Administration Budget 7,668,203 Recreation of Parks and Administration Control Level is to provide the financial, Fund Recreation technological, and business development support necessary to provide effective delivery of the Department's services.

 Park and Department K390B Policy The purpose of the Policy Direction and Leadership 4,194,897 Recreation of Parks and Direction and Budget Control Level is to provide guidance within Fund Recreation Leadership the Department and outreach to the community on policies that enable the Department to offer outstanding parks and recreation opportunities to Seattle residents and our guests.

 Park and Department K400A Golf The purpose of the Golf Budget Control Level is to 8,971,596 Recreation of Parks and efficiently manage the City's four golf courses at Fund Recreation Jackson, Jefferson, West Seattle, and Interbay to provide top-quality public golf courses and maximize earned revenues.

 Park and Department K410A Golf Capital The purpose of the Golf Capital Reserve Budget 447,531 Recreation of Parks and Reserve Control Level is to transfer resources from the Fund Recreation Parks and Recreation Fund to the Cumulative Reserve Subfund to provide for previously identified Golf Program capital projects. There are no staff and no program services delivered through this program.

 Park and Department K430A Environmental The purpose of the Environmental Learning and 3,660,043 Recreation of Parks and Learning and Programs Budget Control Level is to deliver and Fund Recreation Programs manage environmental stewardship programs and the City's environmental education centers at Discovery Park, Carkeek Park, Seward Park, and Camp Long. The programs are designed to encourage Seattle residents to take actions that respect the rights of all living things and environments, and to contribute to healthy and livable communities.

 Park and Department K430B Natural The purpose of the Natural Resources Management 6,217,624 Recreation of Parks and Resources Budget Control Level is to provide cost efficient Fund Recreation Management and centralized management for the "living inventories" of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Direct management responsibilities include greenhouses, nurseries, the Volunteer Park Conservatory, landscape and urban forest restoration programs, sport field turf management, water conservation programs, pesticide reduction and  wildlife management, and heavy equipment support for departmental operations and capital projects.

 Parking Fleets and 46011 Pacific Place The purpose of the Pacific Place Garage Budget 7,603,084 Garage Facilities Garage Control Level is to provide appropriation authority Operations Department for the City's expenses to operate the Pacific Place Fund Garage, which is located between Sixth and Seventh Avenues and Pine and Olive Streets in downtown Seattle. The City took over responsibility for the Garage in November 1998.

 Pike Place Executive PKLVYBCL-0 Pike Place The purpose of the Pike Place Market Renovation 9,246,000 Levy 1 Market Budget Control Level is to provide appropriation Renovation authority for the City's disbursement of funds to the Pike Place Market Preservation and Development Authority (PDA) in compliance with the "Agreement regarding Levy Proceeds by and between the City of Seattle and the Pike Place Market Preservation and Development Authority" related to renovation and improvements to the Pike Place Market.

 Pike Place Executive PKLVYBCL-0 Pike Place The purpose of the Pike Place Market Renovation Debt 2,574,692 Levy 2 Market Service Budget Control Level is to provide Renovation Debt appropriation authority for the City's payment of Service debt service for debt issued in support of the Pike Place Market Renovation funded by levy proceeds.

 Planning Department U2200 Land Use The purpose of the Land Use Services Budget Control 6,027,805 and of Planning Services Level is to provide land use permitting services to Development and project applicants, City of Seattle departments, Fund Development public agencies, and residents. These services are intended to allow development proposals to be reviewed in a fair, reasonable, efficient, and predictable manner, and substantially comply with applicable codes, legal requirements, policies, and community design standards. Additionally, this  budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning Department U2300 Construction The purpose of the Construction Permit Services 20,747,158 and of Planning Permit Services Budget Control Level is to facilitate the review of Development and development plans and processing of permits so that Fund Development applicants can plan, alter, construct, occupy, and maintain Seattle's buildings and property. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning Department U23A0 Construction The purpose of the Construction Inspections Budget 15,478,292 and of Planning Inspections Control Level is to provide timely on-site Development and inspections of property under development to support Fund Development substantial compliance with applicable City codes, ordinances, and approved plans. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning Department U2400 Code Compliance The purpose of the Code Compliance Budget Control 4,876,294 and of Planning Level is to see that properties and buildings are Development and used and maintained in conformance with code Fund Development standards, and deterioration of structures and properties is reduced. Additionally, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning Department U24A0 Annual The purpose of the Annual Certification and 3,481,088 and of Planning Certification Inspection Budget Control Level is to provide Development and and Inspection inspections of mechanical equipment at installation Fund Development and on an annual or biennial cycle in a fair, reasonable, efficient, and predictable manner. These services are provided so mechanical equipment is substantially maintained to applicable codes, legal requirements, and policies, and operated safely. The program also certifies that installers  and mechanics are qualified, by validation of work experience and testing of code knowledge, to operate and maintain mechanical equipment. In addition, this budget control level includes a proportionate share of associated departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Planning Department U2800 Process The purpose of the Process Improvements and 3,036,445 and of Planning Improvements Technology Budget Control Level is to allow the Development and and Technology department to plan and implement continuous Fund Development improvements to its business processes, including related staff training and equipment purchases; and to see that the Department's major technology investments are maintained, upgraded, or replaced when necessary.

 Planning Department U2900 Planning The purpose of the Planning Budget Control Level is 6,910,617 and of Planning to manage growth and development consistent with the Development and Comprehensive Plan, and to inform and guide Fund Development decisions for shaping and preserving Seattle so that it is a vital urban environment. Planning staff does this work by stewarding the Comprehensive Plan and supporting its core values of community, environmental stewardship, social equity and economic opportunity. Staff conduct research and  make use of the best urban design strategies when preparing plans for areas of the City that are impacted by growth or major public investments. Additionally, the Planning Budget Control Level includes the staff of the Design Commission and Planning Commission. Lastly, this budget control level includes the allocation of a proportionate share of departmental administration and other overhead costs.

 Police Police RP604 Police Relief The purpose of the Police Relief and Pension Budget 22,361,903 Relief and Relief and and Pension Control Level is to provide responsive benefit Pension Pension services to eligible active-duty and retired Seattle Fund police officers.

 Seattle Seattle 34060-S03P Campuswide The purpose of the Campuswide Improvements and 273,000 Center Center 01 Improvements Repairs Budget Control Level (BCL) is to provide for Capital and Repairs improvements throughout the Seattle Center campus, Reserve (34060-CIP) including lighting, signage, artwork maintenance, Subfund open space and hard surface repairs, accessibility improvements, and planning. This BCL is funded by Seattle Center Capital Reserve Subfund dollars (Fund 34060).

 Seattle Seattle SC600 Campus Grounds The purpose of the Campus Grounds Budget Control 11,857,974 Center Fund Center Level is to provide gathering spaces and open-air venues in the City's urban core. The grounds knit together the whole of the campus and are Seattle Center's biggest asset. Program services include landscape maintenance, security patrols and lighting, litter and garbage removal, recycling operations, hard surface and site amenities maintenance, and management of revenues associated  with leasing outdoor spaces.

 Seattle Seattle SC610 Festivals The purpose of the Festivals Budget Control Level is 758,396 Center Fund Center to provide a place for the community to hold major festival celebrations. This program includes the revenue and expenses related to the Seattle International Children's Festival, Northwest Folklife Festival, Bite of Seattle, and Bumbershoot events.

 Seattle Seattle SC620 Community The purpose of the Community Programs Budget Control 2,140,366 Center Fund Center Programs Level is to produce free and low-cost programs that connect diverse cultures, create learning opportunities, honor community traditions, and nurture artistry and creativity.

 Seattle Seattle SC630 Cultural The purpose of the Cultural Facilities Budget 276,238 Center Fund Center Facilities Control Level is to provide spaces for performing arts and cultural organizations to exhibit, perform, entertain, and create learning opportunities for diverse local, national, and international audiences.

 Seattle Seattle SC640 Commercial The purpose of the Commercial Events Budget Control 712,120 Center Fund Center Events Level is to provide the spaces and services needed to host a wide variety of commercial events, both for profit and not for profit, sponsored and produced by private and community promoters.

 Seattle Seattle SC650 McCaw Hall The McCaw Hall Budget Control Level includes funds 3,835,308 Center Fund Center for the operation and maintenance of the McCaw Hall as the premier performing arts venue in the Seattle region. In cooperation with Seattle Opera and Pacific Northwest Ballet, Seattle Center manages and operates McCaw Hall as the home of the Opera and Ballet. The Seattle International Film Festival also holds its annual festival and many other film screenings in this facility.

 Seattle Seattle SC660 KeyArena The purpose of the KeyArena Budget Control Level is 6,101,043 Center Fund Center to manage and operate the KeyArena as the premier entertainment venue in the Seattle region. Included in this category are all operations related to sports teams playing in the arena, along with concerts, family shows, and private meetings.

 Seattle Seattle SC670 Access The purpose of the Access Budget Control Level is to 1,241,278 Center Fund Center provide the services needed to assist visitors in coming to and traveling from the campus, while reducing congestion in adjoining neighborhoods. Program services include operating parking services, maintaining parking garages, managing the Seattle Center Monorail, and encouraging use of alternate modes of transportation.

 Seattle Seattle SC680 Debt The purpose of the Debt Budget Control Level is to 136,350 Center Fund Center provide payments and collect associated revenues related to the debt service for McCaw Hall.

 Seattle Seattle SC690 Administration-S The purpose of the Administration Budget Control 6,910,891 Center Fund Center C Level is to provide the financial, human resource, technology, and business support necessary to provide effective delivery of the department's services. Program services include administrative oversight and support to all other department programs, financial management of the Department's operating funds, and management of the department's Capital Improvement Program.

 Seattle Seattle SC710 Judgment and The Judgment/Claims Budget Control Level pays for 607,968 Center Fund Center Claims judgments, settlements, claims, and other eligible expenses associated with legal claims and suits against the City. Premiums are based on average percentage of Judgment/Claims expenses incurred by the Department over the previous five years.

 Solid Waste Seattle C230B New Facilities The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility New 24,886,900 Fund Public Facilities Budget Control Level, a Capital Utilities Improvement Program funded by solid waste revenues, is to design and construct new facilities to enhance solid waste operations.

 Solid Waste Seattle C240B Rehabilitation The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility 5,358,950 Fund Public and Heavy Rehabilitation and Heavy Equipment Budget Control Utilities Equipment Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded by solid waste revenues, is to implement projects to repair and rehabilitate the City's solid waste transfer stations and improve management of the City's closed landfills and household hazardous waste sites.

 Solid Waste Seattle C410B-SW Shared Cost The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Shared Cost 1,875,959 Fund Public Projects Projects Budget Control Level, a Solid Waste Capital Utilities Improvement Program, is to implement the Solid Waste Utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds and will benefit the Solid Waste Fund.

 Solid Waste Seattle C510B-SW Technology The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Technology 1,745,411 Fund Public Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program, Utilities is to make use of technology to increase the Solid Waste Utility's efficiency and productivity.

 Solid Waste Seattle N000B-SW General Expense The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility General 127,692,111 Fund Public Expense Budget Control Level is to provide Utilities appropriation to pay the Solid Waste Utility's general expenses.

 Solid Waste Seattle N100B-SW Administration The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility 4,423,058 Fund Public Administration Budget Control Level is to provide Utilities overall management and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities, and, more specifically, for the Solid Waste Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services to the entire Department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness  Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including women- and minority-owned firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 Solid Waste Seattle N300B-SW Customer The purpose of the Solid Waste Utility Customer 13,724,136 Fund Public Service Service Budget Control Level is to provide customer Utilities service in the direct delivery of essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.

 Solid Waste Seattle N400B-SW Other Operating The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control 13,951,057 Fund Public Level is to fund the Solid Waste Utility's operating Utilities expenses for Engineering Services, Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and Utility Systems Management programs.

 Special Personnel NT000 Special The purpose of the Special Employment Budget Control 310,000 Employment Department Employment Level is to capture the expenditures associated with Program outside agency use of the City's temporary, intern, Subfund and work study programs. Outside agencies reimburse the City for costs. Expenses related to employees hired by City departments through the Special Employment Program are charged directly to the departments.

 Streetcar Seattle STCAR-OPER Streetcar The purpose of the Streetcar Operations Budget 651,372 Fund Department Operations Control Level is to operate and maintain the South of Lake Union line of the Seattle Streetcar. Transportation

 Transit Department TRANSITB1 Transit Benefit The purpose of the Transit Benefit Budget Control 4,446,490 Benefit of Executive Level is to provide appropriation authority for the Subfund Administration transit benefits offered to City employees. The Transit Benefit Subfund receives payments from Finance General and fee-supported departments to pay for reduced cost King County Metro and Washington State Ferry transit passes and related administrative expenses.

 Transportati Seattle 17001 Bridges & The purpose of the Bridges and Structures Budget 7,244,982 on Department Structures Control Level is to maintain the City's bridges and Operating of structures which helps provide for the safe and Fund Transportation efficient movement of people, goods, and services throughout the city.

 Transportati Seattle 17002 Engineering The purpose of the Engineering Services Budget 2,279,746 on Department Services Control Level is to provide construction management Operating of for capital projects, engineering support for street Fund Transportation vacations, the scoping of neighborhood projects, and other transportation activities requiring transportation engineering and project management expertise.

 Transportati Seattle 17003 Mobility-Operati The purpose of the Mobility-Operations Budget 35,113,375 on Department ons Control level is to promote the safe and efficient Operating of operation of all transportation modes in the City of Fund Transportation Seattle. This includes managing the parking, pedestrian, and bicycle infrastructure; implementing neighborhood plans; encouraging alternative modes of transportation; and maintaining and improving signals and the non-electrical transportation management infrastructure.

 Transportati Seattle 17004 ROW Management The purpose of the Right-of-Way (ROW) Management 11,304,009 on Department Budget Control Level is to ensure that projects Operating of throughout the city meet code specifications for Fund Transportation uses of the right-of-way and to provide plan review, utility permit and street use permit issuance, and utility inspection and mapping services.

 Transportati Seattle 17005 Street The purpose of the Street Maintenance Budget Control 28,246,349 on Department Maintenance Level is to maintain Seattle's roadways and Operating of sidewalks. Repair and maintenance of the Fund Transportation right-of-way promotes safety, enhances mobility, and protects the environment. Through planned maintenance, cleaning, and spot repairs of streets, alleys, pathways, and stairways, Street Maintenance improves the quality of life and business climate in the city.

 Transportati Seattle 17006 Urban Forestry The purpose of the Urban Forestry Budget Control 4,371,488 on Department Level is to administer, maintain, protect, and Operating of expand the City's urban landscape in the street Fund Transportation right-of-way through the maintenance and planting of new trees and landscaping to enhance the environment and aesthetics of the city. The Urban Forestry BCL maintains city-owned trees to improve the safety of the right-of-way for Seattle's residents and visitors.

 Transportati Seattle 18001 Department The purpose of the Department Management Budget 3,496,610 on Department Management Control Level is to provide leadership and Operating of operations support services to accomplish the Fund Transportation mission and goals of the department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center (CDCC) for the development of small, economically-disadvantaged businesses, including women and minority firms, as authorized by  Ordinance 120888.

 Transportati Seattle 18002 General Expense The purpose of the General Expense Budget Control 20,782,274 on Department Level is to account for certain City business Operating of expenses necessary to the overall effective and Fund Transportation efficient delivery of transportation services. It equitably recovers funding from all transportation funding sources to pay for these indirect cost services. It also includes SDOT Judgment and Claims contributions and debt service payments made by SDOT.

 Transportati Seattle 19001 Major The purpose of the Major Maintenance/Replacement 84,847,001 on Department Maintenance/ Budget Control Level is to provide maintenance and Operating of Replacement replacement of roads, trails, bike paths, bridges, Fund Transportation and structures.

 Transportati Seattle 19002 Major Projects The purpose of the Major Projects Budget Control 75,177,130 on Department Level is to design, manage and construct Operating of improvements to the transportation infrastructure Fund Transportation for the benefit of the traveling public including freight, transit, other public agencies, pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists.

 Transportati Seattle 19003 Mobility-Capital The purpose of the Mobility-Capital Budget Control 37,335,000 on Department Level is to help maximize the movement of traffic Operating of throughout the City by enhancing all modes of Fund Transportation transportation including corridor and intersection improvements, transit and HOV improvements and sidewalk and pedestrian facilities.

 Unemployment Personnel NS000 Unemployment The purpose of the Unemployment Insurance Budget 4,027,563 Insurance Department Insurance Control Level is to provide the budget authority for Subfund the City to pay unemployment compensation expenses. The City is a self-insured employer with respect to unemployment insurance. The Unemployment Insurance Subfund contains the revenues and expenditures associated with the City's unemployment benefit costs for employees.

 UTGO Bond Seattle DEBTUTGO UTGO Debt The purpose of the UTGO Debt Service Budget Control 17,068,000 Interest Public Service Level is to create the legal appropriations to pay and Library debt service on outstanding Unlimited Tax General Redemption Obligation (UTGO) Bonds. Fund

 Water Fund Seattle C110B Distribution The purpose of the Water Utility Distribution Budget 22,380,000 Public Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded Utilities by water revenues, is to repair and upgrade the City's water lines, pump stations, and other facilities.

 Water Fund Seattle C120B Transmission The purpose of the Water Utility Transmission Budget 3,173,000 Public Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program funded Utilities by water revenues, is to repair and upgrade the City's large transmission pipelines that bring untreated water to the treatment facilities, and convey water from the treatment facilities to Seattle and its suburban wholesale customers' distribution systems.

 Water Fund Seattle C130B Watershed The purpose of the Water Utility Watershed 1,634,978 Public Stewardship Stewardship Budget Control Level, a Capital Utilities Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to implement projects associated with the natural land, forestry, and fishery resources within the Tolt, Cedar, and Lake Youngs watersheds.

 Water Fund Seattle C140B Water Quality & The purpose of the Water Utility Water Quality & 21,657,059 Public Treatment Treatment Budget Control Level, a Capital Utilities Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to design, construct, and repair water treatment facilities and remaining open-water reservoirs.

 Water Fund Seattle C150B Water Resources The purpose of the Water Utility Water Resources 15,793,000 Public Budget Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program Utilities funded by water revenues, is to repair and upgrade water transmission pipelines and promote residential and commercial water conservation.

 Water Fund Seattle C160B Habitat The purpose of the Water Utility Habitat 9,626,951 Public Conservation Conservation Budget Control Level, a Capital Utilities Program Improvement Program funded by water revenues, is to manage projects directly related to the Cedar River Watershed Habitat Conservation Plan.

 Water Fund Seattle C410B-WU Shared Cost The purpose of the Water Utility Shared Cost 19,648,846 Public Projects Projects Budget Control Level, which is a Water Utilities Capital Improvement Program, is to implement the Water Utility's share of capital improvement projects that receive funding from multiple SPU funds.

 Water Fund Seattle C510B-WU Technology The purpose of the Water Utility Technology Budget 4,633,861 Public Control Level, a Capital Improvement Program, is to Utilities make use of technology to increase the Water Utility's efficiency and productivity.

 Water Fund Seattle N000B-WU General Expense The purpose of the Water Utility General Expense 133,688,155 Public Budget Control Level is to appropriate funds to pay Utilities the Water Utility's general expenses.

 Water Fund Seattle N100B-WU Administration The purpose of the Water Utility Administration 2,808,920 Public Budget Control Level is to provide overall Utilities management and policy direction for Seattle Public Utilities, and, more specifically, for the Water Utility, and to provide core financial, human resource, and information technology services to the entire Department. This BCL also supports the efforts and services provided by the Urban League's Contractor Development and Competitiveness Center  (CDCC) for the development of small, economically disadvantaged businesses, including women- and minority-owned firms, as authorized by Ordinance 120888.

 Water Fund Seattle N300B-WU Customer The purpose of the Water Utility Customer Service 10,307,603 Public Service Budget Control Level is to provide customer service Utilities in the direct delivery of essential programs and services that anticipate and respond to customer expectations.

 Water Fund Seattle N400B-WU Other Operating The purpose of the Other Operating Budget Control 47,461,792 Public Level is to fund the Water Utility's operating Utilities expenses for Engineering Services, Field Operations, Pre-Capital Planning & Development, and Utility Systems Management programs.

 November 19, 2009 v8 t

 ATTACMENT B: Position Modifications in the 2010 Proposed Budget

 Effective January 1, 2010

 (Excluding Changes Reflected in the "Budget Errata" Submitted by the Department of Finance to the City Council)

 The following is the list of position modifications in the 2010 Proposed Budget that take effect January 1, 2010. The modifications result from budget actions that reclassify positions, abrogate positions, create new positions, transfer existing positions between City departments, or change the status of a position, e.g., from full- time to part-time status. Numbers in parentheses are reductions. The figures in the column labeled "Number" represent net position adjustments as a result of changes contained in the 2010 Proposed Budget. The list of position modifications in the 2010 Proposed Budget for positions that were filled as of November 10, 2009, and that will be abrogated effective March 2, 2010, is in Attachment C.

 Department Position Title Position Number Status

 Department of Executive Actg Tech I-BU FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive Animal Contrl Ofcr I FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive Civil Rights Anlyst FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive Info Technol Prof B FullTime 1 Administration

 Department of Executive Info Technol Prof C FullTime 1 Administration

 Department of Executive Licenses&Standards FullTime (1) Administration Inspector

 Department of Executive Spay&Neuter Tech FullTime 1 Administration

 Department of Executive StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime 3 Administration

 Department of Executive StratAdvsr3,Exempt ** FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive StratAdvsr3,Exempt PartTime 1 Administration

 Department of Executive Treasury Cashier FullTime 1 Administration

 Department of Executive Treasury Cashier PartTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive Administration Total 1

 Department of Information Technology Cmputr Op,Lead FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology Fin Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology Fin Anlyst PartTime 1

 Department of Information Technology Info Technol Prof FullTime (1) A,Exempt

 Department of Information Technology Info Technol Prof B FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology Info Technol Prof B PartTime 1

 Department of Information Technology Info Technol Prof C FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology Info Technol Prof C PartTime 1

 Department of Information Technology Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology StratAdvsr2,Exempt PartTime 1

 Department of Information Technology StratAdvsr2,Info Technol FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology StratAdvsr2,Info Technol PartTime 1

 Department of Information Technology StratAdvsr2,PC&RM FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology StratAdvsr2,PC&RM PartTime 1

 Department of Information Technology Total (3)

 Department of Neighborhoods Cust Svc Rep PartTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Fin Anlyst,Asst FullTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Fin Anlyst,Asst PartTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Info Technol Prof C-BU FullTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Info Technol Prof C-BU PartTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Info Technol Systs FullTime (1) Anlyst

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec I PartTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime (2)

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec,Sr PartTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods StratAdvsr1,Exempt FullTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Total (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Biologist 2 ** FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Biologist 2 ** PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Guide ** FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Guide ** PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Guide FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Aquarium Guide PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Carpenter PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Cashier,Sr ** FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Cashier,Sr ** PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Cashier,Sr FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Cashier,Sr PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Drainage&Wstwtr Coll Wkr FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Ed Prgm Asst PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Elctn FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Elctn PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Facilities Maint Wkr FullTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation Gardener FullTime 5

 Department of Parks and Recreation Gardener PartTime (5)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Gardener,Sr FullTime (4)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Grounds Maint Lead Wkr FullTime 3

 Department of Parks and Recreation Grounds Maint Lead Wkr PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Installation Maint Wkr FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Laborer FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Laborer PartTime 7

 Department of Parks and Recreation Maint Laborer FullTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation Manager2,Parks&Rec FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Manager3,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Naturalist FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Parks Maint Aide FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Plng&Dev Spec I FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Plng&Dev Spec I PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Plnt Ecologist FullTime 2

 Department of Parks and Recreation Plumber PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Pntr FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Attendant PartTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Cntr Coord,Asst FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Prgm Coord FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Prgm Coord,Sr FullTime (3)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Rec Prgm Spec FullTime 4

 Department of Parks and Recreation StratAdvsr2,Parks&Rec FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Truck Drvr FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Util Laborer FullTime 1

 Department of Parks and Recreation Volunteer Prgms Coord PartTime (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Total 9

 Department of Planning and Actg Tech I-BU ** FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Actg Tech II-BU FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Bldg FullTime (4) Development Inspector,Sr(Expert)

 Department of Planning and Civil Engrng Spec,Sr FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Elevator Inspector, FullTime 1 Development Sr(Expert) **

 Department of Planning and Housing/Zoning FullTime (1) Development Inspector,Sr

 Department of Planning and Info Technol Systs FullTime (1) Development Anlyst

 Department of Planning and Land Use Plnr II FullTime (4) Development

 Department of Planning and Land Use Plnr III FullTime (2) Development

 Department of Planning and Manager2,Engrng&Plans FullTime (2) Development Rev

 Department of Planning and Manager2,General Govt FullTime (2) Development

 Department of Planning and Manager3,Engrng&Plans FullTime (1) Development Rev

 Department of Planning and Permit Process Leader FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Permit Spec II FullTime (4) Development

 Department of Planning and Permit Tech FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Site Dev Insp FullTime (3) Development

 Department of Planning and StratAdvsr1,Engrng&Plans FullTime 1 Development Rev

 Department of Planning and StratAdvsr2,Engrng&Plans FullTime 2 Development Rev

 Department of Planning and StratAdvsr2,General Govt FullTime 2 Development

 Department of Planning and Strucl Plans Engr,Sr FullTime (3) Development

 Department of Planning and Development Total (26)

 Ethics and Elections Commission Admin Spec II FullTime 1

 Ethics and Elections Commission Admin Staff Asst FullTime (1)

 Ethics and Elections Commission Total 0

 Fleets and Facilities Department Auto Equip Pntr FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Auto Mechanic ** FullTime 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department Auto Mechanic FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Carpenter FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Equip Svcr FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Executive1 FullTime 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department Janitor,Lead-DAS/CL FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Janitor-DAS/CL FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Manager2,General Govt FullTime 2

 Fleets and Facilities Department Mgmt Systs Anlyst FullTime 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr PartTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department StratAdvsr1,General Govt FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department StratAdvsr1,General Govt PartTime 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department StratAdvsr2,Exempt PartTime 1

 Fleets and Facilities Department StratAdvsr3,P&FM FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department (2) Total

 Human Services Department Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Admin Spec I-BU PartTime 1

 Human Services Department Admin Spec II-BU FullTime 1

 Human Services Department Counslr ** FullTime 3

 Human Services Department Counslr FullTime (4)

 Human Services Department Grants&Contracts Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Grants&Contracts Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Grants&Contracts Spec,Sr PartTime 1

 Human Services Department Human Svcs Prgm Supv FullTime (3)

 Human Services Department Human Svcs Prgm Supv,Sr FullTime (2)

 Human Services Department Info Technol Prof C-BU FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Info Technol Spec FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Info Technol Spec PartTime 1

 Human Services Department Manager1,General Govt FullTime (2)

 Human Services Department Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (2)

 Human Services Department Plng&Dev Spec I ** FullTime 1

 Human Services Department Plng&Dev Spec I FullTime 1

 Human Services Department Prgm Intake Rep FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Prgm Intake Rep FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Prgm Intake Rep PartTime 1

 Human Services Department Registered Nurse FullTime 1 Consultant **

 Human Services Department Registered Nurse FullTime (2) Consultant

 Human Services Department StratAdvsr1,Human Svcs FullTime 2

 Human Services Department Volunteer Prgms Coord FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Volunteer Prgms Coord PartTime 1

 Human Services Department Total (9)

 Law Department Admin Spec I PartTime (1)

 Law Department City Attorney,Asst FullTime 1

 Law Department Info Technol Systs FullTime 1 Anlyst

 Law Department Info Technol Systs PartTime (2) Anlyst

 Law Department Legal Asst PartTime 1

 Law Department Legal Intern PartTime (2)

 Law Department Paralegal FullTime 2

 Law Department Paralegal PartTime (2)

 Law Department Total (2)

 Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs Arts Prgm Spec FullTime 1

 Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs Arts Prgm Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs Ofc/Maint Aide FullTime (1)

 Office of Arts and Cultural Affairs (1) Total

 Office of Economic Development Admin Spec II FullTime (2)

 Office of Economic Development Admin Spec II PartTime (1)

 Office of Economic Development Com Dev Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Office of Economic Development Exec Asst FullTime 1

 Office of Economic Development Plng&Dev Spec I FullTime 2

 Office of Economic Development StratAdvsr2,General Govt FullTime 1

 Office of Economic Development Total 0

 Office of Housing Com Dev Spec FullTime 2

 Office of Housing Com Dev Spec,Sr FullTime (2)

 Office of Housing Dev Fin Spec I FullTime (1)

 Office of Housing Dev Fin Spec I PartTime 1

 Office of Housing Total 0

 Office of Policy and Management StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Office of Policy and Management StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime (2)

 Office of Policy and Management Total (3)

 Office of the Mayor StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Office of the Mayor Total (1)

 Personnel Department Info Technol Prof B FullTime (1)

 Personnel Department Info Technol Prof C FullTime (1)

 Personnel Department Ofc/Maint Aide FullTime 1

 Personnel Department Plng&Dev Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Personnel Department Plng&Dev Spec,Sr PartTime 1

 Personnel Department StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Personnel Department Total (2)

 Seattle Center Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Admin Support Asst-BU PartTime (1)

 Seattle Center Adms Employee PartTime (1)

 Seattle Center Capital Prjts Coord,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Dining Room Attendant FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Events Svc Rep FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Laborer FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Laborer PartTime (1)

 Seattle Center Manager2,CSPI&P FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Manager2,CSPI&P PartTime 1

 Seattle Center Opns CC-SC FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Total (9)

 Seattle City Light Act Exec FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Admin Spec II-BU PartTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Carpenter FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Cblspl-Net Area FullTime (3)

 Seattle City Light Comms Elctn II FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Elctn-Con FullTime (5)

 Seattle City Light Elecl Hlpr FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Elecl Pwr Systs FullTime 1 Engr,Prin

 Seattle City Light Engrng Aide FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Plng Anlyst ** FullTime 2

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Plng Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Plng Supv ** FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Res&Eval Anlyst ** FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr PartTime 2

 Seattle City Light Hydro Maint Wkr I-Gen FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Hydroelec Maint Mach FullTime (3)

 Seattle City Light Info Technol Systs FullTime (1) Anlyst

 Seattle City Light Lnwkr FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Marketing Dev Coord FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light Mat Suplr,Elec-Asg FullTime (1) Cs/P/V/Cdt

 Seattle City Light Meter Elctn FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Mgmt Systs Anlyst FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Plng&Dev Spec II ** FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Pwr Marketer FullTime 3

 Seattle City Light Sfty&Hlth Spec,Sr FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr2,General Govt FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light Strucl Iron Wkr FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light Total (16)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Admin Spec I-BU PartTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Civil Engr,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc FullTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Civil Engrng Spec,Asst I FullTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Civil Engrng Spec,Asst FullTime (2) III

 Seattle Department of Transportation Civil Engrng Spec,Asst PartTime 1 III

 Seattle Department of Transportation Executive2 FullTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime 1

 Seattle Department of Transportation Signal Elctn V FullTime (2)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Signal Elctn V PartTime 1

 Seattle Department of Transportation StratAdvsr1,General Govt FullTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation StratAdvsr2,General Govt FullTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Traffic Sign&Marking CC FullTime 1 I

 Seattle Department of Transportation Traffic Sign&Marking CC PartTime (1) I

 Seattle Department of Transportation Transp Plnr,Assoc FullTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Transp Plnr,Assoc PartTime (2)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Transp Plnr,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Total (12)

 Seattle Fire Department Actg Tech II-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Fire Department Actg Tech II-BU PartTime 1

 Seattle Fire Department Fire Lieut-Prev FullTime (1) Inspector I

 Seattle Fire Department Fireftr-91.40 Hrs FullTime (5)

 Seattle Fire Department Info Technol Prof B FullTime 1

 Seattle Fire Department Info Technol Prof B-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Fire Department Info Technol Tech FullTime (1)

 Seattle Fire Department StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime 1

 Seattle Fire Department Total (6)

 Seattle Municipal Court Admin Spec II FullTime (2)

 Seattle Municipal Court Admin Spec III-MC FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Admin Spec I-MC FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Court Cashier FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Magistrate PartTime 1

 Seattle Municipal Court Manager1,Fin,Bud,&Actg FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Manager2,CL&PS FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Mgmt Systs Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Mgmt Systs Anlyst PartTime 1

 Seattle Municipal Court Muni Court Marshal FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Muni Court Marshal PartTime (2)

 Seattle Municipal Court StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court StratAdvsr2,Exempt PartTime 1

 Seattle Municipal Court Total (9)

 Seattle Office for Civil Rights Info Technol Systs FullTime (1) Anlyst

 Seattle Office for Civil Rights Info Technol Systs PartTime 1 Anlyst

 Seattle Office for Civil Rights Total 0

 Seattle Police Department Admin Staff Asst FullTime 1

 Seattle Police Department Info Technol Prof FullTime (2) B,Exempt

 Seattle Police Department Info Technol Prof B-BU FullTime 4

 Seattle Police Department Latent Print Examiner FullTime 1

 Seattle Police Department Pol Ofcr-Patrl FullTime 52

 Seattle Police Department StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Total 55

 Seattle Public Utilities Actg Tech III-BU PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Admin Spec II-BU PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engr,Assoc FullTime (4)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engr,Asst I FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engr,Asst III FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engrng Spec,Assoc PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Civil Engrng Spec,Asst FullTime (2) III

 Seattle Public Utilities Drainage&Wstwtr Coll Wkr FullTime (5)

 Seattle Public Utilities Economist,Sr PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Executive2 FullTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Info Technol Prof C-BU PartTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Maint Laborer FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Maint Laborer PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager2,General Govt FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager2,General Govt PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager2,Info Technol FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager2,Info Technol PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager2,PC&RM FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager2,Utils FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Manager3,Exempt FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Mat Controller,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Mgmt Systs Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Ofc/Maint Aide PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Personnel Spec,Sr FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Personnel Spec,Sr PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Plng&Dev Spec I FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Plng&Dev Spec I PartTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Plng&Dev Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Shop Opns Supv FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities StratAdvsr1,CSPI&P PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Wtr Pipe CC-WDM II FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Wtr Pipe Wkr FullTime (2)

 Seattle Public Utilities Wtr Pipe Wkr Aprn FullTime (4)

 Seattle Public Utilities Wtr Pipe Wkr Sr-Wdm II FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Wtr Treatment CC FullTime 1

 Seattle Public Utilities Wtr Treatment CC PartTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Wtr Treatment Op FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Total (38)

 Grand Total (75) ** indicates that the position change was included in the 2010 Endorsed Budget Resolution.

 November 18, 2009 v6 t

 ATTACHMENT C: Filled Position Abrogation List in the 2010 Proposed Budget

 Effective March 2, 2010

 The following is the list of position modifications in the 2010 Proposed Budget for positions that were filled as of November 10, 2009, and that will be abrogated effective March 2, 2010. The numbers in parentheses indicate position abrogations.

 Department Position Title Position Number Status

 Department of Executive Parking Meter Collector FullTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive Treasury Cashier PartTime (1) Administration

 Department of Executive Administration Total (2)

 Department of Information Technology Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology Info Technol Prof FullTime (1) A,Exempt

 Department of Information Technology Manager1,Info Technol FullTime (1)

 Department of Information Technology Video Spec I FullTime (2)

 Department of Information Technology Total (5)

 Department of Neighborhoods Com Dev Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Total (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Carpenter FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Gardener,Sr FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Grounds Maint CC FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Grounds Maint Lead Wkr FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Maint Laborer ** FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Laborer PartTime (4)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Parks Maint Aide FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation StratAdvsr1,Parks&Rec PartTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Total (11)

 Department of Planning and Admin Spec II-BU ** FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Land Use Plnr III FullTime (1) Development

 Department of Planning and Strucl Plans Engr,Sr FullTime (2) Development

 Department of Planning and Development Total (4)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Admin Spec II-BU FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Appraiser FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Auto Engr,Sr FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Auto Mechanic FullTime (2)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Carpenter PartTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Executive2 FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Janitor-DAS/CL FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Manager3,P&FM FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Manager3,PC&RM FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Metal Fabricator FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Property Mgmt Spec FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Real Property Agent PartTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Real Property Agent,Sr FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Shop Opns Supv FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Stat Maint Mach FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department StratAdvsr2,P&FM FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department StratAdvsr2,P&FM ** FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department Warehouser-BU FullTime (1)

 Fleets and Facilities Department (20) Total

 Human Services Department Counslr FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Executive2 FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Human Svcs Coord FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Human Svcs Prgm Supv FullTime (1)

 Human Services Department Plng&Dev Spec,Sr PartTime (1)

 Human Services Department Prgm Intake Rep PartTime (1)

 Human Services Department Total (6)

 Office of the Mayor StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Office of the Mayor Total (1)

 Personnel Department Info Technol Prof B FullTime (1)

 Personnel Department Personnel Anlyst,Asst PartTime (1)

 Personnel Department Total (2)

 Seattle Center Adms Personnel PartTime (1) Dispatcher

 Seattle Center Arts Prgm Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Janitor-SC/Parks/Wtr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Manager2,P&FM FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Mgmt Systs Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Seattle Center Parking&Traffic Coord PartTime (1)

 Seattle Center Total (6)

 Seattle City Light Actg Tech II-BU FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light Actg Tech Supv-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Admin Spec II-BU FullTime (3)

 Seattle City Light Admin Staff Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Apprenticeship Coord FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Elctn-Con FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Elctn-Con-Wkg CC FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light Elecl Wrkload Supv FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Plng Anlyst FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Res&Eval Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Envrnmtl Anlyst,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Info Technol Tech FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Manager3,Utils FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (2)

 Seattle City Light Personnel Spec FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Personnel Spec,Asst FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Publc Relations Spec PartTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Publc Relations Spec,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr2,General Govt FullTime (5)

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr2,Utils FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Supply&Inventory Tech FullTime (1)

 Seattle City Light Warehouser-BU FullTime (4)

 Seattle City Light Total (37)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Actg Tech II-BU PartTime (1)

 Seattle Department of Transportation Total (1)

 Seattle Fire Department Fire Protection Engr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Fire Department Total (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Admin Support Supv-MC FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Human Svcs Anlyst FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Manager2,CL&PS FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Muni Court Marshal,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Municipal Court Total (4)

 Seattle Police Department Actg Tech II-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Admin Spec I FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Admin Spec II-BU FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Admin Staff Asst FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Evidence Warehouser FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Mgmt Systs Anlyst,Sr FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Parking Enf Ofcr FullTime (2)

 Seattle Police Department Personnel Spec FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department StratAdvsr2,CL&PS FullTime (1)

 Seattle Police Department Total (11)

 Seattle Public Utilities StratAdvsr2,Utils FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Util Act Rep I FullTime (1)

 Seattle Public Utilities Total (2)

 Grand Total (115)

 November 17, 2009 v6 t

 ATTACHMENT D: City Council Changes to Position Modification List in the 2010 Proposed Budget

 (Including Changes Reflected in the "Budget Errata"

 Submitted by the Department of Finance to the City Council)

 The following is the list of the City Council changes to the position modification list in the 2010 Proposed Budget. Numbers in parentheses are reductions. The figures in the column labeled "Number" represent net position adjustments as a result of City Council changes.

 Part 1: These City Council changes modify the list in Attachment B.

 Department Position Title Position Number Status

 Department of Neighborhoods Fin Anlyst,Asst FullTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Fin Anlyst,Asst PartTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec,Sr FullTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Plng&Dev Spec,Sr PartTime (1)

 Department of Neighborhoods Total 0

 Department of Parks and Recreation Admin Spec I-BU FullTime (1)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Facilities Maint Wkr FullTime (2)

 Department of Parks and Recreation Park Ranger FullTime 0

 Department of Parks and Recreation Total (3)

 Law Department Legal Asst FullTime 1

 Law Department Total 1

 Legislative Department StratAdvsr-Legislative FullTime 1

 Legislative Department Total 1

 Office of Policy and Management Admin Spec II FullTime (1)

 Office of Policy and Management Admin Staff Asst FullTime (1)

 Office of Policy and Management Exec Asst FullTime (1)

 Office of Policy and Management Executive2 FullTime (3)

 Office of Policy and Management Executive4 FullTime (1)

 Office of Policy and Management StratAdvsr1,Exempt FullTime (1)

 Office of Policy and Management StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime (4)

 Office of Policy and Management StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime (3)

 Office of Policy and Management Total (15)

 Office of the Mayor Admin Spec II FullTime 1

 Office of the Mayor Admin Staff Asst FullTime 1

 Office of the Mayor Exec Asst FullTime 1

 Office of the Mayor Executive3 FullTime (1)

 Office of the Mayor Executive4 FullTime 1

 Office of the Mayor Mayoral Staff Asst 2 FullTime (3)

 Office of the Mayor StratAdvsr1,Exempt FullTime 1

 Office of the Mayor StratAdvsr2,Exempt FullTime 7

 Office of the Mayor StratAdvsr3,Exempt FullTime (2)

 Office of the Mayor Total 6

 Seattle City Light Act Exec FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Plng Anlyst FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Marketing Dev Coord FullTime 2

 Seattle City Light Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light StratAdvsr2,General Govt FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Total 6

 Seattle Office for Civil Rights Plng&Dev Spec I FullTime 1

 Seattle Office for Civil Rights Plng&Dev Spec I PartTime (1)

 Seattle Office for Civil Rights 0 Total

 Seattle Police Department Parking Enf Ofcr FullTime 7

 Seattle Police Department Total 7

 Seattle Public Utilities Drainage&Wstwtr Coll Wkr FullTime 3

 Seattle Public Utilities Total 3

 Grand Total 6

 Part 2: These City Council changes modify the list in Attachment C.

 Department Position Title Position Number Status

 Department of Neighborhoods Com Dev Spec,Sr FullTime 1

 Department of Neighborhoods Total 1

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Plng Anlyst FullTime 2

 Seattle City Light Enrgy Res&Eval Anlyst FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Plng&Dev Spec II FullTime 1

 Seattle City Light Total 4

 Seattle Police Department Evidence Warehouser FullTime 1

 Seattle Police Department Parking Enf Ofcr FullTime 2

 Seattle Police Department Total 3

 Grand Total 8

 November 18, 2009 v2 t

```
