

********

**Council Bill Number: 116782**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123232**
********

 AN ORDINANCE granting the Board of Regents of the University of Washington permission to maintain and operate a utility tunnel under and across Northeast 41st Street, west of 15th Avenue Northeast, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 1, 2010
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Disqualified: Harrell)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 9, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 8, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 19, 2010
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** TUNNELS, UNIVERSITY-DISTRICT, UNIVERSITY-OF-WASHINGTON

**Fiscal Note:**116782

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123232](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123232.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE granting the Board of Regents of the University of Washington permission to maintain and operate a utility tunnel under and across Northeast 41st Street, west of 15th Avenue Northeast, for a ten-year term, renewable for two successive ten-year terms; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 108010 granted permission to the University of Washington to construct, maintain, and operate a tunnel for utility purposes under and across Northeast 41st Street, west of 15th Avenue Northeast; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 108010 was renewed by Resolutions 28020 and 29945, and the permission authorized by Ordinance 108010 expired on March 26, 2009; and

 WHEREAS, the Board of Regents of the University of Washington has submitted a written request to the Director of Transportation to continue maintaining and operating this utility tunnel; and

 WHEREAS, the Board of Regents of the University of Washington has satisfied all terms and conditions of the original authorizing ordinance; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Permission. Subject to the terms and conditions of this ordinance, permission is hereby granted to the Board of Regents of the University of Washington, a state institution of higher education and an agency of the state of Washington ("Permittee"), and its successors and assigns, to maintain and operate a tunnel for utility purposes under and across Northeast 41st Street, west of 15th Avenue Northeast, connecting parcel numbers 1142001260 and 1142002395.

 Section 2. Term. The permission granted to the Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall be for a term of ten years commencing on March 27, 2009, and terminating at 11:59 p.m. ten years thereafter on March 26, 2019. Upon written application of the Permittee at least 30 days before expiration of the term, the Director of Transportation ("Director") may renew the permit for two successive ten- year terms, subject to the right of the City of Seattle ("City") to terminate the permit as set forth in Section 4 of this ordinance. However, the total term of the permission originally granted and thus extended shall not exceed 30 years.

 Section 3. Protection of utilities. The permission granted is subject to the Permittee bearing the expense of any protection, support or relocation of existing utilities deemed necessary by the owner of the utilities and the Permittee being responsible for any subsequent damage to the utilities due to the construction, repair, reconstruction, maintenance, or operation of the utility tunnel.

 Section 4. Removal for public use or for cause. The permission granted is subject to use by the City and public of the street right-of- way for travel, utility purposes, and other street uses. The City expressly reserves the right to require the Permittee to remove the utility tunnel at Permittee's sole cost and expense in the event that:

 a) The City Council determines by ordinance that the space occupied by the utility tunnel is necessary for any public use or benefit, or that the utility tunnel interferes with any public use or benefit; or

 b) The Director determines that any term or condition of this ordinance has been violated, and such violation has not been corrected by the Permittee by the compliance date after written request by the City.

 A City Council determination that the space is needed for or interferes with a public use or benefit shall be conclusive and final without any right of the Permittee to resort to the courts to question the same.

 Section 5. Removal within 90 days of expiration of term or of issuance of Order to Remove. If the permission granted is not renewed at the expiration of a term, or if the permission is extended to its termination date in 30 years and an application for a new permit is not granted after that date, or the City orders removal of the utility tunnel pursuant to the terms of this ordinance, then within 90 days after such expiration or termination, or prior to the date stated in an "Order to Remove," the Permittee shall remove the utility tunnel and shall replace all portions of the street that may have been disturbed for any part of the utility tunnel, in as good condition for public use as they were prior to construction of the utility tunnel and in at least as good condition in all respects as the abutting portions of the street. The Director shall then issue a certificate discharging the Permittee, or its successor or assign, from responsibility under this ordinance for occurrences after the date of such discharge.

 Section 6. Repair, reconstruction, readjustment or relocation. The Permittee shall not commence reconstruction, relocation, readjustment or repair of the utility tunnel except under the supervision of, and in strict accordance with, plans and specifications approved by the Director. The Director, in the Director's judgment, may order such reconstruction, relocation, readjustment or repair of the utility tunnel at the Permittee's own cost and expense because of the deterioration or unsafe condition of the utility tunnel, or the installation, construction, reconstruction, maintenance, operation or repair of any and all municipally-owned public utilities, or for any other cause.

 Section 7. Failure to correct unsafe condition. After notice to the Permittee and failure of the Permittee to correct an unsafe condition(s) within the time stated in such notice, the Director may order the utility tunnel removed if the Director deems that it has become unsafe or creates a risk of injury to the public. If there is an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public, notice to correct is not required.

 Section 8. Continuing obligation to remove and restore. Notwithstanding termination or expiration of the permission granted, or closure or removal of the utility tunnel, the Permittee shall remain bound by its obligation under this ordinance until:

 a) the utility tunnel and all its equipment and property are removed from the street;

 b) the area is cleared and restored in a manner and to a condition satisfactory to the Director; and

 c) The Director certifies that the Permittee has discharged its obligations under this ordinance.

 Upon prior notice to the Permittee and entry of written findings that it is in the public interest, the Director may, in the Director's sole discretion, excuse the Permittee, conditionally or absolutely, from compliance with all or any of the Permittee's obligations to remove the utility tunnel and its property and to restore any disturbed areas.

 Section 9. Release, hold harmless, indemnification, and duty to defend. The utility tunnel shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Permittee. The Permittee, by acceptance of the terms of this ordinance and the permission granted, releases the City from any and all claims resulting from damage or loss to its own property and does covenant and agree for itself, its successors and assigns, with the City, to at all times protect and save harmless the City from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expense or damages of every kind and description (excepting only such damages that may result from the sole negligence of the City), that may accrue to, or be suffered by, any person or persons and/or property or properties, including without limitation, damage or injury to the Permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, invitees, tenants and tenants' invitees, licensees or its successors and assigns, by reason of the construction, maintenance, operation or use of the utility tunnel, or any portion thereof, or by reason of anything that has been done, or may at any time be done by the Permittee, its successors or assigns by reason of this ordinance, or by reason of the Permittee, its successors or assigns failing or refusing to strictly comply with each and every provision of this ordinance; and if any such suit, action or claim be filed, instituted or begun against the City, the Permittee, its successors or assigns, shall, upon notice thereof from the City, defend the same at its or their sole cost and expense, and in case judgment shall be rendered against the City in any suit or action, the Permittee, its successors or assigns, shall fully satisfy said judgment within 90 days after such action or suit shall have been finally determined, if determined adversely to the City. If it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that RCW 4.24.115 applies to this ordinance, then in the event claims or damages are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of:

 a) the City, its agents, contractors or employees; and,

 b) the Permittee, its agents, contractors, employees or its successors or assigns,

 this indemnity provision shall be valid and enforceable only to the extent of the negligence of the Permittee or the Permittee's agents, contractors, employees or its successors or assigns.

 Section 10. Insurance. For as long as the Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall exercise any permission granted by this ordinance and until the utility tunnel is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1 or until discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 5 of this ordinance, the Permittee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at its own expense, insurance that protects the City from claims and risks of loss from perils that can be insured against under commercial general liability ("CGL") insurance policies in conjunction with:

 a) construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance, use or existence of the utility tunnel permitted by this ordinance and of any and all portions of the utility tunnel;

 b) Permittee's activity upon, or the use or occupation of Northeast 41st Street, west of 15th Avenue Northeast, the area described in Section 1 of this ordinance; and

 c) Claims and risks in connection with and activity performed by the Permittee by virtue of the permission granted by this ordinance.

 Minimum insurance requirements are CGL insurance based on the Insurance Services Office (ISO) form CG 00 01 or equivalent. The City requires insurance coverage to be placed with an insurer admitted and licensed to conduct business in Washington State or procured under Chapter 48.15 RCW, "Unauthorized insurers" except that if it is infeasible to obtain coverage with such insurers, the City may approve an alternative insurer. Minimum limits of liability shall be Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage with Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000) annual aggregate. Coverage shall apply to utility tunnel exposure. Liability insurance coverage shall include "the City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non- contributory limits of liability subject to a Separation of Insureds clause. Permittee shall cause certification of insurance coverage consisting of the CGL declarations page, schedule of forms and endorsements and blanket or additional insured policy provision per the ISO CG 20 12 or equivalent to be provided to the City. Such insurance certification shall be delivered or sent to the following department and address or to such other address as the City may specify, from time to time, in writing: The City of Seattle, Risk Management Division, P.O. Box 94669, Seattle, WA 98124-4669. The documents shall not be mailed, but an electronic copy of the certification attached to the full text of this Ordinance shall either be emailed as a PDF/XLS format document attached to an email addressed to riskmanagement@seattle.gov or delivered by facsimile transmission to (206) 470-1270.

 Should the insurance coverages and limits of liability to be maintained by the Permittee be self-insured, certification from the Corporate Risk Manager or appropriate Finance Officer may be acceptable in lieu of the insurance required by this ordinance if such letter documents to the satisfaction of the City's Risk Manager that self-insurance equivalent to the insurance requirements of this ordinance is in force. After such self-insurance certification is approved, the City may subsequently from time to time require updated or additional information. The approved self-insured Permittee shall provide not less than a 30 day notice of cancellation or material adverse financial condition of its self-insurance program, and the City may at any time require the Permittee to obtain and maintain insurance as specified in this ordinance in lieu of self-insurance.

 Section 11. Contractor insurance. The Permittee shall contractually require that any and all of its contractors performing construction work on any premises contemplated by this permit include "the City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non-contributory limits of liability on all CGL, Automobile and Pollution liability insurance and/or self- insurance. Permittee shall also include in all contract documents with its contractors a third party beneficiary provision extending construction indemnities and warranties granted to Permittee to the City as well.

 Section 12. Performance bond. Within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance, the Permittee shall deliver to the Director for filing with the City Clerk a good and sufficient bond, in an amount to be determined by the Director in consultation with the City Risk Manager, executed by a surety company authorized and qualified to do business in the State of Washington, conditioned that the Permittee will comply with each and every provision of this ordinance and with each and every order of the Director pursuant thereto. The bond shall remain in effect until such time as the utility tunnel is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1, or until discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 5 of this ordinance.

 Waiver of bond requirement. The City may waive the bond requirements for any public entity permitee for which the City's Risk Manager has determined that the City's interest will be adequately protected. If any time during the term granted by this ordinance the City's Risk Manager determines that a bond is necessary to adequately protect the City's interests, the Director shall notify the Permittee of the new requirements in writing. The Permittee shall provide the bond to the Director within 60 days after notification.

 Section 13. Adjustment of insurance and bond requirements. The Director, in consultation with the City Risk Manager, may adjust minimum levels of liability insurance and surety bond requirements. The Director shall notify the Permittee of the new requirements in writing. Upon receipt, the Permittee shall provide proof of the adjusted required levels of insurance and surety bond to the Director within 60 days.

 Section 14. Consent for and conditions of assignment or transfer. The right, privilege and authority granted shall not be assignable or transferable by operation of law, nor shall the Permittee, its successors or assigns, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge or encumber the same without the consent of the Director, which consent the Director shall not unreasonably refuse. The Director may approve assignment and/or transfer of the permit to a successor entity in the case of a change of name and/or ownership if the successor or assignee has demonstrated its acceptance of all of the terms of the permission provided by this ordinance.

 Section 15. Inspection Fees. The Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall pay to the City such amounts as may be charged by the City as costs of inspection of the utility tunnel during construction, reconstruction, repair, annual structural inspections, and at other times deemed necessary to ensure the safety of the utility tunnel, under the direction of the Director, as provided by Chapter 15.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Inspection report. The Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall submit to the Seattle Department of Transportation - Roadway Structures Division an inspection report detailing the physical dimensions and condition of all load bearing elements of the tunnel; the report shall be stamped by a Professional Civil or Structural Engineer licensed in the State of Washington and experienced in the inspection of tunnels. The report shall describe and prioritize all repairs that are recommended by the engineer. The initial inspection report shall be submitted within thirty days after the effective date of this ordinance; subsequent reports shall be submitted biannually, within thirty days prior to the anniversary date of the effective date of this ordinance. The Director may also require that an inspection report be submitted after a natural disaster or disturbance, such as an earthquake or fire, to assess any damage that may have occurred.

 Section 16. Annual Fee. Permittee shall also promptly pay to the City upon statements issued by the Director an annual fee for the privileges granted by this ordinance in the amount of Four Hundred Seventy-Three Dollars ($473.00), beginning on the commencement date of the term, i.e., March 27, 2009, and adjusted annually thereafter. Adjustments to the annual fee shall be made in accordance with a term permit fee schedule adopted by the City Council by ordinance and may be made every year. In the absence of such a schedule, the Director may only increase or decrease the previous year's fee to reflect any inflationary changes so as to charge said fee in constant dollar terms. This adjustment will be calculated by adjusting the previous year's fee by the percentage change between the two most recent year-end values available of the Consumer Price Index for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Area, All Urban Consumers, All Products, Not Seasonally Adjusted. All payments shall be made to the City Finance Director for credit to the Transportation Operating Fund.

 Section 17. Non-discrimination. The Permittee shall comply with the City's laws prohibiting discrimination in employment and contracting contained in Seattle's Fair Employment Practices Ordinance contained in Chapter 14.04 of the Seattle Municipal Code and in the Fair Contracting Practices code contained in Chapter 14.10 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 18. Acceptance of terms and conditions. The Permittee shall deliver its written acceptance of the terms and conditions of this ordinance to the Director within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance. The acceptance shall be filed with the City Clerk. If no such acceptance is received within that 60-day period, the privileges conferred by this ordinance shall be deemed declined or abandoned, and the permission granted deemed lapsed and forfeited.

 Section 19. Ratify and Confirm. Any act taken by the City or the Permittee pursuant to the authority and in compliance with the conditions of this ordinance, but prior to the effective date, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 20. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2010.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Angela Steel/as

 SDOT UW utility tunnel ORD

 November 11, 2009

 Version Final #2

```
