

********

**Council Bill Number: 116747**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123208**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Giant Magnet for the presentation of annual festivals at Seattle Center.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 14, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 22, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 21, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 23, 2009
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, LEASES, CHILDREN, FESTIVALS

**Fiscal Note:**116747

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123208](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123208.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Giant Magnet for the presentation of annual festivals at Seattle Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with Giant Magnet substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND GIANT MAGNET" (Attachment 1) with such minor additions, modifications, or deletions as the Mayor or Seattle Center Director deems to be in the best interest of the City for purposes related to the presentation of annual festivals at Seattle Center from 2010 through 2014.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1 -- AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND GIANT MAGNET

 Joan Moritz

 CEN Giant Magnet ORD

 November 10, 2009

 Version #v.1

 AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND

 GIANT MAGNET

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereinafter referred to as "City"), acting by and through its Seattle Center Department and the Director thereof (hereinafter referred to as the "Director") and the GIANT MAGNET, (hereinafter referred to as "GM"), a nonprofit corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington, acting by and through the Chair of its Board of Trustees.

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, GM is responsible for planning, organizing and staging an annual arts festival known as Giant Magnet (the "Festival"), including related educational and outreach activities for schools and the general public and fund-raising to support the event; and

 WHEREAS, the City is responsible for providing facilities, event staff and a fixed amount of financial support to GM; and

 WHEREAS, the purpose of the Festival is described in the GM mission statement as follows:

 GM is a celebration of world cultures through the performing arts. Its mission is to provide multicultural experiences, education, and exchange for the children and families of the Pacific Northwest by: presenting each May at Seattle Center, approximately 80 - 90 performances by 15 - 20 different artists/groups from around the world; partnering with regional schools, cultural and civic organizations to provide multicultural arts curriculum support to teachers and students; fostering an appreciation of cultural diversity among nations and within our own diverse community; and providing equal access to the arts through low and subsidized tickets; and

 WHEREAS, GM recognizes that appropriate treatment of all Festival participants is important to ensuring a successful event. GM is committed to the emotional, physical and psychological well-being of all children and will take these factors into consideration when making choices regarding which performances to stage and acts to book;

 NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby enter into this Agreement in order to clearly delineate the areas of responsibility and terms and conditions for production of the Festival.

 I. TERM

 The Term of this Agreement shall commence January 1, 2010, and shall expire December 31, 2014, unless terminated earlier as provided herein. Each calendar year of the Term shall constitute a separate "Festival Year."

 II. SCOPE OF SERVICES

 A. Production

 GM shall be responsible for planning, organizing and staging an annual Festival, including related educational and outreach activities for schools and the general public, on the dates specified below. The responsibility includes, but is not limited to, contracting for artistic services; recruiting and maintaining a Board of Trustees, a professional staff and the volunteers required to produce the Festival; fund-raising and financial management; and coordination of all aspects of Festival production.

 2010 Festival: May 10 through 15

 2011 Festival: May 9 through 14

 2012 Festival: May 14 through 19

 2013 Festival: May 13 through 18

 2014 Festival: May 12 through 17

 B. Staffing

 GM shall employ or otherwise secure the services of all professional and technical staff necessary to competently plan, organize, produce and evaluate each Festival.

 Seattle Center shall provide Seattle Center staff as are required to coordinate the staging and production of the Festival at Seattle Center and to ensure that the grounds and facilities are suitable for the activities outlined in the Event Service Order and approved by the Director.

 GM shall utilize the services of Seattle Center IA Stage, Sound, and Front of House staff when their employment is required by Union contract for City sponsored events at Seattle Center. A schedule detailing the hours and duties of Seattle Center IA Stage, Sound, Front of House and any other specialized staff as may be required shall be included as part of the Event Service Order. GM shall reimburse Seattle Center for these services at the then current in house charge rate.

 C. GM Deliverables

 GM shall annually submit to the Director the following planning, operational and evaluation documentation on or by the indicated dates. As used in this Section, "current year's Festival" means the Festival that will occur in the same calendar year. The term "following year's Festival" means the Festival to be held during the calendar year immediately succeeding the current year. For example, during the 2009 calendar year, "the following year's Festival" means the 2010 Festival.

 1. Documentation to be Submitted No Later than January 2 of Each Year

 a. Proposed Facility Use Plan

 GM shall submit a written proposed plan for the following year's Festival describing the facilities and areas of the Seattle Center grounds that are proposed to be used and what general activities are anticipated to take place in each facility and area (the "Facility Use Plan").

 The Facility Use Plan shall also state the estimated number of bus parking permits required and GM's proposed use of curbside parking areas for bus loading and parking. The entire Facility Use Plan shall be subject to the Director's approval, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. The Director shall notify GM in writing of his/her approval or disapproval of the proposed Facility Use Plan or any component thereof within thirty (30) days after receipt.

 b. Budget and Funding Plan

 GM shall submit a written plan for the budget and funding of the following year's Festival (the "Budget and Funding Plan"). The Budget and Funding Plan will detail the total planned expenditures, by category; the amount and source of all funds to be used to produce the Festival; ticket prices; estimated total attendance (school, general public, scholarship); estimated revenue from each performance venue.

 c. Program Plan

 GM shall submit a written plan detailing the preliminary programmatic content of performances planned for the current year's Festival (the "Program Plan").

 d. Time Schedule for Move-In and Move-Out of Facilities and Programmed Space

 GM shall deliver to the Director and the Seattle Center Festival Representative a schedule of specific times and functions for each facility and grounds area proposed for use during the current year's Festival.

 2. Other Required Documentation

 a. Event Service Order

 Not later than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the first Festival move-in day of each year during the Term hereof, GM shall submit to the Director GM's draft Event Service Order, describing GM's complete request for technical and facility set-up requirements for Seattle Center facilities and grounds. The Event Service Order shall also identify all Seattle Center equipment, services, supplies and material within the specified facilities or available for use at specified "on-grounds areas", as indicated in the Seattle Center Event Service Manual or its successor publication then in effect, that are desired by GM for Festival purposes. The Manual and each successor publication are incorporated herein by reference. Any and all arrangements included in the draft Event Service Order but not identified in the Event Service Manual as being generally available from Seattle Center shall be subject to prior authorization by the Director, which authorization shall be provided or denied in writing within fourteen (14) calendar days of GM's submission of the draft Event Service Order. GM shall submit to Seattle Center a final Event Service Order not later than thirty (30) days prior to the first Festival move-in day of each year during the Term hereof.

 b. Revised Facility Use Plan

 On or by July 15 of each year, or earlier if available, GM shall submit to the Director and the Festival Representative a Revised Facility Use Plan for the following year's Festival. Within 14 calendar days after receipt of the Revised Facility Use Plan, the Director shall advise GM, in writing, which facilities Seattle Center will book for GM use on the dates and times requested by GM in its Revised Facility Use Plan. GM may rely on such written notice and other approved elements of the Revised Facility Use Plan in printing its festival brochure and selling tickets to the events described therein. In the event subsequent modifications to the Revised Facility Use Plan are required by the City due to construction projects and timelines, the Director shall notify GM of such changes as soon as possible and use his/her best efforts to minimize any and all resulting damages incurred by GM as a result of such modifications. If, despite such efforts on the part of the Director, GM does incur damages as a result of modifications to the approved Revised Facility Use Plan, all such damages shall be the responsibility of the City.

 c. Festival Final Report

 On or before August 15 of each year during the Term hereof, GM shall deliver a Final Report for the current year's Festival, containing a complete financial and programmatic evaluation of the preceding Festival, together with a copy of representative programs. Detailed recommendations for future efforts toward the planning, organizing, staging, production and evaluation of the Festival shall also be included in the Final Report.

 D. Review of Proposed Reimbursable Charges

 During the two weeks following GM's receipt of the invoice described in Section V.D. hereof, GM shall have the option to schedule a meeting with the Festival Representative(s), Festival Contract Administrator and any other Seattle Center staff mutually agreed upon, which meeting shall take place no later than thirty (30) days after GM's receipt of the invoice. At such meeting Seattle Center staff and GM staff will discuss and review any discrepancy between the labor hours billed by the City and the hours requested in the Event Service Order and subsequent change orders. Should the parties not be able to reach agreement on the final number of hours to be reimbursed, the parties shall employ the dispute resolution mechanism described in Section XIX of this Agreement.

 E. Approval of Plans or Documents

 Except as noted specifically within the foregoing paragraphs of Section II.C, in the event the Director determines that all or a portion of the documents or plans required to be submitted by GM herein do not meet the requirements of this Section, the Director shall notify GM of that determination, in writing, within thirty (30) calendar days after the Director's receipt of said documents. The Director's approval of such documents or plans shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 In the event the Director notifies GM of any such deficiencies, GM shall have fourteen (14) calendar days after its receipt of such notice to make any modifications or corrections required by the Director. If the Director does not provide timely notice of any deficiencies in GM plans or documents, or if no such Director's notice is given, such plans and documents are deemed acceptable.

 III. CITY OBLIGATIONS

 A. Compensation

 1. Production Fee

 a. Amount

 The City shall pay GM a fee for the production of each Festival (the "Production Fee"). For 2010, the Production Fee shall be $111,710,. For 2011 through 2014, the annual Production Fee shall be $128,182 . The City shall pay the Production Fee upon invoice as described in Subsection IIIA.1.b and in accordance with the following schedule:

 (1) Sixty-five percent (65%) of the Production Fee shall be paid to GM upon GM's delivery and the Director's acceptance of the items listed in subsection II.C.1.a.-d. hereof; and

 (2) Ten percent (10%) of the Production Fee shall be paid to GM after GM's delivery and the Director's acceptance of the items listed in paragraphs II.C.2.a. b. and c. hereof; and

 (3) The remaining twenty-five percent (25%) of the Production Fee shall be paid to GM upon GM's reimbursement of Seattle Center's costs for labor provided, pursuant to Section V.C.

 b. Time and Place of City Payments

 GM shall invoice the City for all partial payments of the Production Fee provided for in Section III.A.1.a. upon GM's submission to the City of the GM deliverables specified in Section II.C.1.a.-d. Payments for the current year's Festival shall commence after the beginning of the City's fiscal year, or approximately January 2, each year during the Term hereof.

 All invoices shall be sent to the Seattle Center Festival Representative, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington 98109, or to such other address as the Director shall specify in writing.

 2. Parking

 a. Seattle Center shall provide to GM, at the times specified and at no cost, the following parking permits that shall be used for persons on Festival business only:

 (1) On or before January 1 of each year during the Term hereof, up to thirty (30) permits valid for two (2) days per month in the 5th Ave N Garage, for use by the Board of Trustees; and

 (2) On or before January 1 of each year during the Term hereof, up to twenty (20) permits in the 5th Ave N Garage or Mercer Street Garage for use by Festival volunteers and Festival coordinators. Permits will be effective for the period commencing January 15 of each year and ending ten (10) days after the final date of the Festival as indicated in Section II.A.

 (3) For parking in the 5th Ave N Garage or the Mercer Street Garage, for volunteers, the City shall provide GM with parking permits as follows, on or before April 1st of each year during the term

 * 15 access cards for the period beginning seven days prior to the first performance day of the Festival through the last performance day of the Festival;

 * Up to 460 coupons valid for one time use during the festival load-in or performance days.

 * .

 b. GM shall be permitted to purchase, at the then current all- hours or off-peak Seattle Center employee rate, parking permits in First Avenue North Garage or other Seattle Center parking facilities.

 c. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, upon written notice to GM, the Director reserves the right to change the location(s) at which parking permits provided hereunder shall be valid. Seattle Center may choose to restrict access to First Avenue North Garage parking after 5 p.m. in order to accommodate attendance in adjacent facilities. Seattle Center agrees to notify GM of any such restrictions.

 B. City Deliverables

 1. Basic Equipment Inventory

 On or before February 15 of each year during the Term hereof, GM shall provide the City with a list of Seattle Center-owned equipment that GM desires to use during that year's Festival. By the following March 1, Seattle Center personnel shall review the list and shall inform GM of any gaps in the available inventory and which equipment shall be available for Festival use. Further, the Festival Representative shall notify GM in a timely manner, in writing, if any items on said inventory list become unavailable. If GM is not notified otherwise prior to producing the final Event Service Order for each Festival, GM is entitled to rely upon the availability of all items in the inventory and the City shall provide such equipment to GM at no cost to GM.

 2. Labor Rate Schedule

 On or by January 15 of each year during the Term hereof, the Director shall notify GM of Seattle Center's then-current labor rates for salary and benefits only, and every change expected to occur thereto during the current year, and thereafter shall advise GM in writing of any revisions to such rates immediately after such revisions are finally approved. Unless the Mayor or City Council requires otherwise, the City shall not implement any changes to established Festival billing practices for the following year's Festival (e.g., billing for items previously provided free of charge, or billing for venues not previously billed) after September 1.

 C. Facilities and Equipment

 1. Facilities

 The Premises requested by GM in the Revised Facility Use Plan, as approved by the Director shall be provided to GM by the City free of any license fee or rental charge. The following is a list of Premises that may be available. Additional or alternate facilities and grounds areas may be authorized for a particular year's Festival, subject to availability and subject to their inclusion in the approved Revised Facility Use Plan.

 FACILITY SPECIAL CONDITIONS

 a. Mercer Arena: As of the date of this Agreement, the Mercer Arena is not functioning as a public assembly space and the parties acknowledge that it is unlikely that use of facility will resume. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that if the facility is re-opened as a public assembly facility and the City has dates available, GM may request use of the Mercer Arena in its Facility Use Plan.

 b. Marion Oliver McCaw Hall: GM shall be entitled to use of the Marion Oliver Hall Susan Brotman Auditorium for a minimum of one day and a maximum of six days during the festival week. Such use shall be subject to the schedule and production requirements of the Seattle Opera or Pacific Northwest Ballet when their scheduled use occurs during the same week as the Festival. The current practice is that the Seattle Opera schedule allows for GM use to occur on Monday and Tuesday, or on Thursday and possibly also Friday of the Festival week.

 c. Nesholm Family Lecture Hall: GM shall be entitled to use this facility so long as such facility exists at the time and is functioning as a public use facility subject to the facility's use by the Seattle Opera, and the Pacific Northwest Ballet.

 d. Fisher Pavilion: GM shall be entitled to use this facility so long as such facility exists at the time and is functioning as a public use facility.

 e. Seattle Center Pavilion: GM shall be entitled to use this facility so long as such facility exists at the time and is functioning as a public use facility.

 f. Northwest Rooms: GM shall be entitled to use these facilities so long as such facilities exist at the time and are functioning as public use facilities. The parties acknowledge that GM has access to the VERA project space (formerly the Snoqualmie Room) subject to the provisions outlined in the City's agreement with VERA Project. The parties acknowledge the intent to site a new Film Facility in the Alki Room. GM will continue to have access to to the Alki Room so long as such facility exists at the time and is functioning as a public use facility .

 g. Stage and public programming space on the second floor of Center House: GM shall be entitled to use this facility so long as such facility exists at the time and is functioning as a public use facility.

 h. Center House Theater: GM shall be entitled to use this facility so long as it exists at the time and is functioning as a public use facility.

 i. Certain portions of the Bagley Wright Theatre Production Areas, as defined in the City's Premises Use and Occupancy Agreement with the Seattle Repertory Theatre shall be available for GM's use, unless the same is unavailable due to Seattle Repertory Theatre schedule.

 j. Seattle Children's Theatre: GM's use of this Facility shall be consistent with and subject to the Seattle Children's Theatre's contract with the City.

 k. Mural Amphitheater: GM shall be entitled to use such area if it exists at the time and is functioning as a public use area.

 l. Other areas of the grounds of Seattle Center: GM shall be entitled to use such areas to the extent they exist at the time and are functioning as public use areas.

 m. Exhibition Hall: Subject to and consistent with the agreement between the City and the Pacific Northwest Ballet, GM may use such facility if it exists at the time and is functioning as a public use area.

 The availability and scheduling of the above facilities is subject to the provisions of Section II.E. hereof.

 2. Move-in and Move-out Use Time

 Unless otherwise specified herein or in the Revised Facility Use Plan approved by the Director, the City shall provide to GM, free of any license fee or rental charge, two move-in days and one move-out day for each facility (other than the authorized portions of the Bagley Wright Theatre Production Areas, for which only one move-in day shall be provided); two move-in days and two move-out days for specified grounds areas; and five move-in days for the Fisher Pavilion. In addition, GM shall have up to five move-in days to install the GM "base station" in a single specified facility, provided the requested space is available. Subject to facility availability, additional days may be added free of any license fee or rental charge if GM performance requirements necessitate such time and if a previously scheduled user does not require use of such facility. The City shall provide GM with up to six bollard keys and/or electronic key cards one day prior to the first move-in day.

 3. Conference and Meeting Facilities

 The City shall provide to GM at no license fee or rental charge such conference and meeting facilities as may be available throughout the Term of this Agreement for Festival-related activities. The City shall confirm the availability of facilities at least forty-five (45) days before GM's requested use date.

 4. Readerboards and Mercer Street Overpass Use

 The City shall allow GM to use the Mercer Street overpass and the Seattle Center readerboards at Fifth and Mercer Streets, First Ave. and Thomas St., Fisher Pavilion and McCaw Hall, so long as the facilities are in existence at the time, solely for the purpose of advertising the current year's Festival and free of any license fee or rental charge. Such use may commence two weeks immediately preceding each Festival, and continue through the run of the Festival in each Festival year, with the exception of the Fisher Pavilion readerboard, which is not available on dates that the facility is in use by other Seattle Center clients or events. Use of any other readerboard may be permitted at the discretion of the Director. With respect to the Mercer Street Garage overpass, the only advertising allowed thereon shall be a Festival banner provided at GM's expense. Said banner shall be mounted and removed by Seattle Center staff at no additional cost to GM. If and when the Seattle Center readerboards are replaced, the City will provide use of their replacements to GM under such policies and conditions established by the Director.

 5. Equipment

 The GM may use for any Festival, free of charge, those items of Seattle Center equipment that are identified in the Campus Venues Equipment Inventory List in accordance with Section III.B.1. All equipment made available for Festival use by GM shall be returned to Seattle Center's direct management and control on or by the end of the move-out period specified for each facility or grounds area with respect to which such equipment is associated or related. Seattle Center shall cooperate with GM to install, in a timely manner, all stage and production facilities and equipment needed for the Festival, as determined by GM and as approved for such use by the Director.

 The GM is hereby authorized to supplement equipment provided by Seattle Center and to provide its own labor to set-up, move-out and operate said equipment subject to the provisions of the agreement between The City of Seattle and Joint Crafts Council in effect at the time of the Festival.

 D. Labor Services

 The City shall provide GM the following event-driven labor as specifically requested by GM on the Event Service Order, or by Seattle Center should the Event Service Order be determined to be not operationally feasible as provided in Section V.B., and subsequent change orders:

 1. Stage Labor, which shall include move-in/out, rehearsal, performance, and pre- or post- Festival facility use labor;

 2. Sound Labor, which shall include move-in/out, rehearsal, performance and pre- or post-Festival facility use labor excluding labor for transport of equipment from shop to facility and equipment set-up/or breakdown in shop prior to or following each Festival;

 3. Emergency Services and Admissions Labor, which shall include all labor associated with the Festival, including move-in/out, rehearsal, performance and pre- or post-Festival facility use labor;

 4. Technical Facilities Management Labor, which shall include all labor associated with Festival requirements specifically requested by GM in the Event Service Order and subsequent change orders.

 E. Security Planning

 The City and GM shall jointly conduct a security planning meeting 60 days prior to each Festival. Either party may request the attendance of representatives of the Seattle Fire Department and Seattle Police Department. The purpose of such meeting is to identify and discuss potential security concerns related to the upcoming Festival including, but not limited to, other events in the City which might impact the Festival, any planned protests in the vicinity of the Seattle Center grounds, grounds access issues, planned gate staffing, venue evacuation, known threats (if any) and construction activities which might impact visitor safety.

 IV. REDEVELOPMENT IMPACT REVIEW

 Consistent with Section II.C., the Director and GM shall meet on or about July 1 to review the on-going activities and any planned activity on the grounds and/or in the facilities with respect to redevelopment and the impact of such redevelopment on the following year's Festival. It is the intent of both parties to minimize any financial impact to either party for changes that may occur after approval of the Revised Facility Use Plan for each Festival year.

 The parties agree to work together to modify the Premises in order to achieve GM and Seattle Center common goals. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, in the event the Director determines, in the exercise of his/her discretion, that in order to facilitate the redevelopment of Seattle Center, the grounds or any facility scheduled for Festival use are required for some use or purpose other than that contemplated by the parties under this Agreement, the Director, after consultation with GM, shall have the right to modify this Agreement, including but not limited to the Premises provided for Festival purposes.

 V. FEES AND CHARGES

 A. Office and Telephone Services

 GM shall secure and pay all costs of office and telephone services, postage and photocopying.

 GM may choose their own telephone provider, including use of Department of Information Technology (DoIT) with the City of Seattle. If DoIT is the provider, then such services are to be arranged directly with DoIT. Any requests, changes or service issues need to be communicated promptly. All charges billed must be paid promptly or service may be discontinued. GM shall arrange for and use the services of the Seattle Center communications provider, currently, Convention Communications Provisioners, Inc. ("CCPI") for all event-related telephone needs.

 GM shall also be responsible for delivering all bulk mailings (i.e. more than 20 pieces of substantially similar mail) directly to a post office. If using City supplied office services, charges by the City shall exclude time spent by City staff to prepare invoices to GM for such charges. Payment shall be made upon receipt of invoices.

 B. Event Service Order Not Operationally Feasible

 If, after all normal procedures as outlined in this Agreement to allow for the amendment, alteration and accommodation of the Event Service Order requests have been exhausted, the Director determines that the Event Service Order submitted by GM is not operationally feasible due to causes directly attributable to GM, GM shall pay any costs incurred by Seattle Center in negotiating workable changes to modify the Final Event Service Order to accommodate the needs of the Festival and Seattle Center.

 C. Reimbursable Labor Fee

 1. GM shall reimburse the City for all labor provided pursuant to Section III.D herein. Labor costs shall include but not be limited to salaries, wages, employee benefits, but shall not include Seattle Center administrative overhead and facility cost allocations or routine cleaning of Seattle Center Facilities. The City shall invoice GM for all labor hours used by GM, and thereafter adjust the City invoice as determined by the review, if any, provided for in Section II.D.

 2. Fisher Pavilion Credit. To encourage GM's use of Fisher Pavilion for Festival performances, the City will provide GM with a credit for certain labor fees that would otherwise be charged to GM, subject to the conditions in this subsection. Beginning in 2011, and thereafter for each festival year under this Agreement, GM will be entitled to a credit of up to $10,000 against the labor fees due to the City under section V.C.1., conditioned upon GM's use of Fisher Pavilion as a performance venue. In the event GM elects not to schedule performances at Fisher Pavilion, GM will not receive the credit. The credit will be allowed to offset GM's actual "Qualifying Pavilion Labor Costs" only in an amount not to exceed $10,000 calculated with reference to the hourly labor rates in effect for that Festival year. As used herein, "Qualifying Pavilion Labor Costs" means the following:

 (a) Stage. Actual labor hours used for move-in, rehearsals, performances and move-out at Fisher Pavilion, only.

 (b) Sound. Actual labor hours for used for sound technicians during move- in, rehearsals, performance and move-out for Fisher Pavilion, only.

 (c) Technical Services. Actual labor hours for work performed by plumbers and electricians for Fisher Pavilion only.

 D. Time and Place of GM Payments

 The City shall invoice GM for the charges specified in Sections V.A - V.C. These charges shall be due on or by the thirtieth (30th) day after the date of any City billing or invoice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for each year of this Agreement, GM shall pay all outstanding invoices not in dispute on or before December 29. In the event of a dispute, the parties shall employ the dispute resolution procedure described in Section XIX of this Agreement. All sums due and owing to the City shall be delinquent if not paid on or before the fifth (5th) day after the date due. In the event of any delinquency, GM shall also pay the City a service charge of Fifty Dollars ($50.00), or such larger sum as is established by ordinance, for each month the delinquency continues, plus interest on such delinquent sum at a rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%), or such larger percent as is established by ordinance, per month, from the date due to the date of payment. Payments made after a delinquency shall be applied first to accrued interest, and then to principal.

 All payments shall be sent to The City of Seattle, c/o Seattle Center Accounting, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington, 98109 or to such other address as the Director shall specify.

 E. In-Kind Estimate

 Together with the invoice specified in Section V.D, Seattle Center will provide an estimate of the value of in-kind services provided to GM during the Festival. For the purposes of this section, in-kind services are defined as rent, readerboards, non reimbursed labor, Event Services Representative time, parking and equipment provided free of charge.

 VI. PUBLICITY AND MEDIA

 A. Sponsorship References

 All GM publicity shall identify the Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle as a primary Festival sponsor consistent with the billing and design accorded other primary sponsors. Said publicity may alternatively include the wording, "Sponsored In Part by Seattle Center", and shall include the Seattle Center logo on materials on which the GM logo is used, except for materials mailed at the non-profit rate and are subject to Federal Postal regulations governing sponsor recognition.

 B. Media Rights

 Except as limited by the terms of the contracts between GM and the artists, GM grants the City the right to film, videotape, televise and record all events, appearances and performances occurring at or associated with the Festival, provided that the City will provide advance notice to GM. Additionally, with advance notice to GM, the City may use up to two (2) minutes of such non-commercial films, videotapes, recordings or reproductions of the performances by any other means, for promotional and publicity use without payment to GM or the artists with whom GM has contracted. Films, videotapes or recordings of the artist and/or its performances shall not be broadcast for commercial purposes in any medium unless GM and the City execute a separate agreement providing for payment to GM and/or participating artists in accordance with GM contracts with the artists. The parties shall endeavor to come to such agreement(s) in good faith.

 C. Seattle Center Use of Graphics

 To the extent authorized by GM and consistent with GM's contractual obligations with its performers and graphic artists, Seattle Center may use any and all Festival graphics free of charge for any Seattle Center promotion effort or the co-promotion by GM and the City of activities directly related to the annual "Giant Magnet Festival." Seattle Center shall advise GM in advance of any such usage.

 D. Publicity and Background Materials

 GM shall furnish the Director with whatever backup material regarding the Festival, its participants, and related matters is requested by such Director and is reasonably available. The GM shall produce a printed program, press releases, posters and flyers in such numbers as may be appropriate to publicize the Festival.

 E. Promotional Opportunities

 GM agrees to provide to Seattle Center, free of charge, one promotional performance, consistent with the terms of the contracts between GM and Festival artists, for the purpose of enhancing the image and awareness of Seattle Center in the community. Time, location, and technical requirements shall be negotiated between GM and Seattle Center. Unless otherwise agreed by both parties, Seattle Center shall bear any additional expenses related to presenting such performances. In addition, GM shall provide complimentary tickets, and ticket discounts offered to all City employees consistent with those accorded other primary sponsors.

 For the duration of each Festival, GM shall provide the City with one on- site location for a promotional booth for Seattle Center, the Seattle Center Foundation or Seattle Center's sponsorship partners. GM shall have the right to approve the booth location and the promotional activity to be conducted.

 VII. CONCESSION RIGHTS

 GM is granted the following limited concession rights, which may be exercised during each year's Festival, subject to existing Seattle Center concession and licensing contracts:

 A. to sell photographs, posters, art works, crafts, printed materials, and video and audio recordings or other media, all of which have an artistic base, theme or groundwork related to the Festival;

 B. to sell souvenir items related to the Festival but not to Seattle Center, generally, nor containing the Seattle Center logo; except as otherwise agreed upon promotional materials.

 C. to sell food and beverages;

 D. to authorize others to sell such items.

 These concession rights may be exercised on Seattle Center grounds and in Seattle Center facilities other than the Center House. With respect to the Center House, GM may negotiate concession rights with tenants on the second floor of the Center House, subject to the Director's approval, which approval may be conditioned on the payment by GM of a fee or percentage of gross receipts.

 VIII. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES

 GM shall keep the Premises free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising or growing out of its use and occupancy of Seattle Center. At the request of the Director, GM shall deliver to the Director written proof of the payment of any items that could be the basis for such a lien, if not paid.

 IX. NO NUISANCES OR OBJECTIONABLE ACTIVITY

 GM shall not permit any excessive noise, odor, dust, vibration, or other similar substance or condition to remain on or emitted from the Premises as part of any Festival; shall not interfere with access from or to Seattle Center or any part thereof, or with the traffic thereon; shall not create any nuisance in or adjacent to Seattle Center, and shall not knowingly do anything at Seattle Center that shall create a danger to life and limb.

 X. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 A. General Requirement

 GM, at no expense to Seattle Center, shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 B. Licenses and Similar Authorizations

 GM, at no expense to Seattle Center, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the Term of this Agreement, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 C. Taxes

 GM shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities and undertakings at and on Seattle Center premises, including, but not limited to taxes arising out of the activity or business conducted thereon such as the rental or sale of goods or services; taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements on the premises; and taxes on GM's interest in this Agreement and any leasehold interest deemed to have been created thereby under Ch. 82.29A RCW.

 D. Nondiscrimination

 Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, GM agrees to and shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington and City of Seattle, including but not limited to Chapters 14.04, 14.10, and 20.42 of the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC") as they may be amended from time to time, and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 E Firearms Policy

 Consistent with Seattle Executive Order 07-08, GM agrees to adopt and implement throughout the Term, a policy prohibiting any person, except for law enforcement officers and on-duty security personnel, from possessing firearms at the Facilities provided for Festival use under this Agreement. In exchange, City agrees to provide and place signage notifying the public of the policy at all main entrances to the Seattle Center campus. Starter pistols or "blanks" may be permitted for theatrical purposes upon prior approval of the Seattle Center Director. In the event Executive Order 07- 08 is suspended or declared inoperative as a matter of law, this subsection X.E. will immediately terminate and all other terms of the Agreement will remain in full force and effect.

 XI. INDEMNIFICATION

 GM shall indemnify and hold the City and its agents and employees harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages and expenses arising out of GM's performance or lack of performance under this Agreement, except those arising as a result of the sole negligence of the City, its agents and employees. In the event that any suit based upon such a loss, claim, action, damage, or expense is brought against the City, GM, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at its sole cost and expense, using counsel acceptable to the City, and if final judgment is adverse to the City, or the City and GM jointly, GM shall promptly satisfy the same. The liability described in this subsection shall not be diminished by the fact, if it be a fact, that any such death, injury, damage, loss, cost or expense may have been contributed to, or may be alleged to have been contributed to, in part, by the negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents.

 XII. INSURANCE

 Throughout the term of this Agreement GM shall maintain at no expense to the City, insurance coverage and minimum limits of liability as specified below.

 A. Coverage - Commercial General Liability

 Commercial General Liability insurance including:

 1. Premises/Operations

 2. Products/Completed Operations

 3. Personal/Advertising Injury

 4. Contractual

 5. Independent Contractors

 6. Elevator and Hoist Liability (as applicable)

 7. Stop Gap/Employers Liability

 Such insurance shall provide a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage except:

 $1,000,000 each offense Personal/Advertising Injury

 $ 100,000 each occurrence Fire/Tenant Legal Damage

 Stop Gap/Employers Liability

 $ 1,000,000 Each Accident

 $ 1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit

 $ 1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 A deductible or self-insured retention in excess of $10,000 must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Management Division. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the sole responsibility of the GM.

 B. Coverage - Automobile Liability

 Automobile Liability insurance, including coverage for owned, non- owned, leased or hired vehicles as appropriate with a minimum limit of liability of $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage.

 C. Coverage - Worker's Compensation

 GM shall maintain Workers' Compensation insurance sufficient to secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington (RCW). If GM is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the RCW, GM shall so certify by providing a copy of the state Certificate of Self- Insurance, and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees.

 D. Additional Insured, Cancellation and Primary Coverage Endorsements

 The insurance required pursuant to Sections A and B above, shall include the City of Seattle as an additional insured; (ii) shall not be reduced or canceled without thirty (30) days prior written notice to the City or otherwise as in accordance with the provisions of RCW 48.18.290 ("Cancellation by insurer."); and (iii) shall be primary insurance as respects the City, and any other insurance maintained by the City shall be excess and not contributing insurance with the GM's insurance.

 E. Changes of Coverage and/or Limits

 Coverage and/or limits of insurance may be altered or increased by the City as necessary from time to time, to reflect the type of or exposure to risk. The City shall have the right to periodically review the appropriateness of existing limits in view of the foregoing and of inflation and/or changing industry conditions and to require an increase in such limits upon ninety (90) days prior written notice to GM.

 F. Evidence of Insurance

 The following documents must be provided as evidence of insurance coverage:

 1. A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the insuring company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 2. A copy of the commercial general liability endorsement or policy wording documenting that the City of Seattle is an additional insured.

 3. A copy of the schedule of forms and endorsements to the commercial general liability insurance policy.

 4. Evidence that prior written notice will be provided to the City of Seattle as follows:

 Seattle Center Director City of Seattle Seattle Center Risk Management Division The City of Seattle P.O. Box 94669 305 Harrison Street Seattle, WA 98124-4669 Seattle, WA 98109

 All evidence of insurance must be delivered to the following address:

 Seattle Center Director Seattle Center The City of Seattle 305 Harrison Street Seattle, WA 98109

 G. Approval of City Risk Management Division; Security of Insurers

 All policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Management Division as to form, coverage and insurer. Except for Washington State statutory workers compensation under Title 51, insurers must be currently rated A-:VII or higher by A.M. Best's and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker under the provisions of chapter 48.15 RCW, unless otherwise approved by the City's Risk Management Division

 H. Contractors and Subcontractors

 GM shall include all of its contractors and subcontractors performing work at Seattle Center pursuant to this agreement as insureds under its policies or shall furnish separate evidence of insurance as stated above for each contractor. All coverages for contractors shall be subject to all the requirements stated herein and applicable to their profession.

 I. GM'S Responsibility

 GM shall not keep or use in or about the Premises any article that is prohibited by any insurance policy. If the City intends to purchase insurance due to GM's use of the premises, it will first notify GM of its intent and anticipated cost. GM shall pay immediately any increase in the City's premiums for insurance procured by the City during the term of this Agreement that results from GM's use of the Premises. The procuring of the insurance required by this Agreement shall not be construed to limit GM's obligations under Section XI and the minimum limits of liability shall not be construed as capping the liability of any insurer; the City, where required to be an additional insured, shall be covered up to the total available limits of liability of all applicable GM liability insurance, whether primary, excess, contingent or otherwise.

 J. City's Option to Terminate Upon Failure to Insure

 If GM fails to maintain insurance required under this Agreement, the City may obtain the same and GM shall reimburse City for the full expense thereof upon demand. Alternatively, the failure of GM to maintain and otherwise comply with the provisions of this Section may subject this Agreement to immediate termination at the discretion of the Director and without the need for prior notice to GM, in order to protect the public interest.

 XIII. CITY'S ACCESS TO PREMISES; INSPECTION, REPAIR, AND IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES AND OTHER PROPERTY; WITHDRAWAL OF PREMISES

 A. Access to Premises

 As used in this Agreement, "Premises" means the Seattle Center Facilities made available to GM for any Festival or Festival related purposes. The City shall retain the right of access at all reasonable times to the Premises to inspect the same and to make any limited repair, improvement, alteration, or addition thereto or any other property owned by or under the control of the City deemed necessary by the Director, but this right of access shall not impose on Seattle Center any obligation to make any repair, alteration, addition, or improvement except as specifically provided herein. Further, such access shall not interfere with the programs and events of the Festival but shall be subject to the provisions of Section II.C.2.b. The Director shall make every effort to give GM thirty (30) days prior notice of such access need. Construction activity during subsequent Festivals shall be discussed on a case-by-case basis, and shall be addressed in conjunction with the Revised Facility Use Plan and shall be subject to the provisions of Section II.C.2.b.

 B. Permitted Interference

 In inspecting, and in making repairs, alterations, additions and improvements, the City may erect barricades and scaffolding in and outside of the affected portion of the Premises, and may otherwise interfere with the conduct of GM's and Festival participants' business and operations where such action is of an emergency nature, and such interference shall not be deemed to be a breach or default under this Agreement. Seattle Center will not bill GM for any activities undertaken in connection with this Section. Seattle Center shall use its best efforts to minimize interference with access to and from the Premises and with GM's activities and operations on or from the Premises, and shall make every effort to give GM thirty (30) days' notice prior to such interference.

 C. Suspension of Activities and Operations

 In the event such inspection, repair, alteration, addition, or improvement work necessitates the temporary suspension of the Festival or any part thereof, or of GM's activities and operations on the Premises, or any portion thereof, the Director shall notify GM of such necessity and the anticipated beginning and ending dates of such suspension. Festival or Festival activity suspensions may be ordered with less notice in the event of an emergency as determined by the Director. The GM hereby waives any and all rights to claims for damage for any injury to and interference with its operations, activity, or business and any loss occasioned by any such suspension except as provided in Section II.C.2.b. If, however, the Director could have given advance notice to GM but failed to do so, the City is liable to GM for any loss of revenue or costs generated resulting from the suspension of activities.

 XIV. SEATTLE CENTER'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS, GROUNDS AND ACTIVITIES

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Seattle Center, without liability of any kind unless otherwise provided herein, reserves the right to do any or all of the following:

 A. Increase, reduce, and change in any manner whatsoever the number, appearance, dimensions, and locations of Seattle Center walks, buildings, landscaping, parking, and service areas, and may also make improvements, alterations, and additions to the common areas of any Seattle Center building.

 B. Regulate all traffic within and adjacent to Seattle Center.

 C. Impose a reasonable charge for facilities not being used by GM.

 D. Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and material and permit special events on Seattle Center grounds, buildings and facilities.

 E. Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle Center.

 F. Restrict or prohibit the parking on City-owned or leased property of motor vehicles owned or operated by GM and any of its officers, employees, agents, suppliers, invitees, and Festival participants except as provided in Section III.A.3.c.

 G. Determine the days and hours Seattle Center shall be open to the public.

 H. Change the size, number and type and identity of other concessions, stores, businesses, and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center.

 I. Exercise any other power or right authorized by law or ordinance.

 XV. SEATTLE CENTER'S RIGHT TO DISAPPROVE MERCHANDISE AND PRICES

 In order to protect the public visiting Seattle Center from price gouging, and to ensure that a variety and diversity of food, beverages, merchandise and entertainment are offered to the same, Seattle Center reserves the right to:

 A. Prohibit Price Gouging

 Disapprove the price of any food, beverage, item of merchandise or service that is substantially higher than the price charged by a substantially similar business in the region, and prohibit the charging of such substantially higher price; and

 B. Prohibit the Sale of Objectionable Materials

 Prohibit the sale of any item of any food, beverage, item of merchandise or service that is unsafe; that portrays the City or Seattle Center or any aspect thereof in an incorrect or misleading manner; that is inappropriate for a family-oriented arts, recreation and entertainment facility such as Seattle Center; or that may create a substantial litter or other maintenance problem at Seattle Center; all of which shall be determined by the Director.

 XVI. FORCE MAJEURE

 Notwithstanding any other provision herein, neither party shall be liable to the other for any delay, hindrance or failure in the performance of any covenant, service, work or other act required under this Agreement when such delay, hindrance or failure is due to causes entirely beyond such party's control such as riots, insurrections, martial law, civil commotion, war, flood, fire, earthquake, or other casualty or acts of nature.

 All notices and other material to be delivered hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered or mailed to the following:

 To Seattle Center: Director, SEATTLE CENTER

 305 Harrison Street

 Seattle, Washington 98109

 To GM: Board of Trustees President,

 GIANT MAGNET FESTIVAL

 305 Harrison Street

 Seattle, Washington 98109

 or other such respective address(es) as either party may from time to time designate in writing.

 XVIII. DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY

 The term "Director" as used throughout this Agreement in regard to permission, warrant, consent, approval, rights, interpretation, and discretionary matters shall mean the Director of Seattle Center or his/her designee; provided, that the action of the Director and his/her designee pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official action by any other City Department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation before GM may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain or exercise any particular right or privilege under this Agreement. Any decision to be made by the Director shall be left to his/her reasonable discretion.

 XIX. DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS

 If a dispute arises between the parties regarding this Agreement, the parties will make every effort to resolve the dispute in a timely manner by negotiation between representatives with decision making authority appropriate to the circumstances. If the matter cannot be resolved by direct negotiations, prior to commencement of any legal action, the parties agree to participate in good faith in mediation, using the services of a mediator from Judicial Dispute Resolution or any other mediator mutually agreeable to the parties. The parties will equally share the cost of the mediation.

 XX. AMENDMENTS

 No modification or amendment of any of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement, from time to time, by mutual agreement.

 XXI. CAPTIONS

 The titles of sections and subsections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 XXII. BINDING EFFECT

 The provisions, covenants and conditions in this Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal representatives, successors, and assigns.

 XXIII. PREVIOUS AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED

 The terms and conditions of this Agreement supersede the terms, obligations and conditions of any existing or prior agreement between the parties regarding the subject matter of this Agreement.

 XXIV. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement, including the Exhibit attached hereto and forming a part hereof, are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions, either oral or written, between the parties. The parties acknowledge that they have negotiated the terms hereof and that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall not be construed against any party on the basis of that party's draftsmanship of any of the same.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by having their authorized representatives affix their signatures below.

 GIANT MAGNET FESTIVAL

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By _____________________________________

 By _______________________________ Teresa Gallo, President Robert Nellams, Director GM Board of Trustees

 Seattle Center Department

 Israel

 CEN Giant Magnet ORD ATT 1

 November 19, 2009

 Version 1

 1

 Attachment 1 to Giant Magnet Ordinance

 November 10, 2009

```
