

********

**Council Bill Number: 116751**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123201**
********

 AN ORDINANCE granting SRI-WR Elliott Avenue LLC permission to maintain and operate a pedestrian skybridge over and across Elliott Avenue, between Cedar Street and Vine Street, for a ten-year term, renewable for one successive five-year term; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 7, 2009
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 15, 2009
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 11, 2009
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 30, 2009
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** SKYBRIDGES, PERMITS, BELLTOWN

**Fiscal Note:**116751

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123201](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123201.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE granting SRI-WR Elliott Avenue LLC permission to maintain and operate a pedestrian skybridge over and across Elliott Avenue, between Cedar Street and Vine Street, for a ten-year term, renewable for one successive five-year term; specifying the conditions under which this permit is granted; providing for acceptance of the permit and conditions; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 107724, the City of Seattle ("City") granted permission to the Seattle Trade Center to construct, maintain and operate a pedestrian skybridge over and across Elliott Avenue, between Cedar Street and Vine Street ; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 119341 transferred the permission authorized by Ordinance 107724 to maintain and operate the pedestrian skybridge to 2601 Elliott LLC; and

 WHEREAS, the conditions of Ordinance 107724 were amended by Ordinances 114413, 119341 and 121855 and Resolutions 26453 and 29090; and

 WHEREAS, the permission authorized by Ordinance 107724 was renewed for two successive 10-year terms by Ordinances 114413 and 119341 and terminated on November 18, 2008; and

 WHEREAS, SRI-WR Elliott Avenue LLC has submitted an application to the Director of Transportation ("Director") to continue maintenance and operation of this pedestrian skybridge; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Design Commission has reviewed and recommended approval of continued maintenance and operation of the skybridge conditioned upon the implementation of the public realm benefit mitigation package as presented on May 7, 2009; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Chapter 15.64, the SRI-WR Elliott Avenue LLC has submitted the required information and the Director has recommended that approval be granted conditioned upon specified performance requirements;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Permission. Subject to the terms and conditions of this ordinance, permission is hereby granted to SRI-WR Elliott Avenue LLC, its successors and assigns ("Permittee") to maintain and operate a pedestrian skybridge over and across Elliott Avenue, between Cedar Street and Vine Street, connecting Permittee's building situated in part on Block 7, Bell and Denny's Addition, on the westerly side of Elliott Avenue, to Permittee's parking facility located on Block 8, Bell and Denny's Addition, on the easterly side of Elliott Avenue, for the purpose of pedestrian travel between the two buildings.

 Section 2. Term. The permission granted to the Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall be for a term of ten years commencing on November 18, 2008 and terminating at 11:59 p.m. on November 17, 2018. Upon written application of the Permittee at least 60 days before expiration of the term, the Director of Transportation ("Director") may, as set forth in Section 3, renew the permit for an additional five year term. The total term of the permission as originally granted and thus extended shall not exceed 15 years, subject to the right of the City of Seattle ("City") to terminate the permit as set forth in Section 6 of this ordinance.

 Section 3. Basis for renewal. The Director, in reviewing the application for the five year term extension, shall evaluate and make the application decision based on the transportation needs of the area. The Director shall review the existing operations and planned Alaskan Way Viaduct and Seawall Replacement project and make a determination as to the transportation needs of the area by the end of the eighth year of the initial term of this permission. If the Director determines that adjustments or removal of the skybridge are required, the Permittee will be provided with a written determination and given until the remainder of the initial term to make any required adjustments or remove the skybridge. Nothing in this section impairs the rights of the City Council and the Director under other sections of this ordinance, including to require removal of the skybridge pursuant to Section 6 of this ordinance.

 Section 4. Public realm benefit mitigation. The permission granted is subject to the Permittee completing the public realm benefit mitigation, as recommended by the Seattle Design Commission, within two years of the effective date of this ordinance. The Permittee shall install and maintain the following public realm benefits in order to mitigate the negative visual impacts of the skybridge to the streetscape environment, per the conceptual drawings submitted to the Seattle Design Commission:

 a) art display cases, metal panels, and pedestrian lighting along east side of Elliott Avenue;

 b) a green vegetated wall on south elevation of parking garage on Vine Street;

 c) building up-lighting and window treatments on west side of Elliott Avenue; and

 d) bike racks along Vine Street and/or Elliott Avenue, per a feasibility review of the Department of Transportation.

 Prior to installation of these elements, the Permittee shall obtain the required permits from the appropriate City departments. Any changes to this list must be approved by the Director.

 Section 5. Protection of utilities. The permission granted is subject to the Permittee bearing the expense of any protection, support or relocation of existing utilities deemed necessary by the owners of the utilities and the Permittee being responsible for any subsequent damage to the utilities due to the construction, repair, reconstruction, maintenance, or operation of the pedestrian skybridge.

 Section 6. Removal for public use or for cause. The permission granted is subject to use by the City and the public of the street right- of-way for travel, utility purposes, and other street uses. The City expressly reserves the right to require the Permittee to remove the pedestrian skybridge at Permittee's sole cost and expense in the event that:

 a) the City Council determines by ordinance that the space occupied by the pedestrian skybridge is necessary for any public use or benefit or that the pedestrian skybridge interferes with any public use or benefit; or

 b) the Director determines that any term or condition of this ordinance has been violated and such violation has not been corrected by the Permittee by the compliance date after written request by the City.

 A City Council determination that the space is needed for or interferes with a public use or benefit shall be conclusive and final without any right of the Permittee to resort to the courts to question the same.

 Section 7. Removal requirements. If the permission herein granted is not renewed at the expiration of the initial term, or if the permission is extended to its termination date in fifteen years and an application for a new permit is not granted, or if the City orders removal of the pedestrian skybridge pursuant to the terms of this ordinance, then within 90 days after such expiration or termination, or prior to the date stated in an Order to Remove, the Permittee shall, at its own expense, remove the pedestrian skybridge and shall replace all portions of the street right of way that may have been disturbed for any part of the pedestrian skybridge in as good condition for public use as they were prior to construction of the pedestrian skybridge and in at least as good condition in all respects as the abutting portions of the right of way. The Director shall then issue a certificate discharging the Permittee, or its successor or assign, from responsibility under this ordinance for occurrences after the date of such discharge.

 Section 8. Repair, reconstruction, readjustment or relocation. The Permittee shall not commence reconstruction, relocation, readjustment or repair of the pedestrian skybridge except under the supervision of, and in strict accordance with plans and specifications approved by, the Director. The Director, in the Director's judgment, may order reconstruction, relocation, readjustment or repair of the pedestrian skybridge at the Permittee's own cost and expense because of the deterioration or unsafe condition of the pedestrian skybridge or any part thereof or installation thereon; grade separations; the installation, construction, reconstruction, maintenance, operation or repair of any and all municipally-owned public utilities; or for any other cause.

 Section 9. Failure to correct unsafe condition. After notice to the Permittee and failure of the Permittee to correct any unsafe condition(s) within the time stated in such notice, the Director may order that the pedestrian skybridge be closed and/or removed at Permittee's expense if the Director deems that it has become unsafe or creates a risk of injury to the public. If there is an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public, notice to correct is not required.

 Section 10. Continuing obligation to remove and restore. Notwithstanding termination or expiration of the permission granted, or closure or removal of the pedestrian skybridge, the Permittee shall remain bound by its obligation under this ordinance until:

 a) the pedestrian skybridge and all its equipment and property are removed from the street right of way;

 b) the area is cleared and restored in a manner and to a condition satisfactory to the Director; and

 c) the Director certifies that the Permittee has discharged its obligations under this ordinance;

 Upon prior notice to the Permittee and entry of written findings that it is in the public interest, the Director may, in the Director's sole discretion, excuse the Permittee, conditionally or absolutely, from compliance with all or any of the Permittee's obligations to remove the pedestrian skybridge and its property and to restore disturbed areas.

 Section 11. Release, hold harmless, indemnification, and duty to defend. The pedestrian skybridge shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the Permittee, and the Permittee agrees to maintain the skybridge in good and safe condition. The Permittee, by acceptance of the terms of this ordinance and the permission granted, releases the City from any and all claims resulting from damage or loss to its own property and does covenant and agree for itself, its successors and assigns, with the City, to at all times protect and save harmless the City from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expense or damages of every kind and description (excepting only such damages that may result from the sole negligence of the City), that may accrue to, or be suffered by, any person or persons and/or property or properties, including without limitation, damage or injury to the Permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, invitees, tenants and tenants' invitees, licensees or its successors and assigns, by reason of the construction, maintenance, operation or use of the pedestrian skybridge, or any portion thereof, or by reason of anything that has been done or may at any time be done by the Permittee, its successors or assigns by reason of this ordinance or by reason of the Permittee, its successors or assigns failing or refusing to strictly comply with each and every provision of this ordinance; and if any such suit, action or claim be filed, instituted or begun against the City, the Permittee, its successors or assigns shall, upon notice thereof from the City, defend the same at its or their sole cost and expense, and in case judgment shall be rendered against the City in any suit or action, the Permittee, its successors or assigns shall fully satisfy the judgment within 90 days after such action or suit shall have been finally determined, if determined adversely to the City. If it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that RCW 4.24.115 applies to this ordinance, then in the event claims or damages are caused by or result from the concurrent negligence of:

 a) the City, its agents, contractors or employees; and,

 b) the Permittee, its agents, contractors, employees or its successors or assigns,

 this indemnity provision shall be valid and enforceable only to the extent of the negligence of the Permittee or the Permittee's agents, contractors, employees or its successors or assigns.

 Section 12. Insurance. For as long as the Permittee, its successors and assigns, shall exercise any permission granted by this ordinance and until the pedestrian skybridge is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1 or until discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 7 of this ordinance, the Permittee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at its own expense, insurance that protects the City from claims and risks of loss from perils that can be insured against under commercial general liability ("CGL") insurance policies in conjunction with:

 a) construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance, use or existence of the pedestrian skybridge permitted by this ordinance and of any and all portions of the pedestrian skybridge;

 b) Permittee's activity upon, or the use or occupation of the Elliott Avenue right-of-way between Cedar Street and Vine Street, the area described in Section 1 of this ordinance, and

 c) claims and risks in connection with and activity performed by the Permittee by virtue of the permission granted by this ordinance.

 Minimum insurance requirements are CGL insurance based on the Insurance Services Office (ISO) form CG 00 01 or equivalent. The City requires insurance coverage to be placed with an insurer admitted and licensed to conduct business in Washington State or with a surplus lines carrier pursuant to Chapter 48.15 RCW, except that if it is infeasible to obtain coverage with such insurer, the City may approve an alternative insurer. Minimum limits of liability shall be Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) each occurrence combined single limit bodily injury and property damage, with Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000) annual aggregate. Coverage shall name the "City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non- contributory limits of liability subject to a Separation of Insureds clause. Permittee shall provide to the City, or cause to be provided, certification of insurance coverage consisting of the CGL declarations page, schedule of forms and endorsements, and blanket or additional insured policy provision per the ISO CG 20 12 or equivalent. Such insurance coverage certification shall be delivered or sent to the Director or to such department and address as the Director may specify, from time to time, in writing.

 Should the Permittee be self-insured, a letter of certification from the Corporate Risk Manager or appropriate Finance Officer may be submitted in lieu of the insurance coverage certification required by this ordinance, if approved in writing by the City Risk Manager. Such letter must provide all information required by the City Risk Manager and document, to the satisfaction of the City Risk Manager, that self-insurance equivalent to the insurance requirements of this ordinance is in force. After such self- insurance certification is approved, the City may subsequently from time to time require updated or additional information. The approved self- insured Permittee must provide thirty days notice of any cancellation or material adverse financial condition of its self-insurance program. The City may at any time revoke approval of self-insurance and require the Permittee to obtain and maintain insurance as specified in this ordinance.

 Section 13. Contractor insurance. The Permittee shall contractually require that any and all of its contractors performing construction work on any premises contemplated by this permit name the "City of Seattle, its elected and appointed officers, officials, employees and agents" as additional insureds for primary and non-contributory limits of liability on all CGL, Automobile and Pollution liability insurance and/or self- insurance. Permittee shall also include in all contract documents with its contractors a third party beneficiary provision extending construction indemnities and warranties granted to Permittee to the City as well.

 Section 14. Performance bond. Within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance the Permittee shall deliver to the Director for filing with the City Clerk a good and sufficient bond in the sum of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($300,000.00) executed by a surety company authorized and qualified to do business in the State of Washington, conditioned that the Permittee will comply with each and every provision of this ordinance and with each and every order of the Director pursuant thereto. The Permittee shall ensure that the bond shall remain in effect until such time as the pedestrian skybridge is entirely removed from its location as described in Section 1, or until the Permittee is discharged by order of the Director as provided in Section 7 of this ordinance. An irrevocable letter of credit approved by the City Risk Manager may be substituted for the bond.

 Section 15. Adjustment of insurance and bond requirements. The Director, in consultation with the City Risk Manager, may adjust minimum levels of liability insurance and surety bond requirements during the term of this permission, if the Director and Risk Manager determine that an adjustment is necessary to fully protect the interests of the City. The Director shall notify the Permittee of the new requirements in writing. Upon receipt, the Permittee shall provide proof of the adjusted required levels of insurance and surety bond to the Director within 60 days.

 Section 16. Consent for and conditions of assignment or transfer. The right, privilege and authority granted shall not be assignable or transferable by operation of law, nor shall the Permittee, its successors or assigns transfer, assign, mortgage, pledge or encumber the same without the consent of the Director, which consent the Director shall not unreasonably refuse. The Director may approve assignment and/or transfer of the permit to a successor entity in the case of a change of name and/or ownership if the successor or assignee has demonstrated its acceptance of all of the terms of the permission provided by this ordinance.

 Section 17. Inspection fees. The Permittee, its successors and assigns shall pay to the City such amounts as may be charged by the City as costs of inspection of the pedestrian skybridge during construction, reconstruction, repair, annual structural inspections, and at other times deemed necessary to ensure the safety of the pedestrian skybridge, as provided by Chapter 15.76 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 18. Annual fee. Permittee shall promptly pay to the City, upon statements or invoices issued by the Director, an annual fee for the privileges granted by this ordinance in the amount of Sixteen Thousand Six Hundred Ninety-Five Dollars ($16,695.00), beginning on November 18, 2008, the commencement date of the term, and adjusted annually thereafter. Adjustments to the annual fee shall be made in accordance with a term permit fee schedule adopted by the City Council by ordinance and may be made every year. In the absence of such a schedule, the Director may only increase or decrease the previous year's fee to reflect any inflationary changes so as to charge the fee in constant dollar terms. This adjustment will be calculated by adjusting the previous year's fee by the percentage change between the two most recent year-end values available of the Consumer Price Index for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Area, All Urban Consumers, All Products, Not Seasonally Adjusted. All payments shall be made to the City Finance Director for credit to the Transportation Operating Fund. The City shall provide an invoice for the annual fees for the years commencing November 18, 2008 and November 18, 2009, within thirty days following the effective date of this ordinance.

 Section 19. Non-discrimination. The Permittee shall comply with the City's laws prohibiting discrimination in employment and contracting, including the Seattle Fair Employment Practices Ordinance, Chapter 14.04 of the Seattle Municipal Code, and the Fair Contracting Practices code, Chapter 14.10 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 20. Acceptance of terms and conditions. The Permittee shall deliver to the Director its written signed acceptance of the terms and conditions of this ordinance within 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance. The Director shall file the written acceptance with the City Clerk. If no such acceptance is received within that 60-day period, the privileges conferred by this ordinance shall be deemed declined or abandoned and the permission granted deemed lapsed and forfeited.

 Section 21. Ratify and confirm. Any act taken by the City or the Permittee pursuant to the authority and in compliance with the conditions of this ordinance, but prior to the effective date, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 22. Effective date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2009, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2009.

 _________________________________

 Gregory J. Nickels, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2009.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Susan Paine/Angela Steel

 SDOT SRI-WR Elliott Skybridge ORD

 November 16, 2009

 Version #10

```
