

********

**Council Bill Number: 116818**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123261**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the electric system of The City of Seattle: increasing the authorized amount of municipal light and power revenue bonds to be issued for the purposes of providing funds for certain additions and betterments to and extensions of the existing municipal light and power plant and system of the City, capitalizing interest on and paying the costs of issuing and selling those bonds and providing for the reserve fund requirement; adjusting provisions relating to redemption, reserve requirement calculation, additional bonds, and the implementation of a rate stabilization fund for those bonds; amending Ordinance 123169; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 22, 2010
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 29, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 26, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 15, 2010
   
**Committee:** Energy, Technology, and Civil Rights
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
   
**Index Terms:** BONDS, CITY-LIGHT, ELECTRICITY

**Fiscal Note:**116818

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123261](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123261.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the electric system of The City of Seattle: increasing the authorized amount of municipal light and power revenue bonds to be issued for the purposes of providing funds for certain additions and betterments to and extensions of the existing municipal light and power plant and system of the City, capitalizing interest on and paying the costs of issuing and selling those bonds and providing for the reserve fund requirement; adjusting provisions relating to redemption, reserve requirement calculation, additional bonds, and the implementation of a rate stabilization fund for those bonds; amending Ordinance 123169; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, by Ordinance 123169, passed November 23, 2009, The City of Seattle, Washington (the "City"), provided for the issuance of not to exceed $210,000,000 principal amount of Municipal Light and Power Improvement Revenue Bonds, 2010, to provide part of the funds to pay the costs of improvements to the Light System of the City; and

 WHEREAS, the Light System finances capital improvements through a combination of bond funding and current year revenues; and

 WHEREAS, 2010 revenue forecasts indicate the Light System will have decreased revenue available to fund capital improvements due to lower than normal water conditions; and

 WHEREAS, the City deems it desirable to increase the amount of authorized municipal light and power revenue bonds so that the City can immediately take advantage of favorable interest rates, without accelerating the schedule for issuing additional bonds; and

 WHEREAS, the City desires to permit the City Council to alter the redemption provisions and covenants provisions of Ordinance 123169 to allow for additional flexibility in structuring redemptions of Build America Bonds and to allow federal payments with respect to Build America Bonds interest to be taken into account both in the calculation of the Reserve Fund Requirement for Light System bonds, and in the definition of Net Revenue for purposes of making certain certifications required upon the issuance of Future Parity Bonds; and

 WHEREAS, the City desires to adjust the rate stabilization account provisions of Ordinance 123169 to allow for earlier implementation of such an account upon approval by the City Council and by the owners of a requisite number of Parity Bonds;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Definitions. The meaning of capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this ordinance shall be as set forth in Ordinance 123169.

 Section 2. Amendment of Ordinance 123169. Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance 123169 are hereby amended to increase the amount of authorized municipal light and power revenue bonds. Section 7, Subsection 15(c), Subsection 15(g) and Section 19 are each amended as set forth herein. Deleted information is shown as strikeouts and inserted information is shown as double underlined.

 Section 3. Amendment of Section 2. Section 2 of Ordinance 123169 is hereby amended to read as follows:

 Section 2. Adoption of System or Plan. The Plan of Additions constitutes a system or plan of additions to and betterments and extensions of the Light System (each element thereof an "Addition"). To the extent not previously specified, adopted and ordered by the City by ordinance, the City specifies, adopts and orders to be carried out the Plan of Additions, and declares the estimated cost of that system or plan to be $1,732,202,000, of which $198,300,000 up to $250,000,000 is expected to be financed from proceeds of the Bonds.

 The Plan of Additions shall include any amendments, updates, supplements or replacements to the CIP or the Conservation Plan determined by ordinance to constitute a system or plan of additions to and betterments and extensions of the Light System, all of which automatically shall constitute amendments to the Plan of Additions. The Plan of Additions also may be modified, without amending the CIP or the Conservation Plan, to include other elements if the City determines by ordinance that those other elements constitute a system or plan of additions to or betterments or extensions of the Light System. The Plan of Additions includes the purchase and installation of all materials, supplies, appliances, equipment (including but not limited to data processing hardware and software and conservation equipment) and facilities, the acquisition of all permits, licenses, franchises, property and property rights, other capital assets and all engineering, consulting and other professional services and studies (whether performed by the City or by other public or private entities) necessary or convenient to carry out the Plan of Additions.

 Section 4. Amendment of Section 3. Section 3 of Ordinance 123169 is hereby amended to read as follows:

 Section 3. Authorization and Description of Bonds; Bond Resolution. For the purpose of providing all or part of the funds with which to (1) pay part of the cost of carrying out the Plan of Additions; (2) provide for the Reserve Fund Requirement; and (3) capitalize interest on and pay the costs of issuing and selling the Bonds, the City shall issue and sell the Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $210,000,000$250,000,000. The Bonds may be issued in one or more series; may be combined with other Parity Bonds authorized separately; shall be called "The City of Seattle, Washington, Municipal Light and Power Improvement Revenue Bonds, 2010" (unless changed by resolution); may have such different or further designation or designations as determined by the Director of Finance or as the City Council may specify in a resolution or resolutions fixing the terms of and matters relating to the Bonds (collectively, the "Bond Resolution"); shall be dated and shall mature on such date or dates specified in the Bond Resolution, except that the final maturity date of the Bonds shall not extend beyond 30 years from their respective dates of issuance; shall be issued in fully registered form; shall be numbered separately in the manner and with any additional designation as the Bond Registrar for the Bonds deems necessary for purposes of identification; shall bear interest at the rate or rates (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) specified in the Bond Resolution, except that the true interest cost shall not exceed 8.0% per annum, payable at the times specified in the Bond Resolution; and shall have such denominations, mature on such dates and be subject to optional or mandatory redemption, open market purchase or defeasance on the terms and at the times specified in the Bond Resolution. The Director of Finance may designate Term Bonds with mandatory redemption amounts, all to be provided by the Bond Resolution.

 The City may issue the Bonds of any series as either tax-exempt or taxable for federal income tax purposes, as shall be determined in the Bond Resolution.

 The City Council may adopt the Bond Resolution and may provide therein for the matters described in this ordinance, including the manner of sale of the Bonds, which may include a forward or delayed delivery, and such other matters that the City Council deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this ordinance. Once adopted, the Bond Resolution shall be deemed a part of this ordinance as if set forth herein.

 The Bond Resolution may provide for Qualified Insurance or a Qualified Letter of Credit, and conditions or covenants relating thereto, including additional terms, conditions and covenants relating to the Bonds that are required by the bond insurer or letter of credit provider and are consistent with the provisions of this ordinance, including but not limited to restrictions on investments and requirements of notice to and consent of the bond insurer or letter of credit provider.

 The Bond Resolution may approve and authorize the execution and delivery on behalf of the City of any contracts consistent with the provisions of this ordinance for which the City's approval is necessary or to which the City is a party and that are related or incidental to the initial issuance and sale of the Bonds, the initial establishment of the interest rate or rates on the Bonds and any redemption of the Bonds, including but not limited to Payment Agreements and similar contracts for such purposes.

 The Bond Resolution may specify that a series of Bonds is a series of Build America Bonds.

 Section 5. Amendment of Section 7. Section 7 of Ordinance 123169 is hereby amended to read as follows:

 Section 7. Redemption and Open Market Purchase of Bonds.

 (a) Optional Redemption. All or some of the Bonds may be subject to redemption at the option of the City at the times and on the terms set forth in the Bond Resolution.

 (b) Mandatory Redemption. The City shall redeem any Term Bonds, if not redeemed under the optional redemption provisions set forth in the Bond Resolution or purchased in the open market under the provisions set forth below, by lot or as otherwise set forth in the Bond Sale Resolution (or in such other manner as the Bond Registrar shall determine) at par plus accrued interest on the dates and in the years and principal amounts as set forth in the Bond Resolution.

 If the City redeems Term Bonds under the optional redemption provisions set forth in the Bond Resolution or purchases Term Bonds in the open market as set forth below, the Term Bonds so redeemed or purchased (irrespective of their redemption or purchase price) shall be credited at the par amount thereof against the remaining mandatory redemption requirements in a manner to be determined by the Director of Finance or, if no such determination is made, on a pro-rata basis.

 (c) Partial Redemption. Whenever less than all of the Bonds of a single maturity are to be redeemed, the Bond Registrar shall select the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed from the Bonds of that maturity by lot, or as otherwise set forth in the Bond Sale Resolution (or in such other manner as the Bond Registrar shall determine), except that, so long as the Bonds are registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, DTC shall select the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed in accordance with the Letter of Representations.

 Portions of the principal amount of any Bond, in integral multiples of $5,000, may be redeemed, unless otherwise provided in the Bond Resolution. If less than all of the principal amount of any Bond is redeemed, upon surrender of that Bond at either of the principal offices of the Bond Registrar, there shall be issued to the registered owner, without charge therefor, a new Bond (or Bonds, at the option of the registered owner) of the same series, maturity and interest rate in any of the denominations authorized by the Bond Resolution in the aggregate total principal amount remaining unredeemed.

 (d) Open Market Purchase. The City reserves the right and option to purchase any or all of the Bonds in the open market at any time at any price acceptable to the City plus accrued interest to the date of purchase.

 (e) Bonds to be Cancelled. All Bonds purchased or redeemed under this Section 7 shall be cancelled.

 Section 6. Amendment of Subsection 15(c). Subsection 15(c) of Ordinance 123169 is amended to read as follows:

 (c) Reserve Fund. A special fund of the City known as the "Municipal Light and Power Bond Reserve Fund" (the "Reserve Fund") has heretofore been created by Ordinance 71917, as amended, and is now maintained as a separate account within the Light Fund, for the purpose of securing the payment of the principal of and interest on all Parity Bonds outstanding (including amounts due under any Parity Payment Agreements).

 In the Bond Resolution, the City will specify whether it will satisfy the Reserve Fund Requirement with Qualified Insurance or a Qualified Letter of Credit or by depositing into the Reserve Fund, out of any money legally available therefor, within 5 years from the date of issuance of the Bonds, the amount required to fund the Reserve Fund to the Reserve Fund Requirement.

 Money held in the Reserve Fund shall, to the fullest extent practicable and reasonable, be invested and reinvested at the direction of the Director of Finance solely in, and obligations deposited in such accounts shall consist of, Permitted Investments. Earnings on money and investments in the Reserve Fund shall be deposited in that fund and credited against amounts required to be deposited therein until the Reserve Fund is fully funded, and thereafter such earnings shall be deposited in the Parity Bond Fund.

 (i) Reserve Fund Requirement.

 (A) The City shall provide in the Parity Bond Ordinance authorizing the issuance of any Future Parity Bonds for deposit into the Reserve Fund out of the Gross Revenues (or out of any other funds of the City on hand and legally available therefor, including the proceeds of the Future Parity Bonds being issued or any other Future Parity Bonds) of periodic payments so that by five years from the date of such Future Parity Bonds there will have been paid into the Reserve Fund an amount which, together with the money already on deposit therein, will be at least equal to the Reserve Fund Requirement for all Parity Bonds outstanding at the end of that five-year period.

 (B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Parity Bond Ordinance may provide for the City to obtain Qualified Insurance or a Qualified Letter of Credit for specific amounts required to be paid into the Reserve Fund. The amount available to be drawn upon under such Qualified Insurance or Qualified Letter of Credit shall be credited against the amounts required to be maintained in the Reserve Fund by Section 15(b)(i)(A).

 (C) Such Qualified Letter of Credit or Qualified Insurance shall not be cancelable on less than five years' notice. In the event of receipt of any such notice of cancellation, the City shall substitute Qualified Insurance or a Qualified Letter of Credit in the amount required pursuant by Section 15(b)(i)(A) or in the alternative shall create a special account in the Light Fund and deposit therein, on or before the 25th day of each of the 60 succeeding calendar months, 1/60th of the amount sufficient, together with other money and investments on deposit in the Reserve Fund, to equal the Reserve Fund Requirement on the date any such cancellation shall become effective. Such amounts shall be transferred from money in the Light Fund (after making provision for payment of operating and maintenance expenses and for the required payments into the Parity Bond Fund). Amounts on deposit in such special account shall not be available to pay debt service on Parity Bonds or for any other purpose of the City, and shall be transferred to the Reserve Fund on the effective date of any cancellation of a Qualified Letter of Credit or Qualified Insurance to make up the deficiency caused thereby.

 (D) If the amount in the Reserve Fund shall be less than the Reserve Fund Requirement (taking into account the five year period referred to in Section 15(b)(i)(A, the City shall transfer to the Reserve Fund money in an amount sufficient to restore the Reserve Fund to the Reserve Fund Requirement within 12 months after the date of such deficiency. The City shall transfer such amounts first from money in the Light Fund (after making provision for payment of operating and maintenance expenses and for the required payments into the Parity Bond Fund) and only thereafter from money in any construction fund or account established with respect to any issue of Parity Bonds, first taking money from the unrestricted portion thereof, then taking money from the restricted portion thereof. If the amount in the Reserve Fund shall be greater than the Reserve Fund Requirement, then and only then may the City withdraw such excess from the Reserve Fund and deposit such excess in the Light Fund.

 (E) With the consent of the owners of not less than 60% of the aggregate principal amount of the Parity Bonds then outstanding, and consistent with Section 18 of this ordinance, the City Council may at any time pass an ordinance amending or supplementing this ordinance for the purpose of providing that in calculating the Reserve Fund Requirement, the City may deduct from Annual Debt Service the direct payments the City expects to receive from the federal government in respect to the interest on a series of Parity Bonds that are Build America Bonds or other bonds with respect to which the federal government will provide direct payments. The owners of the Bonds, by taking and owning the same, shall be deemed to have consented to the passage by the City Council of any such amendatory or supplemental ordinance.

 (ii) Use of Reserve Fund for Refunding Bonds. If any Parity Bonds are refunded, the money set aside in the Reserve Fund to secure the payment of such Parity Bonds may be used to retire such Parity Bonds or may be transferred to any reserve fund or account which may be created to secure the payment of any bonds issued to refund such Parity Bonds, as long as the money left remaining in the Reserve Fund is at least equal, together with any Qualified Insurance or Qualified Letters of Credit, to the Reserve Fund Requirement.

 (iii) Use of Reserve Fund for Payment of Debt Service. If the money in the Parity Bond Fund is insufficient to meet maturing installments of either interest on or principal of and interest on the Parity Bonds payable out of the Parity Bond Fund (including amounts payable under any Parity Payment Agreements), such deficiency shall be made up from the Reserve Fund by the withdrawal of money or proceeds of Qualified Insurance or Qualified Letters of Credit therefrom, as the case may be. Any deficiency created in the Reserve Fund by reason of any such withdrawal or claim against Qualified Insurance or a Qualified Letter of Credit shall then be made up out of the Gross Revenues (or out of such other funds of the City on hand and legally available therefor), after making necessary provision for the payments required to be made for operation and maintenance of the Light System and debt service on any obligations payable from such Gross Revenues.

 (iv) Withdrawals From Reserve Fund. Money in the Reserve Fund may be withdrawn by the City for any lawful purpose as long as the aggregate of any money, Qualified Insurance and Qualified Letters of Credit left remaining on deposit in the Reserve Fund is at least equal to the Reserve Fund Requirement for the Parity Bonds then outstanding.

 The City reserves the right to substitute Qualified Insurance or a Qualified Letter of Credit for money previously deposited in the Reserve Fund and to withdraw such money to the extent described in the preceding paragraph.

 Any withdrawals from subaccounts within the Reserve Fund shall be made on a pro rata basis except when the provider of a Qualified Letter of Credit or Qualified Insurance requires all cash and investments in the Reserve Fund to be withdrawn before draws on the Qualified Letter of Credit or Qualified Insurance, or unless the City receives an opinion of Bond Counsel to the effect that such pro rata withdrawal is not required to maintain the exclusion of interest on the Parity Bonds then outstanding from gross income.

 Section 7. Amendment of Subsection 15(g). Subsection 15(g) of Ordinance 123169 is amended to read as follows:

 (g) Issuance of Future Parity Bonds. Except as provided in Section 15(h) of this ordinance for the issuance of Refunding Parity Bonds, Future Parity Bonds may be issued (and Parity Payment Agreements may be entered into), from time to time in one or more series for any lawful purpose of the City's Light Department, only if at the time of the delivery of each series of Future Parity Bonds to the initial purchasers thereof (or on the effective date of the Parity Payment Agreement):

 (i) There is no deficiency in the Parity Bond Fund or in any of the accounts therein and provision has been made to meet the Reserve Fund Requirement for all Parity Bonds then outstanding plus such proposed series of Parity Bonds; and

 (ii) There shall have been filed with the City either:

 (A) a certificate of the Director of Finance stating that Net Revenue in any 12 consecutive months out of the most recent 24 months preceding the delivery of the Parity Bonds then proposed to be issued (the "Base Period") was not less than 125% of maximum Annual Debt Service in any future calendar year on all Parity Bonds then outstanding and the Parity Bonds then proposed to be issued (except that if any adjustment in the rates, fees and charges for the services of the Light System shall be effective at any time on or prior to the date of delivery of the Parity Bonds then proposed to be issued or within six months after the delivery of such Parity Bonds, the Director of Finance shall reflect in his or her certificate the Net Revenue he or she calculates would have been collected in the Base Period if such new rates, fees and charges had been in effect for the entire Base Period), or

 (B) a certificate of the Professional Utility Consultant setting forth:

 (I) the amount of the Adjusted Net Revenue computed as provided in paragraph (C) below;

 (II) the amount of maximum Annual Debt Service in any calendar year thereafter on account of all Parity Bonds to be outstanding in such calendar year, including the Parity Bonds proposed to be issued, and stating that the amount shown in paragraph (B)(I) above is not less than 125% of the amount shown in this paragraph (B)(II).

 "Net Revenue" as used in this Section 15(g) means that amount determined by deducting from the Gross Revenues the expenses of operation, maintenance and repair of the Light System, except that on the New Covenant Date, or on an earlier date if implemented by an ordinance amending or supplementing this ordinance and with the consent of the owners of not less than 60% of the aggregate principal amount of the Parity Bonds then outstanding, consistent with Section 18 of this ordinance, "Net Revenue" as used in this Section 15(g) shall mean that amount determined by deducting from the Gross Revenues the expenses of operation, maintenance and repair of the Light System and further deducting any deposits into the Rate Stabilization Account, and by adding to Gross Revenues any withdrawals from the Rate Stabilization Account. In addition, with the consent of the owners of not less than 60% of the aggregate principal amount of the Parity Bonds then outstanding, and consistent with Section 18 of this ordinance, the City Council may at any time pass an ordinance amending or supplementing this ordinance for the purpose of providing that in defining "Net Revenue" as used in this Section (g), the City may include the direct payments the City expects to receive from the federal government in respect to the interest on a series of Refunding Parity Bonds that are Build America Bonds or other bonds with respect to which the federal government will provide direct payments. The owners of the Bonds, by taking and owning the same, shall be deemed to have consented to the passage by the City Council of any the amendatory or supplemental ordinance described in this paragraph.

 (iii) For the purposes of the certificate required by paragraph (ii) above, Adjusted Net Revenue shall be computed by the Professional Utility Consultant as follows:

 The Net Revenue for the Base Period shall be adjusted by any or all of the following conditions and requirements as may be appropriate to the circumstances:

 (A) If the Parity Bonds are being issued for the purpose of acquiring operating electric utility properties having an earnings record, the Professional Utility Consultant shall estimate the effect on the Net Revenue for the Base Period of the acquisition of such electric utility properties and the integration thereof into the Light System, and shall adjust the Net Revenue for the Base Period to give effect to such estimate. Any such estimate shall be based upon the operating experience and records of the City and upon any available financial statements and records relating to the earnings of such electric utility properties to be acquired.

 (B) If any changes have been adopted by the City Council and are in effect on the date of sale of the Parity Bonds or are to go into effect not later than 12 months after such date, in any rates and charges imposed by the City on sales of power and energy and other services furnished by the Light System which were not in effect during the entire Base Period, the Professional Utility Consultant may, if such changes resulted in increases in such rates and charges, and shall, if such changes resulted in reductions in such rates and charges, adjust the Net Revenue for the Base Period to reflect any change in such Net Revenue which would have occurred if the changed rates and charges had been in effect during the entire Base Period.

 (C) If the purpose for which the Parity Bonds are being issued is to acquire or construct generation or transmission facilities required to furnish or make available to the Light System additional power and energy, or transmission facilities required to enable the City to sell additional power and energy, the Professional Utility Consultant may adjust the Net Revenue for the Base Period by (a) deducting the amount of the estimated increase in operating and maintenance expenses resulting from the acquisition or construction of such facilities in their first year of full operation, (b) adding any additional revenues to be derived from the sale or transmission of such additional power and energy pursuant to executed power sales contracts, and (c) adding an amount equal to the estimated cost of the power and energy which would have been replaced or displaced by such facilities had such additional power and energy in excess of the power and energy to be sold pursuant to clause (b) above been used in the Light System during the Base Period.

 (D) If there were any customers added to the Light System during the Base Period or thereafter and prior to the date of the Professional Utility Consultant's certificate, the Net Revenue may be adjusted on the basis that such added customers were customers of the Light System during the entire Base Period.

 (E) If extensions of or additions to the Light System (not described in subparagraph (C) above) are in the process of construction on the date of the Professional Utility Consultant's certificate, or if the proceeds of the Parity Bonds being issued are to be used to acquire or construct extensions of or additions to the Light System (not described in subparagraph (C) above), the Net Revenue for the Base Period may be adjusted by adding any additional revenues not included in the preceding paragraphs that will be derived from such additions and extensions and deducting the estimated increase in operating and maintenance expenses resulting from such additions and extensions.

 (F) The Net Revenue for the Base Period may be adjusted by excluding from the determination of expenses of operation, maintenance and repair of the Light System any extraordinary, nonrecurring expenses of the Light System or any judgments or amounts to be paid in settlement of claims against the Light System.

 (iv) In rendering any certificate under this Section 15(g), the Professional Utility Consultant may rely upon, and such certificate shall have attached thereto, (A) financial statements of the Light System, certified by the Director of Finance, showing income and expenses for the period upon which the same are based and a balance sheet as of the end of such period, (B) similar certified statements by the Division of Municipal Corporations of the Office of the State Auditor of the State (or any successor thereto), or (C) similar certified statements by a Certified Public Accountant for as much of such period as any examination by them has been made and completed. If two or more of such statements are inconsistent with each other, the Professional Utility Consultant shall rely on the statement described under clause (A) in this Section 15(g)(iv).

 Section 8. Amendment of Section 19. Section 19 of Ordinance 123169 is hereby amended to read as follows:

 Section 19. Rate Stabilization Account. On and after the New Covenant Date, or on an earlier date if implemented by an ordinance amending or supplementing this ordinance and with the consent of the owners of not less than 60% of the aggregate principal amount of the Parity Bonds then outstanding, consistent with Section 18 of this ordinance, the City may at any time deposit in the Rate Stabilization Account, Gross Revenue and any other money received by the Light System and available to be used therefor. Thereafter, the City may withdraw any or all of the money from the Rate Stabilization Account for inclusion in the Net Revenue for any fiscal year of the City. Such deposits or withdrawals may be made up to and including the date 90 days after the end of the fiscal year for which the deposit or withdrawal will be included as Net Revenue. The owners of the Bonds, by taking and owning the same, shall be deemed to have consented to the passage by the City Council of any the amendatory or supplemental ordinance described in this paragraph.

 Section 9. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. If a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, finds any provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable as to any person or circumstance, such offending provision shall, if feasible, be deemed to be modified to be within the limits of enforceability or validity. However, if the offending provision cannot be so modified, it shall be null and void with respect to the particular person or circumstance, and all other provisions of this ordinance in all other respects, and the offending provision with respect to all other persons and all other circumstances, shall remain valid and enforceable.

 Section 10. Ratification of Prior Acts. All acts taken consistent with the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date are ratified, approved and confirmed.

 Section 11. Headings. Section headings in this ordinance are used for convenience only and shall not constitute a substantive portion of this ordinance.

 Section 12. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2010.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Tony Kilduff

 LEG, Amend ord 123169 to increase 2010 bond issue, ORD

 March 10, 2010

 Version #1

```
