

********

**Council Bill Number: 116852**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123321**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities and the Department of Neighborhoods; declaring the SW Barton Street Pump Station property, located at the southwest corner of SW Barton Street and 34th Avenue SW, Seattle, as surplus to utility needs, and authorizing transfer of the property's jurisdiction from Seattle Public Utilities to the Seattle Department of Neighborhoods for the establishment of a community garden.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 14, 2010
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Bagshaw)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 23, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 21, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 3, 2010
   
**Committee:** Seattle Public Utilities and Neighborhoods
   
**Sponsor:** O'BRIEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** GARDENS, DELRIDGE, ROXHILL, DEPARTMENT-OF-NEIGHBORHOODS, P-PATCH-PROGRAM

**Fiscal Note:**116852

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123321](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123321.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Seattle Public Utilities and the Department of Neighborhoods; declaring the SW Barton Street Pump Station property, located at the southwest corner of SW Barton Street and 34th Avenue SW, Seattle, as surplus to utility needs, and authorizing transfer of the property's jurisdiction from Seattle Public Utilities to the Seattle Department of Neighborhoods for the establishment of a community garden.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle acquired the SW Barton Street Pump Station property in 1940, as authorized by Ordinance 70187, for the purpose of a water pump station; and

 WHEREAS, the water pump station was abandoned by the City's water utility in the early 1970s; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Public Utilities (SPU) does not foresee a utility need at this location and considers this property to be surplus to SPU's needs; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Neighborhoods (DON) identified this property as a priority for development of a P-Patch community garden and submitted a proposal for siting a community garden on the property; and

 WHEREAS, the City's Real Estate Oversight Committee recommends transferring the property from the jurisdiction of SPU to the jurisdiction of DON; and

 WHEREAS, an appraisal completed by a professional third party has established the value of the property, and DON is prepared to fund the transfer of the property from SPU to DON with funds available for development of community gardens through the 2008 Parks and Open Spaces Levy; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 35.94.040 and after public hearing, the real property interests described in the Preliminary Report for Property Management Area 768, attached hereto as Attachment 1, are hereby found and declared to be no longer required for providing municipal utility service and to be surplus to the City's utility needs.

 Section 2. The Director of Seattle Public Utilities, or his designee, is hereby authorized to transfer the real property interests described in Attachment 1 to the Department of Neighborhoods upon payment by the Department of Neighborhoods of $255,000 to Seattle Public Utilities, and the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods, or her designee, is hereby authorized to accept the property for use as a community garden.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2010

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2010.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1 Excess Property Preliminary Report

 Attachment 2 Map

 Audrey Hansen/pc

 SPU Barton TOJ to DON ORD

 February 16, 2010

 Version 1

 ATTACHMENT 1 to SPU Barton TOJ to DON ORD

 PRELIMINARY REPORT

 EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR

 PMA No. 768_

 Resolution 29799 directs that the Executive is to make its recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution. Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines, which are to be considered in making a recommendation. This report addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the recommendation. This report also follows those provisions of Resolution 30862, adopted May 1, 2006, that amended Resolution 29799.

 Property Management Area: PMA No. 768 - Former SW Barton Street Pump Station

 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

 Legal Description: Lots 27 and 28, Block 1, McKenzie Addition, per plat recorded in Volume 20 of Platts, page 42, Records of King County, Washington.

 Physical Description and Related Factors: Two adjacent rectangular lots, tax parcel numbers 5347200135 and 5347200140 further identified as lots 1 and 2 respectively, located in the Delridge Neighborhood, Seattle, on the corner of SW Barton Street and 34th Avenue SW. There are no structures on either lot. The lots are zoned SF 5000, which allows a single family residence per 5000 sq feet.

 GUIDELINE A: CONSISTENCY

 The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.

 PMA No. 768 consists of Lots 27 and 28 as originally platted, purchased under authority of Ordinance # 70187, King County Tax Deed Record R # 3137830 on December 23, 1940 for the Water Department now Seattle Public Utility and installation of a booster pump for the vicinity. The pump was underground and has been filled in with cement. There is no longer power on the site. The lots are under the jurisdiction of Seattle Public Utilities (SPU). For purposes of this report, these lots are referred to as lot 1 and 2.

 GUIDELINE B: COMPATIBILITY AND SUITABILITY

 The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans; as or in support of low-income housing and/or affordable housing;, in support of economic development;, for park or open space; in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development; as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.

 Context.

 The property is just outside of the target areas sited in the Delridge Neighborhood Plan (DNP) dated March 1, 1999. Growth in the Puget Sound region has been robust during the time that the Plan was written and it can be assumed that the next 10 year plan will include those areas previously omitted. With that in mind it would be prudent to include key points from the existing plan for inclusion in this report.

 A key strategy of the DNP, under Section 2.1 recommends an integration of the residential and business environments with natural areas for public access and wildlife habitat. Key recommendations include land conservation by identifying land that should be preserved for public and/or park uses including vacant land. The overall vision as presented on the DNP, section 3.2: Housing, dated March 1, 1999 stress planning that incorporates transportation, housing, community and economic development. In regard to housing the plan is for "a community that preserves and enhances the residential character of single family neighborhoods within the Delridge community while providing a range of housing types to fit the diversity of Delridge families". Section 3.4: Economic development envisions "A community that provides economic development opportunities that benefit all residents of the community; recognizes diversity, gives young people a "head start"; keeps wealth within the community; and integrates with nature".

 There are several city-owned properties in the general area.

 Location Size Description Approximate location relative to PMA 9010 35th Ave SW 21,605 sq. ft. Seattle Public 530 feet NW Library 3800 SW Barton St 25,527 sq. ft. Barton Street 1300 feet West Standpipe 9450 34th Ave SW 13,387 sq. ft. Seattle City Light 1140 feet South Arbor Heights East Substation

 Range of Options.

 The options for disposition of these parcels include retention by the City for a public purpose, long term ground lease, negotiated sale with a motivated purchaser, or sale by public bid. An Excess Property Notice for this property was circulated by electronic mail on January 13, 2009 to assess other City department and public entity interest in use of the property. Two City departments and one non-City entity gave a positive response to the electronic mailer. One came from City of Seattle Department of Neighborhoods which would like to acquire the property for a neighborhood P-Patch, either through grants procured by the community, or money available from the Parks Levy. Another City Department, the Seattle Office of Housing responded to the initially Excess Property Notice which was circulated with an inquiry regarding market rate pricing. King County Department of Natural Resources and Parks/Wastewater Treatment Division had expressed an interest in this property for a variety of uses centering on Combined Sewer Overflows (CSO's). The County may not have the funds to purchase the property at this time. A private individual has also expressed an interest in purchasing this property for use as a nursery / landscaping business. Given the interest for purchase of this property for public use long term lease or retention of the property is not in the City's best interest. If the property can not be purchased by another public entity, sale by public competitive bid is the most prudent and equitable manner of selling this property.

 GUIDELINE C: OTHER FACTORS

 The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of the property.

 Highest and Best Use:

 Highest and best use for both lots would be for single family housing. This is further supported by neighborhood zoning. Most multi-family units in the vicinity have been built along 35th Avenue SW within the commercial corridor. Although one of the two lots is below the 5,000 square foot minimum by 200 square feet, it would not be difficult to obtain a variance for development into a single family residence, or a lot line adjustment if sold to a single purchaser. Each lot could accommodate a single family dwelling, thereby increasing available housing within the City. The lots are located in an established neighborhood of modest homes that appear to be circa 1940's and 1950's.

 Compatibility with the physical characteristics:

 The physical characteristics of the lots are best described as level corner lots in an established single family home neighborhood, at the fringe of a small commercial district. Both lots are well positioned at the intersection of 34th Avenue SW and SW Barton Street with ample and direct access to both streets. Both streets are fairly busy arteries. An alley running along the westerly boundary of both lots, down the entire block is wide and well maintained. The lots are clear and covered with grass. There is a lone tree on the north lots westerly edge, which appears to be a European Birch that has been planted on the spot of the former pump station. Other trees observed are two small specimens of unidentified species, on the sidewalk border of 34th Avenue SW.

 Compatibility with surrounding uses:

 The parcels are two contiguous level lots in a predominately single family neighborhood that borders a neighborhood supported commercial district. A fruit and vegetable stand operates on the north corner of 35th Avenue SW and SW Barton Street. Directly west of the property separated by the alley is an Exxon Gas Station which features Propel Biofuels, a Seattle based bio-diesel product, along with conventional petroleum product. Although limited, there are a few amenities within close proximity of the lots. There is a business district to the west mostly comprised of small neighborhood supported businesses and multi family residence. This business district is concentrated along 35th Avenue SW. The neighborhood is surrounded by parks, Fauntleroy Park to the west and Roxhill Park east. A library is one block to the north.

 Timing and Term of Proposed Use:

 Generally, there are no conditions or related pending conditions effecting disposal of this property. The lone tree does not fall into the category of a heritage tree, and may not be subject to any restraints for removal.

 Appropriateness of the consideration:

 These lots are considered excess to the needs of Seattle Public Utilities. They have the potential to be developed into housing, or use by another Governmental Entity. Two factors affect the viability of both uses. Current economic conditions drive inhibiting factors. Other Governmental entities who may have been interested in the properties are adjusting for smaller revenue and budget amounts. Capital Projects have been delayed or shelved. King County originally expressed interest in this site for the installation of a sewer booster pump, but due to budgetary constraints that is now on hold. The lots would be prime building lots but the current downturn in the housing market has slowed the demand for new construction.

 Unique Attributes:

 The property was a former SPU pump station, and the remnants of an underground water pump which has been filled with concrete remains on the property. There is no evidence of the previous pump station on the surface of the property.

 Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property:

 There are no public properties adjacent to these lots.

 Conditions in the real estate market:

 Although the Seattle area real estate market has not been hit as hard as the national market, declines were seen in all ranges of the local market over the past year. Seattle home prices were down 15% from year over January 2009. Prices were down 19.7% from July 2007. There is some optimism in that the number of pending sales increased from 1,611 in February 2009 to 2,058 in March in King County, a 28% jump. This is significantly stronger than last year's jump - only 10% in 2008.

 Statistics from the Northwest Multiple Listing Service indicate that sales of undeveloped land remain comparatively strong. For a pool of 69 closed transactions of raw land, 43.5% of those sales were on the market for 30 days, and another 23.2% less between 31-60 days. The average selling price for these listings was 90% of listing price. The remaining 33% of sales were on the market for 61-120 days, and the average listing price ranged from 81.6% to 90.9% of listing price. Thus, although the tight credit market has created uncertainties for developers, the scarcity of appropriately priced development lots and land is likely to keep property values on undeveloped land strong over the long run.

 Known environmental factors:

 There are no known environmental factors. Parcel # 5347200140 or lot #2 once contained a water pump station. All evidence of that station once having been there is gone. A recent site visit revel a lone tree growing on lot #2 planted over what had been the pump station. No significant tree canopy was observed on this property. The grass has been mowed. The lots are well maintained and free of trash. An environmental field inspection was completed January 13, 1994 with no significant findings of environmental problems. This was a visual inspection of the site using no exploratory or testing methods. The report does note that there is the possibility of contaminants from neighboring sources migrating to the site. A complete environmental assessment would be needed to definitively determine this.

 GUIDELINE D: SALE

 The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the property to non-City public entities and to members of the general public.

 Non-City public entities were notified on January 2009 that this property was excess to the needs of Seattle Public Utilities. Two expressed an interest in acquiring it for their specific public use. Department of Neighborhoods is interested in developing the property as a P-Patch, King County is interested in possible use of the property for a waste water booster pump station. A private individual has expressed an interest in purchasing the lots to develop into a nursery / landscaping business.

 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT

 On January 26, 2009 the first public circulation was mailed to 444 neighbors within a 1,000 foot radius of the subject properties. As of March 17, 2009 a total of 21 comments were received. Of these 15 expressed an interest in seeing the lots become a community pea patch or park, with emphasis on maintaining open space, and low congestion use. One commenter suggested turning the property into a restaurant, another suggested a liquor store. Other comments received suggested single family housing, low income housing, a Farmer's Market, Playground, or solar project. Two respondents did not comment but wish to be kept informed. One interested party has a market across the street (SW Barton), and expressed an interest in buying this property. The overwhelming response had a common theme of maintaining an open public area with development that would not increase congestion.

 RECOMMENDATION

 SPU transfer jurisdiction to Department of Neighborhoods / Department of Parks and Recreation for P-Patch for fair market value to be determined by appraisal. In the event that such transfer does not occur by December 31, 2010, SPU may pursue legislation to sell the property to King County or on the open market via a public bid process.

 THRESHOLD DETERMINATION

 Summation of points awarded as outlined in the Property Review Process Determination Form place this disposition within the "simple" property disposal threshold. Results from the initial neighborhood mailer generated a total of 21 comments. The majority of these expressed a desire to see both lots used in a neighborhood compatible way, as a P-Patch, park, or single family development. Neighborhood respondents have been fairly cohesive in their opinion for use of these properties.

 NEXT STEPS

 Following preparation of this Preliminary Report, Fleets and Facilities Department is required to provide a summary to the Real Eastate Oversight Committee, to all City Departments and Public Agencies that expressed an interest in the Excess Property, and to members of the public who responded to the initial Public Notice. The Summary will advise how to obtain a full copy of the report, note that FFD and REOC will consider comments on the Preliminary Report for 30 days after mailing the summary of the Preliminary Report and advise the recipient where and to whom any comments should be addressed. FFD will also post one sign visible to the public at each street frontage abutting the Excess Property which will provide the same information.

 After comments are received after the posting of the Preliminary Report, FFD then revises its recommendation as appropriate, and prepares a Summary Preliminary Report including a report on public involvement, community comments, and feedback. The Recommendation is then forwarded to the City Council with any legislation necessary to implement the recommendation for the excess property. All comment-makers and other interested parties are provided with at least two-week notice of the hearing at which the City Council makes a decision concerning disposition of PMA No. 768.

 PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION FORM

 Barton Street Pump Station Property Name:

 Address: 34th Avenue SW and SW Barton Street

 PMA ID: 768 Tax 5347200135 Parcel # 5347200140

 Dept./Dept ID: Seattle Public Current Use: Vacant Utilities

 Area (Sq. Ft.): Lot 1 4,800 sq. ft Zoning: SF 5000

 Lot 2 7,440 sq. ft Est. Value: NA Assessed Value: $ 97,000 (2009) $ $$ $128,000 (2009)

 PROPOSED USES AND RECOMMENDED USE

 Department/Governmental Agencies: Proposed Use: King County DNRP (withdrawn) Booster pump station for sewage

 City of Seattle Department of P-Patch community garden Neighborhoods

 Other Parties wishing to acquire: Proposed Use: Multiple private parties Various residential and/or commercial uses

 RES'S RECOMMENDED USE: Sale at market rate using the bid process for single family development.

 PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION (circle appropriate response)

 1.) Is more than one City dept/Public Agency wishing to acquire? No / Yes 15

 2.) Are there any pending community proposals for Reuse/ No / Yes 15 Disposal?

 3.) Have citizens, community groups and/or other interested No / Yes 15 parties contacted the City regarding any of the proposed options?

 4.) Will consideration be other than cash? No / Yes 10

 5.) Is Sale or Trade to a private party being recommended? No / Yes 25

 6.) Will the proposed use require changes in zoning/other No /Yes 20 regulations?

 7.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value between No / Yes 10 $250,000-$1,000,000?

 8.) Is the estimated Fair Market Value over $1,000,000? No/ Yes 45

 Total Number of Points Awarded for "Yes" Responses: 15

 Property Classification for purposes of Disposal review: Simple / Complex (circle one) (a score of 45+ points result results in a "Complex" classification)

 Signature: Richard Gholaghong Department: FFD Date: June 2, 2009

[Barton Street Pumpstation Map](/~ordpics/116852a1.gif)

[ Looking south, from SW Barton Street (photo)](/~ordpics/116852a1b.gif)

[ Looking south from SW Barton Street along 34th SW (photo)](/~ordpics/116852a1c.gif)

[ Looking north from 34th SW towards commercial district (photo)](/~ordpics/116852a1d.gif)

Attachment 2

[ Attachment 2: Map of Transfer of Jurisdiction](/~ordpics/116852a2.gif)

```
