

********

**Council Bill Number: 116810**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123257**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to Conservation Futures Levy proceeds; authorizing the Mayor to amend the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City of Seattle and King County as authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance 114978; and authorizing the deposit of 2009 allocations from King County Conservation Futures Levy proceeds into the City of Seattle's 2000 Parks Levy Fund and 2008 Parks Levy Fund.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 22, 2010
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 29, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 26, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 8, 2010
   
**Committee:** Parks and Seattle Center
   
**Sponsor:** BAGSHAW
   
   
**Index Terms:** FINANCE, INVESTMENTS, KING-COUNTY, INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, OPEN-SPACE-LAND,

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 114978](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s4=114978&s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=0&f=S)

**Fiscal Note:**116810

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123257](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123257.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to Conservation Futures Levy proceeds; authorizing the Mayor to amend the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City of Seattle and King County as authorized by City of Seattle Ordinance 114978; and authorizing the deposit of 2009 allocations from King County Conservation Futures Levy proceeds into the City of Seattle's 2000 Parks Levy Fund and 2008 Parks Levy Fund.

 WHEREAS, in 1989, King County Ordinance 9128 established the Conservation Futures Levy ("CFL") Fund, appropriated CFL proceeds to the City of Seattle ("City"), and established conditions for use of the proceeds, including allowable projects, costs, and expenses; and

 WHEREAS, in 1990, City Ordinance 114978 authorized the CFL Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with King County to govern the receipt and use of CFL proceeds, and to define the specific projects ("Projects") approved by King County for acquisitions using CFL proceeds; and

 WHEREAS, the City and King County have previously amended the CFL Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to add additional Projects and to provide for additional allocations of CFL proceeds; and

 WHEREAS, the King County Council passed Ordinance 16312, the 2009 Budget Ordinance, on November 24, 2008, which appropriated, for 2009, a total of Three Million Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($3,300,000) in CFL proceeds to the City of Seattle for the Ballard Open Space, Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion, Urban Center Parks (Denny Triangle), Urban Center Parks (First Hill), and Waldo Woods Conservation Easement acquisition Projects; and

 WHEREAS, the King County Council also passed Ordinance 16442 on April 6, 2009, authorizing the King County Executive to enter into interlocal agreements with the City of Seattle and the suburban cities for the disbursement of CFL proceeds in King County Ordinance 16312; and

 WHEREAS, King County refers to the CFL proceeds by the budget year they are available and in the past the City of Seattle has referred to the CFL proceeds by the year of the King County appropriation ordinance; and

 WHEREAS, to be consistent with King County, the City of Seattle will now refer to the CFL proceeds by the budget year the funds are available; and

 WHEREAS, to be consistent with King County, the City of Seattle refers to the proceeds in this ordinance as 2009 King County allocations of CFL proceeds instead of 2008 King County allocations of CFL proceeds; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized to negotiate and enter into an amendment to the Conservation Futures Levy (hereafter "CFL") Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit A (hereafter, "Amendment"), to provide for the City's receipt and use of up to Three Million Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($3,300,000) from the 2009 King County allocations of CFL proceeds. The Amendment will also add an Attachment X to the list of Projects in the CFL Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to include Ballard Open Space, Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion, Urban Center Parks (Denny Triangle), Urban Center Parks (First Hill), and Waldo Woods Conservation Easement acquisition Projects.

 Section 2. Funds received pursuant to the Amendment shall be deposited as follows:

```
<table><tr><td>**Fund**

</td><td>**Department**

</td><td>**Budget Control Level/Capital Improvement Program**

</td><td>**Amount
   
 (Up To)**

</td></tr><tr><td>2000 Parks Levy Fund (33850)

</td><td>Parks and Recreation

</td><td>2000 Parks Levy - Neighborhood Park Acquisitions K723001

</td><td>$2,625,000

</td></tr><tr><td>2000 Parks Levy Fund (33850)

</td><td>Parks and Recreation

</td><td>2000 Parks Levy - Green Space Acquisitions K723002

</td><td>$375,000

</td></tr><tr><td>2008 Parks Levy Fund (33860)

</td><td>Parks and Recreation

</td><td>2008 Parks Levy - Green Space Acquisitions K720011

</td><td>$300,000

</td></tr></table> Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 President \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_of the City Council

 Approved by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2010.

 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Exhibit A: Amendment to the Conservation Futures Interlocal Cooperation Agreement

 Between King County and the City of Seattle for Open Space Acquisition Projects

 Attachment X to Exhibit A: 2009 Conservation Futures Levy City of Seattle Allocations

 Chip Nevins

 DPR Conservation Futures Levy 09 ORD

 2/9/2010

 Version #3

 AMENDMENT TO THE CONSERVATION FUTURES

 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN KING COUNTY AND THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 FOR OPEN SPACE ACQUISITION PROJECTS

 Preamble

 The King County Council, through Ordinance 9128, has established a Conservation Futures Levy Fund and appropriated proceeds to King County, the City of Seattle, and certain suburban cities through the procedures set forth in Ordinance 8867, as amended by Ordinance 14714. This amendment is entered into to provide for the allocation of additional funds made available for open space acquisition.

 THIS AMENDMENT is entered into between the CITY OF SEATTLE and KING COUNTY, and amends and attaches to and is part thereof of the existing Interlocal Cooperation Agreement entered into between the parties on the 5th day of June, 1990, as previously amended.

 The parties agree to the following amendments:

 Amendment 1: Article 1. Recitals

 A paragraph is hereby added to the Recitals Section to provide for a Conservation Futures Levy Fund allocation for the Ballard Open Space, Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion, Urban Center Parks (Denny Triangle), Urban Center Park (First Hill), and Waldo Woods acquisition Projects, and hereafter reads:

 * On November 24, 2008, the King County Council passed Ordinance 16312, which appropriated a total of Three Million Three Hundred Thousand dollars ($3,300,000) in Conservation Futures Levy proceeds to the City of Seattle for the Ballard Open Space, Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion, Urban Center Parks (Denny Triangle), Urban Center Park (First Hill), and Waldo Woods Conservation Easement acquisition Projects. On April 6, 2009, the King County Council passed Ordinance 16442, authorizing the King County Executive to enter into interlocal agreements with the City of Seattle and the suburban cities for the disbursement of Conservation Futures Funds in Ordinance 16312.

 Amendment 2: Article V. Conditions of Agreement

 Section 5.1 is amended to include Attachment X, which lists 2009 Conservation Futures Levy Allocations for the Ballard Open Space, Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion, Urban Center Parks (Denny Triangle), Urban Center Park (First Hill), and Waldo Woods Conservation Easement acquisition Projects.

 Amendment 3: Article VII. Responsibilities of County

 The first two sentences of this article are amended to include Attachment X, which lists 2009 Conservation Futures Levy proceeds allocations for the Ballard Open Space, Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion, Urban Center Parks (Denny Triangle), Urban Center Park (First Hill), and Waldo Woods Conservation Easement acquisition Projects:

 Subject to the terms of this agreement, the County will provide Conservation Futures Levy Funds in the amounts shown in Attachments A through X to be used for the Projects listed in Attachments A through X. The City may request additional funds; however, the County has no obligation to provide funds to the City for the Projects in excess of the total amounts shown in Attachments A through X. The County assumes no obligation for the future support of the Projects described herein except as expressly set forth in this agreement.

 Amendment 4: Attachment X

 The attachments to the interlocal agreement are hereby amended to include references to Attachment X, which is hereby attached to the interlocal agreement, incorporated therein and made a part thereof.

 In all other respects, the terms, conditions, duties, and obligations of both parties shall remain the same as agreed to in the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement as previously amended.

 This document shall be attached to the existing Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, authorized representatives of the parties hereto have signed their names in the spaces set forth below:

 KING COUNTY CITY OF SEATTLE

 Dow Constantine Michael McGinn

 King County Executive Mayor

 Date Date

 Acting under the authority of Acting under the authority of

 Ordinance 16442 Ordinance:

 Dated: Dated:

 Approved as to form: Approved as to form:

 Dan Satterberg Peter Holmes

 King County Prosecuting Attorney Seattle City Attorney

 Exhibit A

 DPR Conservation Futures Levy 09 ORD Exhibit A

 -1-

 ATTACHMENT X

 2009 CONSERVATION FUTURES LEVY

 CITY OF SEATTLE ALLOCATIONS

<table><tr><td>**Jurisdiction**

</td><td>**Project**

</td><td>**Allocation**

</td></tr><tr><td>
### Seattle

</td><td>Ballard Open Space

</td><td>$ 1,500,000

</td></tr><tr><td>
### Seattle

</td><td>Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion

</td><td>$375,000

</td></tr><tr><td>
### Seattle

</td><td>Urban Center Parks (Denny Triangle)

</td><td>$500,000

</td></tr><tr><td>
### Seattle

</td><td>Urban Center Park (First Hill)

</td><td>$625,000

</td></tr><tr><td>
### Seattle

</td><td>Waldo Woods

</td><td>$300,000

</td></tr><tr><td>**TOTAL**

</td><td>****

</td><td>**$3,300,000**

</td></tr></table> Project Descriptions:

 315440 Ballard Open Space

 This is a multiple-parcel 0.9-acre open space acquisition project located on 9th Avenue Northwest between Northwest 70th and Northwest 73rd streets. The site is in densely populated Ballard, a community that is deficient in local, community-scale open space.

 315441 Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion

 This acquisition is a one-parcel, 0.19 acre inholding within Seattle's Harrison Ridge Greenspace, located on 32nd Avenue East, south of East Denny Way. The greenspace is a local wooded open space in the Madrona and Madison Valley areas.

 315419 Urban Center Parks (Denny Triangle)

 This project is $500,000 for a 0.2-acre neighborhood open space acquisition located in the Denny Triangle neighborhood in addition to the $950,000 (half of the total $1,900,000 originally awarded to the University District and Denny Triangle projects) the City received in the 2003 CFT allocation. The 2003 CFT award directed Seattle to identify a specific site in Denny Triangle for approval. Seattle identified a site located adjacent to Cornish College of the Arts at Westlake Avenue and Lenora Street, a block south of Denny Way, that was approved for acquisition.

 315442 Urban Center Park (First Hill)

 Seattle continues to search for an appropriate park site in this urban village. The First Hill urban center is lacking in open space, and a park acquisition will help serve the anticipated growth identified in Seattle's neighborhood growth plan for the area.

 315443 Waldo Woods Conservation Easement

 This is an approximately .4-acre open space acquisition project, located on the western side of 15th Avenue Northeast at Northeast 85th Street. The goal of the project is to preserve a grove of trees along 15th Avenue Northeast. The project was proposed by the Maple Leaf Community Council.

 City of Seattle: $3,300,000

 Ballard Open Space, Harrison Ridge Greenspace Completion, Denny Triangle Urban Center Park, First Hill Urban Center Park, and Waldo Woods Conservation Easement acquisition Projects

