

********

**Council Bill Number: 116966**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123403**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to jail services; authorizing the Mayor to execute an Interlocal Agreement with Snohomish County for the Provision of Jail Services; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 20, 2010
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Clark)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 29, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 28, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 13, 2010
   
**Committee:** Public Safety and Education
   
**Sponsor:** BURGESS
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, CORRECTIONAL-FACILITIES, JAIL, PRISONERS, SNOHOMISH-COUNTY

**Fiscal Note:**116966

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123403](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123403.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to jail services; authorizing the Mayor to execute an Interlocal Agreement with Snohomish County for the Provision of Jail Services; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle ("City") pays for the confinement of individuals who are charged or convicted of committing misdemeanor crimes under the Seattle Municipal Code; and

 WHEREAS, the Interlocal Agreement with King County for jail services limits the number of misdemeanor inmates that cities may hold at their facilities to 330 beds through 2014 and to 250 beds in 2015 and 2016; and

 WHEREAS, in 2002, the City began sending some misdemeanor inmates to Yakima County; and

 WHEREAS, the Interlocal Agreement with Yakima County will end December 31, 2010; and

 WHEREAS, Snohomish County has space to house City misdemeanor inmates and can replace the jail beds the City has been using at Yakima County; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, an agreement with Snohomish County substantially in the form attached, entitled "INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR JAIL SERVICES" (Exhibit 1).

 Section 2. Any act authorized by this ordinance and taken after its passage but before its effective date is ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2010.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Catherine Cornwall CBO Snohomish County Jail ILA ORD August 20, 2010 Version #2

 Attachment:

 Exhibit 1: "INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR JAIL SERVICES."

 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR JAIL SERVICES

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between SNOHOMISH COUNTY, a political subdivision of the State of Washington (hereinafter COUNTY) and the City of SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington (hereinafter CITY).

 NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with the Interlocal Cooperation Act (Chapter 39.34 RCW) and the City and County Jails Act (Chapter 70.48 RCW), the COUNTY and CITY hereby agree as follows:

 Section 1  Definitions

 A. The term "Jail" means a COUNTY operated facility primarily designed, staffed, and used for the housing of adults charged or convicted of a criminal offense; for the punishment, correction, and rehabilitation of offenders convicted of a criminal offense; or for confinement during a criminal investigation or for civil detention to enforce a court order. Upon the date of the execution of this Agreement, Jail includes the Snohomish County Main Jail and Community Corrections.

 B. The term "Book" means the act of registering, screening, and examining inmates for confinement in the Jail; inventorying and safekeeping inmates' personal property; maintaining all computerized records of arrest; performing warrant checks; and all other activities associated with processing an inmate for confinement.

 C. The term "CITY Inmate" means a person Booked or housed in the Jail for whom the CITY is a billable agency under the procedure set out in Section 6 of this Agreement.

 D. The term "COUNTY Inmate" means any person Booked or housed in the Jail who is not a CITY Inmate.

 E. The term "Bureau Chief" means the Corrections Bureau Chief, Snohomish County Sheriff's Office.

 F. The term "CITY Municipal Code" means the Municipal Code of the CITY of Seattle.

 G. The term "CITY Municipal Court" means the Court of Limited Jurisdiction charged with hearing violations of the CITY Municipal Code, including any division of the COUNTY District Court acting for the CITY via a service contract.

 H. The term "Cities" means collectively all cities that have executed Interlocal Agreements for Jail Services with the COUNTY in substantially the same form as this Agreement.

 I. The term "Force Majeure" means war, civil unrest, and any natural event outside of the party's reasonable control, including fire, storm, flood, earthquake, or other act of nature.

 J. The term "Business Day" means Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., excluding COUNTY recognized holidays.

 K. The term "maximum allowable population level" means the greatest allowable number of inmates that can be held in the Jail in a safe, secure, and humane manner. The maximum allowable population level shall be determined by the Sheriff or his/her designee.

 L. The term "fit for Jail" means that an inmate is medically able to be housed in jail and does not need medical attention that would require treatment at a hospital or other type of medical facility.

 Section 2  Purpose

 Under the authority of Chapter 70.48 RCW, the COUNTY maintains a Jail. The CITY from time-to-time desires to confine CITY Inmates in the Jail. In return for payment as specified in Section 9, the COUNTY agrees to furnish its facilities and personnel for confinement of CITY Inmates based on the rules and conditions set forth in this Agreement and any attachments thereto.

 Section 3  Term

 This agreement shall be in effect from the date of signature and shall continue in effect until December 31, 2016, or until terminated by either party in accordance with Section 4, PROVIDED that the COUNTY'S obligations are contingent upon local legislative appropriation of necessary funds in accordance with applicable laws and the Snohomish County Charter.

 Section 4  Termination

 This Agreement may be terminated by either party for any reason at any time prior to its expiration upon ninety (90) calendar days prior written notice provided pursuant to Section 17 hereof.

 Section 5  Population Level Limitation

 A. In the event that the Jail's acceptable population level is reached, inmates who are confined on Snohomish County charges or commitments will have first priority for continued incarceration. In the event the inmates are required to leave the COUNTY Jail, out-of-county inmates shall be the first inmates removed by the booking jurisdiction. When out-of-county inmates are removed, cities that have signed interlocal agreements for jail services with the COUNTY shall have their inmates removed last in the order those agreements were entered into. Every effort will be made to manage the average daily population (ADP), including booking restrictions as a method to lower the ADP. The Bureau Chief shall have final authority on ADP reduction measures and will provide at least thirty (30) days notice to the CITY to remove its inmates.

 B. The maximum allowable CITY inmate population is sixty-five (65) inmates per day, unless otherwise specified by the Bureau Chief.

 Section 6  Placing CITY Inmates in Jail by Law Enforcement Personnel

 Subject to the conditions stated herein, and the constraints listed in Section 5, the COUNTY will accept arrested persons delivered to the Jail for confinement, including persons arrested for, or convicted of, violations of the CITY Municipal Code and will hold them until such time as they are lawfully discharged from custody pursuant to law, or returned to the custody of the CITY.

 A. The CITY law enforcement personnel will follow all Jail procedures when presenting arrested persons for Booking.

 B. The Jail will not receive a person into custody until the law enforcement personnel having custody of the person provides the Jail with proper documentation of the Jail's legal basis to hold the person in custody. Proper documentation will consist of either an arrest warrant, the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or a properly completed Notice of Arrest on the form provided by the court into which the person is being cited.

 C. An arrested person will not be considered a CITY Inmate for purposes of this Agreement until transfer of custody is complete. Transfer of custody from CITY law enforcement personnel to the Jail will not occur until the Jail receives both the legal basis to hold the arrested person and has medically cleared the arrested person as "fit for Jail."

 D. CITY Inmates shall be billable to the CITY when:

 a. Inmate Status:

 i. The inmate is being held on violation of a misdemeanor or gross misdemeanor, on a warrant or court order issued by the CITY'S Municipal Court;

 ii. The inmate is not being held on any active COUNTY felony charge; and

 iii. The inmate is not a Federal Inmate who can be removed by the Federal agency without regard to local charges.

 b. Other

 i. The inmate is held for the CITY in accordance with section 6(D)(a); and

 ii. The inmate is also being held by the State of Washington for violation of the Offender Accountability Act and the CITY will not allow the State to move the inmate

 E. CITY Inmates shall not be billable to the CITY when:

 a. The inmate receives a personal recognizance release, posts bail, or finishes serving a sentence on that charge;

 b. The charge is dismissed, not filed, or otherwise withdrawn; or

 c. The CITY cannot remove the inmate until other charges requiring the inmate's custody in Jail are satisfied.

 Section 7  Walk In Commitments

 A. Subject to the conditions stated herein, and the constraints listed in Section 5, the COUNTY will accept persons sentenced to a term of confinement to Jail by a CITY Municipal Court, including persons convicted of violations of the CITY Municipal Code and will hold them until such time as they are lawfully discharged from custody pursuant to law and the terms of the judicial Order of Commitment, or returned to the custody of the CITY.

 B. A person reporting for commitment will not be accepted for Booking until the COUNTY receives a valid judicial Order of Commitment from the CITY Municipal Court and the Jail has medically cleared the person reporting for commitment as "fit for Jail."

 C. A person reporting for commitment will not be considered a CITY Inmate for the purposes of this Agreement until the person is accepted for Booking. In the event that a person reporting for commitment is not accepted for Booking, the Jail will notify the CITY Municipal Court of the person's non-acceptance and the reason for the non-acceptance. Notification will occur on the same day if the non-acceptance occurs during a Business Day or on the following Business Day if the non- acceptance occurs after the end of a Business Day.

 Section 8  Rules Relating to Inmates in Custody

 A. Persons convicted of violations of the CITY Municipal Code may earn early release time of up to one- third (1/3) of the total sentence as authorized by Chapter 9.94A RCW.

 B. Investigators directed by the CITY attorney or CITY police officers will have the right to interview CITY inmates inside the confines of the Jail, subject to necessary operational and security rules. Interview rooms will be made available equally to all jurisdictions with inmates in the Jail.

 C. CITY Inmates will be in the complete charge of the COUNTY and subject to all applicable rules of the Jail, including any emergency security rules imposed by the Bureau Chief. It is expressly agreed by the CITY that visitation and telephone privileges of CITY inmates, if any, will be the same as COUNTY inmates and subject to applicable requirements of law.

 D. The Jail will be administered by the COUNTY in accordance with the rules and regulations of the COUNTY, COUNTY ordinances and in accordance with the rules and regulations of any agency of the State of Washington empowered to make rules governing the administration of COUNTY jails.

 E. CITY Inmates may be made inmate workers at the discretion of the COUNTY, and such inmates may be allowed by the COUNTY to work on public property.

 Section 9  Fees

 A. The CITY will pay the COUNTY fees for services as follows:

 a.  Booking Fee : A fee shall be assessed for the Booking of CITY Inmates by or on behalf of the CITY into the Jail. It is the only fee charged for inmates released within four (4) hours of Booking into the Jail.

 b.  Daily Maintenance Fee : A daily maintenance fee shall be assessed for each calendar day that a CITY Inmate is housed in the Jail. This fee shall not be charged for inmates released within four (4) hours of Booking.

 c.  Work Release Daily Fee : A work release daily maintenance fee shall be assessed for each calendar day that a CITY Inmate is housed in the Work Release facility.

 d.  In-Custody Work Crew Daily Fee : An in-custody work crew daily fee shall be assessed for each calendar day that a CITY Inmate participates in the in-custody work crew program.

 e.  Electronic Home Detention (EHD) Daily Fee : An electronic home detention daily fee shall be assessed for each calendar day that a CITY Inmate participates in the EHD program.

 B. The 2010/11 rates for the Booking and Daily Maintenance Fees shall be ninety dollars ($90) per Booking and sixty-two dollars and fifty cents ($62.50) per day for each housing day. The Work Release Daily Fee and the In-Custody Work Crew Daily Fee, which are in lieu of the Daily Maintenance Fee, shall be forty-two dollars ($42) per day for each housing day. The EHD Daily Fee, which is also in lieu of the Daily Maintenance Fee, shall be sixteen dollars ($16) per day.

 C. The 2010/11 rates outlined in Section 9(B) will increase each calendar year during the term of this Agreement by a rate equal to ninety percent (90%) of the Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index (Urban Wage Earners) for the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton area, measured from June of the prior year to June of the current year. In no event shall the increase be greater than three percent (3%).

 D. The billing process calculates booking and daily inmate charges using proportional methodology. The process for proportional billing is described in Exhibit A, and hereby incorporated by reference. If multiple jurisdictions have an open misdemeanor charge on an individual, the jurisdictions will share the cost as long as an open charge persists for that agency. A contract agency is billed for booking an individual for its misdemeanor charge or charges. If there are open charges with more than one contract agency, each agency will be billed in equal portions. The same process applies for determining the daily billing. When a contracting agency's charge is closed, that agency drops from the proportional billing process. The proportional billing is recalculated without that agency. If an agency has multiple open misdemeanor charges, the agency is only billed as one element of the proportional booking process, equal to all others with open misdemeanor charges. Additionally, there will be no partial days billed. The billing process looks at who is billable to whom each day and bills accordingly.

 E. In July each year, the COUNTY will provide the CITY with rates for the following year by notice to the CITY, as provided in Section 17. The new fees will go into effect with the January billing of the following year.

 F. Costs incurred for necessary medical services to CITY Inmates beyond routine medical examinations, tests, procedures and prescriptions will be borne by the CITY in addition to the basic rates set out in Section 9(B). If the inmate suffers an injury while in the custody of the Jail, the COUNTY will bear all expenses not covered by the inmate's health insurance and/or public assistance. The Custody or Medical Supervisor(s) on duty in the Jail is hereby granted the authority to seek necessary medical services for CITY Inmates without consulting with CITY officials; PROVIDED, that when it appears that a CITY Inmate will incur unusual or substantial medical expenses due to illness, the COUNTY shall notify the CITY prior to seeking treatment, unless immediate treatment is required. If the Jail medical staff order immediate treatment, the COUNTY will notify the CITY as soon after the event as reasonably possible. The CITY and the COUNTY will comply with the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and Snohomish County policies and procedures regarding HIPAA. The COUNTY will credit amounts received from the inmate's own health insurance and applicable public assistance before billing the CITY.

 Section 10 Intentionally Omitted

 Section 11  Transport

 A. The CITY agrees to be responsible for inmate transportation to and from the facility for Court.

 B. The COUNTY will provide transportation and guarding of CITY Inmates to and from medical facilities when the Jail Medical Supervisor has determined that such treatment is necessary under Section 9(F). The CITY will furnish all other transportation of CITY Inmates, except as provided in Section 11C.

 C. The COUNTY will provide pick-up and transport services for CITY inmates from the King County Jail in downtown Seattle and the Regional Justice Center in Kent to the Snohomish County Jail three to five times per week. In 2010/2011 the COUNTY will bill the CITY sixty- two dollars and fifty cents ($62.50) per correctional officer per hour plus 40 cents per mile beginning when correctional officer leaves the Snohomish County Jail and ending when the correctional officer returns to the Snohomish County Jail. The COUNTY shall have discretion regarding the number of correctional officers required for any pick-up and transport.

 D. In July each year, the COUNTY will provide the CITY with pick-up and transport service rates as specified in Section 11C for the following year by notice to the CITY, as provided in Section 17. The new fees will go into effect with the January billing of the following year.

 Section 12  Method of Payment & Billing Dispute Resolution Procedure

 A. The COUNTY shall transmit billings to the CITY monthly. Within thirty (30) days after receipt, the CITY shall pay the full amount billed less any disputed amount.

 B. Payments from the CITY shall clearly indicate that the payment is for Jail services and the period covered by the payment.

 C. If CITY disputes amounts billed, it has (30) days following receipt of billing to notify the COUNTY of any alleged discrepancies calculating the amount the CITY owes the COUNTY. The CITY will provide the COUNTY with documentation for all alleged discrepancies. The COUNTY will respond to any alleged discrepancies within fifteen (15) working days of receipt of documentation. Credits for resolved discrepancies will be reflected on next billing cycle. The COUNTY will notify the CITY of all unresolved discrepancies.

 D. Withholding of any amount billed or alleging that any party is in violation of any provision of this Agreement shall constitute a dispute, which shall be resolved as follows:

 a. The Bureau Chief and CITY Budget Director or their designees shall attempt to resolve the dispute by negotiation. If such negotiation is unsuccessful, the dispute shall be appealed to the Mayor of the CITY and the COUNTY Executive for settlement. If not resolved within thirty (30) days of referral, the Mayor of the CITY and the COUNTY Executive may by mutual written consent 1) apply to the Presiding Judge of the Snohomish County Superior Court for appointment of an arbitrator whose decision shall be final and binding on both parties, OR 2) may invoke the procedures set out in RCW 39.34.180 (3) for binding arbitration. Each party shall pay one- half of any arbitration fees.

 b. Any amount withheld from a billing, which is determined to be owed to the COUNTY pursuant to the dispute resolution procedure described herein, shall be paid by the CITY within thirty (30) days of the date of the negotiated resolution or arbitration determination.

 E. Any undisputed billing amount not paid by the CITY within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the billing, and any amounts found to be owing to the COUNTY as a result of the billing dispute resolution procedure that are not paid within thirty (30) days of resolution, shall be conclusively established as a lawful debt owed to the COUNTY by the CITY, shall be binding on the parties and shall not be subject to legal question either directly or collaterally. This provision shall not limit a CITY's ability to challenge or dispute any billings that have been paid by the CITY.

 F. If the CITY fails to pay a billing within forty- five (45) days of receipt, the COUNTY will notify the CITY of its failure to pay and the CITY shall have ten (10) days to cure non-payment. In the event the CITY fails to cure its nonpayment, the CITY shall be deemed to have waived its right to house CITY Inmates in the Jail and, at the COUNTY's request, will remove all CITY Inmates already housed in the Jail within thirty (30) days. Thereafter, the COUNTY, at its sole discretion, will accept no further CITY Inmates until all outstanding bills are paid.

 G. The COUNTY may charge an interest rate equal to the interest rate on the monthly COUNTY investment earnings on any undisputed billing amount not paid by the CITY within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the billing, and any amounts found to be owing to the COUNTY as a result of the billing dispute resolution procedure.

 H. Each party many examine the other's books and records to verify charges. If an examination reveals an improper charge, the next billing statement will be adjusted appropriately.

 Section 13  Indemnification

 A. The COUNTY shall indemnify and hold harmless the CITY and its officers, agents, and employees, or any of them, from any and all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expenses, and damages of any nature whatsoever, by reason of or arising out of any negligent action or omission of the COUNTY, its officers, agents, and employees, or any of them related to the services provided under this Agreement. In the event that any suit based upon such a claim, action, loss, or damage is brought against the CITY, the COUNTY shall defend the same at its sole cost and expense; provided, that, the CITY retains the right to participate in said suit if any principle of governmental or public law is involved; and if final judgment be rendered against the CITY and its officers, agents, and employees, or any of them, or jointly against the CITY and the COUNTY and their respective officers, agents, and employees, or any of them, the COUNTY shall satisfy the same.

 B. The CITY shall indemnify and hold harmless the COUNTY and its officers, agents, and employees, or any of them, from any and all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, costs, expenses, and damages of any nature whatsoever, by reason of or arising out of any negligent act or omission of the CITY, its officers, agents, and employees, or any of them related to the arrest or confinement of a CITY Inmate. In the event that any suit based upon such a claim, action, loss, or damage is brought against the COUNTY, the CITY shall defend the same at its sole cost and expense; provided that the COUNTY retains the right to participate in said suit if any principle of governmental or public laws is involved; and if final judgment be rendered against the COUNTY, and its officers, agents, and employees, or any of them, or jointly against the COUNTY and the CITY and their respective officers, agents, and employees, or any of them, the CITY shall satisfy the same.

 C. In the event of the concurrent negligence of the parties, the COUNTY's and the CITY's obligations hereunder shall apply to the percentage of fault attributable to the COUNTY and CITY or the COUNTY's and CITY's agents, employees, or officials respectively.

 D. The foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to constitute a waiver of each party's indemnity under Washington's Industrial Insurance Act, Title 51 RCW, as respects the other party only, and only to the extent necessary to provide a full and complete indemnity of claims made by the parties' employees. The parties acknowledge that these provisions were specifically negotiated and agreed upon by them.

 E. In executing this agreement, the COUNTY does not assume liability or responsibility for or in any way release the CITY from any liability or responsibility, which arises in whole or in part from the existence or effect of the CITY Municipal Code, rule, or regulations. If any cause, claim, suit, action, or administrative proceeding is commenced in which the enforceability and/or validity of any such CITY Municipal Code, rule or regulation is at issue, the CITY shall defend the same at its sole expense and if judgment is entered or damages are awarded against the CITY, the COUNTY, or both, the CITY shall satisfy the same, including all chargeable costs and attorney's fees.

 F. The terms of Section 13 shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 Section 14  Non-waiver of Rights

 Except as provided in subsections 13(E), 13(F) or 13(D), no waiver of any right under this Agreement shall be effective unless made in writing by the authorized representative of the party to be bound thereby. Failure to insist upon full performance of any one or several occasions does not constitute consent to or waiver of any later non-performance nor does payment of a billing or continued performance after notice of a deficiency in performance constitute an acquiescence thereto. The parties are entitled to all remedies in law or equity.

 Section 15  No Creation of or Expansion of Duty to Supervise; No Partnership or Joint  Venture

 A. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as creating, modifying, or expanding any duty on the part of the COUNTY. By agreeing to provide the Community Corrections Programs described herein to the CITY, the COUNTY is not agreeing to any supervision of CITY inmates except as specifically provided herein. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as a delegation by the CITY, the CITY Municipal Court or the CITY Municipal Court's probation department to the COUNTY of its duty of supervision.

 B. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to render the parties partners or joint ventures.

 Section 16  Modification / Amendment

 A. All provisions of this Agreement may be modified and amended with the mutual written consent of the parties. This Agreement may not be modified orally. Modification must be accomplished with the same formalities as are required for execution of this agreement except that Council approval will not be required to modify Section 5B, Maximum Allowable CITY inmate population.

 B. The CITY and COUNTY may elect, by mutual agreement of the Bureau Chief and the Mayor of the CITY or his designee, to reopen negotiations for the express purpose of changing the CITY's agreed upon maximum allowable inmate population in the following calendar year. If the CITY and COUNTY are not able to come to an agreement on a change in the agreed upon number of inmate days, the current year's agreed upon number of inmate days shall remain the same in the following year.

 C. In the event of a change in State law or a ruling from a precedent setting court that significantly impacts the incarceration of CITY Inmates, the COUNTY and the CITY may reopen negotiations to amend the agreed upon number of inmate days used in the current year and following year.

 Section 17  Notices

 A. All notices required by this Agreement to be given to the COUNTY shall be made in writing and personally delivered or sent by certified mail to the Bureau Chief.

 B. All notices required by this Agreement to be given to the CITY shall be made in writing and personally delivered or sent by certified mail to the Mayor of the CITY or his designee.

 C. The Bureau Chief and the Mayor of the CITY or his designee, shall be the administrators of this Agreement pursuant to RCW 39.34.030(4)(a).

 Section 18  Entire Agreement

 A. This Agreement represents the entire understanding of the parties and supersedes any oral representations that are inconsistent with or modify its terms and conditions.

 B. Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the ability of the COUNTY to contract with other entities at different rates or terms.

 Section 19  Force Majeure

 In the event either party's performance of any of the provisions of this Agreement become impossible due to Force Majeure, that party will be excused from performing such obligations until such time as the Force Majeure event has ended and all facilities and operations have been repaired and/or restored.

 Section 20  Severability

 If any provision of this Agreement is found to be invalid or contrary to law, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby.

 Section 21  Filing

 Pursuant to Chapter 39.34 RCW, a copy of this Agreement as fully executed shall be filed by the COUNTY with the County Auditor and by the CITY with the City Clerk.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the COUNTY and the CITY have executed this Agreement by subscribing their names as follows:

 SNOHOMISH COUNTY CITY OF SEATTLE

 ______________________________ ____________________________ __

 Aaron Reardon Date Michael McGinn Date

 COUNTY EXECUTIVE CITY MAYOR

 ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:

 ______________________________ ______________________________

 Date CITY ATTORNEY Date

 APPROVED AS TO FORM:

 __________________________________________ _

 DEPUTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY Date

 EXHIBIT A

 PROPORTIONATE BILLING

 Each day the COUNTY shall examine the open charges for each active booking and apply uniform rules for determining billable charges and identifying the billable agencies.

 The procedure for selecting the billable charges and responsible agencies is outlined below. The program proceeds in sequence through the series of steps only as far as needed to isolate a billable charge and determine the agency responsible for payment.

 1. Select all felony charges. If there is more than one, go to Rule #2. If there is a felony but no State DOC hold, do not bill. If there are no felony charges, go to Rule #5.

 2. Select the Arresting Agency DOC-Parole-Olympia. If there is no other arresting agency charges, determine if charge is State DOC and bill accordingly.

 3. If there is a State DOC hold and additional local charges (Snohomish County or contracting cities; felony, misdemeanor, or gross misdemeanor) do not bill.

 4. If there is a State DOC hold and non local additional charges (from other county and municipal agencies not contracting services with Snohomish County), bill State DOC.

 5. Select all open misdemeanor charges. Bill the arresting agency. If there are open charges with more than one contract agency, go to Rule #6.

 6. If there are open misdemeanor charges with multiple contract agencies, bill each agency in equal portion (e.g., two agencies 50/50). If an agency has multiple open misdemeanor charges, the agency is only billed as one element of the proportional booking process, equal to all others with open misdemeanor charges.

 Example: If municipal agency A has one open misdemeanor and municipal agency B has two open misdemeanor charges at the same time, each agency is billed for 50% of the day.

 7. When an agency's charge is closed, that agency drops from the proportional billing process. The proportional billing is recalculated without that agency.

 Example: Municipal agency A has one open misdemeanor and municipal agency B has an open misdemeanor charge. Municipal agency B's charge is closed. Agency A is billed for 100% from then on.

 8. When there is a Snohomish County misdemeanor charge and contract agency misdemeanor charge, the County is billed its proportional share.

 EXHIBIT B

 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS OPTIONS

 Section 1  Definitions

 A. "Community Corrections Programs" means alternative sentencing programs offered by the COUNTY to the CITY pursuant to this Agreement, including Electronic Home Detention with Electronic Home Monitoring, Work Education Release, and Work Crews. The Community Corrections Programs are more fully defined and described in Section 2 of Exhibit B. "Community Corrections Program" or "Program" means any one of the Community Corrections Programs.

 B. "Electronic Home Detention" or "EHD" means that Community Corrections program described in Section 3 of Exhibit B of this Agreement.

 C. "Jail Services Agreement" means that interlocal agreement dated _________, ____, between the CITY and the COUNTY for the provision of services at the COUNTY Jail.

 D. "Work Crew In Custody" or "WC In Custody" means that Community Corrections Program described in Section 3(a) of Exhibit B of this Agreement.

 E. "Work Crew Out of Custody" or "WC Out of Custody" means that Community Corrections Program described in Section 3(b) of Exhibit B of this Agreement.

 F. "Work Crews" means both Work Crew In Custody and Work Crew Out of Custody.

 G. "Work Education Release" or "WER" means that Community Corrections Program described in Section 3 of Exhibit B to this Agreement.

 Section 2  Purpose

 A. The CITY from time to time desires to confine CITY Inmates in the COUNTY Jail. The purpose of this Agreement is to make a wider variety of sentencing options available to the CITY, which has contracted with the COUNTY for Jail services.

 B. In addition to Jail services provided to the CITY pursuant to separate contract and subject to availability, the COUNTY will make available to the CITY the following Community Corrections Programs:

 a. Electronic Home Detention;

 b. Work Education Release; and

 c. Work Crew -- In Custody.

 Section 3  Eligibility and Acceptance into Community Corrections Programs

 A. CITY inmates held in the custody of the COUNTY may serve their time in a Community Corrections Program if Program services are available and if all of the following requirements are met:

 a. The CITY Inmate has been prescreened by the COUNTY for the purpose of assisting the court in its decision related to sentencing the offender to a Community Corrections alternative or confinement in the County Jail.

 b. The COUNTY has found that the CITY Inmate meets all statutory and Program Eligibility Requirements; and

 c. The CITY Inmate has been ordered into the Program by the CITY's Municipal Court.

 B. CITY Inmates not held in the custody of the COUNTY may also serve their time in a Community Corrections Program if all of the above requirements are met.

 C. Additionally, if a CITY Inmate who is sentenced to secure confinement meets the requirements set forth in Section 3(A) of Exhibit B, the CITY Inmate may be classified as a minimum security resident (MSR) and relocated as spelled out in Snohomish County Code 5.20.020.

 D. If a CITY Inmate is sentenced or otherwise ordered into a Community Corrections Program by a court or courts on charges from multiple jurisdictions, the CITY will be billed for its fractional share (based on the number of jurisdictions) of the Program charges, PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the COUNTY may refuse Program admission for a CITY Inmate if any of those multiple jurisdictions (other than the COUNTY) have not entered into an agreement in substantially the same form as this Agreement. For purposes of this subsection, the COUNTY will be considered the financially responsible jurisdiction for all State agency-filed misdemeanor and gross misdemeanor charges.

 Section 4  Transfers of CITY Inmates into the Community Corrections Program

 A. A CITY inmate meeting the eligibility requirements set forth in Section 3(A) of Exhibit B shall be transferred into the Community Corrections Program effective on the date agreed to by the CITY and the COUNTY in the following manner:

 a. A CITY Inmate already in COUNTY custody will be transferred to the Program by the COUNTY; and

 b. A CITY Inmate not in COUNTY custody on the effective date of his or her transfer to the Program shall be transferred to the Program (1) by the CITY if the inmate is then in CITY custody or (2) by the CITY Inmate's presenting himself or herself to the COUNTY, in either case on the date and at the time and place agreed to by the CITY and the COUNTY.

 Section 5  Termination of CITY Inmate from Community Corrections Program

 A. Once a CITY inmate is taken into a Community Corrections Program, the inmate shall remain in the Program for the remainder of his or her term of confinement, unless:

 a. The CITY Municipal Court orders the CITY inmate terminated from the Program or otherwise amends its earlier order;

 b. The CITY inmate is no longer eligible for, and is terminated by the COUNTY from, the Program. The termination decision shall be made by the COUNTY, in its sole discretion, and is not subject to review. An inmate who was previously found to be eligible may be found ineligible to continue in a Program either (1) because of actions by the inmate while within the Program (including but not limited to violation of rules established by the COUNTY or a new criminal conviction) or (2) due to newly discovered information which, if known to the COUNTY during initial screening, would have rendered the inmate ineligible on either statutory or Program grounds.

 B. A CITY Inmate who is terminated by the COUNTY from a Program shall:

 a. If then in the physical presence or custody of the COUNTY by virtue of his or her participation in a Program, be taken into custody by the COUNTY and transported to the COUNTY Jail to serve the remainder or his or her term of confinement; or

 b. If not then in the physical presence or custody of the COUNTY by virtue of his or her participation in a Program, become the immediate responsibility of the CITY for all purposes including, but not limited to, duty to apprehend.

 C. If the participation of a CITY Inmate in a Community Corrections Program is terminated by the COUNTY pursuant to Section 5(A)(b) of Exhibit B, the COUNTY shall notify the CITY and the CITY Municipal Court in writing within twenty-four (24) hours following the termination. Upon termination, the CITY shall be responsible for notifying the CITY Municipal Court and, if appropriate, seeking revision of the CITY Municipal Court's order. The COUNTY will contact the CITY Law Enforcement agency to notify them of the violation.

 D. In the event that a CITY Inmate is terminated from a Community Corrections Program and is transferred to the COUNTY Jail pursuant to Section 5 of Exhibit B, the CITY shall be billed for the day in which the transfer occurs pursuant to its Jail Services Agreement and not pursuant to this Agreement.

 E. In the event that the CITY inmate is terminated from a Community Corrections Program on a day in which he or she has not received services pursuant to this Agreement, the COUNTY shall not bill the CITY for that day.

 F. In addition to fees charged to the CITY pursuant to this Agreement, the COUNTY may also charge CITY Inmates directly for daily monitoring costs (as noted in the vendor contract) associated with their participation in a Program, i.e., for EHD and if applicable work release charges, at the same rate and under the same circumstances as COUNTY inmates are charged.

 Catherine Cornwall CBO Snohomish County Jail ILA EXH 1 September 1, 2010 Version #1

```
