

********

**Council Bill Number: 116995**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123514**
********

 AN ORDINANCE accepting for general street purposes 16 deeds conveyed to the City of Seattle by the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority or Sound Transit in connection with the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project as agreed to in a Property Acquisition and Transfer Procedures Agreement between the City of Seattle and Sound Transit; laying off, opening, widening, extending, and establishing portions of the rights-of-way located on Martin Luther King Jr. Way South between South Charleston Street and South Andover Street, South Columbian Way and South Alaska Street, South Angeline Street and South Ferdinand Street; at South Alaska Street and 31st Avenue South; and portions of Rainier Vista Subdivision both East and West of Martin Luther King Jr. Way South; placing the real property conveyed by the 16 deeds under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 3, 2011
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** January 7, 2011
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** January 6, 2011
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 18, 2010
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEEDS, EASEMENTS, LAND-ACQUISITION, RIGHT-OF-WAY, STREETS LIGHT-RAIL-TRANSIT, BEACON-HILL, SEWARD-PARK

**Fiscal Note:**116995

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123514](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123514.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE accepting for general street purposes 16 deeds conveyed to the City of Seattle by the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority or Sound Transit in connection with the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project as agreed to in a Property Acquisition and Transfer Procedures Agreement between the City of Seattle and Sound Transit; laying off, opening, widening, extending, and establishing portions of the rights-of-way located on Martin Luther King Jr. Way South between South Charleston Street and South Andover Street, South Columbian Way and South Alaska Street, South Angeline Street and South Ferdinand Street; at South Alaska Street and 31st Avenue South; and portions of Rainier Vista Subdivision both East and West of Martin Luther King Jr. Way South; placing the real property conveyed by the 16 deeds under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation; and ratifying and confirming certain prior acts.

 WHEREAS, in November 1996 as authorized by state law, Sound Transit proposed, and the voters of the three-county Sound Transit district approved financing for a ten-year regional transit system plan known as Sound Move; and

 WHEREAS, Sound Move includes the Central Link light rail line connecting SeaTac, Tukwila, and Seattle (Central Link) with the initial Central Link segment between Downtown Seattle and Tukwila opened for service on July 20, 2009, and the final segment between Tukwila and the SeaTac Airport opened for service on December 19, 2009; and

 WHEREAS, to prepare for the Central Link, the City Council passed Ordinance 119975, as amended by Ordinances 120788 and 122504, that authorized the Mayor to enter into the "Agreement Between the City of Seattle and Sound Transit for Grant of Non-Exclusive Use of a Light Rail Transit Way as Related to the Central Link Light Rail Transit Project" (Agreement); and

 WHEREAS, the Agreement granted Sound Transit a non-exclusive right to construct, operate, maintain, and own a Light Rail Transit System in the City of Seattle within the Light Rail Transit Way as defined in the Agreement; and

 WHEREAS, constructing the Central Link required Sound Transit to reconfigure, relocate, and widen public rights-of-way in order to create the Light Rail Transit Way; Sound Transit acquired the property by purchase or condemnation as authorized by RCW 81.112.080; and

 WHEREAS, an August 12, 2003, Property Transfer Agreement between the City and Sound Transit provided terms for transferring real property to the City, including establishing a process for determining the nature of the interest, the timing of the acquisitions, and environmental and title considerations; and

 WHEREAS, as provided for in the Property Transfer Agreement, Sound Transit has deeded property to the City; and

 WHEREAS, the City accepts the 16 deeds acquired in connection with the Central Link and as provided for in the Property Acquisition Agreement, places the properties under the Seattle Department of Transportation's jurisdiction and designates the properties for general street purposes; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Quit Claim Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-040 and 730 -- RV - 041

 PIN 142630 0005

 That portion of the South 52 feet of the North 72 feet of the West (East) 159.71 feet of Tract 29, subdivision of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, according to Plat recorded in Volume 24 of plats at page(s) 7, in King County, Washington, Except the East 59.71 feet thereof condemned in King County Superior Court cause number 98096 for Empire Way, as provided by ordinance 30673 of the City of Seattle.

 described as follows:

 Beginning at that intersection of the Westerly right-of-way line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the Southerly right-of-way line of South Charleston Street, said point bears South 68 degrees 33' 10" West a distance of 49.02 feet from a 4 inch diameter concrete monument with brass nail in monument case marking the centerline intersection of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and South Charleston Street.

 Thence South 01 degrees 55' 48" West along the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way a distance of 52.00 feet to a point on the South line of said South 52 feet of the North 72 feet of the West 159.71 feet of said State Tract 29;

 Thence North 87 degrees 22' 13" West along said South line a distance of 7.61 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 34' 57" East a distance of 39.68 feet;

 Thence North 56 degrees 26' 39" West, a distance of 24.02 feet to a point on the North line of said South 52 feet of the North 72 feet of the West 159.71 feet of said State Tract 29 (said Southerly right-of-way of South Charleston Street);

 Thence South 87 degrees 22' 13" East along said North line a distance of 29.00 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 AND ALSO,

 That portion of the South 84 feet of the North 156 feet of the East 160 feet of State Tract 29, Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, according to Plat recorded in Volume 24 of plats at page(s) 7, in King County, Washington, said parcel lying West of Empire Way (now Martin Luther King Jr. Way South) and East of the East line of 27th Avenue South, produced North, described as follows:

 Commencing at the Intersection of the Westerly right-of-way line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the Southerly right-of-way line of South Charleston Street, said point bears South 68 degrees 33' 10" West a distance of 49.02 feet from a 4 inch diameter concrete monument with brass nail in monument case marking the centerline intersection of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and South Charleston Street;

 Thence South 01 degrees 55' 48" West along the Westerly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way a distance of 52.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein-described fee take area;

 Thence continuing along said Westerly line South 01 degrees 55' 48" West a distance of 84.01 feet to the Southeast corner of said Grantor's Entire Parcel;

 Thence North 87 degrees 22' 13" West along the South line of said Grantors Entire Parcel a distance of 5.63 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 34' 57" East a distance of 84.05 feet to a point on the North line of said Grantor's Entire Parcel;

 Thence South 87 degrees 22' 13" East a distance of 7.61 feet, to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Numbers: RV-040 and RV- 041; a portion of tax parcel number 142630-0005; King County Recording Number 20091112002414)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 142630-0005 identified in Attachment 1, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 2. The Quit Claim Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-043

 PIN 162404-9127-09

 That portion of Tract 29 of Subdivision of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, as per plat recorded in Volume 24 of Plats on Page 7, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing at the Northeast corner of said Tract 29;

 Thence South 01 degrees 55' 48" West a distance of 156.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence South 01 degrees 55' 48" West along the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way a distance of 126.01 feet to the South line of said Grantor's Entire Parcel;

 Thence North 87 degrees 22' 13" West along said South line distance of 2.67 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 34' 57" East a distance of 126.08 feet to the North line of said Grantor's Parcel;

 Thence South 87 degrees 22' 13" East along said North line a distance of 5.63 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area containing 523 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730 - RV-043; a portion of tax parcel number 162404-9127; King County Recording Number 20091112002413)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 162404-9127 identified in Attachment 2, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 3. The Statutory Warranty Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-047

 PIN 1624049286

 That portion of Units 101 through 104, inclusive, 201 through 207, inclusive, and 301 through 307, inclusive, of Charles XX Condominium, A Condominium, according to declaration thereof recorded under King County recording number 8010300594, and any amendment(s) thereto; said unit is located on survey map and plans filed in volume 48 of condominiums, at pages 75 through 76, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing at a 4 inch diameter concrete monument with brass nail marking the intersection of the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the Northerly right-of-way extended of South Bradford Street;

 Thence North 87 degrees 02' 59" West along said Northerly right-of-way extended a distance of 45.01 feet to the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 87 degrees 02' 59" West along the Northerly line of said South Bradford Street right-of-way a distance of 0.94 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 34' 57" East a distance of 73.40 feet to a point on the north line of said Parcel;

 Thence South 87 degrees 22' 13" East along said North line a distance of 2.67 feet to a point on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence South 01 degrees 55' 48" West along said Westerly line a distance of 73.36 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area containing 133 square feet more-or-less.

 SUBJECT TO: Indemnity Agreement and the terms and conditions thereof recorded September 13, 1967 under King County recording No. 6233840.

 SUBJECT TO: Terms, provisions, requirements, and limitations contained in the Horizontal Property Regimes Act, Chapter 156, Laws of 1963 (RCW 64.32) as now amended or as it may hereafter be amended.

 SUBJECT TO: Terms, provisions, covenants, conditions, definitions, options, obligations and restrictions contained in Condominium Declaration, and as may be contained in the by-laws adopted pursuant to said declaration recorded October 30, 1980 under King County

 SUBJECT TO: Any assessment now or hereafter levied under the provisions of the Condominium Declaration of Charles XX Condominium, or any amendment(s) thereto, or under the by-laws adopted pursuant to said declaration.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730 - RV-047; a portion of tax parcel number 162404-9286; King County Recording Number 20091112002412)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 162404-9286 identified in Attachment 3, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 4. The Statutory Warranty Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-049

 PIN 162404-9286

 That portion of Lot 16, Except that portion condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for Empire Way, in Block 3 of Erwin's City Park Addition to the City of Seattle, according to Plat Recorded in Volume 17 of Plats at Page(s) 93, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing at the Northwest corner of said Lot 16;

 Thence South 87 degrees 03' 54" East along the North line of said Lot 16 a distance of 36.06 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence South 87 degrees 03' 54" East continuing along said North line a distance of 6.24 feet to an intersection with the Westerly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence South 01 degrees 56' 19" West along said Westerly line a distance of 9.87 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 34' 57" East a distance of 5.87 feet;

 Thence North 87 degrees 03' 54" West a distance of 6.01 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 34' 57" East a distance of 4.00 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area containing 25 square feet more- or-less.

 SUBJECT TO:

 Hold Harmless Agreement and the Terms and Conditions thereof:

 Between: Jow S. Quan and Sec Lun Quan

 And: City of Seattle

 Recorded: January 22, 1963

 Recording No.: 5534361

 Right of the City of Seattle to make necessary slopes for cuts or fills upon said premises for Empire Way, acquired by Condemnation Decree entered in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096.

 Weatherization Assistance Covenants and Easements and the terms and conditions thereof (three year term):

 Recorded: September 12, 2002

 Recording No(s): 20020912001023

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-049; a portion of tax parcel number 162404-9286; King County Recording Number 20091112002399)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 162404-9286 identified in Attachment 4, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 5. The Quit Claim Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. RV-053.1

 (Previous PIN 162404-9209)

 Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a public body corporation and politic organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 Grantor's Entire Parcel (Servient):

 New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 68, records of King County, Washington.

 Fee Take Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Unit Lot A, Lot 1, in Block 4 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 68;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area No. 1

 PIN #: 605610-0134

 Commencing from a 4"x4" monument in case with 3/4" brass pin found 0.90 feet South of the intersection of the centerlines of Martin Luther King Jr. Way and South Andover Street;

 Thence South 1 degrees 57'13" West along the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 30.54 feet;

 Thence South 88 degrees 02'47" West a distance of 46.86 feet to the westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 68 and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 03 degrees 38'22" East along said westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 4.47 feet to a horizontal curve to the left;

 Thence along said curve to the left having a radius of 3.00 feet, through a central angle of 90 degrees 23'09" for an arc length of 4.73 feet to the south line of S. Andover Street per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 68;

 Thence North 86 degrees 44'47" West along said south line of said S. Andover Street for a distance of 4.38 feet;

 Thence South 41 degrees 10'57" East a distance of 10.49 feet to said westerly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Containing 26 sq. ft.

 Fee Take Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Unit Lot C, Lot 3, in Block 5 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 69;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 2:

 PIN#: 605610-0170

 Commencing at the intersection of the northeasterly projected centerline of S. Dakota Street and the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way, thence South 75 degrees 28'07" West along said centerline of S. Dakota Street for a distance of 65.39 feet;

 Thence North 14 degrees 31'53" West a distance of 30.24 feet to the northerly line of said S. Dakota Street per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 69, and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence northerly along a curve to the left having a radius of 10.00 feet, with a radial bearing of North 36 degrees 42'40" West, through a central angle of 65 degrees 07'41"for an arc length of 11.37 feet to the westerly margin of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence along said westerly margin of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way along a reverse curve to the right, having a radius of 1272.12 feet, through a central angle of 0 degrees 20'08" for an arc length of 7.45 feet;

 Thence South 07 degrees 33'00" West for a distance of 17.52 feet to the northerly line of said S. Dakota Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Containing 33 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Lot 1, in Block 6 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 69;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 3:

 PIN#: 605610-0180

 Commencing at the intersection of the northeasterly projection of the centerline of S. Dakota Street and the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 75 degrees 28'07" West a distance of 73.13;

 Thence South 14 degrees 31'53" East a distance of 26.50 feet to the southerly line of said S. Dakota Street per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 69;

 Thence North 75 degrees 28'07" East along said southerly line of said S. Dakota Street for a distance of 2.80 feet to a horizontal curve to the right;

 Thence along said curve to the right having a radius of 10.00 feet, through a central angle of 87 degrees 11'39" for an arc length of 15.22 feet to point on the westerly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 69;

 Thence along a reverse curve to the right having a radius of 1274.59 feet, through a central angle of 0 degrees 20'15" for an arc length of 7.51 feet;

 Thence North 52 degrees 17'49" West a distance of 21.51 feet to said southerly line of said S. Dakota Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Containing 86 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Unit Lot A, Lot 1, in Block 53 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 72;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 4:

 PIN#: 605610-1080

 Commencing at the intersection of the westerly projection of the centerline of S. Dakota Street and the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 86 degrees 42'44" East along the centerline of said S. Dakota Street for a distance of 90.13 feet;

 Thence South 3 degrees 17'16" West a distance of 25.00 feet to the southerly line of said S. Dakota Street per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 72 and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 86 degrees 42'44" West along said southerly line of said S. Dakota Street for a distance of 0.93 feet to a horizontal curve to the left;

 Thence along said curve to the left having a radius of 19.50 feet, through a central angle of 109 degrees 59'24" for an arc length of 37.43 feet to point on the easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 72;

 Thence along a curve to the left having a radius of 1157.67 feet, through a central angle of 0 degrees 02'34" for an arc length of 0.87 feet;

 Thence North 38 degrees 22'58" East for a distance of 32.97 feet to said southerly line of said S. Dakota Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Containing 210 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Unit Lot D, Lot 4, in Block 6 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 71;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 5:

 PIN #: 605610-0210

 Commencing at the centerline intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Way and S. Adams Street, said point being 279.26 feet from a 4"X4" concrete monument in case with brass pin found on the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way bearing North 22 degrees 06'52" West;

 Thence South 67 degrees 52'55" West 56.03 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 07'05" West a distance of 28.50 feet to the northerly line of S. Adams Street, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 71;

 Thence North 67 degrees 52'55" East along said northerly line of said S. Adams Street a distance of 1.80 feet to a point on a horizontal curve to the left;

 Thence along said curve to the left having a radius of 3.00 feet, through a central angle of 90 degrees 03'15" for an arc length of 4.72 feet to a point on the westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 71;

 Thence North 22 degrees 10'20" West along said westerly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 7.99 feet to a point of reverse curve to the right;

 Thence Southerly along said curve to the right having a radius of 15.00 feet, with a radial bearing of South 67 degrees 54'25" West, through a central angle of 47 degrees 08'30" for an arc length of 12.34 feet to said northerly line of said S. Adams Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Containing 14 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Unit Lot A, Lot 1, in Block 48 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 76;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 6:

 PIN #: 605610-1000

 Commencing at the centerline intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Way and S. Adams Street, said point being 279.26 feet from a 4"X4" concrete monument in case with brass pin found on the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way bearing North 22 degrees 06'52" West;

 Thence North 67 degrees 52'55" East along the centerline of said S. Adams Street a distance of 63.24 feet;

 Thence South 22 degrees 07'05" East 24.50 feet to the southerly line of said S. Adams Street, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 76, and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence South 67 degrees 52'55" West along said southerly line of said S. Adams Street for a distance of 4.00 feet to a point on a horizontal curve to the left;

 Thence along said curve to the left having a radius of 10.00 feet, through a central angle of 79 degrees 49'24" for an arc length of 13.93 feet to a point on the easterly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 76;

 Thence North 21 degrees 29'19" East a distance of 5.37 feet to a horizontal curve to the right;

 Thence along said curve to the right having a radius of 14.00 feet, through a central angle of 46 degrees 23'34" for an arc length of 11.34 feet to said southerly line of S. Adams Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Containing 17 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Unit Lot B, Lot 1, in Block 44 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 76;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 7:

 605610-0940

 Commencing at the centerline intersection of S. Nevada Street and Martin Luther King Jr. Way, 1.70 feet south from a 4"X4" monument in case with brass nail found on the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence North 67 degrees 52'55" East along the centerline of said S. Nevada Street for a distance of 63.18 feet;

 Thence South 22 degrees 07'05" East 24.50 feet to the southerly line of said S. Nevada Street, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 76, and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence South 67 degrees 52'55" West along said southerly line of said S. Nevada Street a distance of 4.00 feet to a point on a horizontal curve to the left;

 Thence along said curve to the left having a radius of 10.00 feet, through a central angle of 89 degrees 59'05" for an arc length of 15.71 feet to a point on the easterly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 76;

 Thence South 22 degrees 06'10" East along said easterly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way for a distance of 4.00 feet to a point of reverse curve to the right;

 Thence Northerly along said curve to the right having a radius of 14.00 feet, with a radial bearing of North 67 degrees 53'50" East, through a central angle of 89?59'07", for an arc length of 21.99 feet to the southerly line of said S. Nevada Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Containing 21 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Unit Lot A, Lot 2, in Block 44 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 81;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 8:

 PIN #: 605610-0950

 Commencing at the centerline intersection of S. Genesee Street and Martin Luther King Jr. Way, thence North 67 degrees 52'55" East along the centerline of said S. Genesee Street a distance of 57.50 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 07'05" West a distance of 28.00 feet to the northerly line of said S. Genesee Street, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 81, and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence South 67 degrees 52'55" West along said northerly line of said S. Genesee Street a distance of 1.35 feet to a point on a horizontal curve to the right;

 Thence along said curve to the right having a radius of 7.00 feet, through a central angle of 90 degrees 00'56" for an arc length of 11.00 feet to a point on the easterly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 81;

 Thence North 22 degrees 06'10" West along said easterly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 3.00 feet;

 Thence South 61 degrees 58'33" East a distance of 13.03 feet to the northerly line of said S. Genesee Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Containing 31 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Unit Lot J, Lot 1, in Block 19 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 80;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 9:

 PIN #: 605610-0450

 Commencing at the centerline intersection of S. Genesee Street and Martin Luther King Jr. Way, thence South 67 degrees 52'55" West along the centerline of said S. Genesee Street a distance of 60.49 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 07'05" West a distance of 28.00 feet to the northerly line of said S. Genesee Street, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 80;

 Thence North 67 degrees 52'55" East along said northerly margin of said S. Genesee Street for a distance of 0.61 feet to a horizontal curve to the left;

 Thence along said curve to the left having a radius of 4.00 feet, through a central angle of 87 degrees 50'57" for an arc length of 6.13 feet to a point on the westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 80;

 Thence North 19 degrees 58'02" West along said westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 4.28 feet to a reverse curve to the right;

 Thence Southerly along said curve to the right having a radius of 10.06 feet, with a radial bearing of South 70 degrees 22'13" West, through a central angle of 55 degrees 49'16" for an arc length of 9.80 feet to the northerly line of said S. Genesee Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Containing 8 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Lot 1, in Block 43 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 86;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 10:

 PIN #: 605610-0920

 Said Area being further described as follows;

 Commencing at the centerline intersection of S. Genesee Street and Martin Luther King Jr. Way, thence North 67 degrees 52'55" East along the centerline of said S. Genesee Street a distance of 72.28 feet;

 Thence South 22 degrees 07'05" East a distance of 28.00 feet to the southerly line of said S. Genesee Street, per New Rainer Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 86, and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence continuing South 22 degrees 07'05" East a distance of 6.00 feet;

 Thence South 67 degrees 52'55" West a distance of 15.00 feet to a point on a curve;

 Thence Southerly along said curve to the left having a radius of 10.00 feet, with a radial bearing of North 82?21'34" East, through a central angle of 16?35'51", for an arc length of 2.90 feet to a point on the easterly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence North 24 degrees 14'17" West along said easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 5.76 feet to a point on a horizontal curve to the right;

 Thence along said curve to the right having a radius of 3.00 feet, through a central angle of 92 degrees 07'12" for an arc length of 4.82 to feet to a point on said southerly line of S. Genesee Street;

 Thence North 67 degrees 52'55" East along said southerly line of S. Genesee Street for a distance of 12.53 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Containing 91 sq. ft.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 That portion of Lot 6, in Block 26 of New Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 41;

 Said Area being further described as follows:

 Area 11:

 PIN #: 605610-0620

 Said Area being further described as follows;

 Commencing at monument in case on the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way, thence South 22 degrees 06'52" East along said centerline a distance of 149.19 feet to the intersection with South Snoqualmie Street;

 Thence continuing South 22 degrees 06'52" East along said centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 31.26 feet;

 Thence South 67 degrees 53'08" West a distance of 64.00 feet to the westerly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 22 degrees 06'52" West along said Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 0.26 feet to the beginning of a tangent curve to the left;

 Thence along said curve to the left having a radius of 3.00 feet, through a central angle of 90 degrees 00'12" for an arc length of 4.71 feet to a point on said southerly line of said S. Snoqualmie Street;

 Thence South 67 degrees 52'55" West along said southerly line of said S. Snoqualmie Street a distance of 0.23 feet to a point on a reverse curve to the right;

 Thence Southerly and easterly along a curve to the right having a radius of 10.00 feet, with a radial bearing of South 09 degrees 50'48" West, through a central angle of 26 degrees 32'37" for an arc length of 4.63 feet to said westerly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Containing 3 sq. ft.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No.: RV-063.1

 PIN #: 605610-0640

 (Previous PIN 162404-9150)

 Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, a public body corporation and politic organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 Grantor's Entire Parcel (Servient):

 Lot 2, block 27, New Rainier vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 of plats at page 93, records of King County, Washington.

 Area Acquired by Grantee (Dominant):

 Said Area being further described as follows;

 Commencing at the intersection of S. Alaska Street and Martin Luther King Jr. Way which is 6.10 feet Northerly from a 5" diameter monument in case with 1/2" brass pin and punch mark found on the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 86?39'55" East along the centerline of said S. Alaska Street a distance of 112.22 feet;

 Thence North 03?20'05" East a distance of 24.23 feet to a point on North line of said S. Alaska Street and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 60 degrees 07'07" West a distance of 26.08 feet;

 Thence North 86 degrees 41'01" West a distance of 4.69 feet to a horizontal tangent curve to the right;

 Thence along said curve to the right, having a radius of 18.00 feet, through a central angle of 48?43'20", for an arc length of 15.31 feet to the easterly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way per Rainier Vista Unit Lot Subdivision as recorded in volume 217 at page 93;

 Thence continuing South 24 degrees 01'15" East along said easterly line of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way a distance of 19.97 feet to the intersection with the North line of S. Alaska Street;

 Thence South 86 degrees 36'11" East along said North line of said S. Alaska Street a distance of 32.38 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Containing 291 sq. ft.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No.: RV-220

 PIN 100500-0203

 (Previous PIN 272404-9085)

 That portion of Lots A and D of King County Short Plat No. 78-229, according to Short Plat recorded January 11, 1979 under recording no. 7901110729, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot D;

 Thence North 89?40'31" West along the South line of said Lot D a distance of 12.96 feet;

 Thence North 16?14'21" West a distance of 98.65 feet;

 Thence North 89?41'24" West a distance of 118.30 feet to a point on the West line of said Lot A;

 Thence North 20?56'46" West along said west line, a distance of 21.55 feet to a point on the North line of said Lot A said point also lying on the South line of South Othello Street;

 Thence South 89?40'06" East along said South line a distance of 131.51 feet to the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 16?58'39" East along said Westerly line a distance of 120.03 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No.: RV-223

 PIN 100500-0203

 (Previous PIN 272404-9190)

 That portion of Lot B of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 78-229, according to Short Plat recorded January 11, 1979 under recording no. 7901110729, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot B;

 Thence North 89?40'31" West along the South line of said Lot B a distance of 17.47 feet;

 Thence North 13?23'53" West a distance of 71.49 feet;

 Thence South 89?40'31" East a distance of 12.96 feet to a point on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence South 16?58'39" East along said westerly line a distance of 54.80 feet to a curve to the right the radial center of which bears South 73?01'21" West a distance of 1000.00 feet;

 Thence Southeasterly along said Westerly line and curve an arc distance of 17.89 feet through a central angle of 01?01'29", for an arc length of 17.89 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No.: RV-224

 PIN 100500-0203

 (Previous PIN#: 272404-9048)

 That portion of Lot C of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 78-229, according to Short Plat recorded January 11, 1979 under recording no. 7901110729, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot C;

 Thence North 89?40'31" West along the South line of said Lot C a distance of 34.50 feet;

 Thence North 00?21'04" East a distance of 0.79 feet;

 Thence South 89?38'56" East a distance of 12.28 feet;

 Thence North 09?18'22" West a distance of 22.33 feet;

 Thence North 10?51'24" West a distance of 54.59 feet to a point on the North line of said Lot C;

 Thence South 89?40'31" East along said North line a distance of 17.47 feet to a point on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way and a non-tangent curve to the right the radial center of which bears South 74?02'50" West, a distance of 1000 feet;

 Thence Southeasterly along said Westerly line and curve an arc distance of 78.72 feet, through a central angle of 04?30'37" to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No.: RV-226

 PIN 100500-0203

 (Previous PIN 272404-9081)

 That portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 27, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, described as follows,

 Commencing at a found monument in a case at the intersection of Renton Avenue S. and Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 00 degrees 18'38" West 166.92 feet along the centerline of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence North 89 degrees 41'22" West 45.00 feet to the Westerly margin of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 88 degrees 49'31" West 28.20 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 11'01" West 73.58 feet;

 Thence North 03 degrees 39'39" West 83.73 feet;

 Thence North 89 degrees 38'56" West 20.87 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 21'04" East 53.37 feet;

 Thence South 88 degrees 46'48" East 34.79 feet to a point on the westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way and a non-tangent curve to the right the radial center of which bears South 78 degrees 38'20" West a distance of 1000 feet;

 Thence Southeasterly along said westerly line and curve an arc distance of 203.72 feet, through a central angle of 11 degrees 40'21"; thence South 00 degrees 18'38" West a distance of 8.05 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take.

 Containing 6306 square feet more-or-less.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No.: RV-227

 PIN 100500-0203

 (Previous PIN 272404-9068)

 That portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 27, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington; being described as follows:

 Commencing at a found monument in a case at the intersection of Renton Avenue S. and Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 00 degrees 18'38" West 206.92 feet along the centerline of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence North 89 degrees 41'22" West 45.00 feet to the Westerly margin of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 88 degrees 49'31" West 28.23 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 21'27" East 40 feet to the Northerly boundary of said Parcel A;

 Thence South 88 degrees 49'31" East 28.20 feet along the said Northerly boundary to the Westerly margin of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 00 degrees 18'38"West 40.00 feet along said Westerly margin to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No.: RV-228

 PIN 100500-0203

 (Previous PIN 272404-9066)

 That portion of the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 27, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington; described as follows:

 Commencing at a found monument in a case at the intersection of Renton Avenue S. and Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 00 degrees 18'38" West 246.93 feet along the centerline of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence North 89 degrees 41'22" West 45.00 feet to the Westerly margin of said Martin Luther King Jr. Way and the POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 88 degrees 49'31" West 62.18 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 20'59" East 1.63 feet;

 Thence South 89 degrees 39'01" East 33.91 feet;

 Thence North 00 degrees 21'20"East 38.89 feet to the Northerly boundary of said Parcel A;

 Thence South 88 degrees 49'31" East 28.23 feet along the said Northerly boundary to the Westerly margin of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence South 00 degrees 18'38" West 40.00 feet along said Westerly margin to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: RV-053.1, RV- 063.1, RV-220, RV-223, RV-224, RV-226, RV-227, and RV- 228; a portion of tax parcel numbers 605610-0134, 605610- 0170, 605610-0180, 605610-1080, 605610-0210, 605610-1000, 605610-0940, 605610-0950, 605610-0450, 605610-0920, 605610-0620, 605610-0640, 100500-0203; King County Recording Number 20091112002411)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel numbers 605610-0134, 605610-0170, 605610-0180, 605610-1080, 605610-0210, 605610- 1000, 605610-0940, 605610-0950, 605610-0450, 605610-0920, 605610-0620, 605610-0640, 100500-0203 identified in Attachments 5 through 17, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 6. The Quit Claim Deed, dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-054

 PIN 162404-9282

 That portion of Lot 1 of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 2009019, according to Short Plat recorded September 20, 2001 under recording no. 20010920900008; described as follows:

 Beginning at a Rebar and Cap marked 'BRH LS 22333 LS 22333 LS 6434" marking the Southwest corner of the Southeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M.;

 Thence North 01 degrees 56' 15" east along the West Line of Said Southeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of said Section 16 said line also being the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way a distance of 20.01 feet to a point on the North line of Lot 1;

 Thence South 86 degrees 45' 27" East along said North line a distance of 6.52 feet;

 Thence South 03 degrees 22' 29" West a distance of 20.00 feet;

 Thence South 03 degrees 29' 14" West a distance of 82.17 feet;

 Thence South 03 degrees 48' 06" West a distance of 81.84 feet to a point on the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence North 01 degrees 32' 35" East along said Easterly line a distance of 164.07 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area containing 637 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-054; a portion of tax parcel number 162404-9282; King County Recording Number 20091112002400)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 162404-9282 identified in Attachment 18, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 7. The Statutory Warranty Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-055

 PIN 162404-9290

 That portion of the South three tenths of the Northwest quarter of the Northeast quarter of the Southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing from a 4 inch square concrete monument with brass pin in monument case marking a point on the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence Southerly along said centerline and along a curve to the left having a radius of 1055.22 feet, a radial bearing of South 88 degrees 02' 47" East, through a central angle 04 degrees 15' 54", for an arc length of 78.55 feet;

 Thence South 86 degrees 43' 42" East a distance of 45.22 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING said point also lying on the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence South 86 degrees 43' 42" East a distance 0.20 feet;

 Thence South 04 degrees 51' 29" East a distance of 10.33 feet;

 Thence South 04 degrees 15' 28" East a distance of 10.33 feet;

 Thence North 86 degrees 43' 42" West a distance of 0.71 feet to a point on the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence Northerly along said Easterly line and along a curve to the right having a radius 1010.22 feet, a radial bearing of North 86 degrees 16' 18" East, through a central angle of 01 degrees 10' 04", for an arc length of 20.58 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Together with that portion described as follows:

 Commencing from a 4 inch square concrete monument with brass pin in monument case marking a point on the centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Way;

 Thence Southerly along said centerline and along a curve to the left having a radius of 1055.22 feet, a radial bearing of South 88 degrees 02' 47" East, through a central angle 15 degrees 08' 09", for an arc length of 278.76 feet;

 Thence South 86 degrees 43' 42" East a distance of 151.39 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence Southerly along a curve to the right having a radius of 910.99 feet, a radial bearing of North 74 degrees 06' 03" East, through a central angle 01 degrees 51' 16", for an arc length of 29.49 feet;

 Thence South 86 degrees 43' 42" East a distance of 57.90 feet;

 Thence South 01 degrees 12' 57" West a distance of 28.02 feet;

 Thence North 86 degrees 43' 42" West a distance of 49.67 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 EXCEPT the East 450.00 feet thereof;

 And EXCEPT the portion lying within Empire Way as established by Ordinance No. 30673 of the City of Seattle.

 AND ALSO,

 R/W No.: 730-RV-056.1

 PIN 162404-9290

 That portion of the South three-tenths of the Northwest quarter of the Northeast quarter of the Southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., described as follows:

 Beginning at the intersection of the South line of said subdivision and the Easterly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence Northerly along said Easterly line and along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of 1010.22 feet, a radial bearing of North 76 degrees 03' 46" East, through a central angle of 10 degrees 12' 32", for an arc length of 180.00 feet to the Northwest corner of said Grantor's Entire Parcel;

 Thence South 86 degrees 43' 42" East along said North line a distance of 0.71 feet;

 Thence South 05 degrees 37' 19" East a distance of 22.47 feet;

 Thence South 06 degrees 43' 50" East a distance of 22.47 feet;

 Thence North 82 degrees 13' 34" East a distance of 1.71 feet;

 Thence South 07 degrees 46' 26" East a distance of 9.67 feet;

 Thence South 82 degrees 13' 34" West a distance of 1.75 feet;

 Thence South 08 degrees 45' 11" East a distance of 40.17 feet;

 Thence South 10 degrees 44' 08" East a distance of 40.17 feet;

 Thence South 38 degrees 59' 21" East a distance of 1.65 feet;

 Thence South 11 degrees 48' 17" East a distance of 3.76 feet;

 Thence Southeasterly along a non-tangent curve to the left having a radius of 14.00 feet, a radial bearing of North 78 degrees 00' 55" East, through a central angle of 74 degrees 44' 37", for an arc length of 18.26 feet;

 Thence South 60 degrees 09' 48" East a distance of 1.12 feet;

 Thence South 86 degrees 43' 42" East a distance of 88.25 feet to the East line of said Grantor's Entire Parcel;

 Thence Southerly along said East line and along a non-tangent curve to the left having a radius of 910.99 feet, a radial bearing of North 75 degrees 57' 19" East, through a central angle of 01 degrees 51' 16", for an arc length of 29.48 feet to a point on the South line of the Northwest quarter of the Northeast quarter of the Southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East;

 Thence North 86 degrees 43' 42" West along said South line a distance of 104.38 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 SUBJECT TO (RV055 & RV056.1):

 1. Easement, including terms and provisions contained therein:

 Recorded: December 14, 1943

 Recording No.: 3354720 (Vol. 2187, P.335

 For: Sewer and Water

 Affects: The South 2 feet of Parcels A and B

 2. Easement, including terms and provisions contained therein:

 Recorded: June 23, 1978

 Recording No.: 7806231113

 In favor of: City of Seattle

 For: Water main

 Affects: The South 20 feet of Parcels A and B

 3. Right of King County to make necessary slopes for cuts or fills upon said premises, acquired by condemnation decree entered in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Numbers: 730-RV-055 and RV 730-RV-056.1; a portion of tax parcel number 162404- 9290; King County Recording Number 20091112002401)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 162404-9290 identified in Attachment 19, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 8. The Quit Claim Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-064

 PIN 541410-0170

 That portion of the Southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M. in King County, Washington, described as follows,

 Commencing at a four and one-half inch diameter concrete monument in case with brass plate marking the Southeast corner of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M.;

 Thence North 00 degrees 53' 13" East along the East line of said Section 16 a distance 30.03 feet to the North line of south Alaska Street right-of-way;

 Thence North 86 degrees 38' 36" West along said North line a distance of 112.61 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;

 Thence North 86 degrees 38' 36" West continuing along said North line a distance of 171.36 feet;

 Thence North 03 degrees 21' 24" East along the West line of said Grantor's Entire Parcel a distance of 4.56 feet;

 Thence South 86 degrees 41' 01" East a distance of 56.85 feet;

 Thence South 85 degrees 32' 37" East a distance of 114.37 feet;

 Thence South 00 degrees 11' 15" East a distance of 2.41 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730 - RV-064; a portion of tax parcel number 541410-0170; King County Recording Number 20091112002402)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 541410-0170 identified in Attachment 20, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 9. The Quit Claim Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-068 PIN 5414100315

 That portion of the Southeast quarter of the Southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 24 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Commencing at the point of intersection of a 30 foot radius curve at the Northwest corner of Empire Way and Alaska Street, which point is the intersection of the Southerly production of the Westerly margin of said Empire Way with the Easterly production of the Northerly margin of said Alaska Street;

 Thence North 22 degrees 07' 01" West a distance of 47.49 feet to the point of tangency of said curve and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Fee Take Area;

 Thence Southerly, along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of 30.00 feet, the radial center of which bears South 67 degrees 52' 59" West, through a central angle of 91 degrees 30' 05", for an arc length of 47.91 feet;

 Thence North 08 degrees 33' 57" East a distance of 21.42 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 06' 10" West a distance of 142.02 feet;

 Thence North 19 degrees 57' 54" West a distance of 38.44 feet to a point on the north line of said Grantor's Entire Parcel;

 Thence North 67 degrees 52' 59" East along said North line a distance of 18.37 feet to a point on the westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence South 22 degrees 07' 01" East along said Westerly line a distance of 168.86 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein described Area containing 3823 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-068; a portion of tax parcel number 541410-0315; King County Recording Number 20091112002403)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 541410-0315 identified in Attachment 21, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 10. The Quit Claim Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-086

 PIN 212404-9324

 That portion of Tract B of King County Short Plat No. 80-153, according to Short Plat Recorded February 26, 1981 under Recording No. 8102260516, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southwest corner of said Tract B;

 Thence North 86 degrees 43' 04" West along the South line of said Tract B a distance of 17.94 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 06' 10" West a distance of 103.46 feet;

 Thence North 42 degrees 15' 11" West a distance of 7.74 feet to a point on the North line of said Tract B;

 Thence South 86 degrees 38' 36" East along said North line a distance of 21.00 feet to the Northeast corner of said Tract B, said point also lying on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way;

 Thence South 22 03 24 East along said Westerly line a distance of 109.39 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING, containing 1786 square feet more-or-less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730 - RV- 086; a portion of tax parcel number 212404-9324; King County Recording Number 20091112002404)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 212404-9324 identified in Attachment 22, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 11. The Quit Claim Deed dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV-089 PIN 2124049324

 That portion of Lot 5 of Hopkins First Addition to the City of Seattle according to Plat recorded in Volume 18 of Plats at Page(s) 84, in King County, Washington; Except that portion of said Lot 5 condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for Empire Way.

 Said fee Take area being further described as follows:

 Beginning at the Northwest corner of said Lot 5;

 Thence South 88 degrees 35' 30" East along the North line of said Lot 5 a distance of 8.41 feet to a point on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence South 22 degrees 03' 24" East along the said Westerly line and the Easterly line of said Lot 5 a distance 54.71 feet;

 Thence South 01 degrees 08' 28" West along said Easterly line a distance of 35.32 feet to the Southeast corner of said Lot 5;

 Thence North 88 degrees 35' 25" West along the South line of said Lot 5 a distance of 15.10 feet;

 Thence North 29 degrees 50' 45" East a distance of 14.77 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 06' 10" West a distance of 55.61 feet to the West line of said Lot 5;

 Thence North 01 degrees 07' 45" East along said West line a distance of 21.52 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING, containing 1222 square feet more or less.

 AND

 R/W No.: 730-RV-090

 PIN 2124049324

 That portion of Lot 6 of Hopkins First Addition to the City of Seattle according to Plat recorded in Volume 18 of Plats at Page(s) 84, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Lot 6;

 Thence South 01 degrees 07' 45" West along the East line of said Lot 6 a distance of 21.52 feet;

 Thence North 22 degrees 06' 10" West a distance of 23.47 feet to a point on the North line of said Lot 6;

 Thence South 88 degrees 35' 30" East a distance of 9.26 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING, containing 100 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Numbers: 730-RV-089 and 730-RV-090; a portion of tax parcel number 212404-9324; King County Recording Number 20091112002405)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 212404-9324 identified in Attachment 23, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 12. The Deed for Street Purposes dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. RV-093 PIN 1756700015

 That portion of Parcel 'A' of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-167 according to short plat recorded September 29, 1981, under recording No. 8109290913, in King County, Washington described as follows:

 Beginning at the Northeast corner thereof;

 Thence S22 degrees 09' 51"E along the East line of said Parcel 'A' a distance of 39.69 feet to the Southeast corner thereof;

 Thence N89 degrees 11' 15"W along the South line of said Parcel 'A' a distance of 17.83 feet;

 Thence N28 degrees 18' 22"W a distance of 42.10 feet to a point on the North line of said Parcel 'A' distant 22.82 feet Westerly of the Northeast corner thereof;

 Thence S88 degrees 35' 25"E along the North line thereof a distance of 22.82 feet to the Point of Beginning.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington. Containing 743 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: RV-093; a portion of tax parcel number 175670-0015; King County Recording Number 20091112002407)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 175670-0015 identified in Attachment 24, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 13. The Deed for Street Purposes, dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. RV- 094

 PIN 1756700010

 Grantor's Entire Parcel (Servient):

 According to Statutory Warranty Deed Auditor's File No. 20030331002490, dated March 31, 2003.

 Parcel B of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-167, according to Short Plat recorded September 29, 1981 under recording no. 8109290913, in King County, Washington.

 Area to be transferred to the city:

 That portion of Parcel B of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-167, according to Short Plat recorded September 29, 1981 under recording no. 8109290913, in King County, Washington.

 Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Parcel B,

 Thence South 22 degrees 09' 51" East along the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right- of-way a distance of 25.89 feet to the Southeast corner of said Parcel B;

 Thence North 88 degrees 36' 57" West along the South line of said Parcel B a distance of 16.87 feet;

 Thence North 24 degrees 14' 40" West a distance of 26.13 feet to a point on the North line of said Parcel B;

 Thence South 89 degrees 10' 38" East along said North line a distance of 17.83 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Area to be transferred to the city containing 411 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-094; a portion of tax parcel number 175670-0010; King County Recording Number 20091112002410)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 175670-0010 identified in Attachment 25, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 14. The Deed for Street Purposes dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. 730-RV- 095

 PIN 1756700005

 Grantor's Entire Parcel (Servient):

 According to Statutory Warranty Deed Auditor's File No. 20030131001872, dated January 31, 2003.

 Lot C of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-167, according in Short Plat recorded September 29, 1981 under recording no. 8109290913, in King County, Washington.

 Area to be transferred to the city:

 That portion of Lot C of City of Seattle Short Plat No. 80-167, according to Short Plat recorded September 29, 1981 under recording no. 8109290913, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Southeast corner of said Lot C;

 Thence North 88 degrees 37' 50" West along the South line of said Lot C a distance of 14.67 feet;

 Thence North 24 degrees 14' 40" West a distance of 55.60 feet to a point on the North line of said Lot C;

 Thence South 88 degrees 36' 57" East along said North line a distance of 16.87 feet to a point on the Westerly line of Martin Luther King Jr. Way right-of-way;

 Thence South 22 degrees 09' 51" East along said Westerly right-of-way line a distance of 54.68 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Area to be transferred to the city containing 791 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730-RV-095; a portion of tax parcel number 175670-0005; King County Recording Number 20091112002408)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 175670-0005 identified in Attachment 26, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 15. The Deed for Street Purposes, dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. RV-096

 PIN 175670-0110

 That portion of Lot 25 and the North 36 feet of Lot 26 of Corliss Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 15 of Plats at page(s) 27, in King County, Washington, except that portion of said Lot 26 condemned for street, described as follows:

 Beginning at the Northeast corner thereof, being the intersection of the North line of said Lot 26 and the West line of Martin Luther King Junior Way South;

 Thence S22 degrees 09' 51"E along the East line thereof, the same being the West line of Martin Luther King Junior Way South, a distance of 39.27 feet to the Southeast corner thereof;

 Thence N88 degrees 37' 34"W along the South line thereof, being the South line of the North 36 feet of said Lot 26, a distance of 12.48 feet;

 Thence N24 degrees 14' 40"W a distance of 39.92 feet to the North line of said Lot 25;

 Thence S88 degrees 37' 34"E along the North lines of said Lots 25 and 26 a distance of 14.06 to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 478 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: 730 - RV-096; portions of tax parcel number 175670-0110; King County Recording Number 20091112002409)

 is accepted, and the portions of parcel number 175670-0110 identified in Attachment 27, are laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 16. The Deed for Street Purposes, dated October 29, 2009, by CENTRAL PUGET SOUND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY, a regional transit authority organized under the laws of the State of Washington, conveying to the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for general street purposes the following described real property in Seattle, King County, Washington:

 R/W No. RV- 097

 PIN 175670-0120

 That portion of Lots 26 and 27 of Corliss Addition to Columbia, according to plat recorded in Volume 15 of plats at page(s) 27, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at the intersection of the South line of Lot 27, the same being the North line of South Ferdinand Street, and the West line of Martin Luther King Junior Way South as condemned in King County Superior Court Cause No. 98096 for Empire Way, pursuant to Ordinance No. 30673;

 Thence N22 degrees 09' 51"W along said West line a distance of 80.82 feet to the South line of the North 36 feet of said Lot 26;

 Thence N88 degrees 37' 34"W along said line a distance of 12.48 feet;

 Thence S24 degrees 14' 44"E a distance of 40.98 feet;

 Thence S22 degrees 54' 05"E a distance of 25.51 feet;

 Thence S04 degrees 13' 49"W a distance of 13.91 feet to the South line of said Lot 27 at a point distant 17.24 feet Westerly from the point of beginning;

 Thence S88 degrees 40' 13"E along said line, the same being the North line of South Ferdinand Street, a distance of 17.24 feet to the point of beginning.

 Situate in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington.

 Containing 872 square feet more or less.

 (Sound Transit Right-of-Way File Number: RV-097; a portion of tax parcel number 175670-0120; King County Recording Number 20091112002406)

 is accepted, and that portion of parcel number 175670-0120 identified in Attachment 28, is laid off, opened, widened, extended, and established upon the land described in this section.

 Section 17. The real properties conveyed by the above- described deeds are placed under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Department of Transportation.

 Section 18. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken prior to its effective date is ratified and confirmed.

 Section 19. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2010.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Gretchen M. Haydel SDOT Sound Transit Deed Acceptance No. 2 ORD August 17, 2010 Version #2

```
