

********

**Council Bill Number: 116938**
********

 AN ORDINANCE concerning public spaces on the Central Waterfront; establishing a Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee to advise the City on designing, developing and managing a series of premiere public spaces on the Central Waterfront and the broader connections necessary to reconnect the Central Waterfront to the City.

**Status:** In Committee
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 9, 2010
   
**Committee:** Special Committee on the Alaskan Way Viaduct and Seawall Replacement Project and Central Waterfront Planning
   
**Sponsor:** BAGSHAW, CLARK, RASMUSSEN
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEAWALLS, CENTRAL-WATERFRONT, DOWNTOWN, CITIZENS-ADVISORY-COMMITTEES, VIADUCTS, ALASKAN-WAY, LAND-USE-PLANNING

**References/Related Documents:** Related: [Ordinance 123142](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=&s 4=123142s2=&s5=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=CBORY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=ORDF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fcbory.htm&r=0&f=S); [Resolution 30664](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=30664&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=0&f=S), [Resolution 30724](http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/~scripts/nph-brs.exe?s1=&s3=30724&s2=&s4=&Sect4=AND&l=20&Sect2=THESON&Sect3=PLURON&Sect5=RESNY&Sect6=HITOFF&d=RESF&p=1&u=%2F~public%2Fresny.htm&r=0&f=S)

**Fiscal Note:**116938

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________________

 AN ORDINANCE concerning public spaces on the Central Waterfront; establishing a Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee to advise the City on designing, developing and managing a series of premiere public spaces on the Central Waterfront and the broader connections necessary to reconnect the Central Waterfront to the City.

 WHEREAS, the removal of the Alaskan Way Viaduct, creation of new public space on the Central Waterfront, and replacement of the aging Elliott Bay Seawall present unique opportunities to reconnect Downtown Seattle to its waterfront; and

 WHEREAS, in 2003 the City began a public process for developing a community vision for the Central Waterfront; and

 WHEREAS, in 2004 the City and the Planning and Design Commissions sponsored public forums to establish guiding principles for reclaiming the Central Waterfront and reconnecting it with Downtown; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council subsequently adopted those principles through Resolutions 30664 and 30724; and

 WHEREAS, these Resolutions called for making public use a primary objective for redeveloping the Central Waterfront, linking the waterfront with inland areas so that each area reinforces the other and contributes to a cohesive Downtown, and engaging the public in the decision-making process; and

 WHEREAS, in 2006 the City's Department of Planning and Development published the Waterfront Concept Plan, which provided concepts for reclaiming the Central Waterfront for public use consistent with Resolution 30664, including locations for public open spaces, environmental improvements, and connections to the downtown core; and

 WHEREAS, in 2008 the State and City agreed to principles for replacing the Alaskan Way Viaduct based on feedback from a stakeholder committee comprised of individuals representing business, labor, environmental, and neighborhood interests; and

 WHEREAS, in January 2009 the Governor, King County Executive, and Mayor of Seattle reached consensus on an Alaskan Way Viaduct and Seawall Replacement Program ("AWVSRP") that included funding to complete street and public space improvements along Alaskan Way, consistent with feedback received from the stakeholder committee; and

 WHEREAS, in April 2009 the Washington State Legislature passed Engrossed Substitute Senate Bill 5768 and the Governor signed the Bill into law, providing funding for the AWVSRP and the surface of Alaskan Way along the waterfront; and

 WHEREAS, in October 2009 the City authorized execution of a Memorandum of Agreement with the State of Washington reaffirming a mutual commitment to work collaboratively to complete the AWVSRP and recognizing the City and State's respective funding and implementation responsibilities; and

 WHEREAS, in 2009, the City Council with Mayor concurring established through Ordinance 123142, the Central Waterfront Partnerships Committee ("CWPC"), to advise the City on issues relating to designing, developing and managing a series of premiere public spaces on the Central Waterfront, and specifically to recommend effective models for the formation of a civic partnership to oversee the successful creation of these public spaces on the Central Waterfront; and

 WHEREAS, through its deliberations, review of best practices from other cities, and work with practitioners, the CWPC concluded that strong project leadership is necessary from an independent body tasked with realizing the waterfront vision This leadership needs to be consistent, transparent and engaged from the beginning--ensuring design excellence, rooting the process in broad and transparent public engagement, and based on sound experience with delivering complex civic projects; and

 WHEREAS, to achieve strong project leadership, the City in concurrence with the CWPC believes it is critical to form a Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee that will provide holistic oversight of the project, oversee robust and innovative public engagement, and establish the foundation for a lasting civic partnership; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee.

 A.  Committee Established . The City hereby establishes the Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee ("the Committee").

 B.  Functions . The Committee shall advise the City on issues related to the design, development and management of a series of premiere public spaces ( "public spaces") along the Central Waterfront in connection with the Alaskan Way Viaduct Seawall Replacement Program (AWVSRP) and the broader Waterfront Initiative, as defined in the Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee ("SWSC") Charter, Attachment 1.

 C.  Authority and Bylaws . The Committee shall have the authority to appoint a chair or chairs, establish a meeting schedule, establish subcommittees, conduct votes, and otherwise establish procedures necessary to perform its functions. The Committee shall adopt bylaws and such other procedural rules consistent with this Charter as the Committee may determine necessary and appropriate for its work. The bylaws shall provide for transparency in its procedures and operations, specifically including compliance with public records and meeting requirements. The Committee shall endeavor to decide matters by consensus of all of its members. However, if consensus is not available or if less than all members are present at a meeting at which a decision is proposed to be taken, the Committee may decide matters by the affirmative vote of an absolute majority of its members. The bylaws may provide for the appointment of subcommittees consisting of the Committee members, and working groups consisting of one Committee member and such other non-members selected by the Committee.

 D.  Membership and Appointment . The Committee shall have nine voting members. The Mayor and City Council shall appoint individuals to the Committee as named in Attachment 2 to this ordinance. The Mayor and Council may designate the Chair from among the appointments, and in the event it declines to do so, the Committee shall appoint a Chair from among its members. The Directors of the Department of Transportation, Planning and Development and Parks and Recreation shall be non-voting ex officio members of the Committee. Committee members who are removed or resign shall be replaced through a subsequent ordinance.

 E.  Membership Term . Members serve three year terms, after which the City may reappoint or replace members. Subsequent committee appointments shall be made by July 1 of the year in which reappointments or replacements are required. Members shall serve on the Committee until their successors are appointed. Members may be removed by the City, with or without cause, by ordinance. Any vacancies shall be filled by ordinance.

 F.  Committee Duration . The Committee shall conduct its business for the duration of the Central Waterfront Project, or until such time as a successor entity is established. The Committee shall remain in effect until such time as the Mayor and Council choose to disband the Committee by ordinance.

 G.  Meetings . The Committee shall hold its first meeting within 45 days of the effective date of this ordinance. Meetings shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the Open Public Meetings Act, RCW 42.30.

 H.  Reports and Recommendations . The Committee shall provide regular progress reports to the Mayor and City Council as requested, and shall provide its recommendations to the Mayor and City Council at the following project milestones as applicable:

 ? Completion of a Public Engagement Plan;

 ? Selection of the preferred seawall design solution;

 ? Completion of the Draft Framework Plan;

 ? Completion of Draft Conceptual Design and preliminary estimates of probable construction costs;

 ? Completion of a Draft Strategic Plan.

 In addition, the Committee shall provide an annual report to the general public outlining its activities over the course of the preceding year.

 I.  Relationship to Public Engagement . The Central Waterfront Project shall include a robust and innovative public engagement plan to be developed in consultation with the Committee. The Committee shall consider the results of this engagement as relevant to their development of Reports and Recommendations described in Section 1. H. The Committee shall work closely with City staff and project consultants to ensure the public engagement plan is executed effectively and in accordance with the City's expectations for innovative and robust citywide public engagement.

 J.  Compensation . Service on the Committee is voluntary and members shall not be compensated other than reimbursement of expenses pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code chapters 4.70 and 4.72.

 K.  City Decision-Making . Consistent with the advisory role of the Committee, the procedures required under this charter are not intended to (and do not) serve as formal prerequisites to City decision-making.

 Section 2.  Central Waterfront Guiding Principles . The Central Waterfront Partnerships Committee has developed Draft Central Waterfront Guiding Principles ("Guiding Principles") to guide the design of public spaces on the Central Waterfront, both as part of the budgeted project elements to be completed as part of the AWVSRP, as well as longer-term opportunities that are not yet budgeted. The principles are included as Attachment 3 and shall provide the basis for the Committee's review and oversight of the Central Waterfront Project and related work. The Mayor and City Council hereby affirm these Guiding Principles for the development of new public spaces on the Central Waterfront. The Guiding Principles shall be considered together with those relevant principles previously expressed in Resolutions 30664 and 30724, and Ordinance 122406.

 Section 3.  Effective Date . This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2010.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Attachment 1: Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee ("SWSC") Charter

 Attachment 2: Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee: Appointments

 Attachment 3: Central Waterfront Partnerships Committee: Guiding Principles

 D. Goldberg DPD Central Waterfront Steering Committee ORD July 27, 2010 Version #8

 CHARTER

 SEATTLE WATERFRONT STEERING COMMITTEE

 Section 1 .  Charge . The impending removal of the Alaskan Way Viaduct presents the City of Seattle (the "City") with an opportunity of incalculable importance to its future by reclaiming its Elliott Bay waterfront for public access and broader uses and purposes. Seattle's aspiration to become one of the most successful cities in the world will be materially advanced by a Seattle Waterfront Initiative (the "Initiative") which includes (i) design, development, and construction as well as the programming, operation and maintenance of the public spaces and other public facilities that will be created or identified with the Viaduct's removal; (ii) reconnecting the waterfront to upland areas and other community assets; and (iii) stimulating compatible public and private development and investment. The Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee (the "SWSC") is chartered by the City pursuant to City Council Ordinance introduced as Council Bill No. 116938, the Mayor concurring, to provide interim civic leadership for the Initiative. Its specific responsibilities are delineated in this Charter. As one feature of its work, the SWSC shall have overall responsibility for stewardship, in an advisory capacity to the Mayor and City Council, of the City's Central Waterfront Project (the "CWP") to ensure that the CWP hones to the guiding principles (the "Principles") established for it by the City Council and the City's Central Waterfront Partnerships Committee (the "CWPC").

 Although advisory to the Mayor and City Council, the actions, recommendations, comments and initiatives of the SWSC shall be given careful and respectful consideration by the City's elected and appointed officials. It is the intent of the Mayor and City Council to collaborate closely and respectfully with the SWSC in the development and implementation of the Initiative and to support the SWSC as it evolves and grows into its civic leadership role.

 Consistent with the recommendations of the CWPC, the SWSC shall eventually transition its functions to an successor entity that will assume responsibility for civic leadership of the Initiative. When timely and with the consent of the Mayor and City Council, the SWSC shall be the prime mover in the formation of the successor entity, as well as one or more additional supporting entities, as may be necessary and appropriate.

 Section 2 .  Scope . The work of the SWSC will address two overlapping scopes. Consistent with the broader framework planning to be done as part of the waterfront design, the first element of the SWSC's scope generally embraces the City's Elliott Bay Waterfront from South Downtown and the Stadium District (excluding Pier 46) in the south to the northern boundary of Myrtle Edwards Park in the north, and may extend farther to address certain essential opportunities or linkages. As generally reflected in Attachment A, Seattle Waterfront Opportunities Diagram and related materials, the Initiative includes numerous opportunities and linkages, among them the "great streets and places" and "green streets and corridors" noted in the Attachment. The second element of the SWSC's scope is specific to the budgeted portions of the CWP identified for conceptual design, including Alaskan Way from King Street to the south to Pine Street to the north, and including the corridor connecting the Pike Place Market and Belltown to the waterfront and creating highly important opportunities for public amenities and compatible development. Although the reach of the Initiative exceeds the scope of the CWP, the CWP and its coordination with the City's Alaskan Way Viaduct and Seawall Replacement Project will be early priorities within the broader scope of the Initiative.

 Section 3 .  Specific Responsibilities .

 A.  Strategic Plan . The SWSC will give priority attention to the development of a Waterfront Initiative Strategic Plan (the "Strategic Plan"). The Strategic Plan is intended to be a dynamic, evolving plan for the implementation of the Initiative over time and will be subject to periodic updates and amendments. The Strategic Plan and periodic amendments shall be subject to the review and approval of the Mayor and City Council. SWSC staff will coordinate preparation of the Strategic Plan with the support of and in close collaboration with City staff and, as necessary and appropriate, the CWP design team, Stakeholders Group and work groups. The Strategic Plan is envisioned as a thorough but relatively basic and general plan encompassing the entire Initiative, including but not limited to the CWP and the City's Seawall Replacement Project. The Strategic Plan should provide more detailed direction with respect to particular elements of the Initiative as such elements are implemented, including the relationship of such elements to other aspects of the Initiative.

 The Strategic Plan should prioritize and synthesize the responsibilities of the SWSC under this Charter. It shall incorporate the funding, phasing, partnerships and programming and operation and maintenance planning contemplated by the Charter. Illustrating the need for the Strategic Plan to focus more specifically on Initiative components as such components move toward implementation, the initial Strategic Plan shall focus more specifically on the CWP and, to the extent appropriate, its coordination with the Seawall Replacement Project. The Strategic Plan shall reflect the role prescribed for the SWSC with respect to the development of the CWP framework plan and conceptual design. As the framework plan and conceptual design are completed, the Strategic Plan shall provide practical direction for their implementation, including specific plans and recommendations for funding scenarios, phasing, optimal external partnership relationships, and eventual provision for programming and operation and maintenance.

 An important element of the Strategic Plan shall be identifying steps toward the eventual transition of the SWSC, including postulating meaningful milestones for its principal successor and related entities in order to maximize their potential for success and to warrant investment of continuing and enhanced responsibility for project implementation and stewardship. The City shall remain committed to the implementation and evolution of the Strategic Plan following transition of the SWSC to its successor entity or entities. Respective responsibility for the continued evolution of the Strategic Plan as between the City and the successor entity shall be determined as one feature of the transition.

 The Strategic Plan shall include specific mechanisms for continuously fulfilling its responsibilities to effectively oversee and encourage meaningful and influential public participation.

 B.  Shaping the Central Waterfront Design . The SWSC shall function as an integral component of the City's client team with respect to the CWP programming, planning and design process, specifically including but not limited to the following:

 (i) The SWSC shall have a central role in the selection of the CWP design team.

 (ii) In order to foster a holistic vision for the CWP design, the SWSC shall review and validate or recommend changes to each major design phase or component, including the framework plan and conceptual design, generally as reflected in Attachment B, "Conceptual Central Waterfront Timeline & Example Roles." The SWSC may be invited to and on its own initiative may review progress, including evolving basic assumptions, more frequently. Whenever decisions with respect to the CWP design or its implementation are framed for the City's elected leadership, SWSC review and validation or recommendations shall precede and be provided to the Mayor and City Council along with any such recommended decision.

 (iii) Generally as reflected in Attachment C, "Central Waterfront Conceptual Roles, Compositions and Relationships," the SWSC shall participate and closely coordinate with City departments, the project team, the Stakeholder Committee and others. The SWSC shall monitor and consider Stakeholders Committee and public engagement discussions when reviewing the CWP design at key design milestones and facilitate City leadership awareness and timely response to emerging issues throughout the design process.

 (iv) The SWSC shall oversee and evaluate formal public engagement for the design process, including the work of City staff and consultants.

 (v) The SWSC may form and/or collaborate with working groups that bring additional expertise to advise the Committee on meeting its responsibilities.

 City departments shall provide the SWSC with such information necessary to fulfill its responsibilities during the CWP design process. The SWSC shall have ready access to department heads and key staff and consultants. The SWSC and the City management team will establish a regularly scheduled, standing meeting between the SWSC with the three principal City department directors, the City project management team and the project manager. In addition, the SWSC shall be given reasonable advance notice of and may attend scheduled meetings among any combination of the City project management team, CWP consultants and designers, the stakeholders committee or the public that the project management team reasonably determines would be appropriate. The Committee shall identify specific members to participate in these meetings and inform city staff of their participation ahead of time. Committee member attendance shall be limited to 4 to avoid a quorum.

 C.  Identifying and Evaluating Funding Options . The SWSC shall provide critically important citizen leadership in marshalling the resources that will be required to implement the Initiative, including funding for the initial capital cost of envisioned public spaces and public facilities as well as stable, long-term funding for programming, operations and maintenance of such improvements. The SWSC shall identify and evaluate options for such funding, including reviewing the City's current work in this area. All reasonably available sources of such funding shall be evaluated and a range of options for combining and leveraging such sources shall be considered, including:

 (i) Voter-approved components, including scheduling, magnitude and possible contingencies.

 (ii) Meaningful private support such as mechanisms for participation of benefited property owners (e.g., local improvement districts) and philanthropy.

 (iii) Other public funding sources.

 This work will inform and be reflected as specific recommendations in SWSC Strategic Plans.

 D.  Developing Partnership Opportunities and Relationships . Consistent with the recommendations of the CWPC, the SWSC shall complete identification of, confirm and specifically develop meaningful partnerships with interested entities important to the success of the Initiative, specifically including the CWP. The SWSC is expecting to develop partnerships with both public and private sector entities. As contemplated by the CWPC, partnership opportunities should be available with major players in particular areas along the waterfront such as the Seattle Art Museum, the Port of Seattle; the Seattle Aquarium Society; the Pike Place Market Preservation and Development Authority; and Washington State Ferries, among others. In addition to physical development partnership opportunities along the waterfront and within the broader scope of the CWP such as the Western Avenue connection to the Market and Belltown, the SWSC shall work to identify and facilitate partnerships to help create additional meaningful physical connections between the waterfront and upland areas. The SWSC shall forge mutually supportive relationships between the waterfront and other communities of interest and other public and private organizations interested in the success of the Initiative.

 E.  Overseeing and Encouraging Meaningful and Influential Public Participation . The SWSC shall oversee and encourage public participation in all phases of the Initiative. In order to ensure that such participation is both meaningful for the public and influential in its deliberations, the SWSC will take care to understand and consider the perspectives of public participants and the issues they may raise in conducting its work generally and, in particular, when making recommendations. It also shall be a SWSC responsibility to ensure that it fairly communicates such information to the City's elected leadership when providing its recommendations to them. Specifically with respect to the CWP, the SWSC shall oversee the development by project staff and consultants of a vigorous public participation plan for the CWP design process and work to ensure that its execution is credible and robust, generally as structured in Attachment D, Public Oversight and Engagement.

 In addition, the SWSC shall work to broaden public interest in the Initiative and build supportive relationships with constituencies city-wide and regionally. The SWSC should remain mindful that one feature of public leadership is to advocate on behalf of the Initiative and to identify and take positions on issues relevant to the project as necessary and appropriate.

 F.  Long-term Programming, Operations and Maintenance Planning . In addition to developing specific recommendations for providing stable, long-term funding for programming, operations and maintenance of the public spaces and public improvements to be provided through the Initiative, the SWSC shall outline principles, standards and protocols for use and upkeep of such public assets. Particularly if the Initiative is as successful in the creation of spectacular public spaces and facilities as is hoped, such spaces and assets will be heavily used and create steep public expectations for their performance and maintenance. Consistently meeting such expectations should be a City priority. Delineating how that is accomplished should be reflected in the SWSC's Strategic Plans. SWSC recommendations in this regard should be mindful of the need to sustain waterfront improvements without compromising support for the City park system generally and other public spaces and facilities elsewhere in the City.

 G.  Accountability . The SWSC shall be responsive to the Mayor and City Council when asked for recommendations or advice and, to the extent practical, to undertake additional roles or responsibilities with respect to the Initiative. Specifically with respect to the SWSC's role in the CWP design process, the SWSC shall timely perform its responsibilities as contemplated under this Charter and be proactive in raising significant issues and concerns with City department heads and staff and the City's elected leadership.

 Annually, commencing after the conclusion of its first full year in operation, the SWSC shall submit to the Mayor and City Council an Annual Report that also will be widely circulated to interested consistencies. Such report shall include the following:

 (i) An overview of the status of Initiative, specifically including the CWP design process.

 (ii) A review and self-evaluation of the SWSC's efforts to fulfill its responsibilities under this Charter and the status of the implementation of its Strategic Plan.

 (iii) Review of CWP design process public participation and outreach efforts.

 (iv) Such other matters as the SWSC may determine appropriate or as the Mayor and City Council may request.

 H.  Relationship with City . As noted in Section 1, the SWSC is advisory to the Mayor and City Council. The City's elected leadership as well as its departments and consultants shall collaborate closely and respectfully with the SWSC in the development and implementation of the Initiative. In working with the SWSC to present departmental decisions or frame recommendations for the consideration of the Mayor or the City Council, city departments and their consultants may from time to time differ in their decisions or recommendations from those of the SWSC when, in their determination, it would be in the demonstrable best interests of the City to do so. When presenting decisions or recommendations, City departments shall inform the Mayor and/or City Council of SWSC recommendations relevant to the topic. The SWSC and Project Management Team shall work in good faith to achieve consensus on the issues under discussion. In the event consensus is not readily available, the information provided the Mayor and City Council on the decisions or recommendations at hand shall include a discussion of the SWSC viewpoint to ensure both transparency and that the City's elected leadership is fully informed about the perspective of the SWSC.

 Section 4 .  Resources . The City shall provide the SWSC with sufficient resources and support to fulfill its responsibilities under this Charter. The SWSC will be staffed by the City's project management team and the consultant team selected to complete the Central Waterfront Project, including staff specifically dedicated to the support of the SWSC. The SWSC may request that the City engage staff and consultants, in addition to receiving support from City departments. Such additional staff and consultants (to supplement City departmental and project consultant team support) would be particularly appropriate to support SWSC tasks and responsibilities outside the routine experience or skill sets of City staff and consultants such as identifying and evaluating funding options, particularly including private support, and developing partnership opportunities and relationships. The City agrees to work with SWSC to consider such requests, and if deemed appropriate, to make funds available from the overall project budget. The SWSC also may be able to secure additional, non-City funding to support its activities.

 Prior to assigning or engaging staff resources to support the SWSC, the City's project management team shall prepare for the SWSC's reasonable review and acceptance a detailed staffing plan confirming its support needs and specifically proposing how such needs will be met from a combination of City, consultant team and, as needed and appropriate, independent resources. SWSC staffing is subject to periodic review and revision as support needs and available resources change, subject to SWSC's continuing reasonable review and acceptance.

 Section 5 .  Evolution and Transition . The SWSC is expected to transition its Initiative leadership role to a successor entity or entities. Toward that end, the SWSC shall continue to define the long-term roles and responsibilities it envisions for the successor entity or entities. The SWSC shall itself continue to develop its capacity to evolve into an effective, successor entity or entities, including cultivation of leadership and broad support for such entity or entities. Progress toward transition is expected to be measured but continuous. The SWSC shall identify preconditions for the formation of and transition to the successor entity or entities, including available or anticipated capabilities of the nascent entity and City concurrence in the timeliness of the planned handover. The SWSC shall be expected to provide for the formation of and transition to the successor or successors when such preconditions have been satisfied.

 Attachments

 Attachment A: Waterfront Opportunities Diagram

 Attachment B: Conceptual Central Waterfront Timeline & Example Roles

 Attachment C: Central Waterfront Conceptual Roles, Compositions and Relationships

 Attachment D: Public Oversight and Engagement

 7/16/10 David Goldberg/DG DPD Central Waterfront Steering Committee ORD ATT 1 July 20, 2010 Version #7

 Attachment 1 to DPD Central Waterfront Steering Committee ORD

[ Attachment A: Waterfront Opportunities Diagram](/~ordpics/116938a_a.PDF)

 ATTACHMENT 2

 Seattle Waterfront Steering Committee

 Appointments

 1. TBD

 2. TBD

 3. TBD

 4. TBD

 5. TBD

 6. TBD

 7. TBD

 8. TBD

 9. TBD

 D. Goldberg DPD Central Waterfront Steering Committee ORD ATT 2 July 27, 2010 Version #1

 Attachment 3 to DPD Central Waterfront Steering Committee ORD

 Central Waterfront Partnerships Committee Draft Guiding Principles -- Draft April 15, 2010

 These principles were developed y the Committee to capture the key civic goals and objectives that should shape the creation of new public spaces on the Central Waterfront project . They expand on established principles from existing city policies, and civic efforts.

 Create a waterfront for all.

 The Central Waterfront should engage the entire city. It is a public asset and should remain focused on public use and activities that attract people from all walks of life. It should be a place for locals and visitors alike -- a place where everything comes together and co-mingles effortlessly. The process for developing a waterfront design should, in fact must, draw on the talents and dreams of the entire city. The resulting public spaces and surrounding development will engage us through a range of activities throughout the day and year.

 Put the shoreline and innovative, sustainable design at the forefront.

 To succeed, the waterfront must bring people to the water's edge--allowing them to experience the water itself and the unique geography and ecology of Elliott Bay. At the same time, we must take bold steps to improve the natural shoreline ecology while also preserving and enhancing the maritime activities that remain central to the Central Waterfront. The waterfront should, in its design, construction and operation, reflect Seattle's commitment to sustainabililty, innovation and responding to climate change

 Reconnect the city to its waterfront.

 The waterfront should provide a front door to the downtown neighborhoods and the City. It will build a network of green connections and public spaces that connect visually and physically to the water, to vital civic and commercial destinations, nearby neighborhoods and the larger fabric of downtown, city and regional open spaces. This will require a phased approach that is implemented over a longer horizon, but the full picture needs to be in view from the beginning.

 Embrace and celebrate Seattle's past, present and future.

 The waterfront is a lens through which to understand Seattle's past, present and future--from its rich geologic and natural history and early Native American settlements, to the founding of the region's maritime and resource economy, to maritime, industrial, commercial and recreational activities today. . The waterfront is and should continue to support these activities, to provide essential connections and access to the waterfront and to surrounding neighborhoods. New waterfront public spaces should tell these stories in ways that are authentic and bring them to life for people today and preserve these connections into the future.

 Improve Access and Mobility

 The waterfront is and will remain a crossroads. Waterfront users rely on safe and efficient access to the piers both from water and land, thousands of commuters use Colman Dock each day, and Alaskan Way will continue to provide an important connection for moving people and goods between the south and north of downtown. At the same time, the waterfront will be an increasingly attractive place for walkers, bicyclists, joggers, recreational boaters and others. The future waterfront should accommodate safe, comfortable and efficient travel by pedestrians, bicyclists, vehicles and freight. The interactions among these many parties must be designed carefully for safety, comfort, and efficiency for all.

 Create a bold vision that is adaptable over time.

 The waterfront will come together over time, with many complex infrastructure and engineering projects that must be completed before permanent public space improvements can be made. The vision developed now should clearly define an overall framework for how the waterfront will take shape, what the key elements will be, and define their essential character. At the same time, the vision must be flexible enough to adapt as conditions inevitably change.

 Develop consistent leadership--from concept to construction to operations.

 To succeed, strong leadership is necessary from an independent body tasked with realizing the waterfront vision. This leadership needs to be apolitical and start early--ensuring design excellence, rooting the process in a broad and transparent public outreach, and based on the realities of maintaining and programming the project once it is complete.

 David Goldberg/DG DPD Central Waterfront Steering Committee ORD ATT 3 July 27, 2010 Version #1

```
