

********

**Council Bill Number: 116965**
   
**Ordinance Number: 123401**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to 800 MHz emergency radio communication; authorizing the Director of the Department of Information Technology to execute on behalf of the City an Interlocal Agreement between the City of Seattle, City of Tacoma, Eastside Public Safety Communication Agency, King County, Snohomish County Emergency Radio System, and Valley Communications Center for the purpose of interoperable 800 MHz emergency communications within the Puget Sound region; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 20, 2010
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Clark)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 29, 2010
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 28, 2010
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 13, 2010
   
**Committee:** Energy and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** HARRELL
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, EMERGENCY-MANAGEMENT, RADIO, EMERGENCY-SERVICES

**Fiscal Note:**116965

**Electronic Copy: **[PDF scan of Ordinance No. 123401](/~archives/Ordinances/Ord_123401.pdf)

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to 800 MHz emergency radio communication; authorizing the Director of the Department of Information Technology to execute on behalf of the City an Interlocal Agreement between the City of Seattle, City of Tacoma, Eastside Public Safety Communication Agency, King County, Snohomish County Emergency Radio System, and Valley Communications Center for the purpose of interoperable 800 MHz emergency communications within the Puget Sound region; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle applied for Public Safety Interoperable Communications (PSIC) Grant Program funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security via the State of Washington, Military Department, Emergency Management Division; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle was awarded PSIC Grant Program funding to add standards-based technology to existing 800 MHz emergency radios systems to enhance interoperable communications within King, Pierce, and Snohomish counties; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Information Technology was granted authority by Ordinance

 122781 to accept the PSIC Grant Program funding; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Information Technology and representatives from City of Tacoma, Eastside Public Safety Communications Agency, King County, Snohomish County Emergency Radio System, and Valley Communications Center agreed to develop an interlocal agreement to facilitate implementation of the grant and to describe mutual decision making, implementation, operations, maintenance, changes and costs to assure ongoing operation of their connected radio systems; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to RCW Chapter 39.34, the Interlocal Corporation Act, any two or more public agencies may enter into agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action, provided that the agreements are authorized by their governing bodies; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Department of Information Technology, or his designee, is authorized to execute for and on behalf of the City of Seattle an agreement substantially in the form of the Interlocal Agreement among City of Seattle, City of Tacoma, Eastside Public Safety Communication Agency, King County, Snohomish County Emergency Radio System and Valley Communications Center for the Puget Sound Next- Generation Voice Data Switch Project (PSIC Grant E08- 354), attached hereto as Attachment 1.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority of this ordinance taken after the passage of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force 30 days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ____ day of ________________________, 2010, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this

 _____ day of ___________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 President __________of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________________, 2010.

 _________________________________

 Michael McGinn, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________________________, 2010.

 ____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Mark Schmidt DoIT 800 MHz Radio Interlocal Agreement ORD May 11, 2010 Version # 4a

 Attachments:

 * Attachment 1 to DoIT 800 MHz Radio Interlocal Agreement ORD 1: Interlocal Agreement among City of Seattle, City of Tacoma, Eastside Public Safety Communication Agency (EPSCA), King County, Snohomish County Emergency Radio System (SERS), and Valley Communications Center for the Puget Sound Next-Generation Voice/Data Switch Project (PSIC Grant #E08-354)

 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT

 AMONG

 CITY OF SEATTLE, CITY OF TACOMA, EASTSIDE PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATION AGENCY (EPSCA), KING COUNTY, SNOHOMISH COUNTY EMERGENCY RADIO SYSTEM (SERS), AND VALLEY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER

 FOR THE

 PUGET SOUND NEXT-GENERATION VOICE/DATA SWITCH PROJECT

 (PSIC GRANT # E08-354)

 THIS INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made and entered into by and among the City of Seattle, City of Tacoma, Eastside Public Safety Communication Agency (EPSCA), King County, Snohomish County Emergency Radio System (SERS), and Valley Communications Center, hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Parties," pursuant to Chapter 39.34 RCW.

 PURPOSE

 WHEREAS the Parties each separately own and operate Motorola SmartZone 4.1 public safety radio systems, and

 WHEREAS the Parties agree to upgrade their separate systems by installing core P25-compliant infrastructure using Public Safety Interoperable Communications (PSIC) grant funding awarded to the City of Seattle on behalf of the Puget Sound Region, and the City of Seattle agrees to use the awarded PSIC grant funding for this purpose; and

 WHEREAS the Parties agree to make improvements in interoperability throughout the Region by using Gateways to connect the Master Sites of their upgraded systems through shared Backhaul Links; and

 WHEREAS prior to purchase of the new Equipment, the Parties agreed to plan for ongoing operation of their connected systems through an Interim Governance Document wherein basic principles of mutual decision making, implementation, operations, maintenance, changes and costs are described; and

 WHEREAS prior to installation of the new Equipment, the Parties agreed to assure ongoing operation of their connected systems through a final governance document based on the Interim Governance Document wherein mutual decision making, implementation, operations, maintenance, changes and costs are finalized;

 NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed that the foregoing Purpose statement is hereby ratified and accepted as part of this Agreement. It is further agreed that:

 ARTICLE 1

 DEFINITIONS

 1.1.  Agreement  means this document and all Exhibits attached hereto.

 1.2.  Backhaul Link  means a physical communications facility that connects systems in different geographic locations. Backhaul Links can be, but are not limited to, microwave radio, fiber optic cable, and circuits leased from a telephone company.

 1.3.  Design Change  means any change to a Party's Radio System that will impact the ability of Subscriber Radios from another Party's Radio System to Fingertip Roam onto the changed system.

 1.4.  Effective Date  means the date when this Agreement is fully executed by an authorized representative of each Party and the requirements in Section 2.6 have been fulfilled.

 1.5.  Equipment  means the core P25-compliant infrastructure defined in Motorola Inc. ("Motorola") work orders 701, 702 and 703 dated June 26, 2009 and Work Order 704 dated October 19, 2009 and attached hereto as Exhibit A, or as amended by the Parties.

 1.6.  Fingertip Roaming  is the capability for Subscriber Radios to travel from one Radio System to another Radio System on pre-designated Talk Groups by changing a setting on the Subscriber Radio.

 1.7.  Gateway  or  Interoperability Gateway  is hardware and software that provides an interconnection between Master Sites and that allows designated Talk Groups to operate across multiple Radio Systems.

 1.8.  Interim Governance Document  means the "Agreement for Puget Sound Next-Generation Voice/Data Switch Project (PSIC Grant # E08-354)" version 2.1 dated 6/25/2009.

 1.9.  Master Site  means the central electronics equipment used to tie radio transmission equipment and dispatch consoles together into a complete Radio System to provide wide area communications.

 1.10.  Project Charter  means the Puget Sound Next Generation Voice/Data Switch Project Charter attached as Exhibit B.

 1.11.  Project 25 (P25)  is a suite of standards for digital radio communications for use by federal, state, and local public safety agencies in North America.

 1.12.  PSIC Contract  means PSIC Contract E08- 354 between the Washington Military Department and the City of Seattle attached as Exhibit C.

 1.13.  Puget Sound Next-Generation Voice/Data Switch Project  or  Project  means all authorized costs and activities relating to installing core P25-compliant infrastructure using PSIC grant funding awarded to the City of Seattle on behalf of the Puget Sound Region, in accordance with the Project Charter, Exhibit B.

 1.14.  Puget Sound Region  or  Region  means the geographic area of King, Pierce, and Snohomish counties.

 1.15.  Public Safety Interoperable Communications (PSIC)  is a federal grant program intended to help agencies improve the interoperability of public safety communications systems through the use of advanced technological solutions.

 1.16.  Radio System  means all infrastructure necessary to provide wide area radio communications within a specific geography. It includes Master Site equipment, radio transmission equipment, and dispatch console equipment. It does not include Subscriber Radios.

 1.17.  SmartZone 4.1  is a proprietary radio system designed by Motorola for wide area voice communications.

 1.18.  Subscriber Radio  means an end-user radio, mobile or portable.

 1.19.  Talk Group  means a software-controlled identification system that allows a trunked Radio System to provide repeater access to groups of Subscriber Radios. A Talk Group is essentially equal to a single channel in a conventional radio system.

 1.20.  Tri-county Regional Interoperability Committee (TRIC)  is the committee responsible for joint coordination of the interconnection between Radio Systems in accordance with Article 3, Governance.

 ARTICLE 2

 TERMS

 2.1. INTERCONNECTION. The individual systems shall be linked together during implementation as described in the Project Charter, Exhibit B.

 2.2. PROJECT MANAGEMENT. The City of Seattle shall appoint a project manager, acting in accordance with the Project Charter, Exhibit B, as a single point of contact between the Parties and Motorola.

 2.3. JOINT COORDINATION. The upgraded, linked systems shall be jointly coordinated under the terms of this Agreement.

 2.4. COSTS. The Parties shall continue to be individually responsible for all costs related to their individual Radio Systems and for their portion of shared Backhaul Links to other connected Radio Systems.

 Each Party is responsible for a portion of the cost for the Puget Sound Next-Generation Voice/Data Switch Project. With the exception of the City of Seattle, each Party's cost responsibility is included in the Payment Schedule in Exhibit D. The City of Seattle will have lead agency responsibilities as further described in the Project Charter, will dedicate all PSIC Contract funds to the Project, will pay Project costs that are not covered by the PSIC Contract and other Parties' reimbursements (as further described in the Project Charter), and will guarantee that the other Parties' shares of Project costs shall not exceed the amounts listed in Exhibit D. Upon invoice, each Party agrees to reimburse the City of Seattle that Party's respective share in accordance with Exhibit D.

 2.5. SCOPE OF AGREEMENT. The Parties agree to perform their respective obligations as described in the following exhibits attached hereto and incorporated herein:

 EXHIBIT A: Motorola Inc Work Orders 701, 702 and 703 dated June 26, 2009 and Work Order 704 dated October 19, 2009

 EXHIBIT B: Puget Sound Next-Generation Voice/Data Switch Project Charter

 EXHIBIT C: PSIC Contract E08-354 between the Washington Military Department and the City of Seattle

 EXHIBIT D: Payment Schedule

 EXHIBIT E: Next Generation Switch Project Sign- off Procedure and Responsibilities

 In the event of any conflict between documents, these documents have the following order of precedence:

 1. PSIC Contract E08-354 between the Washington Military Department and the City of Seattle, Exhibit C

 2. This Agreement

 3. Puget Sound Next-Generation Voice/Data Switch Project Charter, Exhibit B

 2.6. POSTING OR FILING OF AGREEMENT. Within five business days of the last date of execution, the City of Seattle will record a copy of the fully executed Agreement with the Auditors of Pierce and Snohomish Counties and the King County Recorder and will provide notice of the filing and the recording number to each Party.

 2.7. DURATION. The term of this Agreement shall be six years from the Effective Date unless terminated earlier in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. The Parties may extend for a second six- year term in accordance with Section 3.5.

 2.8. PROJECT COMPLETION. The Puget Sound Next Generation Voice/Data Switch Project shall be deemed complete following the successful cutover and acceptance of Master Site and Interoperability Gateway operations by all Parties ("Project Completion"). Upon Project Completion, the Project Charter shall cease to be in effect.

 2.9. SUBCONTRACTORS. Each Party, except the City of Seattle, is a Subcontractor under the PSIC Contract and will comply with all requirements applicable to Subcontractors under the PSIC Contract.

 2.10. OWNERSHIP. In consideration of the Parties' financial reimbursement and the mutual obligations in this Agreement, after Project Completion and receipt of reimbursement, the City of Seattle will transfer ownership of the three Master Sites and related Interoperability Gateway, including any applicable warranties, to the following Parties:

 A. One Master Site and related Gateway to The City of Tacoma;

 B. One Master Site and related Gateway to SERS;

 C. One Master Site and related Gateways to King County, EPSCA, Valley Communications Center and the City of Seattle, which Parties shall have equal and undivided ownership.

 The transfer of ownership will be in a manner acceptable to the Washington Military Department in compliance with the terms of the Terms of the PSIC Contract.

 2.11. TERMINATION. This Agreement may be terminated at any time in accordance with Section 3.5.

 2.12. AMENDMENTS. This Agreement may be amended in accordance with Section 3.5.

 2.13. OTHER AGENCIES. Other agencies or jurisdictions may become Parties to this Agreement in accordance with Section 3.5.

 2.14. DISPUTES, JURISDICTION AND VENUE. The Parties shall endeavor to resolve disputes in an amicable manner by direct discussions. The Parties may elevate a dispute to the TRIC. The Parties may engage in alternative dispute resolution by mutual agreement. No Party waives its rights to seek legal remedy, the jurisdiction and venue for which shall be King County Superior Court.

 2.15. INDEMNIFICATION. Each Party shall defend, indemnify, and hold each other harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, suits, actions, judgments, recoveries, liabilities damages, penalties, costs and expenses, including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees, resulting from damage to property or bodily injury, including death, to the extent caused by a Party's breach of this Agreement or the negligent actions or omissions of that Party, or its employees, servants, agents, or officers elected or appointed. The foregoing indemnity specifically covers actions brought by the Party's own employees, and each Party agrees that the foregoing indemnity is specifically and expressly intended to constitute a waiver of immunity under Washington's Industrial Insurance Act, RCW Title 51, but only as to the Party or Parties entitled to indemnity and only to the extent necessary to provide a full and complete indemnity as required under this Section. The indemnification obligation provided in this section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement for the duration of any applicable statute of limitations.

 2.16. MUTUAL RELEASE. Each Party agrees to work in good faith to achieve the overall performance goals of the Parties with respect to joint coordination of Radio Systems; however, no Party is providing an assurance of any particular standard of performance to another Party unless expressly provided herein. All Parties hereby mutually release one another from any claims arising from a failure of any Party's communication system or the inability of communications to occur through a Party's system unless such failure is caused by a breach of obligations expressly stated in this Agreement. This release applies to direct claims between the Parties, and does not in any way reduce or limit the indemnification obligation for third party claims under Section 2.15.

 2.17. PROJECT APPROVALS. As lead agency, the City of Seattle will use the procedure depicted on Exhibit E to ensure that each Party approves the following project milestones: system design, factory testing of three Master Sites, completion of site installation testing of each of the three Master Sites, and final system acceptance. Additionally, the City of Seattle will communicate all material information provided by Motorola regarding the project. Each Party is responsible for ensuring that the project milestones are acceptable for each Party's individual Radio System and its respective users. So long as it has complied with the requirements of this Section 2.17, the City of Seattle will not be responsible for Radio System failures or problems arising after the transfer of ownership.

 2.18. NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. No Party to this Agreement is providing an assurance of any particular standard of performance to a third party. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to create a claim or cause of action in favor of a third party in the event there is a failure of a Party's Radio System or the inability of communications to occur through a Party's system.

 2.19. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 A. This Agreement including all Exhibits contains all of the Agreements of the Parties with respect to any matter covered or mentioned in this Agreement, and no prior Agreement shall be effective for any purpose except as provided herein.

 B. Severability. Any provision of the Agreement that is declared invalid or illegal shall in no way affect or invalidate any other provision hereof and such other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. If the invalidated or illegal provision is essential to one or more of the Parties receiving the benefit of their bargain under this Agreement, the Parties agree to negotiate a replacement provision that shall make that Party or Parties whole to the greatest extent possible.

 C. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts without affecting the validity of the Agreement.

 ARTICLE 3

 GOVERNANCE

 Each Party shall continue to manage and operate its individual Radio System and portion of shared Backhaul Links to other connected Radio Systems. The Parties agree to jointly manage the interconnection between Radio Systems according to the following principles:

 3.1 The Parties hereby create the TRIC to assure that all provisions of this Agreement are executed.

 3.2 The TRIC shall meet as necessary, but at a minimum on a quarterly basis, to discuss ongoing operations and review proposed changes.

 3.3 Each Party shall designate one representative to the TRIC to vote on its behalf on decisions affecting the connected systems. A voting representative may designate an alternate if he/she is unable to attend a meeting where voting will occur.

 3.4 One voting representative will be selected each year to serve a one-year term as chairperson of the TRIC. Selection of a chairperson will be by simple majority of voting representatives, and will take place at the first meeting following the Effective Date and annually thereafter. The chairperson will call and chair meetings and record, at a minimum, decisions made and actions taken by the group.

 3.5 The following decisions shall require 100% consensus by all Parties:

 A. Termination of this Agreement

 B. Amendments to this Agreement

 C. Adding Parties to this Agreement

 D. Extending this Agreement as contemplated in Section 2.7.

 100% consensus is achieved by a unanimous vote of the TRIC.

 3.6 Decisions affecting Design Change. It is the intention and goal of all Parties to operate their individual Radio Systems in a manner that facilitates Fingertip Roaming. As a result, any Party undertaking a Design Change to its individual system will first provide the TRIC with notice and will work cooperatively with the TRIC to complete the Design Change in a manner that allows for continued Fingertip Roaming between systems. Notwithstanding this goal, each Party maintains ultimate control over its Radio System.

 3.7 Each Party retains the right to disconnect its Gateway(s) without first notifying other Parties if an interconnection begins to degrade performance of its individual Radio System or in the event of an emergency. The Party that disconnects will notify all other Parties as soon as possible.

 3.8 Each Party agrees to work together, at its own expense, to diagnose and repair the cause of any issue that leads to degradation or disconnecting of Gateway(s). Once the issue is resolved, the Parties agree to reconnect the Gateway(s).

 3.9 To maximize the benefits of the Gateways, the Parties agree to establish naming standards for Fingertip Roaming Talk Groups.

 SIGNATURES ON NEXT PAGE

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereby execute this Agreement.

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 ________________________________________

 William M. Schrier, Chief Technology Officer

 ________________________________________

 Date

 EASTSIDE PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS AGENCY (EPSCA)

 ________________________________________

 Leon Kos, Executive Board Chair

 ________________________________________

 Date

 SNOHOMISH COUNTY EMERGENCY RADIO SYSTEM (SERS)

 ________________________________________

 SERS Board President

 ________________________________________

 Printed Name

 ________________________________________

 Date

 VALLEY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER

 ________________________________________

 Steve Reinke, Director

 ________________________________________

 Date

 CITY OF TACOMA

 ________________________________________

 Eric A. Anderson, City Manager

 ________________________________________

 Date

 ________________________________________

 Michelle Lewis-Hodges, Information Technology Director

 ________________________________________

 Date

 ________________________________________

 Robert K. Biles, Finance Director

 ________________________________________

 Date

 APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY:

 ________________________________________

 Assistant City Attorney

 ________________________________________

 Printed Name

 ________________________________________

 Date

 ________________________________________

 Debbie Dahlstrom, Risk Manager

 ________________________________________

 Date

 ATTEST:

 ________________________________________

 Doris Sorum, City Clerk

 ________________________________________

 Date

 KING COUNTY

 ________________________________________

 Signature

 ________________________________________

 Printed Name

 ________________________________________

 Title

 ________________________________________

 Date

 APPROVED AS TO FORM:

 ________________________________________

 Signature

 ________________________________________

 Printed Name

 ________________________________________

 Title

 ________________________________________

 EXHIBIT A: MOTOROLA INC WORK ORDERS 701, 702 AND 703 DATED JUNE 26, 2009 AND WORK ORDER 704 DATED OCTOBER 19, 2009

[Work Order 701](/~ordpics/116965at1exa1.pdf)[Work Order 702](/~ordpics/116965at1exa2.pdf)[Work Order 703](/~ordpics/116965at1exa3.pdf)[Work Order 704](/~ordpics/116965at1exa4.pdf)

 EXHIBIT B: PUGET SOUND NEXT-GENERATION VOICE/DATA SWITCH PROJECT CHARTER

 Project Charter

 Project Charter
```
<table><tr><td>Project

</td><td>Puget Sound Next-Generation Voice/Data Switch (PSIC Grant # E08-354)

</td></tr><tr><td>Created By

</td><td>Mark Schmidt

</td><td>Date

</td><td> 5/8/2008

</td></tr><tr><td>Phone

</td><td>206-233-7878

</td><td>Email

</td><td> mark.schmidt@seattle.gov

</td></tr></table><table><tr><td>Project Sponsor

</td><td>King County Regional Communications Board (City of Seattle)

</td></tr><tr><td>Supporting Organization

</td><td>Puget Sound Regional Interoperability Executive Committee (PSR-IEC)

</td></tr><tr><td>Funding Sources

</td><td> Funding sources include a $3,417,274 grant from the Public Safety Interoperable Communications (PSIC) Grant Program and matching contributions (cash and in-kind) from participating agencies.

The required match is 20% of total project funding ($0.85M), so minimum total funding for this project is $4.25M.

Project costs and agency funding requirements are included in the Appendix.

</td></tr><tr><td>Grant starts

</td><td> 7/1/2008

</td><td>Grant ends

</td><td> 9/30/2011

</td></tr></table><table><tr><td>Background

</td><td> The central Puget Sound region (King, Pierce, and Snohomish Counties and the Port of Seattle) has invested more than $100 million to build four compatible, 800 MHz trunked radio systems. The four systems are linked together and to the Federal Integrated Wireless Network (IWN) and other VHF and UHF systems serving Pierce County and the Washington State Patrol. The region led the nation in achieving this level of interoperability for voice communications.

 The existing 800 MHz radio systems were state-of-the-art when they were installed. There was no open technical standard at the time, so the region installed proprietary systems manufactured by Motorola.

Currently, there is no regional interoperability for data communications.

 The King County Regional Communications Board (City of Seattle) applied for and received a PSIC grant to install a next-generation voice and data switch in the region. Meanwhile, the region started a Regional Executive Policy Committee (REPC), with input from elected officials, to deal with future public safety communications needs for the central Puget Sound region.

</td></tr><tr><td>Business Drivers

</td><td>The business drivers are to:

  - Improve our present systems' functionality through the addition of newer, open-standards-based technology.
  - Expand and improve voice/data interoperability in the Puget Sound region

</td></tr><tr><td>Mission

</td><td> Design, acquire, and implement the technology necessary to improve and expand radio communications operability and enhance interoperability in the Puget Sound region.

</td></tr><tr><td>Guiding Principles

</td><td>This project will:

  - Comply with PSIC grant investment justification objectives
  - Align with the work of the REPC and, specifically, requirements coming from the REPC subcommittees
  - Potentially provide a transition path from current technology to next-generation technology
  - Improve upon the level of voice interoperability that exists today
  - At a minimum, maintain existing operability and functionality for all systems
  - Use technology that will make it possible to source switch and provide subscribers with equipment from multiple vendors, if desired
  - Explore the opportunity for integration with current and future wireless data communications technology
  - Align with the intent of national public safety communication objectives, as possible

</td></tr><tr><td>Project Steering Committee

</td><td> The Project Steering Committee will oversee the project from the grant start date through the acquisition, installation, testing, and ongoing operation of the next-generation switch. The Project Steering Committee will remain in effect until superseded by another authority.

 Pierce County and each 800 MHz radio licensee/system owner in King, Snohomish and Pierce county may appoint one member to the Project Steering Committee for this project.

The voting members of the Project Steering Committee are:

<table><tr><td>Agency

</td><td>Voting Member

</td></tr><tr><td>City of Seattle (Lead Agency)

</td><td>Bill Schrier

</td></tr><tr><td>King County

</td><td>David Mendel

</td></tr><tr><td>Eastside Public Safety Communications Agency (EPSCA)

</td><td>Scott Hatfield

</td></tr><tr><td>Valley Communications Center (ValleyCom)

</td><td>Steve Reinke

</td></tr><tr><td>Snohomish County Emergency Radio System (SERS)

</td><td>Ron Solemsaas

</td></tr><tr><td>City of Tacoma

</td><td>Steve Taylor

</td></tr></table>

A voting member may designate an alternative if he/she is unable to attend a Project Steering Committee meeting.

 Additional representatives from these agencies, as well as representatives from other local and state agencies, may participate in Project Steering Committee meetings as advisors; however, they will not have a vote.

 Meeting minutes and decision records that have been approved by the voting member of the Project Steering Committee from the Lead Agency will document the formal actions of the Project Steering Committee.

</td></tr><tr><td>High-level Work Breakdown Structure

</td><td> The Project Steering Committee will set policy for the project and have final decision-making authority for all project-related matters until or unless superseded by another authority.

Each voting agency will provide a Project Manager to manage resources, tasks, communications, etc. for that agency.

 Voting agencies will provide technical staff (radio system managers, engineers, and/or system technicians) to support the project requirements.

 The Lead Agency Program Manager will be responsible for working with the Project Management Group and the Technical Group to manage the project. The Lead Agency Program Manager will be accountable to the Project Steering Committee.

The organizational structure for this project will be as follows:

</td></tr></table>
   
<table><tr><td>
   
Roles and Responsibilities

</td><td> Per the terms of the PSIC grant, City of Seattle will be the Lead Agency for this project. Other roles on this project are outlined below.

</td></tr><tr><td>Role

</td><td>Responsibilities

</td></tr><tr><td>State Grant Administrator

</td><td>
  - Monitor project activities to ensure grant funds are used in compliance with federal and state audit requirement, federal grant guidance, and applicable federal and state financial guides
  - Review performance reports
  - Monitor and document the completion of contract deliverables
  - Review any project documentation including phone calls, meetings, emails, and correspondence
  - Observe and document contract related activities such as training and equipment demonstrations
  - Provide technical assistance, expertise and state coordination with DHS and NTIA where necessary
  - Process the review and approval of all equipment purchases with the Washington State Committee on Homeland Security (CHS) State Equipment Subcommittee prior to purchase
  - Review reimbursement requests to ensure allowable grant guidelines and consistency with the contract budget
  - Reimburse funds to lead agency within 45 days of receipt and approval of signed and dated invoice vouchers (State form A19)
  - Conduct on-site visits to review equipment records and inventories, verify source documentation for reimbursement requests and performance reports, and verify completion of deliverables

</td></tr><tr><td>Project Steering Committee

</td><td>
  - Set policy for the project
  - Be the final decision-making authority on all project-related matters subject to PSIC grant terms and conditions
  - Resolve issues
  - Select final design
  - Provide oversight on project finances
  - Approve revisions to the Project Charter, if required
  - Review and approve release of the RFP, if required

</td></tr><tr><td>Lead Agency Program Manager

</td><td>
  - Accountable to the Project Steering Committee.
  - Ensure that project objectives are met
  - Resolve issues and/or escalate issues to the Project Steering Committee for resolution
  - Work with the Project Management Group and the Technical Group to manage the project
  - Manage overall project finances
  - Ensure that project documentation and archives are maintained
  - Ensure that all required state and federal reports are submitted to the appropriate agencies, and that the Steering Committee is copied on all correspondence with those agencies.

</td></tr><tr><td>Project Management Group

</td><td>
  - Manage assigned tasks and resources
  - Serve as the focal point for communications within each agency
  - Coordinate site access and use of facilities owned by each agency
  - Manage project finances within agencies
  - Oversee development of the RFP, if required

</td></tr><tr><td>Technical Group

</td><td>
  - Frequency coordination, if required
  - Develop design alternatives
  - Complete detailed analysis of most viable options
  - Develop technical content for the RFP, if required

</td></tr><tr><td>Decision Making Process

</td><td> Routine project decisions will be made by the Project Management Group under the guidance of the Lead Agency Program Manager. If the Project Management Group cannot reach consensus on an issue, the Lead Agency Program Manager will forward the issue to the Project Steering Committee for resolution.

 The Project Steering Committee will have final decision-making authority for all project-related matters until or unless superseded by another authority. All decisions will require the unanimous consent of the present and voting members of the Project Steering Committee.

</td></tr><tr><td>Communications

</td><td> The Project Management Group will develop a communication plan for review and approval by the Project Steering Committee. Project communications will include, at a minimum, meeting minutes, a record of decisions by the project team, and a record of decisions by the Project Steering Committee.

 Email will be the primary means of communications for meeting notices, minutes, etc. The lead agency will also host an FTP site for project-related documentation.

</td></tr><tr><td>Dependencies

</td><td>Success of this project is dependent upon:

  - Agreement on the structure of the Project Steering Committee
  - Agreement on cost-sharing principles by stakeholders
  - Availability of suitable site(s)

</td></tr><tr><td>Boundaries

</td><td>The following work is included in the scope (IS) of this project:

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-1

</td><td> Establish a Project Steering Committee for the project. Obtain agreement on design, implementation, operation, maintenance and cost sharing principles.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-2

</td><td>Research availability of frequencies needed to support this project. Obtain FCC licenses, if needed.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-3

</td><td>Inventory and select site(s) for this project.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-4

</td><td>Determine switch design and develop an implementation plan.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-5

</td><td>Select vendor and procure equipment.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-6

</td><td>Install the next-generation switch.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-7

</td><td>Activate capacity on existing transmission infrastructure (fiber, microwave, etc.), as needed.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-8

</td><td> Test switch and interoperability with other systems. Develop subscriber radio templates and coordinate with system owners, if required to establish interoperability.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-9

</td><td>Train technical staff to operate and support the switch.

</td></tr><tr><td>IS-10

</td><td>Develop end-user training material, if needed.

</td></tr><tr><td>The following work is out of scope (OOS):

</td></tr><tr><td>OOS-1

</td><td>Selection, procurement, and/or deployment of new subscriber equipment.

</td></tr><tr><td>Deliverables

</td><td>D-1

</td><td>Project Charter (this document)

</td></tr><tr><td>D-2

</td><td>Technical report documenting availability of frequencies in the 700 MHz band

</td></tr><tr><td>D-3

</td><td>Technical report describing preliminary switch options

</td></tr><tr><td>D-4

</td><td>Summary report with feasible, high-level design options

</td></tr><tr><td>D-5

</td><td> Technical specification that documents the current capabilities of existing radio systems and provides specific requirements for next generation switch equipment

</td></tr><tr><td>D-6

</td><td>Completed implementation of the next generation switch, including interoperability with current systems

</td></tr><tr><td>High-level Schedule

</td><td> The following schedule aligns with the general time line proposed in the grant application. The Steering Committee may need to modify this schedule to accommodate things beyond its control (e.g. manufacturer lead times). If modified, the schedule may require review and approval by the State.

</td></tr><tr><td>Start

</td><td>Stop

</td><td>Activity

</td></tr><tr><td>7/1/2008

</td><td>

</td><td>Grant begins. Project starts

</td></tr><tr><td>7/1/2008

</td><td>10/31/2008

</td><td>Finalize the structure of the Project Steering Committee

</td></tr><tr><td>7/1/2008

</td><td>10/31/2008

</td><td>Research available frequencies and prepare report

</td></tr><tr><td>7/1/2008

</td><td>10/31/2008

</td><td>Prepare preliminary strategy and design options. Select most viable options for further analysis

</td></tr><tr><td>11/1/2008

</td><td>1/31/2009

</td><td> Complete detailed assessments (technical, budget, and schedule) for most viable options. Identify specific costs and expected benefits by agency. Select final design

</td></tr><tr><td>2/1/2009

</td><td>6/30/2009

</td><td>Agencies finalize participation and secure funding via their boards or other mechanism

</td></tr><tr><td>2/1/2009

</td><td>6/30/2009

</td><td>Get State and DHS approval for changes to the original grant, if required

</td></tr><tr><td>2/1/2009

</td><td>6/30/2009

</td><td>Carry out the procurement process. Select vendor and order equipment.

</td></tr><tr><td>7/1/2009

</td><td>6/30/2011

</td><td>Install equipment and put it into service. Test switch and interoperability. Train technical staff.

</td></tr><tr><td>7/1/2011

</td><td>9/30/2011

</td><td>Contingencies

</td></tr><tr><td>
   
</td><td>
   
</td><td>
   
</td><td>
   
</td><td>
   
</td><td>
   
</td></tr></table> Signature  Approval of this Project Charter authorizes funding for the planning, design, and implementation of this project.

<table><tr><td>Lead Agency

</td><td>Project Steering Committee member

</td><td>Signature

</td><td>Date

</td></tr><tr><td>City of Seattle

</td><td>Bill Schrier

Chief Technology Officer

</td><td>

</td><td>

</td></tr></table>
   
 Version History  This table documents approved versions of this Project Charter.

<table><tr><td>Version

</td><td>Version Date

</td><td>Approved

</td><td>Summary of Changes

</td></tr><tr><td>1.1

</td><td>10/8/2008

</td><td>At 10/10/2008 Steering Committee meeting

</td><td>Original

</td></tr><tr><td>2.1

</td><td>6/12/2009

</td><td>At 6/12/2009 Steering Committee meeting

</td><td>
  - Updated description of project cost and agency funding requirements in Funding Sourcessection based upon approved three-switch design
  - Updated voting membership within the Project Steering Committeesection (updated the EPSCA voting member, limited votes to agencies funding and participating in the three-switch design)
  - Updated Deliverablessection to more accurately describe documents resulting from this project
  - Updated intermediate milestone dates in the High-level Schedule section.
  - Added documents to the Appendixthat

 - describe project cost and funding based upon the approved design

 - document State approval of the equipment selected for the project, and

 - document DHS approval of the design change from the original grant proposal to the final three switch design

</td></tr><tr><td>2.2

</td><td>6/30/2009

</td><td>N/A

</td><td>
  - Corrected errors in the non-disclosure language in the document footer. No other changes made.

</td></tr><tr><td>3.0

</td><td>5/3/2010

</td><td>5/4/2010 via email vote

</td><td>
  - Updated project end date and milestone dates in the High-Level Schedule section to reflect PSIC program extension.
  - Added the Version Historysection to the document.

</td></tr></table>[EXHIBIT C: PSIC CONTRACT E08-354 BETWEEN THE WASHINGTON MILITARY DEPARTMENT AND THE CITY OF SEATTLE](/~ordpics/116965at1exc.pdf)

 EXHIBIT D: PAYMENT SCHEDULE

<table><tr><td>Agency

</td><td>Amount

</td><td>Anticipated Payment Date

</td></tr>

<tr><td>City of Tacoma

</td><td>$206,068.35

</td><td>2Q2010

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Eastside Public Safety Communications Agency (EPSCA)

</td><td>$61,304.33

</td><td>2Q2010

</td></tr>

<tr><td>King County

</td><td>$61,304.33

</td><td>2Q2010

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Snohomish County Emergency Radio System (SERS)

</td><td>$235,257.50

</td><td>2Q2010

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Valley Communications Center

</td><td>$61,304.33

</td><td>2Q2010

</td></tr>

</table> EXHIBIT E: NEXT GENERATION SWITCH PROJECT SIGN-OFF PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

 Next Generation Switch Project Sign-off Procedure and Responsibilities

 This document describes the procedure that will be followed at key project milestones to ensure that all agencies evaluate deliverable and provide necessary approvals for sign-off. The overall procedure is illustrated below, with additional description of roles and responsibilities on the following page.

<table><tr><td>Roles and responsibilities for project milestone sign-offs are outlined below.

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Role

</td><td>Responsibilities

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Agency Technical Leads

* City of Seattle

* EPSCA

* King County

* Valley Com

* SERS

* City of Tacoma

</td><td>* Evaluate deliverables (e.g. design review documentation, test results, etc.)

* Notify the Lead Agency Project Manager if there are any known issues that could block milestone sign-off

* Technical Leads for City of Seattle, EPSCA, King County, and Valley Com need to give technical approval / milestone acceptance in email to the King County System Manager

</td></tr>

<tr><td>System Managers

* King County Radio System

* SERS

* Tacoma

</td><td>* Evaluate deliverable

* Notify the Lead Agency Project Manager if there are any known issues that could block milestone sign-off

* Obtain technical approval / milestone acceptance from the Technical Lead(s) for that radio system

* Give technical approval / milestone acceptance in email to the Lead Agency Project Manager

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Lead Agency Project Manager / Project Director

</td><td>* Ensure that Technical Leads and System Managers are notified when milestone deliverables are available / complete

* Resolve issues or escalate to the Steering Committee (if necessary)

* Obtain technical approval / milestone acceptance from the three System Managers

* Notify the Steering Committee when all technical approvals have been received

* Call for a formal vote by the Steering Committee to authorize milestone sign-off

* After receiving approval from the Steering Committee, Lead Agency Project Director will sign Motorola documents to complete formal sign-offs

</td></tr>

<tr><td>Steering Committee voting members

* City of Seattle

* EPSCA

* King County

* Valley Com

* SERS

* City of Tacoma

</td><td>* High-level review of project deliverables

* Resolve issues (if necessary)

* Vote to authorize milestone sign-off

* Authorize material scope, schedule, or budget changes

</td></tr>

</table>

