

********

**Council Bill Number: 113095**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119868**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the execution of contracts with the State of Washington, Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development for the receipt of growth management funds; increasing an expenditure allowance in the 2000 Budget of the Executive Department's Strategic Planning Office; and, making a reimbursable appropriation from the Supplemental Appropriations Account of the Emergency Subfund; all by three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 22, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 28, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 28, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 7, 2000
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** GRANTS, WASHINGTON-STATE, LAND-USE-PLANNING

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the execution of contracts with the State of Washington, Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development for the receipt of growth management funds; increasing an expenditure allowance in the 2000 Budget of the Executive Department's Strategic Planning Office; and, making a reimbursable appropriation from the Supplemental Appropriations Account of the Emergency Subfund; all by three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, on July 25, 1994, the City adopted its Comprehensive Plan in accordance with the Growth Management Act of 1990; and

 WHEREAS, subsequent to Comprehensive Plan adoption, the City funded an intensive neighborhood planning process in which 37 neighborhoods further developed concepts in the City's Comprehensive Plan and identified desired specific programs to implement the Comprehensive Plan in their neighborhoods; and

 WHEREAS, the Downtown Urban Center Plan called for an overall downtown urban design plan that would unite many of the goals and policies of five sub-areas of the Downtown Urban Center; and

 WHEREAS, in July 1994, the Growth Management Planning Council of King County (GMPC), in accordance with the Growth Management Act, adopted Countywide Planning Policies which established goals and policies for housing production and affordable housing, which was later ratified by the City Council; and,

 WHEREAS, the GMPC's Countywide Planning Policies call for a comprehensive 5-year review of Countywide policies, including the implementation of policies related to housing production and affordable housing goals, targets, and practices; and,

 WHEREAS, the State Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development (DCTED) has allocated $3.2 million for the 2000-2001 biennium for grants to local governments in furtherance of the Growth Management Act (GMA) in the following categories: GMA Compliance, Critical Areas, Rural Communities, Urban Livability, Economic Opportunities, Conservation, and Special Projects; and,

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle has submitted an application for DCTED growth management funds for assistance in developing a Downtown Urban Design Strategy; and,

 WHEREAS, in September 1999, the City of Seattle submitted an application for DCTED growth management funds on behalf of the Growth Management Planning Council of King County (GMPC) to assist all jurisdictions in King County in implementing local plans for housing production and affordable housing; and,

 WHEREAS, the GMPC (with representatives from the City of Seattle, King County and suburban jurisdictions) has approved the Regional Housing Project scope of work and grant application submitted to CTED; and,

 WHEREAS, DCTED has awarded $50,000 to the City of Seattle in state growth management funds for the Downtown Urban Design Strategy and $130,000 for the GMPC Regional Housing Project;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of the City of Seattle, funding agreements with the State of Washington, Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development ("DCTED") substantially in the form of Attachments A and B to accept funds from the DCTED to develop a Downtown Urban Design Strategy and to develop and implement a Regional Housing Project on behalf of and in collaboration with the Growth Management Planning Council of King County. The funds when received from the initial agreements authorized herein are hereby accepted and shall be deposited in the Supplemental Appropriations Account of the Emergency Subfund as reimbursement for the appropriation authorized in Section 2 below.

 Section 2. Contingent upon execution of the Agreements identified in Section 1 above, and to pay for the work to be undertaken under the initial agreement authorized in Section 1 hereof, the expenditure allowance in the 2000 budget of the Executive Department, Strategic Planning Office, is increased by the appropriation, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of One Hundred and Eighty Thousand Dollars ($180,000) from the Supplemental Appropriations Account of the Emergency Subfund as follows:

 Department Program Category Amount

 Executive, Strategic Planning Office SPOX8M15 $180,000

 The Supplemental Appropriations Account of the Emergency Subfund shall be reimbursed by funds received from DCTED pursuant to the agreement authorized in Section 1, hereof. The appropriation of the above funds in this ordinance shall carry forward from year to year unless expressly abandoned by ordinance.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. The foregoing appropriation is made to meet actual and necessary expenditures of the City for which no appropriation has been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the adoption of the 2000 Budget; Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reasons of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by three-fourths (3/4) vote of all of the members of the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 author/ F:  2/4/00

 V #

 SCOPE OF WORK FORMAT

 Attachment A: Scope of Work

 City of Seattle

 Contract #__________

 Downtown Seattle Urban Design Strategy

 The City of Seattle ["the City"] is responsible for the preparation of all contract deliverables set forth below. The process and product shall be substantially consistent with the City of Seattle's grant application submitted tot he Department for this round of funding and with the requirements of the Growth management Act. Deliverables will be provided to the Department in paper format. At the Department's or the City of Seattle's request, deliverables may be provided in electronic format.

 Project Description

 Project Summary. The $50,000 Growth Management grant awarded the City of Seattle will assist with developing an Urban Design Strategy for the Downtown Seattle Urban Center. The Urban Design Strategy will establish a shared urban design vision to guide public and private actions over the next 20 years within the Downtown Urban Center and adjacent areas. By building consensus in articulating the vision for downtown's future, this project will provide the framework for integrating a wide variety of urban design initiatives from past planning efforts and recent neighborhood planning activity, so that key actions can be identified and prioritized for implementation. Providing this framework for decision-making is a critical first step that must be taken before work on more specific implementation tasks can begin.

 The proposal to develop an urban design plan was initially advanced by downtown neighborhoods as a way to provide a clearer vision of how growth and change should occur to achieve desired public benefits. The Downtown Urban Design Strategy is a response to the neighborhood's proposal, and will be developed through a rigorous, open community process, within the context of individual neighborhood plans, the existing downtown plan, and various initiatives of the City, Sound Transit, King County, Washington State, the Port of Seattle and other sponsors. With a focus on developing livable, high density environments, the Downtown Urban Design Strategy will provide models for other communities to consider as attractive alternatives to low-density sprawl.

 The Urban Design Strategy is intended to be broad in scope, to cover all the functional and geographic areas of downtown, but to be specific in providing direction. The Strategy is expected to address urban design issues identified through the neighborhood planning process and generally grouped under the following five categories: 1) public streetscape design and downtown connections, 2) special character area plans/downtown destinations, 3) open space network: connections and destinations, 4) urban form, and 5) conservation.

 While work on the Urban Design Strategy will continue through 2000, with a final product expected in 2001, the $50,000 GMA grant will assist in funding the following initial work items to be completed in mid-2000:

 * Downtown Urban Design Concept Plan. A portion of the GMA grant will be used to match funds from downtown neighborhood sources to prepare a preliminary urban design concepts and action plan for downtown. Combining neighborhood and GMA funds will allow a broadening of the scope of this effort to address both downtown neighborhoods and adjacent areas directly linked with downtown. The concept plan will provide a synthesis of urban design proposals drawn from a wide variety of recent planning activities in downtown and surrounding areas. This synthesis will identify urban design concepts that have consistently received public attention and support through planning processes conducted over the past two decades. In addition to identifying recurring design themes, the synthesis will also identify the "gaps" requiring further attention - those issues and areas that have either been overlooked or never fully developed. The synthesis will also identify opportunities for action based on an assessment of current development conditions and potential public and private investments.

 * Open Space Plan. The Open Space Plan is envisioned as a more fully developed component of the Urban Design Concept Plan. It will integrate the various open space recommendations identified in neighborhood plans for downtown and adjacent areas into a comprehensive network. In addition to providing the framework for open space development, the plan will also identify additional open space needs within different downtown environments; examine current tools, including the downtown bonus program, available to acquire and improve open space sites; identify priorities for open space investments; examine innovative techniques for increasing open space resources; and recommend additional actions to implement open space improvements.

 There is some immediacy to proceed with this work given the current development climate and the fact that developers are unable to use current provisions allowing off-site open space contributions because eligible sites have never been identified and the receiving fund was never established. Work on the open space plan is expected to correct these deficiencies.

 * Green Street Design Concept Plans. To expand open space opportunities in densely developed areas where more traditional open space resources are scarce, the City designates certain streets as Green Streets to promote greater pedestrian and open space use of the public right-of-way. Portions of 12 downtown streets were initially designated as green streets in the 1985 Downtown Plan, and additional streets have since been designated in downtown and adjacent areas through neighborhood planning. Until recently, very little has been done to develop design plans specifying actions needed to convert Green Street right-of-ways for increased pedestrian and open space use. The first step in Green Street implementation is to develop a design concept plan specifying the improvements to be made within the right-of-way. Without such a plan, there is no guidance for public and private actions affecting a particular street. To date, such plans are in various stages of development for four Green Streets.

 Under the current development climate, with redevelopment pending for many sites abutting Green Streets, the need to design these public amenities is critical to take advantage of opportunities for public and private participation. Developing design concepts will provide the direction needed for incrementally implementing desired improvements as development occurs, while also laying the groundwork for a more comprehensive program of Green Street implementation.

 Goals of the Downtown Seattle Urban Design Strategy. The overarching goal of this project will be to define conditions that allow for accommodating substantial growth while protecting and enhancing the quality of the downtown environment. The success of the growth management strategy established in Seattle's Comprehensive Plan depends on the ability of the Downtown Urban Center to accommodate substantial residential and employment growth. Maintaining public support for this growth policy will require commitment to a program of actions ensuring that growth contributes to an attractive, functional, and livable environment.

 Throughout the neighborhood planning process, downtown neighborhoods have expressed a willingness to accept substantial growth to accomplish city-wide and regional growth management objectives, provided the growth is responsibly planned for and contributes to achieving neighborhood development objectives. Maintaining this public support will require a clear vision for guiding growth and change and a realistic program of actions demonstrating a commitment to implementing the vision. In addition to the goal of building consensus for a desired program of action, the Strategy is also intended to achieve results in the form of tangible physical improvements occurring concurrently with growth.

 Growth Management Context. The project advances the following GMA provisions:

 * RCW 36.70A.070. The Downtown Urban Design Strategy will refine the Land Use Element of Seattle's Comprehensive Plan by providing a more detailed look at the distribution of activities, desired development pattern and development character within downtown. It will also provide direction for meeting downtown open space goals and siting public facilities and amenities to support desired downtown land use patterns.

 * RCW 36.70A.020 Planning Goals (11) Citizen participation and coordination. The Downtown Urban Design Strategy extends the public participation process initiated to develop and implement the Comprehensive Plan and subsequent neighborhood plans. As part of the neighborhood planning process established by the City to implement Comprehensive Plan policies at the neighborhood level, the Downtown Urban Center Planning Group identified development of an urban design plan as a high priority recommendation for immediate action.

 * RCW 36.70A.080 Comprehensive plans-Optional elements. The Downtown Urban Design Strategy may serve as the initial installment of an Urban Design Element for Seattle's Comprehensive Plan. While not a mandatory Comprehensive Plan element, neighborhood planning activity over the past four years suggests strong public interest for including such an element in the future.

 * RCW 36.70A.090. Comprehensive plans-Innovative techniques. The GMA states that comprehensive plans should provide for innovative land use management techniques. Through the Downtown Urban Design Strategy, density bonus and development right transfer provisions currently established in downtown zoning will be evaluated and improved upon, and other incentives and innovative techniques that may assist in achieving urban design and development objectives will be investigated.

 Milestones

 Milestones for the three components of the Urban Design Strategy to be funded through the $50,000 GMA grant are outlined below:

 Downtown Urban Design Concept Plan

 An initial document will be prepared illustrating the fundamental design concepts that currently serve as downtown Seattle's urban design plan. This information will be presented in a manner that is easily accessible to the public to stimulate interest and discussion, and to engage public involvement in further development of the Downtown Urban Design Strategy. It will represent the first step in articulating the shared design vision for downtown by documenting the vision that currently guides public and private actions. The document will be used generate discussion at a public forum on downtown design issues planned for early spring. Following work on the Concept Plan, a draft Action Plan will be prepared to document the outcome of the public forum and begin identifying and prioritizing actions for further development in later phases.

 Estimated amount: $20,000 of grant for consultant assistance and document production

 Task 1. City staff surveys existing urban design plans/proposals and identifies gaps and opportunities.

 Timeline: analysis complete by January, 2000

 Task 2. Develop consultant scope of work and select consultant

 Timeline: January 2000

 Task 3. Consultant expands on staff inventory and "gaps and opportunities" analysis and prepares public review draft of Urban Design Concept Plan for distribution and use at public forum.

 Timeline: February - March 2000

 Task 4. City staff, with consultant assistance, conducts public forum to review draft and identify further actions and priorities.

 Timeline: April 2000

 Task 5. City staff, with consultant assistance, conducts follow-up public workshops to refine concept plan and develop draft action plan.

 Timeline: April - May 2000

 Task 6. Revised Concept Plan and Draft Action Plan available for public review by June 2000

 Open Space Plan

 Related to the Urban Design Concept Plan, the open space plan will illustrate how existing and planned open space resources can be integrated into a comprehensive network. This document will investigate open space recommendations from recent planning activity to determine how these proposals relate to this larger open space framework. The GMA funds allocated to this work item will be used to prepare an initial background document communicating the role of open space in providing amenities for downtown's growing residential and employment populations; shaping the form and character of downtown's changing physical environment; and linking downtown neighborhoods and adjacent areas.

 A separate technical document will be prepared to examine existing provisions for increasing open space resources within downtown, including provisions for open space in public projects and requirements and incentives for private development, such as bonuses for on-site amenities and contributions for off-site amenities. An evaluation of these programs will be provided, with recommendations for increasing their effectiveness and overall consistency with emerging open space objectives for downtown.

 Estimated amount: $10,000 for consultant assistance

 Task 1. Staff develops background for open space component of Urban Design Concept Plan from survey of urban design plans/proposals and gaps and opportunities analysis, Timeline: January - February 2000.

 Task 2. Develop consultant scope of work and select consultant.

 Timeline: January - February 2000.

 Task 3. Consultant drafts design concepts for open space network and treatment of open space in different downtown neighborhoods based on direction from neighborhood plans and "gaps and opportunities" analysis; prepares draft document for public review and coordination with overall Urban Design Strategy at Urban Design Forum.

 Timeline: February - March 2000.

 Task 4. Consultant surveys and evaluates potential implementation mechanisms, including an examination of current open space regulations and incentives and the potential for open space TDR within downtown; a draft technical report with recommended actions to be released for public review in June 2000.

 Timeline: March - June 2000

 Green Street Design Concepts

 Design concepts will be developed for at least four Green Streets selected according to the level of development activity anticipated on abutting properties, or the importance of the particular Green Street in relation to the overall downtown open space plan. The design concept for individual streets shall establish the design theme for that particular Green Street and include design guidelines and schematic drawings illustrating the treatment of pedestrian/open space and vehicular use of the right-of-way; landscaping; paving; lighting, seating, and other streetscape features; and the relationship between activities in the right-of- way and abutting structures. Guidelines will also be developed for use in the design review process to ensure that new development on sites abutting Green Streets complements the Green Street design concept. Community participation will also be a component of the consultant contract for developing the Green Street design concepts.

 Estimated amount: $20,000 for consultant assistance

 Task 1. Selection of specific Green Streets for further work

 Timeline: January 2000

 Task 2. Develop consultant scope of work and select consultant.

 Timeframe: January - February 2000

 Task 3. Consultant conducts public workshops to identify Green Street design objectives integrated with emerging urban design plan and work on open space plan.

 Timeline: February - March 2000

 Task 4. Consultant prepares draft design concepts for selected Green Streets and design guidelines for abutting development.

 Timeline: March - May 2000

 Task 5. Public review and City review of draft concepts

 Timeline: May - June 2000

 Task 6. Consultant prepares final design concepts and development guidelines.

 Timeline: June - August 2000

 Deliverables

 Downtown Urban Design Concept Plan and Draft Action Plan

 * Draft Urban Design Concept Plan public review document - March 2000

 * Revised Concept Plan and draft Action Plan - June 2000

 Open Space Plan

 * Draft Open Space Strategy, public discussion document - March 2000

 * Draft technical report on evaluation of current open space mechanisms, recommended revisions and additions - June 2000

 Green Streets Concept Plans

 * Draft design concepts for selected Green Streets - May 2000

 * Final design concepts for selected Green Streets - August 2000

 General

 * CTED Project Status Report - April 15, 2000

 * CTED Close-Out Report on initial phase of project - June 15, 2000

 Resources

 Staff Resources. CityDesign, a division of DCLU, will serve as the lead on the project. CityDesign staff will coordinate the effort with other City agencies and neighborhood planning organizations to ensure adequate public involvement. An Interdepartmental Team (IDT) has been formed with representative from all City Departments engaged in downtown issues to oversee the effort. The Strategic Planning Office (SPO) and Department of Design, Construction and Land Use (DCLU) will commit staff resources of approximately 3.0 FTE (full time equivalents) during the period the GMA funds are in use (through June 2000), providing background information, necessary analysis of proposals, management of consultant contracts, and coordination with other related projects.

 Neighborhood Planning Early Implementation Funds. Through the City's neighborhood planning process, neighborhoods were granted funds for early implementation of high priority projects important to achieving neighborhood development objectives. The Downtown Urban Center Planning Group, the neighborhood group responsible for coordinating the planning activity of the five downtown neighborhoods, and the Commercial Core, one of the five downtown neighborhoods, pooled their early implementation funds and committed approximately $83,000 to the effort of developing a Downtown Urban Design Plan.

 Other Potential Funding Sources. CityDesign will also actively solicit additional funds for this effort from public and private organizations with interests in downtown development and design.

 Public Advisory Group. A volunteer advisory group comprised of representatives from downtown neighborhood organizations and other stakeholders will assist with public participation and review. The Seattle Design Commission and Planning Commission will also assist with public outreach and review.

 Status Report

 The City will provide a brief status report on or about April 15, 2000 indicating progress to-date and describing how the project will be completed by June 30, 2000.

 Close-out Report

 The City will provide a brief report (500 words or less) describing project accomplishments when project as specified in the scope of work is completed, but no later than June 15, 2000.

```
