

********

**Council Bill Number: 113006**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119774**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Plumbing Code; repealing Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.502.015 and Ordinance 116594; adding new Section 22.502.016; adopting Chapters 2 through 10, 13, 14, Appendices A, B, C, and L and portions of Chapters 1 and 11 of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition; adopting IAPMO Installation Standards 2-90, 3-93, 4-96, 5-92, 6-95, 7-90, 8-95, 9-95, 12-93, 13-91, 18-85, 20-96, and 21-89 as set forth in Appendix I of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition; adopting Chapter 13 of the Uniform Mechanical Code; amending the adopted Uniform Plumbing Code by amending and adding new sections to Chapter I Administration, amending Chapter 2 Definitions, amending Chapter 6 Water Supply and Distribution, and amending Chapter 11 Storm Drainage; amending the fee for appealing to the Plumbing Board of Appeals; and amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.504.010.A governing permit fees for certain types of plumbing cross-connection control equipment.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 22, 1999
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 24, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 24, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 15, 1999
   
**Committee:** Business, Economic and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** PLUMBING-CODES

**References/Related Documents:** Repealing: Ord 116594

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Plumbing Code; repealing Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.502.015 and Ordinance 116594; adding new Section 22.502.016; adopting Chapters 2 through 10, 13, 14, Appendices A, B, C, and L and portions of Chapters 1 and 11 of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition; adopting IAPMO Installation Standards 2- 90, 3-93, 4-96, 5-92, 6-95, 7-90, 8-95, 9-95, 12-93, 13-91, 18-85, 20- 96, and 21-89 as set forth in Appendix I of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition; adopting Chapter 13 of the Uniform Mechanical Code; amending the adopted Uniform Plumbing Code by amending and adding new sections to Chapter 1 Administration, amending Chapter 2 Definitions, amending Chapter 6 Water Supply and Distribution, and amending Chapter 11 Storm Drainage; amending the fee for appealing to the Plumbing Board of Appeals; and amending Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.504.010.A governing permit fees for certain types of plumbing cross-connection control equipment.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 SECTION 1. Section 22.502.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code and Ordinance 116594 are hereby repealed.

 SECTION 2. A new Section 22.502.016 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 22.502.016 Adoption of Uniform Plumbing Code, IAPMO Installation Standards and Seattle Amendments.

 The following are hereby adopted and by this reference made a part of this subtitle:

 Portions of Chapters 1 and 11 of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition, as amended by this ordinance; Chapters 2 and 6 of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition, as amended by this Ordinance; Chapters 3 through 5, 7 through 10, 13, 14, and Appendices A, B, C, and L of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition; IAPMO Installation Standards 2-90, 3-93, 4-96, 5-92, 6-95, 7-90, 8-95, 9-95, 12-93, 13-91, 17-90, 18-85, 20-96, and 21-89 as set forth in Appendix I of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition; all as published by the International Association of Plumbing Officials (one copy of which has been filed with the City Clerk in C.F. 303537); and Chapter 13 of the 1997 Uniform Mechanical Code as adopted by Ordinance 119080; together with the Seattle Amendments to the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted by Ordinance 119774, shall constitute the official Plumbing Code of the City of Seattle and hereinafter be referred to as "the code" or "this code." In case of conflict between the Uniform Plumbing Code, the IAPMO Installation Standards and the Seattle Amendments, the Seattle Amendments shall be controlling.

 SECTION 3. The following sections of Chapter 1 of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition are hereby adopted and by this reference are made a part of Chapter 1, Administration, of the Seattle Amendments to the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code: 101.3, 101.4, 101.4.1, 101.4.1.1, 101.4.1.1.2, 101.4.1.1.3, 101.4.1.2, 101.4.2, 101.5, 101.5.3, 101.5.6, 102.0, 102.2, 102.2.4, 102.3, 103.0, 103.1, 103.1.1, 103.1.2, 103.1.2.1, 103.1.2.2, 103.2, 103.2.1, 103.2.1.1, 103.2.1.2, 103.2.1.3, 103.2.1.4, 103.2.1.5, 103.2.3, 103.3, 103.3.1, 103.3.5, 103.5, 103.5.1.1, 103.5.1.2, 103.5.1.4, 103.5.2, 103.5.3, 103.5.3.5, 103.5.4, 103.5.4.1, 103.5.4.2, 103.5.5, 103.5.5.2, 103.7, 103.7.1, 103.8, 103.8.1, and 103.8.2.

 SECTION 4. The following sections of Chapter 1 of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition are hereby adopted as amended and by this reference are made a part of Chapter 1, Administration, of the Seattle Amendments to the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code: 101.4.1.1.1, 101.4.1.3, 101.4.3, 101.5.1, 101.5.2, 101.5.4, 101.5.5, 102.1, 102.2.1, 102.2.2, 102.2.3, 102.2.5, 102.2.6, 102.3.1, 102.3.2, 103.1.3, 103.2.1.6, 103.2.2, 103.3.3, 103.5.1, 103.5.1.3, 103.5.5.1, 103.5.6, 103.5.6.1, 103.5.6.2, and 103.5.6.3.

 SECTION 5. Section 101.4.1.1.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 101.4.1.1.1 In existing buildings or premises in which plumbing installations are to be altered, repaired, or renovated, deviations from the provision of this Code are permitted, provided such deviations are found by the Administrative Authority to be necessary as alternate methods or materials in accordance with the standards in Section 301.2 of this Code, and are first approved by the Administrative Authority.

 SECTION 6. Section 101.4.1.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 101.4.1.3 Existing Construction. No provision of this Code shall be deemed to require a change in any portion of a plumbing or drainage system or any other work regulated by this Code in or on an existing building or lot when such work was installed and is maintained in accordance with law in effect ~~prior to the effective date of this Code~~at the time the system was installed or the work completed, except when any such plumbing or drainage system or other work regulated by this Code is determined by the Administrative Authority to be in fact dangerous, unsafe, insanitary, or a nuisance ~~and~~or a menace to life, health or property.

 SECTION 7. Section 101.4.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 101.4.3 The provisions in the appendices are intended to supplement the requirements of this Code and shall not be considered part of this Code unless ~~formally~~ adopted as such by ordinance.

 SECTION 8. Section 101.5.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 101.5.1 Additions, Alterations or Repairs. Additions, alterations or repairs may be made to any plumbing system without requiring the existing plumbing system to comply with all the requirements of this Code, provided the addition, alteration or repair conforms to that required for a new plumbing system. Additions, alterations or repairs shall not cause or allow an existing system to become unsafe, insanitary or overloaded.

 SECTION 9. Section 101.5.2 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 101.5.2 Health and Safety. Whenever the Administrative Authority determines that compliance with all the provisions of this Code fails to eliminate or alleviate a nuisance, or any other dangerous or insanitary conditions which ~~may~~ involve health or safety hazards, the owner or the owner's agent shall install such additional plumbing and drainage facilities or shall make such repairs or alterations as may be ordered by the Administrative Authority.

 SECTION 10. Section 101.5.4 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 101.5.4 Changes in Building Occupancy. Plumbing systems, which are a part of any building or structure undergoing a change in ~~use or~~ occupancy, as defined in the Building Code, shall comply to all requirements of this Code, which may be applicable to the new ~~use or~~ occupancy.

 SECTION 11. Section 101.5.5 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 101.5.5 Maintenance. All plumbing systems, materials and appurtenances, both existing and new, and all parts thereof shall be maintained in proper operating condition. All devices or safeguards required by this Code shall be maintained in conformance with the Code ~~edition under which~~in effect when installed. The owner or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for maintenance of plumbing systems. To determine compliance with this subsection, the Administrative Authority may cause any plumbing system to be ~~reinspected~~inspected.

 SECTION 12. Section 102.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 102.1 Administrative Authority. The Administrative Authority ~~shall be the Authority duly appointed to enforce this Code~~is the director of the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health or the director's authorized representative, who shall administer and enforce the provisions of the plumbing and mechanical code (Chapter 13 of the 1997 Uniform Mechanical Code) as adopted or amended except as provided in this Code; provided, that the Director of Seattle Public Utilities or his or her authorized representative shall administer and enforce provisions relating to the inspection and approval of water meters and, where applicable, building supply piping.

 SECTION 13. Section 102.2.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 102.2.1 The Administrative Authority may ~~appoint such assistants, deputies, inspectors, or other employees as are necessary to carry out the functions of the department and this Code.~~ adopt such administrative rules and regulations consistent with this Code as shall be deemed necessary for its administration and enforcement.

 SECTION 14. Section 102.2.2 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 102.2.2 Right of Entry. ~~Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this Code, or whenever the Administrative Authority has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises, any condition or violation of this Code which make the building or premises unsafe, insanitary, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrative Authority may enter the building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed upon the Administrative Authority by this Code, provided that if such building or premises is occupied, the Administrative Authority shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such building or premises is unoccupied, the Administrative Authority shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Administrative Authority has recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.~~When the Administrative Authority shall have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner, occupant, or person having charge, care, or control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry herein by the Administrative Authority for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this Code.

Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Administrative Authority may, with the consent of the occupant or with the consent of the owner of an unoccupied building or premises, or in accordance with a lawfully issued search warrant, enter at reasonable times a building or premises to perform a duty imposed upon the Administrative Authority by this Code, provided that the Administrative Authority shall make entry only if such entry is consistent with the constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Washington.

 SECTION 15. Section 102.2.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 102.2.3 Stop ~~Orders~~Work Notice and Correction Notice.

 A. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this Code, the Administrative Authority may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on the property owner and/oron any persons ~~engaged in~~ doing or causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall ~~forthwith~~immediately stop work until authorized by the Administrative Authority to proceed with the work. Service of a stop work order shall be made by one or more of the following methods:  Personal service: Personal service of a stop work order may be made on the property owner and/or on any person doing or causing the work to be done, or by leaving the stop work order at the house of usual abode of the person being served, provided that the stop work order is left with a person of suitable age and discretion who resides there.

 Service by posting on the property: Service directed to the property owner and/or person doing or causing such work to be done may be made by posting the stop work order in a conspicuous place on the property where the work is occurring, and concurrently mailing notice as provided for below, if a mailing address is available.

 Service by mail: Service by mail may be made for a stop work order by mailing two copies, postage prepaid, one by ordinary first class mail and the other by certified mail, to the property owner and/or to any person doing or causing such work to be done, at the last known address of the person being served, at the address of the location of the work being done, or at the address of the place of business of the person being served. The taxpayer's address as shown on the tax records of the county shall be deemed to be the proper address for the purpose of mailing such notice to the person being served. Service by mail shall be presumed effective upon the third business day after the day upon which the stop work order was placed in the mail.

 B. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the administrative authority may order the violations corrected without ordering all work stopped by issuing a correction notice that identifies the violation. The correction notice may require reinspection before further construction or at the time of the next required inspection. The correction notice shall be served or posted in the same manner as a stop work order.

 C. These remedies are in addition to those authorized elsewhere in the Code.

 SECTION 16. Section 102.2.5 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 102.2.5 Authority to ~~Condemn~~Correct Hazardous or Insanitary Plumbing. Whenever the Administrative Authority ascertains that any plumbing system or portion thereof, regulated by this Code, has become hazardous to life, health, property, or has become insanitary, the Administrative Authority shall order in writing that such plumbing either be removed or placed in a safe or sanitary condition, as appropriate. The order shall fix a reasonable time limit for compliance. No person shall use or maintain defective plumbing after receiving such notice.

 When such plumbing system is to be disconnected, written notice shall be given. In cases ~~of~~in which the Administrative Authority has determined that immediate danger to life or property exists, the Administrative Authority may cause such disconnection ~~may~~to be made immediately without such notice.

 SECTION 17. Section 102.2.6 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 102.2.6 Liability claims. ~~The Administrative Authority charged with the enforcement of this Code, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the Administrative Authority's duties, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of duties. A suit brought against the Administrative Authority or employee because of such act or omission performed in the enforcement of any provision of this Code shall be defended by legal counsel provided by this jurisdiction until final termination of such proceedings.~~This Code is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the City of Seattle to protect and preserve the public peace, health, safety and welfare, and its provisions shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes. It is expressly the purpose of this Code to provide for and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public, and not to create or otherwise establish or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or should be especially protected or benefitted by the terms of this Code.  It is the specific intent of this Code to place the obligation of complying with its requirements upon the owner or occupier of premises within this code's scope, and no provision nor term used in this Code is intended to impose any duty whatsoever upon the Administrative Authority or any of the administrative authority's officers or employees, for whom the implementation or enforcement of this Code shall be discretionary and not mandatory.

 Nothing in this Code creates or forms the basis for any liability on the part of the Administrative Authority, or the Administrative Authority's officers, employees or agents, for any injury or damage resulting from the failure of the owner or occupier of premises to comply with the provisions of this Code, or by reason or in consequence of any act or omission in connection with the implementation or enforcement of this Code on the part of the Administrative Authority by the Administrative Authority's officers, employees or agents.

Any claim and/or litigation arising from any conduct, acts or omissions of the Administrative Authority, or any of the Administrative Authority's officers, employees or agents, shall be subject to the provisions of Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 4.64, as amended.

 SECTION 18. Section 102.3.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 102.3.1 Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, ~~or~~ corporation or other entity to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, or maintain any plumbing or permit the same to be done in violation of this Code.

 SECTION 19. Section 102.3.2 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 102.3.2 Penalties. Any person, firm, ~~or~~ corporation  or other entity violating any provision of this Code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine and/or imprisonment set forth by the ~~governing laws of the jurisdiction~~Seattle Criminal Code or by state law. Each separate day or any portion thereof, during which any violation of this Code occurs or continues, shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.

 SECTION 20. Section 103.1.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.1.3 Licensing. It shall be the obligation of every person who enters into contracts for the installation or repair of plumbing systems ~~covered by this code, for which a permit is required~~for which this Code requires a permit, to comply with all applicable state or local rules and regulations concerning licensing.~~which the applicable governing authority has adopted.~~

 SECTION 21. Section 103.2.1.6 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.2.1.6 Give such other data and information relevant to the proposed work as may be required by the Administrative Authority.

 SECTION 22. Section 103.2.2 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.2.2 Plans and Specifications. Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams and other data shall be submitted in one or more sets with each application for a permit. The Administrative Authority may require plans, computations and specifications to be prepared by and the plumbing designed by an engineer and/or architect licensed by the state to practice as such.

 Exception: The Administrative Authority may waive the submission of plans, calculations or other data if the Administrative Authority finds that the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to ~~obtain~~determine compliance within the Code.

 SECTION 23. New section 103.3.1.1 concerning owners' permits is adopted to read as follows and by this reference is made a part of Chapter 1, Administration, of the Seattle Amendments to the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code:

103.3.1.1 Owner's Permit. A bona fide owner may install, alter, or repair plumbing in his or her own building, provided:  1. The installation, alteration, or repair work is not undertaken with the intention and for the purpose of selling the property improved by such work;

 2. The owner applies in person for an owner's permit for the work to be done, and pays the permit fee according to the fee schedule in this code;

 3. The owner obtains an owner's permit before commencing the installation, alteration, or repair work;

 4. The installation, alteration, or repair work is performed exclusively by the owner and not by any other person, including a plumbing contractor; and

 5. The installation, alteration, or repair work is performed in the manner required by this code subject to inspection and approval by the administrative authority.

 SECTION 24. Section 103.3.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.3.3 Validity of Permit. The issuance of a permit or approval of plans and specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this Code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdiction. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this Code shall be valid.

 The issuance of a permit based upon plans, specifications or other data shall not prevent the Administrative Authority from thereafter requiring the correction of errors contained in said plans, specifications and other data or from preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this Code or of other ordinances of this jurisdiction.

A person to whom a permit has been issued shall not allow another person to do or cause to be done any work under such permit except persons in the employ of the permittee.  Every plumbing permit shall be posted on the building, structure or premises where the work permitted is being performed and shall not be removed until the work has been finally approved by the Administrative Authority.

 Every permit issued by the administrative authority under the provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void one year from date of issue. Permits expired for not more than one year may be renewed for one-half the original cost or fifty dollars, whichever is less. Permits expired for more than one year require the regular scheduled fees.

 Plumbing work authorized by a permit in effect on the effective date of this code shall be performed in accordance with the laws and ordinances in effect when the permit was issued, except when the administrative authority determines the work to be in fact dangerous, unsafe, insanitary, or a nuisance or a menace to life, health or property.

 SECTION 25. Section 103.5.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.5.1 General. All plumbing systems for which a permit is required by this Code shall be inspected by the Administrative Authority. No portion of any plumbing system shall be covered or otherwise concealed until inspected and approved. Neither the Administrative Authority nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of material required to permit inspection. When the installation of a plumbing system is complete, an additional and final inspection shall be made.

 SECTION 26. Section 103.5.1.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.5.1.3 Covering or Using. No plumbing or drainage system, building sewer, private sewer disposal system or part thereof, shall be covered, concealed, or put into use until it has been tested, inspected, and ~~accepted~~approved as prescribed in this Code.

 SECTION 27. Section 103.5.5.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.5.5.1 Defective Systems. An air test shall be used in testing the sanitary condition of the drainage or plumbing system of any building premises when there is reason to believe that it has become defective. In buildings or premises condemned by the ~~proper~~ Administrative Authority because of an insanitary condition of the plumbing system or part thereof, the ~~alterations in~~ corrections to such system shall conform to the requirements of this Code.

 SECTION 28. Section 103.5.6 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.5.6 Reinspections. A reinspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or reinspection when ~~such portion~~part or all  of the work for which inspection is called is not complete or when required corrections have not been made.

 This provision is not to be interpreted as requiring reinspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of this Code, but as controlling the practice of calling for inspections before the job is ready for inspection or reinspection.

 Reinspection fees may be assessed when the approved plans are not readily available to the inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for which the inspection is requested, or for deviating from plans ~~requiring the approval of~~when the deviation requires approval but has not been approved by the Administrative Authority.

 To obtain reinspection, the applicant shall file an application therefor in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose and pay the reinspection fee in accordance with ~~Table 1-1~~Chapter 22.504 of this Code.

 In instances where reinspection fees have been assessed, no additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees have been paid.

 SECTION 29. Section 103.5.6.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.5.6.1 Corrections. Notices of correction or violation shall be ~~written~~issued by the Administrative Authority and may be posted at the site of the work or mailed or delivered to the permittee or his authorized representative. Refusal, failure, or neglect to comply with any such notice or order within ten days of receipt thereof, shall be considered a violation of this Code, and shall be subject to the ~~penalties~~remedies for violations as set forth elsewhere in this Code.~~for violations.~~

 SECTION 30. Section 103.5.6.2 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.5.6.2 Retesting. If the Administrative Authority finds that the work ~~will~~does not pass ~~the~~any required test or inspection, necessary corrections shall be made and the work shall then be resubmitted for test or inspection.

 SECTION 31. Section 103.5.6.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 103.5.6.3 Approval. Upon the satisfactory completion and final test of the plumbing system, a certificate of approval shall be issued by the Administrative Authority to the permittee.~~on demand.~~

 SECTION 32. New sections 104.0, 104.1, 104.1.1 and 104.1.2 concerning the Plumbing Board of Appeals, and 105.0, 105.1, 105.1.1, 105.1.2, 105.1.3, and 105.1.4 concerning Hearing Examiner appeals, are adopted to read as follows and by this reference are made a part of Chapter 1, Administration, of the Seattle Amendments to the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code:

104.0 Board of Appeals  A Board of Appeals shall be established and shall consist of six voting members, with one member representing journeyman plumbers, plumbing contractors, professional mechanical engineers, and building owners and two members representing the public. The Administrative Authority shall serve as a nonvoting member of the Board. The Board of Appeals shall elect a chair and a secretary who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.

 104.1 Any party aggrieved by a decision of the Administrative Authority made in accordance with this Code either in the context of a specific project or permit application or in the context of an application for approval of an alternate material or method of construction, or both, may file a written petition for appeal to the Board, accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of one hundred dollars. Appeals shall be heard at reasonable times at the convenience of the Board, but not later than thirty days after receipt of the petition. However, this time requirement may be waived by written agreement between the Administrative Authority and the appellant if doing so will facilitate resolution of the dispute. The appellant shall be entitled to appear in person before the Board, to be represented by an attorney, and to introduce evidence in support of such petition. The appellant shall cause to be made at the appellant's own expense any test or research required by the Board for the substantiation of any claim or claims made by the appellant. The Board of Appeals shall determine whether a correct interpretation of this Code has been made by the Administrative Authority.

 104.1.1 Decisions of the Board shall be in writing; shall be distributed to the Administrative Authority and the appellant; and shall apply only to the case being heard. Board decisions are deemed issued on the date that the decision is delivered to the appellant or the appellant's counsel or, if the decision is mailed, on the date of mailing. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board may appeal the decision of the Board to the Hearing Examiner as provided in Sections 105.0 through 105.1.4 of this chapter.

 104.1.2 The Board may make recommendations to the Administrative Authority for changes in the Code.

 105.0 Hearing Examiner Appeals.

 105.1 Filing of Appeals. Appeals shall be filed with the City of Seattle Hearing Examiner by five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) of the tenth (10th) calendar day following the date the decision of the Board is issued pursuant to Section 104.1.1. When the last day of the appeal period so computed is Saturday, Sunday or city holiday, the period shall run until five p.m. (5:00 p.m.) on the next business day. An appeal shall be considered filed with the Hearing Examiner when it delivered to the Hearing Examiner's office or, if the appeal is sent via US mail or a private mail service, when it is received by the Examiner. The Examiner's date stamp shall be placed on incoming appeals and there is a rebuttable presumption that the date and time stamped is the date and time of filing. The appeal shall be in writing and shall state specifically why the appellant believes the decision of the Board to be incorrect and what relief is sought. The appeal shall be accompanied by payment of the filling fee as set forth in SMC Section 3.02.125, Hearing Examiner Filing Fees, including any amendments or revisions thereto.

 105.1.1 Parties of Record. The parties to the appeal shall be the appellant and the Administrative Authority.

 105.1.2 Notice of Hearing. Notice of the hearing on the appeal shall be mailed Twenty (20) days prior to the scheduled hearing date to the parties of record.

 105.1.3 Scope and Standard of Review. The hearing shall be de novo. The Board's decision shall be given substantial weight by the Hearing Examiner and the burden shall be on appellant to prove that the Board's decision is clearly erroneous.

 105.1.4 Hearing Examiner's Decision. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision in writing within fifteen days after the close of the hearing and mail that decision to all parties of record. The decision shall contain written findings and conclusions. The Hearing Examiner's decision shall be final and conclusive and the parties of record shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the decision unless within twenty-one days from the date of issuance of the decision appellant makes application to King County Superior Court for a Land Use Petition pursuant to RCW 36.70C.

 SECTION 33. Section 206.0 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended to add a new definition as follows:

 206.0 --D--

Domestic Water Heater - A domestic water heater is a tank with a self-contained heating unit which stores potable hot water for residential or commercial use with a nominal water containing capacity of one-hundred twenty gallons or less, having a heating input of two- hundred thousand BTUs per hour or less used for hot water supply at pressures of one-hundred sixty pounds per square inch or less and at operating temperatures of two-hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit or less.

 SECTION 34. Section 214.0 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 214.0 --L--

 Listing Agency - An agency accepted by the Administrative Authority which is in the business of listing or labeling and which maintains a periodic inspection program on current production of listed models, and which makes available a published report of such listing in which specific information is included that the product has been tested to approved standards and found safe for use in a specific manner.  Listing Agencies approved by the Administrative Authority are as follows: International Association of plumbing and Mechanical Officials (I.A.P.M.O.); Washington State Department of Social and Health Services; National Sanitation Foundation (N.S.F.); City of Los Angeles Testing Laboratory; American Gas Association; Canadian Gas Association; Canadian Standards Association; and Underwriters Laboratories. Listing agencies or testing laboratories are not limited to the agencies named in this section. Other testing or listing agencies may be added to the approved list as the administrative authority deems necessary.

 SECTION 35. Section 218.0 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 218.0 --P--

 Plumbing System - Includes all potable water building supply and distribution pipes, all plumbing fixtures and traps, all drainage and vent pipe(s), and all building drains and building sewers, including their respective joints and connection, devices, receptors, and appurtenances within the property lines of the premises and shall include potable water piping, potable water treating or using equipment, medical gas and medical vacuum systems, fuel gas piping, water heaters ~~and vents for same~~and rainwater leaders. However, certification is not required for the installation of a plumbing system within the property lines and outside the building.

 Public or Public Use - All buildings or structures that are not defined as private or private use.

(1) General Use applies to business, commercial, industrial and assembly occupancies other than those defined under heavy use. Included are the public and common areas in hotels, motels and multidwelling buildings.  (2) Heavy Use assembly applies to toilet facilities in occupancies which place a heavy, but intermittent time-based demand on the water supply system, such as schools, auditoriums, stadiums, race courses, transportation terminals, theaters and similar occupancies where queuing is likely to occur during periods of peak use.

 SECTION 36. Section 604.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 604.1 Water pipe and fittings shall be of brass, copper, cast iron, ~~galvanized malleable iron,~~ galvanized wrought iron, ~~galvanized steel,~~ or other approved materials. Cast iron fittings used for water need not be galvanized if over two ~~(2)~~ inches (51mm) in size. Asbestos-cement, CPVC, PE, or PVC water pipe manufactured to recognized standards may be used for cold water distribution systems outside a building. CPVC water pipe and tubing may be used for hot and cold water distribution systems within a building. All materials used in the water supply system, except valves and similar devices shall be of a like material, except where otherwise approved by the Administrative Authority.

 SECTION 37. Section 604.2 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 604.2 Copper tube for water piping shall have a weight of not less than Type L.

 Exception: Type M copper tubing may be used for water piping when piping is above ground in, or on, a building.~~or underground outside of structures.~~

 SECTION 38. New section 803.1 concerning parking garage drainage systems is adopted to read as follows and by this reference is made a part of Chapter 8, Indirect Wastes, of the Seattle Amendments to the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code:

803.1 Parking Garage Drainage Systems. All floor drainage under the roof of a parking garage shall be connected to the sanitary drainage system. When the top floor of the building is used as a roof as well as a parking area, the drainage from the roof shall be connected to the storm drainage system. Drainage from conventional plumbing fixtures shall not be inter-connected with the floor drainage system. However, drainage lines from car or truck washing equipment may be connected to the floor drainage system through an approved interceptor. Floor drainage waste lines shall be a minimum of three inches in size. Waste unit loadings for three-inch or larger size floor drainage piping shall be sized in accordance with table 7-5 of this code. Floor drains or floor drain openings shall be equipped with approved strainers and need not be trapped when connected to the building drain through a properly trapped and vented interceptor. Traps shall not be used when the floor drains are located in areas exposed to freezing temperatures. The waste line from floor drains entering an interceptor shall be above the waste line discharging from the interceptor to the building drain. The sand interceptor receiving the floor drains shall have a water seal of not less than six inches. Floor drain traps need not be vented individually if line venting is used through an approved indirect waste system with a properly trapped and vented interceptor. A line vent for floor drains shall terminate through the roof or to an approved location in the outside atmosphere. When using line venting, the terminating vents, if more than one, shall be equal in cross sectional area to the size of the waste line entering the interceptor or the line vent may continue full size from the interceptor to the point of termination. All plans for parking garage floor drainage systems shall be submitted to the administrative authority prior to installation for approval.

 SECTION 39. The following sections of Chapter 11 of the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1997 Edition, are hereby adopted and by this reference are made a part of Chapter 11, Storm Drainage, of the Seattle Amendments to the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code: 1101.4, 1101.11, 1101.11.2, 1101.11.2.1, 1101.11.2.2, 1101.11.2.3, 1101.11.2.4, 1101.11.3, 1103.0, 1103.1, 1103.3, 1104.0, 1104.1, 1105.0, 1105.1, 1105.1.2, 1105.2, 1105.3, 1105.4, 1105.4.1, 1105.4.2, 1106.1, 1106.2, 1106.4, 1109.0, 1109.1, 1109.2, 1109.2.1, and 1109.2.3, and Table 11- 2.

 SECTION 40. The following sections of Chapter 11 of the Uniform Plumbing Code 1997 Edition are hereby adopted as amended and by this reference are made a part of Chapter 11, Storm Drainage, of the Seattle Amendments to the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code: 1101.3, 1101.11.1, 1104.3, 1105.1.1, 1109.2.2, and Table 11-1.

 SECTION 41. Section 1101.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 1101.3 Material Uses. Rainwater piping placed within the interior of a building or run within a vent or shaft shall be of cast iron, galvanized steel, wrought iron, brass, copper, lead, Schedule 40 ABS DWV, Schedule 40 PVC DWV, or other approved materials, and changes in direction shall conform to the requirements of the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1997 Edition.~~section 706.0. ABS and PVC DWV piping installations shall e limited to structures not exceeding three floors above grade. For the purpose of this subsection, the first floor of a building shall be that floor that has fifty (50) percent or more of the exterior wall surface area level with or above finished grade. One (1) additional level that is the first level and not designed for human habitation and used only for vehicle parking, storage, or similar use shall be permitted.~~

 SECTION 42. Section 1101.11.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 1101.11.1 Primary Roof Drainage. Roof areas of a building shall be drained by roof drains or gutters. The location and sizing of drains and gutters shall be coordinated with the structural design and pitch of the roof. Unless otherwise required by the Administrative Authority, roof drains, gutters, vertical conductors or leaders, and horizontal storm drains for primary drainage shall be sized based on a storm of sixty ~~(60)~~ minutes duration and ~~100~~one hundred-year return period (see Appendix D of the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1997 Edition.

 SECTION 43. Section 1104.3 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 1104.3 Combining Storm with Sanitary Drainage. The sanitary and storm drainage system of a building shall be entirely separate.~~, except where a combined sewer is used, in which case the building storm drain shall be connected in the same horizontal plane through single wye fittings to the combined building sewer at least ten (10) feet (3048 mm) downstream from any soil stack.~~

 SECTION 44. Section 1105.1.1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 1105.1.1 Roof drains shall be constructed of materials specified in ~~Table 14-1~~WAC 51-46-1491 - Table 14-1.

 SECTION 45. Section 1109.2.2 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is amended as follows:

 1109.2.2 Air Test. The air test shall be made by attaching an air compressor testing apparatus to any suitable opening after closing all other inlets and outlets to the system, forcing air into the system until there is a uniform gage pressure of five ~~(5)~~ psi (34.5 kPa) or sufficient to balance a column of mercury ten ~~(10)~~ inches (254 mm) in height. This pressure shall be held without introduction of additional air for a period of at least fifteen (15) minutes. ~~Schedule 40 plastic DWV systems shall not be tested by the air test method.~~

 SECTION 46. Table 11-1 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code is replaced by the following:

 Table 11-1 - Rainwater Leaders

 Roof or Other Area Served Size of Rainwater Leader (Square Feet) (Inches)

 1 - 1050 2 1051 - 3150 3 3151 - 6450 4 6451 - 10800 5 10801 - 18000 6 18001 - 35700 8 35701 - 58800 10 58801 - 95400 12

 NOTE: If table 11-1 does not provide a practical solution for sizing rainwater leaders, refer to tables 11-1 and 11-2 of the 1997 Uniform Plumbing Code for more comprehensive engineering design information relating to installation of rainwater systems. Use the 2" column maximum rainfall in inches per hour.

 SECTION 47. Section 22.504.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

 22.504.010 Permit fees.

~~Every~~An applicant for a permit to do work under this Plumbing Code shall pay for each permit, at the time of issuance, a fee in accordance with the following schedule, and at the rate provided for each classification shown in ~~this~~the schedule:

 A. Schedule of Fees

 Base plumbing permit for one (1) through four (4) fixtures or traps

(other than reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices or  double check valve assemblies, for which a separate permit shall be obtained at the rates in this schedule)

 $75 For each additional plumbing fixture or trap (including water drainage vent piping and backflow protection therefor 10

 For each atmospheric vacuum breaker in irrigation systems, tanks, vats, etc., or for installation on unprotected plumbing fixtures including necessary water piping Vacuum breaker - one (1) to five (5) - each device 10 Vacuum breaker - over five (5) - each device 5 Pressure~~-type backflow preventor~~vacuum breaker - each 10

 Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device ~~and/~~or double check valve assembly ~~- each.10~~Base plumbing permit for one (1) device or assembly. 75 Each additional device or assembly 10

 B. Fees for Miscellaneous Inspection Services

 Fees for inspection service outside regular working hours or for inspection service requested but not covered by a permit will be charged for at a rate equal to the cost of performing the service.

 Fees for permanent location inspection of factory housing or modular unit containing plumbing -

 For each single-family dwelling or each modular unit containing plumbing $20

 Plumbing permit includes on-site connections of building drain extensions, water service and necessary gas piping connections.

 Additional plumbing fixtures installed after factory installation of plumbing for each plumbing fixture or trap 10

 Fees for reconnection ad retest of plumbing systems in relocated buildings - For each building containing plumbing 20 Plumbing permit includes on-site connections of building drain extensions, water service and necessary gas piping connections.

 Additional plumbing fixtures installed after relocation of building

 for each plumbing fixture or trap 10

 C. For the purpose of this section, "fixture" means and includes an~~y~~ appliance ~~which~~that is connected with a water, drain~~,~~ or vent pipe, but ~~no~~a sillcock faucet or hose bibb ~~shall be~~is not  considered a fixture. A sanitary plumbing outlet on or to which a plumbing fixture or appliance may be set or attached ~~shall be construed to be~~is a fixture.

 D. A~~ny~~ person who commenced ~~any~~ work for which a permit is required by this ~~Plumbing~~ Code without first having obtained ~~such~~the permit, shall upon subsequent application for ~~such~~the permit pay double the fee fixed by the ~~above~~ schedule of fees for ~~such~~ the work in subsections A and B of this section unless it ~~shall be~~is proved to the satisfaction of the Administrative Authority that ~~such~~the work was urgently necessary and that it was not practical to obtain a permit ~~prior to~~before the commencement of the work. In all such emergency cases, a permit shall be obtained as soon as it is practical to do so, and if there is an unreasonable delay in obtaining ~~such~~the permit, a double fee shall be charged as provided in this ~~section~~Code.

 E. A reinspection fee of Forty Dollars ($40) may be assessed for each inspection or reinspection ~~when such~~if the portion of work for which inspection is called is not complete or ~~when~~if corrections called for are not made. This subsection ~~is~~does not ~~to be interpreted as requiring~~ require inspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with ~~the requirements of~~ this Code, but as ~~discouraging~~controlling the practice of calling for inspection or reinspection.

 Reinspection fees may be assessed ~~when~~if the permit is not properly posted on the work site, the work to be inspected is not under test, for failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is requested~~,~~ or for failure to make required corrections. ~~To obtain a reinspection the applicant shall file an application therefor~~Requests for reinspection shall be made in writing upon ~~a~~ forms furnished for that purpose, and ~~pay~~shall be accompanied by the reinspection fee in accordance with this section. ~~In instances where~~If reinspection fees have been assessed, ~~no~~ additional inspection of the work ~~will~~shall not be performed until the required fees have been paid.

 SECTION 48. Section 22.504.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

 22.504.020 Refund of fees.

~~Should~~If the work for which a permit fee has been paid is not ~~be~~ started, the Administrative authority, upon proper application for refund and surrender of the permit for cancellation, shall issue a refund. In determining the amount of refund due, the Administrative Authority shall deduct the amount of the basic fee to cover the cost of administration of the permit. ~~No~~A refund shall not be made for an~~y~~ expired permit.

 Passed by the City Council the__________day of __________________________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this___________ day of ____________________________, 1999. ______________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ________ day of ______________________, 1999. ______________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 November 18, 1999 v.2

```
