

********

**Council Bill Number: 113075**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119862**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to an employee benefits consultant contract, providing an exemption from Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Chapter 3.114, and authorizing the Executive Services Department to negotiate and execute an agreement for the aforementioned consulting services.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** February 22, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 28, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 28, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 24, 2000
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** CONSULTANT-CONTRACTS, EMPLOYEE-BENEFITS, PERSONNEL-ADMINISTRATION

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE related to an employee benefits consultant contract, providing an exemption from Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) Chapter 3.114, and authorizing the Executive Services Department to negotiate and execute an agreement for the aforementioned consulting services.

 WHEREAS, the City requires expert assistance in evaluating employee benefits options and plans which comprise between 30 and 40 percent of total employee compensation; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle's contract with AON Consulting, Inc., the City's Employee Benefits Broker Consultant, has expired; and

 WHEREAS, AON Consulting, Inc., has been integrally involved in changing the City's health plans from a fully insured to a self-insured status, a process which is at a critical juncture in need of continuous and consistent guidance and oversight; and

 WHEREAS, the purpose of the City's consultant selection process is to obtain the best services at an appropriate cost; and

 WHEREAS, AON has been a very cost effective and responsive benefits consultant during the term of the prior agreement which was awarded after a competitive bid process; and

 WHEREAS, AON has earned and enjoys the respect and support of the both management and labor representatives of the Joint Labor Management Employee Benefits Committee they serve; and

 WHEREAS, it would be contrary to the best interests of the City to change benefits consultants as the City makes significant changes in its benefits practices;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Executive Services Department is hereby authorized to enter into a contract with AON Consulting, Inc. to provide employee benefits consulting services for the years 2000 through 2005, in substantially the form attached.

 Section 2. Procurement of the consulting services authorized in Section 1 shall be exempt from the provisions of SMC Ch. 3.114.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 BB/ DRAFT CONTRACT AGREEMENT NO. PS 00- For EMPLOYEE BENEFIT CONSULTANT SERVICES  Part A

 SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 This Agreement is made and entered into by and between The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, through its Executive Services Department (ESD), as represented by the Director, hereinafter referred to as the City, and AON CONSULTING, INC, 1200 6th Avenue, Suite 2000, Seattle, Washington 98101-1128, a Pennsylvania corporation authorized to do business in the State of Washington, hereinafter referred to as the Consultant.

 This Agreement consists of Part A (Specific Terms and Conditions), Part B (General Terms and Conditions), Part C (Signature Page), and any attachments or exhibits referenced in the Agreement.

 1. TERM OF AGREEMENT

 The term of this Agreement shall commence on January 1, 2000 and shall terminate no later than December 31, 2001.

 2. TIME OF BEGINNING AND COMPLETION

 The Consultant shall begin the work outlined in the "Scope of Work" Section as of January 1, 2000 and the contract will be completed by December 31, 2001. Established performance times shall not be extended because of any unwarranted delays for which the Consultant is responsible, but may be extended by the City because of delays caused by governmental action or other conditions beyond the control of the Consultant. During the progress of the Consultant's work, the Consultant may adjust the work force to meet business needs and conditions but changes to the Scope of Services may be made only upon prior written approval by the City.

 Delays significantly affecting the completion of the work within the time specified for the completion, attributable to any cause by a party to the Agreement, shall be considered as cause for the termination of this Agreement by the other party. Either party may terminate this contract at any time for any reason with a minimum of sixty days written notice.

 The Consultant's work shall be considered complete when the City acknowledges so in writing.

 3. SCOPE OF WORK

 The Consultant shall furnish all services and labor necessary to conduct and complete the work as described below.

 A. Retainer Services

 1. Assist the City of Seattle with benefit plan analysis, costing design or modifications as requested.

 2. Assist with benefit plan Requests for Proposals and analysis of proposer responses upon request.

 3. Provide actuarial and/or underwriting expertise and advise to determine rates and required reserves in a self-insured environment; review insured rates and reserve levels on an annual basis.

 4. Brief City staff, as designated by the Project Manager, on a timely basis on any legislative, regulatory or trend information that is pertinent to the City's benefit plans and coverages.

 5. Make presentations to various City meetings regarding benefit plans, programs, experience or other issues upon request.

 6. Assist with carrier rate negotiations and contract renewals as requested.

 7. Assist with benefit plan Requests for Proposals and analysis of proposer responses upon request.

 8. Prepare issue papers or analytical reports upon request

 9. Prepare a six month and an annual report for the City of Seattle Deferred Compensation Plan which compares fund performance to different but comparable fund universes.

 10. Assist with the preparation or review of Summary Plan Descriptions and benefit plan documents upon request.

 11. Identify the impact on rates of plan design modifications when requested.

 12. Make presentations to various City meetings regarding benefit plans, programs, experience or issues upon request.

 A. Special Services:

 1. Special services which are not covered by Article 3, A1 thru 12 will be agreed upon between the parties in writing in advance of the work being performed and be incorporated with this contract as individual work orders. Examples of special services include but are not limited to:

 a) Extensive assistance to the City in the development and analysis of Requests for Proposals

 b) In depth analysis of new or alternative benefit programs for City employees.

 c) Extensive involvement and preparation of communication packages to employees regarding new benefit programs or open enrollment periods and procedures.

 C. Other Requirements:

 1. Throughout the term of this Agreement, the Consultant agrees to

 a) Maintain an office in the Greater Seattle Area.

 b) Acquire and maintain all applicable Washington State licenses.

 c) Maintain required insurance coverages for the duration of the Agreement. (See Section X, Insurance.)

 Deliverables under the terms of this contract are written reports, studies, benefit plan and program analysis, verbal briefings and presentations to the Benefits Unit and elected officials and City management and labor representatives as necessary to fulfill the task elements identified above.

 4. PAYMENT

 The City shall compensate the Consultant a maximum amount not to exceed One Hundred Forty Thousand Dollars and no cents ($140,000.00) annually for all services to be provided under this contract per the following schedule:

 Monthly retainer/consultant fee: Monthly retainer services will be compensated at the rate of Five Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($5,500.00) per month for a total not to exceed Sixty-six Thousand Dollars and no cents ($66,000.00).

 Special Service Fees: Compensation for special services performed by AON Consulting Inc. which are not covered as outlined in the Scope of Services above, will be agreed upon between the parties, in advance of the work being performed, and will be memorialized in a written work order with a fee negotiated for each work order, and incorporated as attachment(s) to this Agreement. For the term of this contract, Special Service Fees for work not covered by the retainer fee will not exceed Seventy Four Thousand Dollars and no cents ($74,000). It is understood by the Consultant that there is no guarantee of a minimum amount of work or compensation under this contract except for the monthly retainer amount cited herein.

 These fees include all reimbursement for any overhead and expenses incurred by the Consultant in performing work under this Contract. The City may pay the Consultant progress payments during the life of this contract on the basis of retainer services and specified special service tasks being accomplished per the terms of this contract and written work orders to the reasonable satisfaction of the Project Manager.

 The City anticipatedwhen it selected this Consultant for these services, that the selected consultant would provide advice to the City over the five year term of the agreement, although both parties retain the right to terminate the Agreement in accordance with the termination provisions herein. After the year 2000, the City and the Consultant shall negotiate a reasonable monthly retainer fee for succeeding years, and determine a maximum available compensation amount for anticipated Special Services, which shall be stated in an annual amendment to this Agreement.

 5. PAYMENT PROCEDURES

 Progress payments may be requested by the Consultant monthly for retainer services and upon the completion of work order tasks as may be agreed upon from time to time and incorporated as part of the Scope of Services above. Payment shall be made by the City after the Consultant has submitted one or more invoices to the City and the same have been approved by the Personnel Division Contract Manager and the Executive Services Director. Each invoice shall identify the contract number assigned by the City of Seattle, itemize the work performed by the Consultant by task element or work order, and shall be signed by an authorized representative of the Consultant. The invoice shall cover only work completed to the date of the invoice and shall not include work performed and reported under a prior invoice. All materials and reports required of the Consultant by the Contract must have been delivered and accepted by the Project Manager and Executive Services Director before any invoice will be processed for payment.

 6. ADDRESSES FOR NOTICES AND DELIVERABLE MATERIALS

 All notices and other material to be delivered under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered or mailed to the following addresses:

 To the City: Pat Schmidt, Manager, Benefits Unit Executive Services Department, Personnel Division 710 2nd Avenue, Suite 1200 Seattle, Washington 98104 E-mail: pat.schmidt@ci.seattle.wa.us

 To the Mary B. Greening, Sr. Vice President Consultant: AON Consulting Inc. 1200 6th Avenue, Suite 2000 Seattle, Washington 98101-1128 E-mail: mgreening@aoncons.com

 or such other respective addresses as may be specified in the Agreement or as either party may, from time to time, designate in writing.

 7. WOMEN AND MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE REQUIREMENTS

 A. General

 Notwithstanding any other provision in reference to this Agreement, City utilization requirements for Women's and Minority Business Enterprises ("WMBEs") shall not apply to this Agreement. No minimum level of WMBE subconsultant participation shall be required as a condition of receiving award of the contract and no preference will be given to a consultant for its WMBE utilization or WMBE status. Provided, however, that any affirmative action requirements set forth in any federal regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement will continue to apply.

 B. Non-Discrimination

 The Consultant shall not create barriers to open and fair opportunities for WMBEs to participate in all City contracts and to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services. In considering offers from and doing business with subconsultants and suppliers, the Consultant shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age, nationality, marital status, sexual orientation or the presence of any mental or physical disability in an otherwise qualified disabled person.

 C. Record-Keeping

 The Consultant shall maintain, for at least 12 months after completion of this Agreement, relevant records and information necessary to document the Consultant's utilization of WMBEs and other businesses as subconsultants and suppliers under this Agreement and in its overall public and private business activities. The Consultant shall also maintain all written quotes, bids, estimates, or proposals submitted to the Consultant by all businesses seeking to participate as subconsultants or suppliers under this Agreement. The City shall have the right to inspect and copy such records. If this Agreement involves federal funds, the Consultant shall comply with all record- keeping requirements set forth in any federal rules, regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement.

 D. Affirmative Efforts To Utilize WMBEs

 The City encourages the utilization of Minority Business Enterprises ("MBEs") and Women's Business Enterprises ("WBEs") (collectively, "WMBEs"), in all City contracts. The City encourages the following practices to open competitive opportunities for WMBEs:

 1. Attending a pre-solicitation conference, if scheduled by the City, to provide project information and to inform WMBEs of consultant contracting and subconsultant contracting opportunities.

 2. Placing all qualified WMBEs attempting to do business in The City of Seattle on solicitation lists, and providing written notice of subconsultant contracting opportunities to WMBEs capable of performing the work, including without limitation all businesses on any list provided by The City of Seattle, in sufficient time to allow such businesses to respond to the written solicitations.

 3. Breaking down total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities, where economically feasible, in order to permit maximum participation by small businesses including WMBEs.

 4. Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirements of this Agreement permit, that encourage participation by WMBEs.

 5. Providing WMBEs that express interest with adequate and timely information about plans, specifications, and requirements of this Agreement.

 6. Utilizing the services of available minority community organizations, minority contractor groups, local minority assistance offices, The City of Seattle, and other organizations that provide assistance in the recruitment and placement of WMBEs.

 E. Sanctions for Violation

 Any violation of the mandatory requirements of the provisions of this Section A7 (B and C) shall be a material breach of contract for which the Consultant may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by applicable law.

 8. NONDISCRIMINATION AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

 General: Notwithstanding any other provisions in the solicitation documents, this Agreement does not require any specific utilization levels of minorities or women in the Consultant's workforce, except as may be specified in any federal regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement. The City encourages consultants to employ a workforce reflective of the region's diversity. Consultants shall adhere to all non-discrimination requirements as set forth in Federal and State laws and regulations and in Seattle Municipal Code provisions.

 During the performance of this Agreement, the Consultant agrees as follows:

 A. The Consultant will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, creed, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Consultant will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, color, sex, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Consultant agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

 B. Consultant will, prior to commencement and during the term of this Agreement, furnish to the Executive Services Director (as used herein Director means the Director of the Executive Services Department or his/her designee) upon his/her request and on such form as may be provided by the Director therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the Consultant in implementing the terms of these provisions, and will permit access to his/her records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Director for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with this provision.

 C. If, upon investigation, the Director finds probable cause to believe that the Consultant has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provisions, the Consultant shall be so notified in writing. The Executive Services Director shall give the Consultant an opportunity to be heard within ten (10) days of the date written notification is sent. After hearing and considering Consultant's response to the findings (if any), the Director will make a final decision as to whether the Consultant has failed to comply with the provisions of this Agreement. If the Director's final decision is that the Consultant has failed to comply with the provisions of this Agreement, s/he may suspend this Agreement and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to the Consultant pending compliance by the Consultant with the terms of these provisions.

 D. Any violation of the mandatory requirements of the provisions of this Section A8 shall be a material breach of Agreement for which the Consultant may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by Agreement and by applicable law.

 E. The foregoing provisions will be inserted in all subcontracts for work covered by this Agreement.

 9. INDEMNIFICATION

 The Consultant shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out of or resulting from the Consultant's performance or lack of performance under this Agreement. In the event that any suit based upon such losses, claims, actions, damages, or expenses is brought against the City, the Consultant, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at its sole cost and expense; and if final judgment be adverse to the City, or the City and the Consultant jointly, the Consultant shall promptly satisfy the same. The liability described in this subsection shall not be diminished by the fact, if it be a fact, that any such death, injury, damage, loss, cost or expense may have been contributed to, or may be alleged to have been contributed to, in part, by the negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents; provided, that nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as requiring the Consultant to indemnify the City against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the City, its employees, officers, or agents.

 10. INSURANCE

 Prior to undertaking any work under this Agreement, the Consultant, at no expense to the City, shall obtain and file with the Executive Services Department and the City Risk Manager (located in the Executive Services Department), acceptable evidence of a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below. In most cases, the following will constitute acceptable evidence of insurance coverage: Declarations pages, the forms endorsement listing the forms applicable to the policy, and evidence (as described later in this Agreement) that the City is named as an additional insured. However, the Consultant may also be required by the City to submit a copy or certified copy of the policy and all forms and endorsements to the policy.

 A policy of commercial general liability insurance, written on an occurrence form, including all the usual coverages known as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability - Products/Completed Operations - Personal/Advertising Injury - Contractual Liability - Explosion, Collapse and Underground Property Damage

 Said policy must provide the following minimum coverage: Bodily Injury and Property Damage - $1,000,000 per occurrence, $1,000,000 annual aggregate.

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager.

 A policy of commercial automobile liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles.

 Such policy must provide the following minimum coverage: Liability -$300,000 per accident.

 A policy of professional liability insurance ("errors and omissions").

 Such policy must provide the following minimum coverage: Liability - $1,000,000 each occurrence.

 If such policy is written on a claims made form, the retroactive date shall be prior to or coincident with the date of this contract. The policy shall state that coverage is claims made, and state the retroactive date. Claims made form coverage shall be maintained by the Consultant for a minimum of three years following the termination of this Agreement, and the Consultant shall annually provide the City with proof of renewal. If renewal of the claims made form of coverage becomes unavailable, or economically prohibitive, the Consultant shall purchase an extended reporting period ("tail") or execute another form of guarantee acceptable to the City to assure financial responsibility for liability for services performed.

 The above policy or policies, endorsements thereto, and subsequent renewals:

 Shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager as to company (must be rated A-VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington broker or agent), form and coverage and primary to all other insurance the City may secure, and

 Must protect the City within the policy limits from any and all claims and risks in connection with any activity performed by the Consultant by virtue of this Agreement, and

 Must be maintained in full force and effect throughout the entire term of this Agreement, and

 Must name The City of Seattle as an additional insured (excluding professional liability). One of the following will be acceptable evidence:

 An additional insured endorsement issued on an Insurance Services Office (ISO) form (CG 20 26 or comparable) naming "The City of Seattle, its officers, elected officials, employees, agents, and volunteers" as an additional insured. The endorsement must also be signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company and include the policy number and name of the insured on the endorsement.

 A blanket policy or endorsement clause adding as additional insureds anyone for whom the Consultant is required to provide insurance under a contract or permit.

 An additional insured endorsement containing the following provision:

 "The City of Seattle, its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers are an additional insured for all coverages provided by this policy and shall be fully and completely protected to the extent provided in said policy for any and every injury, death, damage and loss of any sort sustained by any person, organization or corporation in connection with any activity performed by the Consultant (except for professional liability) by virtue of the provisions of that Agreement between The City of Seattle and AON Consulting Inc. entitled Employment -Consultation Services, Agreement No. PS-00-01."

 "The coverages provided by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to The City of Seattle."

 Must also include a "separation of insureds" or "severability of interests" clause indicating essentially that "except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought."

 Failure of the Consultant to comply with any of the terms of the above insurance provisions shall be considered a material breach of this Agreement and cause for its termination.

 Part B

 General Terms and Conditions

 11. AUDIT

 The Consultant shall permit the City and/or any other governmental agency that is involved in the funding of the project (hereinafter referred to as "Agency"), from time to time as the City Auditor or the Executive Services Director or Agency deems necessary (including up to six years after the final payment or release of withheld amounts has been made under this Agreement), to inspect and audit at any and all reasonable times in King County, Washington, or at such other reasonable location as the City Auditor and/or Agency selects, all pertinent books and records of the Consultant and any subconsultants or other person or entity that has performed work in connection with or related to the Consultant's services under this Agreement to verify, among other things, that the compensation or other consideration provided to the Consultant has been appropriate, and that the contracted-for services were provided in a timely manner; and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City and/or Agency to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof, upon the City Auditor's, Executive Services Director, or the Agency's request. The Consultant shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the City and Agency is a condition of any subcontract, agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to perform work in connection with or related to the Consultant's services under this Agreement. All audit findings, except those for performance audits, will be governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), subpart 31, which is hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement.

 12. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 General Requirement: The Consultant, at its sole cost and expense, shall perform and comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter, Municipal Code, and ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and their officers.

 Licenses and Similar Authorizations: The Consultant, at no expense to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all related requirements.

 Taxes: The Consultant shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities and undertakings under this Agreement; taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements; and taxes on the Consultant's interest in this Agreement and any leasehold interest deemed to have been created under Chapter 82.29A RCW.

 Use of Recycled Content Paper: The Consultant shall, whenever practicable, use recycled content paper on all documents submitted to the City.

 Americans with Disabilities Act: The Consultant shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) in performing its obligations under this Agreement. In particular, if the Consultant is providing services, programs, or activities to City employees or members of the public as part of this Agreement, the Consultant shall not deny participation or the benefits of such services, programs, or activities to people with disabilities on the basis of such disability. Failure to comply with the provisions of the ADA shall be a material breach of, and grounds for the immediate termination of, this Agreement.

 13. CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP

 This Agreement does not constitute the Consultant as the agent or legal representative of the City for any purpose whatsoever, and the relationship of the Consultant to the City by reason of this Agreement shall be that of an independent contractor. The Consultant is not granted any express or implied right or authority to assume or create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of or in the name of the City or to bind the City in any manner or thing whatsoever.

 14. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBCONTRACTING

 Neither party shall assign its obligations under this Agreement, in whole or in part, without an amendment to this Agreement. Approval of such assignment shall not be unreasonably withheld. Neither party shall subcontract any of its obligations under this Agreement, in whole or in part, without the other party's written consent. Any subcontract made by the Consultant with the consent of the City shall incorporate by reference all the terms of this Agreement. The Consultant shall be responsible for ensuring that all subconsultants comply with the obligations and requirements of this Agreement.

 15. INVOLVEMENT OF FORMER CITY EMPLOYEES

 The Consultant agrees to inform the City of any former City officer or employee who terminated City office or employment in the last twelve (12) months and who will be working on or subcontracting for any of the work under this Agreement. The Consultant further agrees that no work under this Agreement will be done by a former City officer or employee who terminated City office or employment in the last twelve (12) months and who, in the course of official City duties, was involved in, participated in or acted on any matter related to this Agreement.

 16. NO CONFLICT OF INTEREST

 The Consultant confirms that the Consultant does not have a business interest or a close family relationship with any City officer or employee who was, is, or will be involved in the consultant selection, negotiation, drafting, signing, administration, or evaluating the Consultant's performance. As used in this section, the term "Consultant" shall include any employee of the Consultant who was, is, or will be involved in the negotiation, drafting, signing, administration, or performance of the Agreement. As used in this section, the term "close family relationship" refers to the following: spouse or domestic partner; any dependent parent, parent-in-law, child, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law; or any parent, parent-in-law, sibling, uncle, aunt, cousin, niece or nephew residing in the household of a City officer or employee described above.

 17. AMENDMENTS

 No modification or amendment of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by authorized representatives of the parties. The parties expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement, from time to time, by mutual agreement.

 18. EXECUTORY AGREEMENT

 This Agreement will not be considered valid until signed by both parties.

 19. BINDING EFFECT

 The provisions, covenants and conditions in this Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 20. APPLICABLE LAW; VENUE

 This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any action brought under the Agreement shall be in the Superior Court for King County.

 21. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; the failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 22. CAPTIONS

 The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 23. INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS

 A judicial determination that any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this Agreement, or its application, is inoperative, invalid, or unenforceable shall not affect the remaining terms, provisions, conditions, or other portions of this Agreement, nor shall such a determination affect the application of such term, provision, condition, or portion to persons or in circumstances other than those directly involved in the determination in which it is held to be inoperative, invalid, or unenforceable, and as to such other persons or in such other circumstances it shall continue in full force and effect.

 24. NO WAIVER

 No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default or breach of any of the terms, convenants or conditions of this Agreement. The payment of compensation to the Consultant shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or the acceptance of defective performance.

 25. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

 This Agreement, including the exhibits and addenda attached and forming a part of the Agreement (if any), are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions, between the parties. No verbal agreements or conversations between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the City and any officer, agency, employee or associate of the Consultant prior to the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement. Any such verbal agreements shall be considered unofficial information and in no way binding on either party.

 26. ERRORS & OMISSIONS; CORRECTION

 The Consultant shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy, and the coordination of all designs, drawings, specifications, and other services furnished by or on the behalf of the Consultant under this Agreement. The Consultant, without additional compensation, shall correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in the designs, drawings, specifications, and/or other Consultant services immediately upon notification by the City. The indemnification provided for in this section with respect to any acts or omissions during the term of this Agreement shall survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement.

 27. OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

 All drawing, prints, plans, field notes, reports, documents, files, input materials, output materials, the media upon which they are located (including cards, tapes, discs and other storage facilities), software programs or packages (including source code or codes, object codes, upgrades, revisions, modifications, and any related materials) and/or any other related documents or materials which are developed solely for, and paid for by, the City in connection with the performance of the work under this agreement, shall be the property of the City. The Consultant shall place an appropriate plaque, emblem, and/or decal on such documents and/or materials, including appropriate evidence of the City's ownership of such documents and/or materials.

 Any invention, improvement, or discovery, together with all related information, including but not limited to, designs, specifications, data, patent rights and findings developed in connection with the performance of the Agreement or any subcontract to the Agreement, shall be made available to the public through dedication, assignment to the City, or such other means as the City may determine.

 Notwithstanding the above, the Consultant does not convey to the City nor does the City obtain any right to any document or material utilized by Consultant that was created or produced separate from this Agreement or was preexisting material (not already owned by the City), provided that the Consultant has clearly identified in writing such material as preexisting prior to commencement of work. To the extent that preexisting materials are incorporated into the work, the Consultant grants the City an irrevocable, non-exclusive right and/or license to use, execute, reproduce, display, and transfer the preexisting material, but only as an inseparable part of the work.

 28. COPYRIGHTS

 The Consultant and the City agree that all material produced pursuant to this agreement is "work made for hire," and that the City owns all of the rights comprised in the copyright. The Consultant shall place the following notice on all visually perceptible copies of materials produced pursuant to this Agreement:

 "(C)," "Copyright," or "Copr.";

 Year of first publication; and

 Owner of copyright, "The City of Seattle"

 The notice shall be affixed to all copies of the material in such a manner and location as to give reasonable notice of the copyright. Except as permitted by this Agreement, the Consultant shall not use any of the material described above without the prior written approval of the Executive Services Director.

 29. CONFIDENTIALITY

 The parties agree that they will not permit the duplication or disclosure of any information designated in advance by the other party as "Confidential and Proprietary" information to any person (other than its own employee, agent, or representative who must have such information for the performance of its obligations under the Agreement) unless such duplication, use or disclosure is specifically authorized in writing by the other party or is required by law, in which case the information will be treated as confidential for all other purposes. The term "Confidential and Proprietary Information" does not include ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques related to information which, at the time of disclosure, is in the public domain unless the entry of that information into the public domain is a result of any breach of this Agreement. Likewise, the term "Confidential and Proprietary Information" does not apply to information that is independently developed, already possessed without obligation of confidentiality, or rightfully obtained from a third party without an obligation of confidentiality.

 30. EXTRA WORK

 The City may desire to have the Consultant perform work or render services in connection with this project other than that expressly provided for in the "Scope of Work" Section of this Agreement. This will be considered extra work, supplemental to this Agreement and shall not proceed unless authorized by an amendment. Any costs incurred due to the performance of extra work prior to execution of an amendment will not be reimbursed under this Agreement or an amendment.

 31. KEY PERSONS

 The parties agree that the individuals designated in this Agreement are essential to the services offered pursuant to this Agreement. The parties agree that:

 The Consultant shall not transfer or reassign such individual or individuals without the express written consent of the City; which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 Should such individual or individuals no longer be employed by the Consultant during the term of this Agreement, the Consultant shall present to the City an individual with greater or equal qualifications as a replacement subject to the City's approval which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The City's approval shall not be construed to release the Consultant from its obligations under this Agreement.

 32. DISPUTES

 Any disputes concerning the Consultant's performance of this Agreement, which are not disposed of by agreement between the Consultant's Project Manager and the City's Project Manager, shall be referred to the Executive Services Director and the Consultant's senior executive(s). If such parties do not agree upon a decision within a reasonable period of time, the parties may pursue other legal means to resolve such disputes.

 33. TERMINATION

 A. For Cause: Either party may terminate this Agreement in the event the other fails to perform its obligations as described in this Agreement, and such failure has not been corrected to the reasonable satisfaction of the other in a timely manner after notice of breach has been provided to such other party.

 B. For Reasons Beyond Control of Parties: Either party may terminate this Agreement without recourse by the other where performance is rendered impossible or impracticable for reasons beyond such party's reasonable control such as but not limited to acts of nature; war or warlike operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including strike, walkout, or lockout; sabotage; or superior governmental regulation or control.

 C. For Public Convenience: The City may terminate this Agreement in whole or in part whenever the City determines that such termination is in the best interests of the public or for lack of continuing appropriations.

 Notice: Notice of termination pursuant to Subsections (A) and (B) above, shall be given by the party terminating this Agreement to the other not less than five (5) working days prior to the effective date of termination.

 Part C

 Signature Form

 The parties have executed this Agreement by having their representatives sign below.

 AON CONSULTING INC. THE CITY OF SEATTLE, EXECUTIVE SERVICE DEPARTMENT By By Signature Date Signature Date Mary B. Greening Dwight D. Dively/Ken Nakatsu Type or print name Type or print name Senior Vice President Director Title Title IRS Tax Identification No. 137-970

 City of Seattle Business License Number 601-181-2812

 Washington State Unified Business Identifier Number (UBI)

 Funded by Health Sub-Fund

 EXECUTIVE SERVICES DEPARTMENT - Contract Compliance Section

 CONTRACTOR WORK FORCE REPORT Contractor AON CONSULTING INC. Telephone Number Contractor's Address 1200 6TH Ave, Suite 2000, Seattle, WA. 98101- 1128

 Amount of Contract $140,000

 Is the project Federally funded? Yes x No

 Project # Tentative start date January 1, 2000

 Estimated length of contract Dec. 31, 2005

 Contract #

 Contractor's Project EEO Officer

 Telephone Number

 Type of contract: Construction Consultant X Service Lease/Concession Vendor/Supplier

 How many City of Seattle Contracts are now held by Contractor? 1

 CONTRACTOR'S PERMANENT WORK FORCE

 OCCUPATIONS Total Total Total Black Asian Amer His (List Employ While Minor Ind pan classif- ian ic ication M F M F M F M F M F M F M F of employees) Managers Apprentices/Trainees TOTAL

 CONTRACTOR'S PROJECTED WORK FORCE FOR THIS PROJECT

 OCCUPATIONS Total Total Total Black Asian Amer His (List Employ While Minor Ind pan classif- ian ic ication M F M F M F M F M F M F M F of employees) Managers Apprentices/Trainees TOTAL

 1. How many of the above are presently on your payroll? __________

 2. How many of the above will be hired for the project? __________

 SWORN STATEMENT FOR COMPLIANCE WITH SEATTLE MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 20.44

 State of Washington ss.

 County of King

 The Undersigned, being first duly sworn, on oath states on behalf of the contractor (contractor, as used herein includes: consultants, vendors, lessees, concessionaires, franchisees, suppliers, permittees, service providers) as follows:

 A. The name of the person who has been charged with the responsibility for securing compliance with and reporting progress on the affirmative actions taken has been named on the Contractor Work Force Report form. Such person shall be the project EEO Officer and shall be some one within the contractor's organization who has the authority to effect compliance and act on behalf of the contractor.

 B. Contractor shall cooperate fully with the City of Seattle Executive Services Department (Contract Compliance Section) while making every "good faith" effort to comply with the affirmative action requirements set forth in this sworn statement and Seattle Municipal Code 20.44. The contractor shall keep the City of Seattle Executive Services Department (Contract Compliance Section) fully informed in writing of all the contractor's affirmative actions taken during the term of the contract and of any refusals by unions or others to cooperate with the contractor's affirmative action plan.

 C. Contractor shall conduct a work force analysis which will identify job classifications wherein underrepresented persons (minorities and women) are underutilized in proportion to their representation in the available work force. This analysis shall be made separately for minorities and women.

 D. Contractor shall correct deficiencies of underrepresented persons at all levels of the work force by considering underrepresented persons to fill new positions and vacancies. This will require the development of goals and timetables for use during the next twelve months in order to accomplish affirmative action objectives.

 E. Contractor shall insure that equal opportunity of employment for underrepresented persons results during the term of this contract by taking (at a minimum) the following affirmative actions:

 1. Provide written notification to organizations that are active in securing equal employment opportunities when position openings occur. Send a copy of such announcements to the City of Seattle Executive Services Department (Contract Compliance Section).

 2. Conduct constant recruitment efforts with organizations, schools, and/or training establishments concerned with securing employment for underrepresented persons.

 3. Make specific efforts to encourage underrepresented persons who are employees to recruit friends and relatives.

 4. Sponsor, utilize and provide training/educational opportunities for the advancement of underrepresented persons employed by the contractor.

 5. Provide equal employment opportunity for after-school and summer employment to underrepresented young persons.

 6. Notify pertinent employment referral agencies that the contractor provides equal employment opportunities. Include such a statement in any advertising conducted when filling vacancies.

 7. Give notice to supervisors and other employees of the terms of the affirmative actions to be undertaken.

 8. In the event that contractor already has an affirmative action plan which includes goals and timetables, said document may be submitted for review in lieu of implementing items one (1) through seven (7) of Section E.

 F. Contractor shall submit Equal Employment Opportunity Reports detailing actual employment data to the Contract Compliance Section of the City of Seattle Executive Services Department (ESD) and in accordance with ESD's instructions. The contractor shall be responsible for ensuring the submittal of separate Equal Employment Opportunity Reports to ESD (Contract Compliance Section) for each subcontractor utilized on the contract.

 I certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Washington that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and information.

 SIGNED AT ___________________, ______________, this______day of _________, 199 ___ .

 (City) (State) ________________________________________________________ Business Name Business Phone # ________________________________________________________ Business Street Address City State Zip Code ________________________________________________________ Name and title of Contractor's representative ________________________________________________________ Signature of Contractor's representative Aon contract 2000.doc 02/11/00 Page 1

```
