

********

**Council Bill Number: 113060**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119829**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to the Department of Neighborhoods; authorizing an amendment to the Neighborhood Matching Subfund agreement with the Pioneer Square Community Development Organization ("Neighborhood Organization") to allow the Neighborhood Organization to be the City's Project Manager on the Fortson Square project.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 10, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** January 18, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** January 18, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 13, 1999
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Growth Planning and Civic Engagement
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** GRANTS, PIONEER-SQUARE, PARKS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ______

 AN ORDINANCE related to the Department of Neighborhoods; authorizing an amendment to the Neighborhood Matching Subfund agreement with the Pioneer Square Community Development Organization ("Neighborhood Organization") to allow the Neighborhood Organization to be the City's Project Manager on the Fortson Square project.

 WHEREAS, the Pioneer Square Neighborhood has made a significant commitment to the design and development of a revitalized public place at Fortson Square;

 WHEREAS, the Pioneer Square Community Development Organization has coordinated community participation and partnerships with City departments (Department of Neighborhoods, SEATRAN);

 WHEREAS, the Pioneer Square Community Development Organization seeks to expedite the implementation of the Fortson Square project and provide coordinated project management;

 WHEREAS, the present Neighborhood Matching Subfund agreement with the Pioneer Square Community Development Organization for the design and development of Fortson Square does not designate the Neighborhood Organization as the City's Project Manager for the Fortson Square project; Now, therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Department of Neighborhoods ("Department") is authorized to execute an amendment to the Neighborhood Matching Subfund agreement with the Neighborhood Organization to allow the Neighborhood Organization to be the City's Project Manager on the Fortson Square project substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit 1. In particular, the Department is authorized to have the Neighborhood Organization run on behalf of the City, the public works procurement process associated with the Fortson Square project.

 Section 2. Any acts consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2004, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2004.

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this day of , 1999.

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this day of , 1999.

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachments: Exhibit 1

 j:\ords&res\ordinanc\fortsonsqord2.doc RSE:rse January 12, 2004 113060.doc Ver. 1

 DEPARTMENT OF NEIGHBORHOODS

 NEIGHBORHOOD MATCHING FUND PROJECT

 AMENDED AGREEMENT

 This Agreement is made between The City of Seattle ("the City"), acting through the Department of Neighborhoods ("the Department"), the Pioneer Square Community Development Organization ("Neighborhood Organization") and the Pioneer Square Community Development Organization ("Fiscal Sponsor"), is amended to carry out Ordinance 119320 and the Neighborhood Matching Fund (NMF) project: Fortson Square Improvement, (NM9901) (INB9901).

 ARTICLE I: ACTIVITIES

 Section 100: Project Description

 The Pioneer Square Community Development Organization will be the City's Project Manager for this project and will perform all the work associated with the project. The Fiscal Sponsor shall handle all City and community funds related to this project.

 Project Description: The organization will obtain bids, execute a construction contract, and administer the contract for the construction and installation of all work necessary to implement the approved redesign of Fortson Square. In doing so, the organization agrees to comply with all applicable laws, including those dealing with Public Works Contracting and Seattle Transportation permitting.

 Section 101: Steps Required to Complete Project

 Steps Required Estimated Dates

 1. Complete design 1. December, 1999

 2. Review by Pioneer Square Preservation Board 2. December, 1999

 3. Complete construction drawings 3. January, 2000

 4. Obtain appropriate construction permits 4. February, 2000

 5. Prepare construction bids 5. February, 2000

 6. Begin fabrication of artwork 6. March, 2000

 7. Advertise bids for construction 7. March, 2000

 8. Collect Pioneer "artifacts" to be recycled in design 8. March, 2000

 9. Choose contractor, execute contract 9. April, 2000

 10. Begin construction 10. May, 2000

 11. Cleanup of site during construction (volunteers) 11. On- going

 12. Landscape site 12. November, 2000

 13. Install art on site 13. November, 2000

 14. Complete construction 14. November, 2000

 15. Project closeout 15. December, 2000

 Section 102: Time of Performance

 The term of this Agreement is December 31, 1999 through December 31, 2000, unless such term is properly amended pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement. All funds for this project must be expended by December 31, 2000. Any balances in the allocation at that time will be abandoned and not available to be expended, unless this Agreement is amended to extend the allocation's availability for expenditure.

 Section 103: Project Location SE corner of Second Avenue S & Yesler Way

 Section 104: Project Maintenance Beyond the Term of this Agreement

 The Neighborhood Organization agrees to the maintenance plan described as follows:

 The Pioneer Square Community Development Organization and Seattle Transportation (SEATRAN) will develop a Memorandum of Agreement related to maintenance of Fortson Square. The Organization will provide a copy of the Agreement to the Department of Neighborhoods, however, it's assumed that maintenance will be shared by SEATRAN and the Organization.

 Failure to maintain the project as noted above can exclude the Neighborhood Organization from receiving future City funding. If the project is on City-owned property, failure to maintain the project may result in the City taking any action it deems appropriate to provide the public good.

 Section 105: Contacts

 Written notices, requests, grievances or adjustments to the Department shall be made to Jim Diers, Director, Department of Neighborhoods, Attention: , 700 Third Avenue, Room 400, Seattle, Washington 98104.

 Written notices, requests, grievances or adjustments to the Neighborhood Organization shall be made to Andrew Wilch, 157 Yesler Way Ste 416, Seattle, Washington 98104 and Fiscal Sponsor shall be made to Andrew Wilch, 157 Yesler Way #416, Seattle, Washington 98104.

 ARTICLE II: FINANCIAL CONDITIONS

 Section 200: Maximum NMFunds Available

 A. The Department shall reimburse the Fiscal Sponsor its allowable costs for the services identified in this Agreement in an amount not to exceed $167,975.00. The source of the funds include $97,975 from the Neighborhood Matching Fund and $70,000 from a SEATRAN interdepartmental work order.

 B. Such reimbursement shall constitute full and complete payment by the Department under this Agreement. Allowable costs shall mean those necessary and proper costs approved by the Department. Allowable costs are those which have been paid by the Fiscal Sponsor or those which have been obligated by the Fiscal Sponsor and the Neighborhood Organization.

 C. NMF Budget Detail

 Capital

 Site preparation $10,560.00

 Paving $75,175.00

 Drainage $5,125.00

 Site Furnishings $49,000.00

 Landscaping $1,200.00

 Concrete $9,140.00

 Electrical $17,775.00

 Subtotal Capital $167,975.00

 TOTAL NMFUNDS $167,975.00

 Section 201: Minimum Community Match Required

 The Neighborhood Organization shall insure that the Community Match component of the project is fulfilled. The match value shall equal or exceed $97,975.00. Failure to generate the minimum match will be cause for the Department to withhold payment of invoices against this Agreement or withdraw from all obligations of this Agreement. The Community Match will be generated and expended according to the following schedule:

 Match Budget Detail

 Cash

 Concrete $4,250.00

 Electrical $2,225.00

 Construction Contingency $30,294.00

 Bonding, B&O Tax, GC Profit $11,339.00

 WA Sales Tax $16,163.00

 Permits/Fees $38,020.00

 Project Administration $9,000.00

 Subtotal Cash $111,291.00

 Volunteer Labor

 Volunteer services, supplies, materials $22,405.00

 Subtotal Volunteer Labor $22,405.00

 TOTAL MATCH $133,696.00

 Section 202: Reimbursement

 The City shall reimburse the Neighborhood Organization only for expenses incurred after the date set forth in Section 102, and compliance with all items included in Article III Project Requirements. Note: The City cannot advance any funds but only makes reimbursement based on actual cash spent or expenses incurred. The Neighborhood Organization can expect that it will take from 10 to 14 working days after submitting a properly executed invoice to receive reimbursement.

 Section 203: Neighborhood Organization's Obligation to Disburse Funds

 It is the responsibility of the Neighborhood Organization to pay their staff, consultants/contractors, and to insure that the Neighborhood's contractors are paying their subcontractors. When a reimbursement has been made by the Department to the Neighborhood Organization for expenses, the Neighborhood Organization is required to pay vendors, personnel, and contractors or subcontractors in a timely manner agreed upon by the two parties.

 Should the aforementioned personnel or subcontractors not fulfill their contract/services during the course of this project, the Neighborhood Organization can withhold funds until the project has been completed to satisfaction. This clause should be included in the contract between the Neighborhood Organization and the subcontractor.

 The Department shall not be held responsible for any payment owed to a Neighborhood Organization's staff, consultants/contractors or subcontractors.

 Section 204: Project Budget Revisions and Overruns

 All project budget revisions, Match and NMF, must be approved by the Project Manager. The City will not be responsible for any overruns and/or revisions incurred prior to its approval.

 ARTICLE III: PROJECT REQUIREMENTS

 The following requirements must be completed before the Neighborhood Organization can proceed with the project and to invoice for reimbursement.

 Section 300: Method of Payment

 A. The Fiscal Sponsor shall submit a properly executed invoice, together with all reporting data. See Attachment A for the appropriate invoice and reporting forms. The Department will initiate authorization for payment after receipt and approval of such invoice and will make payment directly to the Fiscal Sponsor. The Fiscal Sponsor shall direct invoices and reports to Department of Neighborhoods, Attention: , 700 Third Avenue, Room 400, Seattle, WA 98104.

 Invoices shall be accompanied by copies of all receipts, purchase orders, payroll records, or vouchers which document the expenses claimed.

 B. The Department shall be excused from payments if funds allocated by the Department cease to be available for any cause other than misfeasance of the Department itself (see terms under Section 416.)

 C. The Department reserves the right to withhold payments pending timely delivery of a properly executed invoice, Match Expenditure Statement, Progress Report, or documents as may be required under this Agreement.

 D. All expenditures noted in the final invoice must be incurred by the closing date, as noted in Section 102, unless properly amended. The Fiscal Sponsor must send the final invoice with all necessary reports within 30 days of the closing date of this agreement.

 Section 301: Project Reporting

 A. Reporting Data

 A Project Progress Report and Match Expended Statement shall be submitted by the Fiscal Sponsor with each invoice to Department of Neighborhoods, Attention: , using the forms provided by the Department (see Attachment A). It is the responsibility of the Fiscal Sponsor to submit the reports to the Department, but it is the responsibility of the Neighborhood Organization to complete the match and progress reports in a timely manner and provide them to the Fiscal Sponsor.

 B. Match Expenditure Statement

 The Match Expenditure Statement should be submitted with copies of written materials which document the expenditure of the donated goods which are reported. This documentation will include: the relevant volunteer time sheets, letters from professionals identifying the donation they have made and its value, vendor receipts for donated goods or receipts for expenditures paid by funds raised by the Neighborhood Organization.

 C. Reports

 The Neighborhood Organization shall provide a copy of all written reports developed for the project to the Department. These may also be included to the Project Progress Report or under separate cover. Materials which help document the progress of the project include: project meeting or event flyers, project meeting minutes, draft reports, final reports, work party photographs, construction timelines, job descriptions, contractor contracts, and design drawings.

 D. Final Report

 The Neighborhood Organization shall provide a final, brief, written report with the final invoice which summarizes the project's successes and lessons learned. An outline for the final report is included in Attachment A.

 Section 302: Third Party General Liability Insurance

 Prior to receiving any funds, the Neighborhood Organization shall furnish to the Department a certificate of third party general liability insurance that protects and holds the City harmless from any and all damages that may arise in connection with the described project. In some cases the City of Seattle may purchase this same insurance policy for the project. Such policy shall be for at least the principal amount of a combined single limit of $1,000,000.00 each occurrence, personal injury and/or property damage liability. Such insurance shall include the City of Seattle as an additional insured and shall not be reduced or canceled without 30 days written prior notice to the City. In the event that such certificate is not received prior to the commencement of the work of the project, the Department shall have the right to terminate this Agreement.

 The Neighborhood Organization is required to maintain a safe work environment and to take every measure possible to reduce risk.

 Section 303: Volunteer Insurance

 The City shall provide insurance for adult volunteers working on this project which will extend limited coverage for excess medical due to project-related accidents or personal liability related to project- related incidents. The Neighborhood Organization shall provide names and addresses of all adult volunteers working on the project to the Department prior to completion of their work and as soon as they are available. Volunteer records for this purpose can be the same as volunteer time sheets submitted to the Department with Match Expenditure reports (see Section 301). Only individuals listed as volunteers in these reports will be eligible for this coverage. Changes to the scope of the project may affect coverage and, therefore, such changes must be communicated to the City, Department of Neighborhoods prior to making such change.

 The Neighborhood Organization is required to maintain a safe work environment and to take every measure possible to reduce risk.

 Section 304: Competitive Bid Process

 The Neighborhood Organization agrees to comply with the following competitive bid requirements.

 Complete Competitive Bid Process

 This project may require the purchase of goods and services with Neighborhood Matching Funds that will cost $5,000 or more from a single vendor or contractor. If so, then before making the purchase, the Neighborhood Organization is required to complete the following:

 1. Develop a written specification of the item(s) or scope of work to be purchased and the criteria for selection of a vendor or contractor.

 2. Solicit bids, proposals or cost estimates from qualified vendors or contractors including state certified Women and Minority Business Enterprises (WMBEs). The Department of Neighborhoods can help you identify potential WMBE bidders.

 3. Obtain at least three written bids.

 4. Select the lowest and best bidder, using the written selection criteria.

 5. Maintain a file on the process that describes who the bids were solicited from, how the bids were evaluated, and the reasons why one particular vendor was chosen over another. You will be required to submit a written statement describing the bid and selection process. Keep all documentation for six (6) years.

 6. Prevailing Wage: Determine that the selected contractor understands and agrees to pay prevailing wage to its employees and that prior to the contractor being issued any monthly progress payment, the contractor and every subcontractor must have on file with the organization a Statement of Intent to Pay Prevailing Wages form approved by the State Department of Labor and Industries.

 Section 305: Permit Requirements and Approvals

 Prior to proceeding with the project, the Neighborhood Organization shall furnish to the City's Project Manager copies of the following permits or approvals: Street Use Permit

 Section 306: Site Control

 Prior to receiving any funds, the Neighborhood Organization shall furnish proof of permission to use the designated site for the project described in Article I, Section 103, and must submit a written statement from the site's owner that grants permission for the use of the property by the Neighborhood Organization.

 Section 308: Fiscal Sponsor Identification

 The Fiscal Sponsor must provide a tax identification number or social security number for the organization or business which will serve as Fiscal Sponsor to allow appropriate tax records for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The Fiscal Sponsor must report to the IRS that the award funds were received as revenues. It is assumed that all Matching Fund revenues will be offset by project expenses and will not yield any taxable revenue for the Fiscal Sponsor business or organization.

 ARTICLE IV. GENERAL CONDITIONS

 Section 309: Documentation of Costs and other Financial and Reporting Requirements

 A. All costs shall be supported by properly executed payrolls, time records, receipts, invoices, vouchers or other official documentation, as evidence of the nature and propriety of the charges. All accounting documents pertaining in whole or in part to this Agreement shall be clearly identified and readily accessible, and the Department shall have the right to audit the records of the Fiscal Sponsor and Neighborhood Organization as they relate to the work, upon reasonable notice. The Fiscal Sponsor shall also:

 1. Maintain an effective system of internal control over and accountability for all funds and property supplied and make sure the same are used solely for authorized purposes.

 2. Keep a continuing record of all disbursement by date, check number, amount, vendor, description of items purchased and line item from which money was expended, as reflected in the Fiscal Sponsor's accounting records. The line item notations must be substantiated by a receipt, invoice marked "Paid," or payroll record.

 3. Maintain payroll and financial records for a period of six (6) years after receipt of final payment under the Agreement.

 4. Permit inspection and audit of its records with respect to all matters authorized by this Agreement by representatives of the City, the United States and the State Auditor, and at any time during normal business hours and as often as necessary.

 5. Repay to the Department any funds in its possession at the time of the termination of this Agreement that may be due to the City.

 6. Provide the Internal Revenue Service with appropriate and timely information regarding employee and/or consultant earnings.

 B. In the event that the United States or the State or the City shall determine that any funds were expended by the Neighborhood Organization and Fiscal Sponsor for unauthorized or ineligible purposes or constitute disallowed costs and order repayment of the same, the Neighborhood Organization and Fiscal Sponsor shall within thirty (30) days remit the same to the Department.

 C. Further, all financial records and fiscal control systems will be established and maintained in a manner to meet the approval of the City Comptroller and the State Auditor; records and reports submitted shall be satisfactory to meet the approval of the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods.

 Section 400: Involvement of Former City Employees

 The Neighborhood Organization agrees to inform the City of any Former City officer or employee who terminated City office or employment in the last twelve (12) months and who will be working on or subcontracting for any of the paid work under this Agreement. The Neighborhood Organization further agrees that no paid work under this Agreement will be done by a former City officer or employee who terminated City office or employment in the last twelve (12) months and who, in the course of official City duties, was involved in, participated in or acted on any matter related to this Agreement.

 Section 401: Discrimination Prohibited

 Affording Equal Employment Opportunity under Seattle Municipal Code Ch. 20.44, as now or hereafter amended, during the performance of this Agreement is mandatory and the Neighborhood Organization and Fiscal Sponsor agree as follows:

 A. The parties Agent to this Agreement will not discriminate against any employee or Neighborhood for employment because of race, religion, creed, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Neighborhood Organization will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated equally during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, color, sex, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Neighborhood Organization agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the (Contracting Officer) setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

 B. The Neighborhood Organization will, prior to commencement and during the term of this Agreement, furnish to the Director of the Human Rights Department or his designee upon his request and on such form as may be provided by the Director of Human Rights therefore, a report of the affirmative action taken by the Neighborhood Organization in implementing the terms of this section, and will permit access to his records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records by the Director of the Human Rights Department for the purpose of investigation to determine compliance with this section.

 C. If upon investigation the Director of Human Rights finds probable cause to believe that the Neighborhood Organization has failed to comply with any of the terms of this section, the Director of Human Rights and the Department of Neighborhoods shall give the Neighborhood Organization an opportunity to be heard after 10 days' notice. If the Department of Neighborhoods concurs in the findings of the Director of Human Rights, it may suspend the Agreement and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to the Neighborhood Organization pending compliance by the Neighborhood Organization with the terms of this section, if the organization has any employees.

 D. Failure to comply with any of the terms of this section shall be a material breach of this Agreement.

 E. The provisions of this section shall be inserted into all subcontracts for work covered by this Agreement.

 F. In the provision of services under this Agreement, the Neighborhood Organization shall not discriminate against individuals because of non-membership in any Neighborhood Organization sponsored organization.

 Section 402: Discrimination Because of Certain Labor Matters

 No person employed on the work covered by this Agreement shall be discharged or in any way discriminated against because he/she has filed any complaint or instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding or has testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or relating to the labor standards applicable hereunder to the employer.

 Section 403: Americans with Disabilities Act

 Neighborhood Matching Fund projects must make a good faith effort to ensure they are in compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1991 which in addition to existing federal, state, and city non-discrimination laws, extends the same civil rights protection to persons with disabilities which have already been granted on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, and national origin requirements. The Neighborhood Organization shall provide the following.

 1. Provide advance notification of public meetings regarding the project with the statement, "accommodation for persons with disabilities upon request."

 2. Hold public meetings in accessible locations.

 3. Provide alternate forms of communication if requested.

 4. Make programs or services provided to the public accessible.

 5. Construct barrier-free physical projects; and

 6. Increase general awareness of and sensitivity to people with disabilities.

 Section 404: Women and Minority Business Enterprise Requirements

 A. GENERAL:

 City women- and minority-owned business (WMBE) utilization requirements shall not apply to this Agreement. No minimum level of WMBE subconsultant participation shall be required as a condition of receiving award of the contract and no preference will be given to a neighborhood organization for their WMBE utilization or WMBE status. Provided, however, that any affirmative action requirements set forth in any federal regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement will continue to apply.

 B. NON-DISCRIMINATION:

 The Neighborhood Organization shall not create barriers to open and fair opportunities for WMBEs to participate in all City contracts and to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services. In considering offers from and doing business with subconsultants and suppliers, the Neighborhood Organization shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age, nationality, marital status, sexual orientation or the presence of any mental or physical disability in an otherwise qualified disabled person.

 C. RECORD-KEEPING

 The Neighborhood Organization shall maintain, for at least 12 months after completion of this Agreement, relevant records and information necessary to document level of utilization of WMBEs and other businesses as subconsultants and suppliers in the resultant Agreement and in its overall public and private business activities. The Neighborhood Organization shall also maintain all written quotes, bids, estimates, or proposals submitted to the Neighborhood Organization or proposer after the date of the issuance of this Addendum by all businesses seeking to participate as subconsultants or suppliers in the resultant Agreement. The City shall have the right to inspect and copy such records. If this Agreement involves federal funds, the Neighborhood Organization shall comply with all record-keeping requirements set forth in any federal rules, regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement.

 D. AFFIRMATIVE EFFORTS TO UTILIZE WMBES

 The City encourages the utilization of minority owned businesses ("MBEs") and women-owned businesses ("WBEs") (collectively, "WMBEs"), in all City contracts. The City encourages the following practices to open competitive opportunities for WMBEs:

 1. Attending a pre-solicitation conference, if scheduled by the City, to provide project information and to inform WMBEs of contracting and subcontracting opportunities.

 2. Placing all qualified WMBEs attempting to do business in the City of Seattle on solicitation lists, and providing written notice of subcontracting opportunities to WMBEs capable of performing the work, including without limitation all businesses on any list provided by the City of Seattle, in sufficient time to allow such businesses to respond to the written solicitations.

 3. Breaking down total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities, where economically feasible, in order to permit maximum participation by small businesses including WMBEs.

 4. Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirements of this contract permit, that encourage participation by WMBEs.

 5. Providing WMBEs that express interest with adequate and timely information about plans, specifications, and requirements of the Agreement.

 6. Utilizing the services of available minority community organizations, minority contractor groups, local minority assistance offices, the City of Seattle, and other organizations that provide assistance in the recruitment and placement of WMBEs.

 E. SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATION

 Any violation of the mandatory requirements of Paragraphs B and C in Section 404 shall be a material breach of contract for which the Neighborhood Organization may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by applicable law.

 Section 405: Title to Property Supplied and Works

 A. Whenever Neighborhood Matching Funds of $500.00 or more are used towards the purchase or construction of personal property, at the option of the City, ownership of such property shall rest with the City and be considered to be on loan to the Neighborhood Organization.

 B. All finished or unfinished documents and material prepared by the Neighborhood Organization with funds provided by this Agreement shall be available for inspection and copying by the City and the public.

 C. Unless specified otherwise in this Agreement, the following conditions apply to properties used in this project:

 1. Property loaned by private persons, State or Federal agencies or the City, shall be returned to the owner.

 2. Property donated shall become the property of the Neighborhood Organization or person, specified by the donor; otherwise property donated to the project shall become the property of the City.

 3. The use of city-owned or funded property shall only be used for the purposes set forth in the Agreement and the Neighborhood Organization shall be responsible for all maintenance, unless otherwise agreed.

 4. The Neighborhood Organization shall be financially liable for loss, damage or disappearance of any city-owned or funded property and shall report such loss, etc., to the Department immediately. The Neighborhood Organization remains responsible for all such property until relieved of responsibility, in writing, by the City.

 5. The Neighborhood Organization shall provide permanent identification markings on all City-owned or funded properties acquired and shall maintain completed inventory records as required by the Department. Cost reimbursement shall be contingent upon satisfactory compliance with these requirements.

 6. Any real property under the Neighborhood Organization's control, that is acquired or improved in whole or in part, per the terms of this Agreement, must continue to be used for Project purposes or other public purposes approved by the Department for such periods of time as determined by the Department.

 D. The City shall have unrestricted authority to publish, disclose, distribute and otherwise use, in whole or in part, any reports, data, or other materials prepared under this Agreement.

 Section 407: Confidentiality

 Any reports given to or prepared or assembled by the Neighborhood Organization under this Agreement shall not be made available to any individual or organization by the Neighborhood Organization without giving the Department written or verbal notice. The Department may require the Neighborhood Organization not to make the reports, information, data, etc., available only in the event that such reports, etc., would not be discloseable under the State Public Disclosure Law, RCW Ch. 42.17. In the event the Department requires the Neighborhood Organization to not disclose any information, the Department shall provide specific reasons why such information is not discloseable.

 Section 408: Citizen Participation

 The Neighborhood Organization will take affirmative steps to encourage widespread citizen participation in planning and carrying out the Project.

 Section 409: Subcontracting

 This Agreement is personal to each of the parties hereto and neither party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations hereunder without first obtaining the consent of the other party. In the event of any approved assignment or subcontract, the Department shall continue to hold the Neighborhood Organization responsible for proper performance of obligations under this Agreement. All provisions of this contract shall apply to all subcontracts entered into by the Neighborhood Organization. The Neighborhood Organization shall inform the Department of all subcontracts, including the process used for selecting a subcontractor.

 Section 411: Future Support

 The Department makes no commitment of future support and assumes no obligations for future support of the activity contracted herein except as set forth in this Agreement.

 Section 412: Reservation of Rights

 Neither payment by the Department nor performance by the Neighborhood Organization and Fiscal Sponsor shall be construed as a waiver of either party's right or remedies against the other. Failure to require full and timely performance of any provision at any time shall not waive or reduce the right to insist upon complete and timely performance of such provision thereafter.

 Section 413: Severability

 If any provisions of this Agreement other than those provided in Article IV are held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby if such remainder would then continue to serve the purposes and objectives of the contemplated project and the Department.

 Section 414: Quality of Performance

 A. The Neighborhood Organization shall be responsible for the quality of services rendered and the suitability of the end product and/or service rendered and the suitability of the end product and/or service of the intended use. Its responsibilities hereunder shall not be reduced by recommendations or assistance received from the City which vary from the terms and conditions of this Agreement unless reduced to writing, signed by the responsible City officer and made addenda to or amendments of this Agreement.

 B. The Department shall judge the adequacy and efficiency of work performed, the sufficiency of records and the end product of services rendered. If during the course of the Agreement, the service(s) or product(s) rendered do not meet the desired results, the Neighborhood Organization or product will correct, modify, remodel and/or repeat the process. Failure to make the necessary corrections shall be a material breach of Agreement and be cause for termination.

 C. All work shall be performed and services supplied in a manner to further project purposes and goals, and in compliance with guidelines for performance set by the US Government through the City, this Agreement, and general direction of the City.

 Section 415: Termination of Agreement for Cause

 A. If, through any cause, the Neighborhood Organization shall fail to fulfill in timely and proper manner their obligations under this Agreement, or if they violate any of the covenants, agreements, or stipulations of this Agreement, the Department shall thereupon have the right to terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to the Neighborhood Organization of such termination and specifying the effective date thereof, at least five (5) working days before the effective date of such termination. In such event, The City shall have the right to copy for its unlimited use, all finished or unfinished documents, data, studies, and reports prepared by the Neighborhood Organization under this Agreement shall, at the option of the Department, become the property of the Department.

 B. Notwithstanding the above, the Neighborhood Organization and Fiscal Sponsor shall not be relieved of liability to the Department for damages sustained by the Department by virtue of any breach of the Agreement by the Neighborhood Organization and Fiscal Sponsor, and the Department may withhold any payments to the Neighborhood Organization and Fiscal Sponsor for the purposes of set off until such time as the exact amount of damages due to the Department from the Fiscal Sponsor is determined. The Fiscal Sponsor will remit any unexpended balance of the payments on account of this Agreement as well as such other portion of such payments previously received as determined by the Department to be due it. The action of the Department in accepting any such amount shall not constitute a waiver of any claim which the Department or City may otherwise have arising out of this Agreement.

 Section 416: Repayment

 In the event that the City terminates this agreement due to misappropriation of funds or fiscal mismanagement, the Fiscal Sponsor shall return to the City all contract funds, which at the time of termination remain in its possession, and, shall pay to the City such funds as the City determines to be due to the City on account of the misappropriation or fiscal mismanagement.

 Section 417: Termination for Convenience of Department

 The Department may terminate this Agreement any time by a notice in writing from the Department to the Neighborhood Organization. If the Agreement is terminated by the Department as provided herein, the Neighborhood Organization will be paid an amount which bears the same ratio to the total compensation as the services actually performed bear to the total services of the Neighborhood Organization covered by this Agreement less payments of compensation previously made.

 Section 418: Termination of Agreement by the Neighborhood Organization

 This Agreement may be terminated by the joint agreement of the Neighborhood Organization upon fifteen (15) days' written notice should the Department fail substantially to perform in accordance with its terms through no fault of the Neighborhood Organization. In the event of termination due to the fault of the Department, the Neighborhood Organization shall be paid compensation for services performed to termination date, including all authorized expenses then due, including expenses directly attributable to the uncompleted portion of the services covered by this Agreement.

 Section 419: Changes

 Either party may request changes in the scope of services, performance, or reporting standards to be performed or provided under this Agreement. Such changes, including any increase or decrease in the amount awarded to the project, which are mutually agreed upon by and between the Neighborhood Organization, Fiscal Sponsor, and the Department, shall be incorporated in written amendments to this Agreement.

 Section 420: Integrated Document

 This Agreement embodies the agreement, terms and conditions between the Department of Neighborhoods, the Neighborhood Organization, and the Fiscal Sponsor. No verbal agreements or conversation with any officer, agent or employee of the Department prior to the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in any documents comprising this Agreement. Any such verbal agreement shall be considered as unofficial information and in no way binding upon either party.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE DEPARTMENT, THE NEIGHBORHOOD ORGANIZATION, AND THE FISCAL SPONSOR HAVE EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT.

 Chairperson of the Board Date

 Pioneer Square Development Organization

 Jim Diers, Director Date

 Department of Neighborhoods

 J:\99NMF\NMF9901a2.doc 12/7/99

 AGREEMENT EXHIBIT 1

 Page 6

 EXHIBIT 1

```
