

********

**Council Bill Number: 113041**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119825**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Police Department, abolishing the position of the Internal Investigations Auditor and replacing the Internal Investigations Auditor with an Office of Professional Accountability Review Board, and amending the Seattle Municipal code Chapter 3.28 including Sections 32.28.600, 3.28.620, 3.28.630, 3.28.640, 3.28.650 and SMC 3.28.660.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 13, 1999
   
**Vote:** 7-2 (No: Conlin, Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 22, 1999
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 22, 1999
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Returned unsigned by the Mayor on December 22, 1999.

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 29, 1999
   
**Committee:** Public Safety, Health & Technology
   
**Sponsor:** PODLODOWSKI
   
   
**Index Terms:** POLICE-DEPARTMENT, INTERNAL-INVESTIGATIONS, AUDITS

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 115975, 118093, 117242

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Police Department, abolishing the position of the Internal Investigations Auditor and replacing the Internal Investigations Auditor with an Office of Professional Accountability Review Board, and amending the Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 3.28 including Sections 3.28.600, 3.28.620, 3.28.630, 3.28.640, 3.28.650 and SMC 3.28.660.

 WHEREAS, on August 19, 1999, a panel of citizens appointed by the Mayor issued its report on employee accountability within the Seattle Police Department and the process used to investigate reports of police misconduct; and

 WHEREAS, after more than three months of investigation, this report concluded that although Seattle has a top-rate Police Department with no evidence of widespread corruption or misconduct, there is still room for improvement; and

 WHEREAS, the report offered a series of recommendations to increase confidence in the Police Department's ability to maintain standards of professional integrity; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council intends to enact those recommendations at the request of the Mayor and Chief of Police; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council further desires accountability and oversight to strengthen the Police Department's confidence among the public, officers and the Council;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 3.28.600 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 115975, is amended as follows:

 3.28.600 ~~Auditor~~Office of Professional Accountability Review Board~~created-Purpose~~.

 There is created an ~~Internal Investigations Auditor (hereinafter "Auditor")~~Office of Professional Accountability Review Board (hereinafter "OPA Review Board")~~with authority~~ to  establish independent review of~~and assess investigations conducted by~~ the Office of Professional Accountability ("OPA")~~and the Internal Investigations Section (or "IIS") of the Police Department; to establish the independent review of the Internal Investigations Section~~ complaint handling process in a manner that will have the confidence of the general public, police officers, and complainants; and to enhance the credibility of the Office of Professional Accountability and the OPA investigation~~internal investigations~~ process. The  OPA Review Board and the OPA Review Board Auditor shall not participate in the management of the day-to-day functions of the Department, which are the responsibility of the Chief of Police.  The OPA Review Board shall consist of three (3) members.  The OPA Review Board shall, subject to City Council consultation and confirmation, and as provided by ordinance, hire a full-time Auditor ("OPA Review Board Auditor") as its staff. The OPA Review Board Auditor shall: report to the OPA Review Board; audit, in accordance with SMC 3.28.630 and SMC 3.28.640, the work of the Office of Professional Accountability as to its handling, processing and investigation of complaints filed with that office; and assist the OPA Review Board in the performance of their duties as provided in this Chapter.

 Section 2. Section 3.28.620 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 115975 and as amended by Ordinance 118093 is further amended as follows:

 3.28.620 Appointment of the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board.

 A. The ~~Mayor~~City Council shall appoint the three (3) members of the OPA Review Board ~~an Auditor, subject to confirmation by the City Council,~~ to provide review and assessment of the investigation of Office of Professional Accountability~~Internal Investigations~~complaints. Each member of the OPA Review Board ~~The Auditor~~ shall serve a term of two (2) years and may be reappointed to ~~two (2)~~ one (1) subsequent two (2) year term ~~s by the Mayor~~by the City Council~~, subject to confirmation by the City Council~~. No individual may serve more than ~~three (3)~~two (2) full two (2) year terms as ~~Auditor))~~an OPA Review Board member. ~~Beginning on January 1, 1998, terms shall begin on January 1st of even-numbered years, and run through December 31st of the following odd-numbered year.~~Should an ~~Auditor~~ OPA Review Board member take office at any time after commencement of a regular term, the expiration of that term shall remain unaffected. ~~The Auditor~~An OPA Review Board member may be removed from office for cause by the ~~Mayor~~Council by filing a statement of reasons for removal ~~with the City Council~~. The ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board members shall be compensated as provided by ordinance or by appropriation in the City's annual budget.

 B. The ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board members should possess the following qualifications and characteristics:

 1. At least one member of the Board shall be a graduate of an accredited law school and a member in good standing of the Washington State Bar Association;  2. A second member of the Board shall have at least five (5) years of experience in criminal justice or related fields;

 3. The third member of the Board shall have significant experience and history in community involvement, and community organizing and outreach;

~~1~~4. A reputation for integrity and professionalism, as well as the ability to maintain a high standard of integrity in the office;

~~2~~5.A commitment to and knowledge of the need for and responsibilities of law enforcement, as well as the need to protect basic constitutional rights of all affected parties;

~~3~~6. A commitment to the statement of purpose and policies in this chapter;

 ((4))7. A history of demonstrated leadership experience and ability;

~~5~~8. The potential for gaining the respect of complainants, departmental personnel, and the citizens of this City;

~~6~~9. The ability to work effectively with the ~~Mayor,~~City Council, ~~City Attorney, Chief of the Department,~~departmental personnel, public agencies, private organizations, and citizens;

~~7~~10. The ability, as shown by previous experience, to work with diverse groups and individuals; and

~~8~~11. The ability to work effectively under pressure.

~~C. In addition to the qualifications and characteristics set forth in subsection B hereinabove, the Auditor shall possess the following qualification: the Auditor must be a graduate of an accredited law school and member in good standing of the Washington State Bar Association and, prior to appointment, have at least five (5) years of experience in the practice of law or in a judicially related field.~~

~~D~~C. The Chief of Police shall cause a thorough background check of nominees for ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board  identified by the ~~Mayor~~Council and shall report the results to the ~~Mayor~~Council.

 Section 3. Section 3.28.630 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 115975 is amended as follows:

 3.28.630 Audit procedures and standards.

 A. Audit of All Investigations of Complaints of Unnecessary or Excessive Force. The OPA Review Board Auditor shall audit all completed ~~Internal Investigations~~OPA case files involving complaints of unnecessary or excessive force. Before a case file involving a complaint of unnecessary or excessive force is referred to the subject officer's chain of command for review and recommendations, and no more than three (3) business days after the ~~Internal Investigations Section~~Office of Professional Accountability has completed its investigation, the Department shall forward a complete copy of the file to the OPA Review Board  Auditor.

 B. ~~Random~~Audit of Investigations of Complaints Not Involving Unnecessary or Excessive Force Allegations. Each calendar year, the  OPA Review Board Auditor shall audit ~~on a random basis approximately twenty percent (20%)~~all of the completed ~~Internal Investigations~~OPA case files involving complaints other than those involving unnecessary or excessive force. The Department shall notify the OPA Review Board Auditor of the completion of case files on a weekly basis. The case file shall be forwarded to the subject officer's chain of command for review and recommendations, if, within ten (10) business days of notification of completion, the OPA Review Board Auditor has not advised the Department s/he will audit the investigation. The OPA Review Board  Auditor may audit a completed case file after referral to the subject employee's chain of command; provided, however, in such instance the OPA Review Board Auditor shall not request follow- up investigation. The frequency of audits under this subsection shall be as determined by the OPA Review Board Auditor; provided, however, audits of completed case files shall take place at unscheduled intervals not to exceed ninety (90) days following initiation of the last audit.

 C. OPA Review Board Auditor May Request Further Investigation. The OPA Review Board Auditor shall use his or her best efforts to complete audits under subsections A and B hereinabove without unreasonably delaying review of the case file by the subject officer's chain of command. After the OPA Review Board Auditor has~~reviewing~~reviewed the file, the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board may request the Office of Professional Accountability~~Internal Investigations Section~~, through the Chief of Police, to conduct further investigation. The ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board shall provide a written statement to the Chief of Police identifying the reasons for ~~his/her~~their request for a follow-up investigation. Criteria the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board should consider includes but is not limited to: (1) whether witnesses were contacted and evidence collected; (2) whether interviews were conducted on a thorough basis; and (3) whether applicable OPA~~IIS~~ procedures were followed. In the event the Chief of Police disagrees with this recommendation, he or she shall within five (5) days provide ~~the Auditor~~OPA Review Board with a written statement of the grounds for this decision.

 D. Secure Temporary Space. The Department shall, upon request of the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board, provide secure temporary space for the OPA Review Board Auditor to conduct the audits close to the records to be reviewed.

 E. Monthly Review of Contact Log and Complaint Records. The OPA Review Board Auditor shall review the ~~Internal Investigations~~OPA contact log and ~~Internal Investigations~~ OPA complaint records at least monthly. If, after reviewing the ~~Internal Investigations~~OPA contact log and ~~Internal Investigations~~OPA complaint records, the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board believes that a contact log complaint should be investigated further, or that a case that has been designated for a line referral should receive a full investigation by the OPA~~Internal Investigations Section~~, the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board may request the OPA~~Internal Investigations Section~~, through the Chief of Police, to conduct a full investigation. The ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board  shall provide a written statement to the Chief of Police identifying the reasons for ~~his/her~~their request for a full investigation. The Chief of Police, or his/her designee, shall consult with the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board regarding the ~~Auditor's~~OPA Review Board's request, and shall promptly advise the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board of the investigative action s/he intends to take.

 F. OPA Review Board Auditor's Access to Records; Restriction on Access When Criminal Investigation Pending; Return of Records.

 1. The OPA Review Board Auditor shall have access to all ~~Internal Investigations Section~~OPA files and records, including but not limited to: ~~Internal Investigation~~OPA  files, line review reports and files, and ~~Internal Investigations~~OPA contact logs, provided, however, the  OPA Review Board Auditor shall not have access to files designated by the ~~Internal Investigations Section~~OPA as relating to an active criminal investigation of an officer until such time as the Department has given the subject officer written notification of the investigation. The ~~IIS Commander~~OPA Director shall provide the OPA Review Board Auditor with quarterly status reports regarding ~~IIS~~OPA cases in which criminal investigations are also being undertaken. These status reports shall include the number of ongoing ~~IIS~~OPA criminal investigations and the month during which each investigation was originated, and the number of new criminal investigations initiated that quarter.

 2. ~~Internal Investigations Section~~OPA files and records made available to the OPA Review Board Auditor are the property of the Police Department and shall not, by operation of this subchapter, become the property of the OPA Review Board or the OPA Review Board Auditor. The OPA Review Board and the OPA Review Board Auditor shall make every reasonable effort to maintain the security of files belonging to the Department while in the OPA Review Board Auditor's possession. Any requests made to the OPA Review Board or the OPA Review Board Auditor for ~~IIS~~ OPA files or records, whether through litigation discovery or pursuant to public disclosure, shall be referred to the Chief of Police for response.

 3. Upon completion of an audit, the OPA Review Board Auditor shall return to the ~~Internal Investigations Section~~OPA all section files, reports, and records to which s/he has been provided access pursuant to these audit procedures and standards. Following completion of an audit, the OPA Review Board Auditor may, however, continue to have access to closed ~~IIS~~OPA  files.

 G. OPA Review Board Auditor Access to Caseload, Workload and Procedural Information. The OPA Review Board Auditor is authorized to request any information on ~~Internal Investigations~~OPA cases, workload, or procedures that s/he finds necessary in order to conduct an ongoing analysis of the Department's ~~Internal Investigations~~OPA process. The Department shall make every reasonable effort to comply with the OPA Review Board Auditor's requests.

 Section 4. Section 3.28.640 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 115975 and as amended by Ordinance117242 is further amended as follows:

 3.28.640 OPA Review Board~~Auditor~~to prepare ~~semiannual~~quarterly report.

 The OPA Review Board~~Auditor~~ shall prepare a ~~semiannual~~quarterly report of ~~his/her~~the OPA Review Board Auditor's~~audit~~ activities. This report shall be forwarded to the ~~Mayor,~~City Council, Chief of Police, City Attorney, Mayor, and City Clerk for filing as a public record. The OPA Review Board's~~Auditor's~~ report shall be prepared in accordance with the following provisions:

A. The OPA Review Board shall review and report on the implementation of the Office of Professional Accountability;  B

~~A~~. The ~~Auditor's~~OPA Review Board's report shall contain a general description of the files and records reviewed, and should include, but not be limited to:

 1. The number of cases reviewed by the OPA Review Board Auditor;

 2. The total number of complaints received by the Office of Professional Accountability;  3. The number of complaints by category and nature of allegation;

 4. The percentage of complaints sustained and not sustained;

 5. The nature of disciplinary action taken in sustained cases;

 6. Patterns of complaints including:

 a. Type of complaint;

 b. Geographic area of complaint;

 c. Race, ethnicity, gender of complainants;

 d. Race, ethnicity, gender, assignment, seniority of officer(s) who is/are subject of complaint;

 7. List of officers who have received three or more sustained complaints within one year;

~~2~~8. The number of follow-up investigations requested by the ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board, the number of follow- up investigations completed by the Department, and the number of follow-up investigation requests denied by the Department;

~~3~~9. The number of contact log cases and line referral cases where the OPA Review Board~~Auditor~~ recommended that full investigations take place, the number of such investigations completed by the Department, and the number of follow-up investigation requests denied by the Department;

~~4~~10. A summary of issues, problems and trends noted by the OPA Review Board ~~Auditor~~ as a result of  their~~his/her~~review;

~~5~~11. Any recommendations that the Department consider additional officer training, including recommendations that the Department consider specialized training for ~~IIS~~ investigators; ~~and~~

~~6~~12. Any recommendations the Department consider policy or procedural changes;~~.~~ and

13. Review of OPA Director's involvement in community outreach to inform citizens of the complaint process and the OPA's role.  C.

~~B.~~The ~~Auditor's~~OPA Review Board's report shall not contain any recommendations concerning the discipline of any particular police officer, nor shall the report comment upon or make any recommendation concerning potential civil or criminal liability of specific employees, police officers, or citizens.

~~C. The Auditor shall deliver a preliminary draft of his/her semiannual report to the Chief of Police for review and comment. The Chief of Police shall review and comment on the preliminary report within twenty (20) days after receipt of the report. The Auditor shall submit the final report within thirty (30) days after receipt of the Chief's comments. The Auditor's final report shall be submitted no later than the thirtieth day of April and October of each year.~~

D. The OPA Review Board's report shall be forwarded to the President of the City Council and the Chair of the City Council's Public Safety Committee no later than the thirtieth day of March, June, September and December of each year.  E.

~~D.~~The ~~Chief of Police~~OPA Review Board shall forward to the Mayor, ~~City Council,~~ City Attorney, and the City Clerk ~~within twenty (20) working days of receipt of the Auditor's final report the Chief's written comments on the report~~the report no later than the thirtieth day of March, June, September and December of each year.

 Section 5. Section 3.28.650 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 115975 is amended as follows:

 3.28.650 ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board to meet with ~~Mayor,~~City Council ~~, and~~Chief of Police

.

 The ~~Auditor~~OPA Review Board shall present their report quarterly to the City Council~~meet periodically with the Mayor, City Council, and the Chief of Police regarding recommendations to improve the IIS investigative process within the framework of applicable law and labor agreements~~.

 Section 6. Section 3.28.660 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as adopted by Ordinance 115975 is amended as follows:

 3.28.660 Confidentiality of files and records.

 In discharging his or her responsibilities, the OPA Review Board members and the OPA Review Board Auditor shall protect the confidentiality of Department files and records to which ~~s/he has~~they have been provided access in the same manner and to the same degree ~~as s/he~~they would be obligated to protect attorney-client privileged materials under legal and ethical requirements. The OPA Review Board and the OPA Review Board Auditor shall also be bound by the confidentiality provisions of the Criminal Records Privacy Act (RCW Chapter 10.97) and Public Disclosure Act (RCW Section 42.17.250 et seq.). The OPA Review Board and the OPA Review Board Auditor shall not identify the identity of the subject of an investigation in any public report required by this chapter.

 Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 1999, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 1999. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 19____. ___________________________________ City Clerk 12/13/99 V #1

```
