

********

**Council Bill Number: 113163**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119972**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.41.006, 23.41.012, 23.50.012, 23.50.014, 23.50.026, 23.50.027, and 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code; adding a new Chapter 23.74 to the Seattle Municipal Code and amending the Official Land Use Map to establish a Stadium Transition Area Overlay District; and amending the Downtown Design Guidelines to include provisions for that District, implementing the adopted neighborhood plan for the Greater Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 12, 2000
   
**Vote:** 8-1 (No: Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 16, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 16, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 17, 2000
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Sustainability and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, ZONING, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT, ARENAS-AND-STADIUMS, DUWAMISH-WATERWAY, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, URBAN-DESIGN, DESIGN-REVIEW, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 117221, 119490, 118980, 119837, 119370, 118794, 119399

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ___________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, amending Sections 23.41.004, 23.41.006, 23.41.012, 23.50.012, 23.50.014, 23.50.026, 23.50.027, and 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code; adding a new Chapter 23.74 to the Seattle Municipal Code and amending the Official Land Use Map to establish a Stadium Transition Area Overlay District; and amending the Downtown Design Guidelines to include provisions for that District, implementing the adopted neighborhood plan for the Greater Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center.

 WHEREAS, on July 25, 1994, by Ordinance 117221, the City Council adopted the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, which includes a neighborhood planning element; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to that neighborhood planning element, the Greater Duwamish Planning Committee developed a plan for the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center; and

 WHEREAS, the Greater Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center Neighborhood Plan proposed the creation of a Stadium Transition Area Overlay District, and the restriction of some non-industrial uses within the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center; and

 WHEREAS, this ordinance creates a Stadium Transition Area Overlay District, and all the properties located within that area meet the criteria for rezoning to IC and inclusion in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District; and

 WHEREAS, the Council has adopted policies recognizing the importance of freight mobility in the Duwamish Manufacturing/ Industrial Center and expects that development proposals in the Stadium Transition Area will be rigorously analyzed for their impact on freight mobility and will be subject to appropriate transportation management measures to limit congestion that might otherwise be created by private automobiles; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council encourages innovative proposals to further the City's goals and policies, and if such proposals would require further modification of development standards and/or use provisions, the City Council encourages submission of petitions for changes on properties within the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District; and

 WHEREAS, the properties east of Fourth Avenue South known as "Area H" in the proposal for inclusion in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District do not meet criteria for inclusion in the District but merit additional study for potential rezoning, which should be undertaken by the Executive; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the land use code changes established by this ordinance will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public;

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 23.41.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119490, is amended as follows:

 23.41.004 Applicability.

 A. Design Review Required.

 1. Design review is required for any new multifamily or commercial structure that exceeds SEPA thresholds if the structure:

 a. Is located in one (1) of the following zones:

 i. Lowrise (L3, L4),

 ii. Midrise (MR),

 iii. Highrise (HR),

 iv. Neighborhood Commercial (NC1, 2, 3), or

 v. Seattle Cascade Mixed (SCM); or

 b. Is located in a Commercial (C1 or C2) zone, and

 i. The proposed structure is located within an urban village area identified in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan, or

 ii. The site of the proposed structure abuts or is directly across a street or alley from any lot zoned single-family, or

 iii. The proposed structure is located in the area bounded by NE 95th Street on the south, NE 145th Street on the north, 15th Ave NE on the west, and Lake Washington on the east.

 2. Design review is required for all new Major Institution structures that~~which~~exceed SEPA thresholds in the zones listed in subsection A1 of this section, unless the structure is located within a Major Institution Overlay (MIO) District.

 3. Downtown~~,~~ design review is required for all new multifamily and commercial structures greater than or equal to the following thresholds:

 DOC 1 and DOC 2 Zones

 Use Threshold

 Nonresidential 50,000 square feet of

 gross floor area

 Residential 20 dwelling units

 DRC, DMC, DMR, DH1, DH2

 Use Threshold

 Nonresidential 20,000 square feet of

 gross floor area

 Residential 20 dwelling units

 4. Design review is required for all new structures exceeding one hundred and twenty (120) feet in width on any single street frontage in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District, as shown in Exhibit 23.41.006A.

5. New multifamily or commercial structures in the zones listed in subsection A1 of this section, that are subject to SEPA solely as a result of the provisions of ~~SMC~~ Section 25.05.908, Environmentally ~~c~~Critical ~~a~~A reas, are exempt from design review.

 B. Design Review - Optional.

 1. Design review is optional to any applicant for new multifamily, commercial or Major Institution structures not otherwise subject to this chapter, in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District and  in all multifamily, commercial or downtown zones.

 2. An administrative design review process is an option to an applicant for new multifamily, or commercial structures, if the structure would not exceed SEPA thresholds, in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District and in multifamily, commercial or downtown zones, according to the process described in Section 23.41.016.

 * * *

 Section 2. Existing Exhibit 23.41.006A of Section 23.41.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118980, is repealed.

 Section 3. Section 23.41.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118980, is amended and a new Exhibit 23.41.006A is added, as follows:

 23.41.006 Design Review Districts Map

 For the purposes of design review, the ~~c~~City shall be divided into seven (7) districts, as depicted on the Design Review  Districts Map, [Exhibit 23.41.006A](/~ordpics/113163b.gif).

 Section 4. Subsection B of SMC Section 23.41.012, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119837, is further amended as follows:

 23.41.012 Development standard departures.

 ***

 B. Departures may be granted from the following requirements:

 1. Structure width and depth limits;

 2. Setback requirements;

 3. Modulation requirements;

 4. SCM zone facade~~facade~~requirements, including transparency and blank facade ~~facade~~ provisions;

 5. Design, location and access to parking requirements;

 6. Open space or common recreation area requirements;

 7. Lot coverage limits;

 8. Screening and landscaping requirements;

 9. Standards for the location and design of nonresidential uses in mixed use buildings;

 10. Within Urban Centers, in L3 zones only, the pitched roof of a structure, as provided in Section 23.45.009 C, may incorporate additional height of up to twenty (20) percent of the maximum height permitted, as provided in Section 23.45.009 A, subject to the following limitations:

 a. A pitched roof may not incorporate the additional height if the structure is on a site abutting or across a street or alley from a single-family residential zone,

 b. The proposed structure must be compatible with the general development potential anticipated within the zone,

 c. The additional height must not substantially interfere with views from up-slope properties, and

 d. No more than one (1) project on one (1) site within each Urban Center may incorporate additional height in the pitched roofs of its structures pursuant to this subsection unless development regulations enacted pursuant to a neighborhood planning process allow other projects to incorporate such additional height;

 11. Downtown or Stadium Transition Overlay Area District street facade requirements;

 12. Downtown upper-level development standards;

 13. Downtown coverage and floor size limits;

 14. Downtown maximum wall dimensions;

 15. Downtown street level use requirements; and

 16. Combined coverage of all rooftop features in downtown zones subject to the limitations in Section 23.49.008 C2.

 Section 5. Subsection A of Section 23.50.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is amended as follows:

 23.50.012 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 A. All uses shall be either permitted outright, prohibited or permitted as a conditional use according to Chart A. (See Chart A for Section 23.50.012.)

 Industrial Zone Uses Chart A For Section 23.50.012

 Uses Zones

 I. Manufacturing. IB IC IG1 and IG1 in the IG2 in IG2 Duwamish the (general) M/I Center Duwamish M/I Center

 A. Light manufacturing P P P P P

 B. General manufacturing P P P P P

 C. Heavy manufacturing CU X or CU1 P or CU2 P P

 II. High-impact Uses. X X or CU3 X or CU4 X or CU4 X or CU4

 III. Commercial.

 A. Retail sales and service

 1 Personal and household sales and services P P P P P

 2 Medical services P/CU5 P/CU5 P/CU5 P/CU5 P/CU5

 3 Animal services

 a. Animal health P P P P P services

 b. Kennel X P P P P

 c. Animal control shelter P P P P P

 4 Automotive retail sales and service P P P P P

 5 Marine retail sales and service P P P P P

 6 Eating and drinking establishment

 a. Fast-food restaurants over 750 square feet CU CU CU P P

 b. Fast-food restaurants under 750 square feet P P P P P

 c. Restaurants with or without cocktail lounges P P P P P

 d. Tavern P P P P P

 e. Brewpub P P P P P

 7 Lodging CU CU CU X X

 8 Mortuary service P P P X X

 III. Commercial (continued). IB IC IG1 and IG1 in the IG2 in IG2 Duwamish the (general) M/I Center Duwamish M/I Center

 9 Existing cemeteries P P P P P

 10 New cemeteries X X X X X

 B. Principal use parking, surface area or garage P P P X X

 C. Nonhousehold sales and services P P P P P

 D. Office P P P P P

 E. Entertainment

 1 Places of public assembly

 a. Performing arts theater P P P X X

 b. Spectator sports facility P P P X6 X6

 c. Lecture and meeting halls P P P P P

 d. Motion picture theater P P P X X

 e. Motion picture theater, adult X X X X X

 f. Adult panorams X X X X X

 2 Participant sports and recreation

 a. Indoor P P P X P

 b. Outdoor P P P X P

 F. Wholesale Showroom P P P P P

 G. Mini-warehouse P P P X P

 H. Warehouse P P P P P

 I. Outdoor Storage P P P P P

 III. Commercial (continued). IB IC IG1 and IG1 in the IG2 in IG2 Duwamish the (general) M/I Center Duwamish M/I Center

 J. Transportation Facilities

 1 Personal transportation services P P P P P

 2 Passenger terminal P P P P P

 3 Cargo terminal P P P P P

 4 Transit vehicle base CU CU CU CU CU

 5 Helistop CCU CCU CCU Ccu CCU

 6 Heliport X CCU CCU Ccu CCU

 7 Airport, land-based X CCU CCU Ccu CCU

 8 Airport, water-based X CCU CCU Ccu CCU

 9 Railroad switchyard P P P P P

 10 Railroad switch yard with mechanized hump mechanized hump X X CU CU CU

 K. Food processing and craft P P P P P work

 L. Research and P P P P P development laboratory

 IV. Salvage and Recycling.

 A. Recycling collection P P P P P station

 B. Recycling center P P P P P

 C. Salvage yard X X P P P

 V. Utilities.

 A. Utility services use P P P P P

 B. Major communication CU CU CU CU CU utility((6))7

 C. Minor communication P P P P P utility((6))7

 D. Solid waste transfer X CU CU CU CU station

 V. Utilities (continued) IB IC IG1 and IG1 in the IG2 in IG2 Duwamish the (general) M/I Center Duwamish M/I Center

 E. Power plant X CCU P P P

 F. Sewage treatment plant X CCU CCU CCU CCU

 G. Solid waste incineration facility X CCU CCU CCU CCU

 H. Solid waste landfills X X X X X

 VI. Institutions.

 A. Institute for advanced P P P X X study

 B. Private clubs EB EB EB X X

 C. Child care center P P P P P

 D. Museum EB EB EB X8 X8

 E. School, elementary or EB EB EB X X secondary

 F. College EB EB EB X9 X9

 G. Community center EB EB EB P P

 H. Community club EB EB EB X P

 I. Vocational or fine arts P P P P P school

 J. Hospital EB EB CU((8)) P P 10

 K. Religious facility EB EB EB P P

 L. University EB EB EB X9 X9

 Uses Zones

 VI. Institutions (continued) IB IC IG1 and IG1 in the IG2 in IG2 Duwamish the (general) M/I Center Duwamish M/I Center

 M. Major institutions, subject to the provisions of EB EB EB EB EB Chapter 23.69

 VII. Public Facilities.

 A Jails X X X X X

 B. Work-release centers X X X X X

 C. Other public facilities P/CCU11 P/CCU11 P/CCU11 P/CCU11 P/CCU11

 VIII. Park and Pool/Ride Lots.

 A. Park and pool lots P((7)) P((7))12 P((7))12 CU CU 12

 B. Park and ride lots CU CU CU CU CU

 IX. Residential.

 A. Single-family dwelling X X X X X units

 B. Multi-family structures X X X X X

 C. Congregate residences X X X X X

 D. Adult family homes X X X X X

 E. Floating homes X X X X X

 F. Mobile home park X X X X X

 G. Nursing homes X X X X X

 H. Artist's studio/dwelling EB/CU EB/CU EB/CU EB/CU EB/CU

 I. Caretaker's quarters P P P P P

 P = Permitted

 X = Prohibited

 CU = Administrative conditional use

 CCU = Council conditional use

 EB = Permitted only in a building existing on October 5, 1987.

 1

 The Heavy Manufacturing uses listed in subsection B9~~B10~~ of Section 23.50.014 may be permitted as a conditional use. All other Heavy Manufacturing uses are prohibited.

 2

 Heavy Manufacturing uses may be permitted as a conditional use within the Queen Anne Interbay area as provided at subsection C of Section 23.50.014.

 3

 The High-Impact uses listed at subsection B10 of Section 23.50.014 may be permitted as conditional uses.

 4

 High-Impact 1 uses may be permitted as a conditional use as provided at subsection B5 of Section 23.50.014.

 5

 Medical service uses over ten thousand (10,000) square feet, within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of a medical Major Institution overlay district boundary, shall require administrative conditional use approval, unless included in an adopted major institution master Plan or located in a Downtown zone. See Section 23.50.014.

 6

Parking required for a spectator sports facility or exhibition hall is allowed and shall be permitted to be used for general parking purposes or shared with another such facility to meet its required parking. A spectator sports facility or exhibition hall within the Stadium Transition Overlay Area District may reserve parking. Such reserved, non-required, parking is allowed, shall be permitted to be used for general parking purposes, and is exempt from the maximum parking ratio applicable in that Overlay District, if  (a) the parking is owned and operated by the owner of the spectator sports facility or exhibition hall, and

 (b) the parking is reserved for events in the spectator sports facility or exhibition hall, and

 (c) the reserved parking is outside of the Stadium Transition Overlay Area District, and is south of South Royal Brougham Way, west of 6th Avenue South and north of South Atlantic Street.

 Parking that is provided to meet required parking will not be considered reserved parking.

~~6~~ 7

 See Chapter 23.57 for regulation of major and minor communication utilities and accessory communication devices.

8

Museums are prohibited except in buildings or structures that are designated City of Seattle landmarks.

9

Training facilities for industrial trades operated by colleges and universities are permitted.

~~8~~10

 Hospitals may be permitted as a conditional use where accessory to a research and development laboratory or an institute for advanced study ~~as provided by subsection B15 of~~pursuant to Section 23.50.014 B15, Conditional Uses.

11

See Section 23.50.012C.

~~7~~ 12

 Park and pool lots are not permitted within three thousand (3,000) feet of the ~~d~~Downtown Urban Center.

 Section 6. Subsection B of Section 23.50.014 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118794, is amended as follows:

 23.50.014 Conditional uses.

 * * *

 B. Administrative Conditional Uses. The following uses, identified as administrative conditional uses in Chart A, may be permitted by the Director when the provisions of this subsection and subsection A of this section are met.

 1. Artist's studio/dwellings in an existing structure may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones, except as provided in the Shoreline District, Chapter 23.60, upon showing that the occupant is a bonafide working artist, and subject to the following criteria:

 a. Artist's studio/dwellings shall generally be discouraged along arterials such as freeways, state routes and freight lines;

 b. Artist's studio/dwellings shall not be allowed in areas where existing industrial uses may cause environmental or safety problems;

 c. Artist's studio/dwellings shall not be located where they may restrict or disrupt industrial activity;

 d. The nature of the artist's work shall be such that there is a genuine need for the space; and

 e. The owner(s) of a building seeking a conditional use for artist's studio/dwellings must sign and record a covenant and equitable servitude, on a form acceptable to the Director, that acknowledges that the owner(s) and occupants of the building accept the industrial character of the neighborhood and agree that existing or permitted industrial uses do not constitute a nuisance or other inappropriate or unlawful use of land. Such covenant and equitable servitude must state that it is binding on the owner(s)' successors, heirs, and assigns, including any lessees of the artist's studio/dwellings.

 2. Park-and-pool lots in IG1 and IG2 zones in the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center, and ~~P~~park-and-ride lots ~~may be permitted as a conditional use~~ in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones may be permitted as a conditional use according to the following criteria:

 a. The ~~park-and-ride~~ lot shall not create conflict with industrial activity by causing significant additional traffic to circulate through the area;

 b. The ~~park-and-ride~~ lot has direct vehicular access to a designated arterial improved to City standards;

 c. The ~~park-and-ride~~ lot shall be located on an existing parking area unless no reasonable alternative exists;

 d. If the proposed ~~park-and-ride~~ lot is located on a lot containing accessory parking for other uses, there shall be no substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the ~~park-and-ride~~ lot and the other uses; and

 e. The ~~park-and-ride~~ lot is not located within three thousand (3,000) feet of the~~d~~ Downtown Urban Center.

 3. Except in the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center, ~~L~~ lodging may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:

 a. The use is designed primarily to serve users in the industrial area; and

 b. The use is designed and located to minimize conflicts with industrial uses in the area.

 4. A residential use not otherwise permitted in the zone may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones within a structure designated as a Landmark, pursuant to the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 25.12, Landmarks Preservation, or within a structure in a Landmark District, pursuant to the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapters 25.16, Ballard Avenue Landmark District, or Chapter 25.28, Pioneer Square Historical District, subject to the following criteria:

 a. The use shall be compatible with the historic or landmark character of the structure. The Director shall request a determination regarding compatibility by the respective Board having jurisdiction over the structure or lot;

 b. The residential use shall not restrict or disrupt industrial activity in the zone; and

 c. The surrounding uses would not be detrimental to occupants of the Landmark structure.

 5. High Impact 1 uses may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), and General Industrial 2 (IG2) zones, according to the following criteria:

 a. The lot is located so that large concentrations of people, particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to unreasonable adverse impacts;

 b. A management plan may be required. The Director may determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable impacts and/or the scale of the effects. Discussion of materials handling and storage, odor control, transportation and other factors may be required.

 6. A new railroad switchyard with a mechanized hump, or the expansion of such a use beyond the lot occupied at the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this section may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1) and General Industrial 2 (IG2) zones, according to the following criteria:

 a. The lot is located so that large concentrations of people, particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to unreasonable adverse impacts;

 b. Measures to minimize the impacts of noise, light and glare, and other measures to insure the compatibility of the use with the surrounding area and to mitigate adverse impacts shall be incorporated into the design and operation of the facility.

 7. Solid waste transfer stations may be permitted as a conditional use in General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:

 a. Measures to minimize potential odor emissions and airborne pollutants shall be determined in consultation with the Puget Sound Air Pollution Control Agency (PSAPCA). These measures shall be incorporated into the design and operation of the facility;

 b. Measures to maximize control of rodents, birds and other vectors shall be determined in consultation with the Seattle/King County Department of Public Health. These measures shall be incorporated into the design and operation of the facility;

 c. A transportation plan may be required. The Director shall determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan such as estimated trip generation, access routes and surrounding area traffic counts, based on the probable impacts and/or scale of the proposed facility; and

 d. Measures to minimize other impacts are incorporated into the design and operation of the facility.

 8. Heavy Manufacturing uses may be permitted in the Industrial Buffer (IB) zone as a conditional use according to the following criteria:

 a. The use shall be located within an enclosed building except for shipbuilding;

 b. The hours of operation for all processes creating any adverse impacts on residentially or commercially zoned land may be limited;

 c. Truck and service traffic associated with the heavy manufacturing use shall be directed away from streets serving lots in nonindustrial zones;

 d. The infrastructure of the area shall be capable of accommodating the traffic generated by the proposed use; and

 e. The use shall not produce sustained or recurrent vibrations exceeding 0.002 g acceleration as measured on lots in nonindustrial zones.

 9. The Heavy Manufacturing uses listed in subsection 9a below may be permitted in the Industrial Commercial (IC) zone as a conditional use according to criteria contained in subsection 9b.

 a. Uses.

 (1) Mass production of commercial or recreational vessels of any size and the production of vessels up to one hundred and twenty (120) feet in length, constructed to individual specifications; and

 (2) Manufacturing of electrical components, such as semiconductors and circuit boards, using chemical processes such as etching or metal coating; and

 (3) Production of industrial organic and inorganic chemicals, and soaps and detergents.

 b. Criteria.

 (1) Except for shipbuilding, the use shall be located within an enclosed building;

 (2) The hours of operation for all processes creating any impacts on residentially or commercially zoned land may be limited;

 (3) Truck and service traffic associated with the heavy manufacturing use shall be directed away from streets serving lots in nonindustrial zones;

 (4) The infrastructure of the area shall be capable of accommodating the traffic generated by the proposed use;

 (5) The use shall not produce sustained or recurrent vibrations exceeding 0.002g acceleration as measured on lots in nonindustrial zones;

 (6) The finished product as packaged for sale or distribution shall be in such a form that product handling and shipment does not constitute a significant public health risk; and

 (7) The nature of the materials produced and/or the scale of manufacturing operations may be limited in order to minimize the degree and severity of risks to public health and safety.

 10. The High Impact uses listed in subsection 10a below may be permitted as conditional uses in the Industrial Commercial (IC) zone according to the criteria contained in subsection 10b below.

 a. Uses.

 (1) The manufacture of Group A hazardous materials, except Class A or B explosives; and

 (2) The manufacture of Group B hazardous materials, when the hazardous materials are present in quantities greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds of solids, two hundred seventy- five (275) gallons of liquids, or one thousand (1,000) cubic feet of gas at any time.

 b. Criteria.

 (1) The lot is located so that large concentrations of people, particularly in residential and commercial areas, are not exposed to unreasonable adverse impacts;

 (2) A management plan may be required. The Director may determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable impacts and/or the scale of the effects. Discussion of materials handling and storage, odor control, transportation and other factors may be required;

 (3) The finished product as packaged for sale or distribution shall be in such a form that product handling and shipment does not constitute a significant public health risk; and

 (4) The nature of the materials produced and/or the scale of manufacturing operations may be limited in order to minimize the degree and severity of risks to public health and safety.

 11. Fast-food restaurants that~~which~~have a gross floor area greater than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet are identified as heavy traffic generators and, where not permitted outright, may be permitted as a conditional use in the General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:

 a. The Director may require that the applicant prepare an analysis of traffic, circulation, and parking impacts and demonstrate that the use will not:

 (1) Cause significant additional traffic to circulate through nearby residential neighborhoods,

 (2) Disrupt the pedestrian flow of an area by significantly increasing the potential for pedestrian-vehicle conflicts,

 (3) Create traffic or access problems which may require the expenditure of City funds to mitigate,

 (4) Interfere with peak-hour transit operations by causing auto traffic to cross a designated high-occupancy vehicle lane adjacent to the lot, or

 (5) Cause cars waiting to use the facility to queue across the sidewalk or onto the street;

 b. Appropriate litter-control measures are provided.

 12. Transit vehicle bases may be permitted as a conditional use in the General Industrial 1 (IG1), General Industrial 2 (IG2), Industrial Buffer (IB) and Industrial Commercial (IC) zones according to the following criteria:

 a. The amount of industrial land occupied by the facility shall be minimized. To avoid disruption of the industrial function of the area, the presence of the facility shall not obstruct the operation or likely expansion of existing industrial uses;

 b. The location of the facility shall not result in significant displacement of viable industrial uses or support activities;

 c. The amount of land occupied by the facility that has access to industrial shorelines or major rail facilities shall be minimized; and

 d. A transportation plan may be required to prevent conflicts with nearby industrial uses. The Director shall determine the level of detail to be disclosed in the plan based on the probable impacts and/or scale of the proposed facility.

 13. Development of a medical service use over ten thousand (10,000) square feet, outside but within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of a medical Major Institution overlay district boundary, shall be subject to administrative conditional use approval, unless included in an adopted master plan. In making a determination whether to approve or deny medical service use, the Director shall determine whether an adequate supply of industrially zoned land will continue to exist. The following factors shall be used in making this determination:

 a. Whether the amount of medical service use development existing and proposed in the vicinity would reduce the current viability or significantly impact the longer-term potential of the manufacturing or heavy commercial character of the industrial area; and

 b. Whether medical service use development would displace existing manufacturing or heavy commercial uses or usurp vacant land, in areas with parcels particularly suited for manufacturing or heavy commercial uses.

 14. A nonconforming use may be converted by an administrative conditional use authorization to a use not otherwise permitted in the zone based on the following factors:

 a. New uses shall be limited to those first permitted in the next more intensive zone;

 b. The Director shall evaluate the relative impacts of size, parking, traffic, light, glare, noise, odor and similar impacts of the two (2) uses, and how these impacts could be mitigated;

 c. The Director must find that the new nonconforming use is no more detrimental to property in the zone and vicinity than the existing nonconforming use.

 15. An accessory hospital facility may be permitted as a conditional use according to the following criteria:

 a. The hospital facility is an integral element of a research and development laboratory or an institute for advanced study to which it is accessory; and

 b. The hospital use shall not be allowed in areas where industrial activity may adversely affect hospital activity.

 Section 7. Subsection A of SMC Section 23.50.026, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 113658, is amended as follows:

 23.50.026 Structure height in IC zones

 A. Except for the provisions of Section 23.50.020, and except as may be otherwise provided in this title for any overlay district,  the maximum structure height for all uses shall be thirty (30) feet, forty-five (45) feet, sixty-five (65) feet,~~or~~ eighty- five (85) feet, or one hundred twenty-five (125) feet, as designated on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32. Only areas in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District abutting the PSM 85/120 zone may be designated for a height limit of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet.

 Section 8. Section 23.50.027 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is amended as follows:

 23.50.027 Maximum size of nonindustrial use.

 A. Applicability.

 1. Except as provided in subsections B,C, andDof this section below, the maximum size of use limits specified in Chart A or Chart B of this section shall apply to uses on a lot, and the total gross floor area occupied by uses limited under Chart A or Chart B of this section shall not exceed an area equal to the area of the lot in an IG1 zone, or two and one-half (2.5) times the area of the lot in an IG2, IB or IC zone, or three (3) times the lot area in IC zones in the South Lake Union Planning Area, as identified in Exhibit 23.50.028 A, with sixty-five (65) foot or eighty-five (85) foot height limits. The size of use limits apply to principal and accessory uses on a lot. The limits shall be applied separately to ~~the two (2)~~each category~~ies~~ of use listed in Chart A or Chart B of this section.

 2. The maximum size of use limits shall not apply to the area identified in Exhibit 23.50.027 A, provided that no single retail establishment shall exceed fifty thousand (50,000) square feet in size.

 CHART A

 INDUSTRIAL ZONES

 (Except those covered by Chart B)

 Categories of Uses

 Subject to Size of IG2

 Use Limits IG1 and IB IC

 Retail sales and service 30,000 75,000 75,000

 or entertainment except sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft.

 spectator sports facilities

 Office 50,000 100,000 N.M.S.L.

 sq. ft. sq. ft.

 _________

 N.M.S.L. = No Maximum Size Limits

CHART B

 GENERAL

INDUSTRIAL ZONES

Categories of Uses WITHIN DUWAMISH M/I CENTER

Subject to Size of

Use LimitsIG1IG2

Office uses50,000 sq. ft. 100,000 sq. ft.

Retail sales and service

(except for restaurants,

fast-food restaurants over

750 sq. ft., taverns and

brew pubs)25,00050,000

sq. ft.sq. ft.

Restaurants and fast-food

restaurants over 750 sq. ft. 5,0005,000

sq. ft.sq. ft.

Taverns and brew pubs*3,0003,000

sq. ft.sq. ft.

Meeting HallsN.M.S.L.5,000 sq. ft.

 _______

 N.M.S.L. = No Maximum Size Limits

* The maximum size limit for brew pubs applies to that portion of the pub that is not used for brewing purposes.

 B. The following exceptions to the maximum size of use limits in Chart A are allowed for a structure existing as of April 3, 1995 ; and the following exceptions to maximum size of use limits in Char t B are allowed for a structure existing as of September 1, 1999 in the Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center:

 1. A use legally established as of April 3, 1995 that~~which~~ already exceeds the maximum size of use limits listed in Chart Amay continue; and uses legally established as of September 1, 1999 that then exceeded the maximum size of use limits listed in Chart B may continue.

 2. The gross floor area of a use listed in Chart A and legally established as of April 3, 1995 may be converted to another category of use listed in Chart A provided that the combined gross floor area devoted to uses listed in Chart A does not exceed the total gross floor area of such uses legally established as of April 3, 1995; and the gross floor area of a use listed in Chart B and legally established as of September 1, 1999 may be converted to another category of use listed in Chart B provided that the combined gross floor area devoted to uses listed in Chart B does not exceed the total gross floor area of such uses legally established as of September 1, 1999.

3. If fifty (50) percent or more of the gross floor area of the structure has been legally established as of April 3, 1995 with a use or uses listed in Chart A, those categories of uses may exceed the size of use limits as follows:

 a. Uses listed in Chart Amay expand within and occupy the entire structure.

 b. The structure may be expanded by up to the following amounts and the use or uses may be permitted to expand within and occupy the entire structure:

 (1) IG1 Zone: Twenty (20) percent of the existing structure's gross floor area or ten thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is less.

 (2) IG2, IB and IC Zones: Twenty (20) percent of the existing structure's gross floor area or twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, whichever is less.

4. If fifty (50) percent or more of the gross floor area of the structure has been legally established as of September 1, 1999 with a use or uses listed in Chart B, those categories of uses may exceed the size of use limits as follows:  a. Uses listed in Chart B may expand within and occupy the entire structure.

 b. The structure may be expanded by up to the following amounts and the use or uses may be permitted to expand within and occupy the entire structure:

 (1) IG1 Zone: Twenty (20) percent of the existing structure's gross floor area or ten thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is less.

 (2) IG2 Zone: Twenty (20) percent of the existing structure's gross floor area or twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, whichever is less.

C. Special Exception for Office Use in All Industrial Zones.

 1. The Director may permit an office use to exceed the size of use limits as a special exception pursuant to Chapter 23.76, Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions, provided that the total gross floor area devoted to the uses limited in Chart A or Chart B, as applicable, shall not exceed an area equal to the area of the lot in an IG1 zone or two and one-half (2.5) times the area of the lot in an IG2 or IB zone. Such an exception may be considered only if:

 a. The office is on the same lot as, and accessory to, a permitted use not listed in Chart A or Chart B, as applicable; or

 b. The office is a principal use on the same lot as, or on another lot within one (1) mile ~~distance~~ of, a permitted use not listed in Chart A or Chart B, as applicable, and is directly related to and supportive of that use.

 2. The Director shall use the following characteristics to determine whether to approve, approve with conditions or deny a special exception:

 a. Characteristics that make a lot more appropriate for office uses are:

 (1) The presence of well-defined boundaries, buffers, edge conditions or circulation patterns which separate office uses from industrial activity;

 (2) The likelihood that the proposed use will provide or encourage improvements that will directly support industrial activity in the area;

 (3) The likelihood that the proposed use, because of its type, size and location, will operate without substantial conflicts with the industrial function of the area;

 (4) A sufficiently large industrial area such that the proposed use would not undermine the area's industrial character.

 b. Characteristics that make a lot less appropriate for office uses are:

 (1) The presence of heavy industrial uses which would conflict with office use;

 (2) The presence of any special features, such as access to the water, rail and the regional highway systems, which make the land especially well-suited to industrial use.

 D. Covered rooftop recreational space of a building existing as of December 31, 1998, when complying with the provisions of Section 23.50.012 D, shall not be subject to the limits on maximum size of nonindustrial uses contained in subsection A of this section above.

 Section 9. Subsection A and Chart A of Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119715, are amended as follows:

 23.54.015 Required parking.

 A. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for specific uses shall be based upon gross floor area, unless otherwise specified, as set forth in Chart A, except for uses located in downtown zones, which are regulated by Section 23.49.016, and Major Institution uses, which are regulated by Section 23.54.016. (See Chart A for Section 23.54.015.)

Minimum parking requirements for uses in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District to which a maximum parking ratio applies shall be reduced to the extent necessary, if any, to allow compliance with the maximum parking ratio as it applies to all such uses on the same lot.  If floor area of a use for which parking is required is added to a lot for which one or more minimum parking ratios has been reduced under the previous sentence, or if the floor area of any such existing uses on such a lot are modified, or both, then any reductions in minimum required parking ratios shall be adjusted so that the total of all reductions in required parking for uses on that lot is the amount necessary to permit compliance with the applicable maximum parking ratio.

 Use Parking Requirements

 Adult care center1 1 space for each 10 adults (clients) or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 adults (clients).

 Adult family home 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Adult motion picture theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Adult panoram 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Airport, land-based (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Airport, water-based (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Animal services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Animal husbandry (retail area only) 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Aquaculture (retail area only) 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Artist's studio/dwelling 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Assisted living facility2 1 for each 4 assisted living units plus 1 for each 2 staff members on-site at peak staffing time; plus 1 barrier-free passenger loading and unloading space; plus loading berth requirements per Section 23.54.035.

 Automotive parts or accessory sales 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Ball courts 1 per court.

 Bed and breakfast 1 for each dwelling, plus 1 for each 2 guest rooms or suites.

 Bowling alley 5 for each lane.

 Brewpub 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Business support services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Business incubators 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Carwash 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Caretaker's quarters 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Cargo terminal 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Cemetery None.

 Child care center1,9 1 space for each 10 children or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 children.

 Colleges1 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Commercial laundries 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Commercial moorage 1 for each 140 lineal feet of moorage.

 Communication utilities 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Community centers1, 2 and 1 for each 80 square feet of floor community clubs1, 2 area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or 1 for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Community centers owned and operated 1 for each 555 square feet by the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR)1, 2, 3

 Congregate residences 1 for each 4 residents.

 Construction services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Custom and craft work 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Dance halls (dance floor and table 1 for each 100 square feet. area)

 Dry storage of boats 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Family support centers located in 1 for each 100 square feet. community centers owned and operated by the Seattle DOPAR3

 Floating homes 1 for each dwelling unit.

 Food processing for human consumption 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Gas station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 General retail sales and services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Ground-floor businesses in None, maximum of 10. multi-family zones

 Heavy commercial services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Heliports (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 High-impact uses. 1 for each 1,500 square feet or as determined by the Director

 Horticultural uses (retail area only) 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Hospitals1 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 5 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Hotels 1 for each 4 sleeping rooms or suites.

 Institute for advanced study1 1 for each 1,000 square feet of administrative offices and similar spaces; plus 1 for each 10 fixed seats in all auditoria and public assembly rooms; or 1 for each 100 square feet of public assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Institutes for advanced study in 3.5 for each 1,000 square feet of single-family zones (existing) office space; plus 10 for each 1,000 square feet of additional building footprint to house and support conference center activities, or 37 for each 1,000 square feet of actual conference rooms to be constructed, whichever is greater

 Kennel 1 for each 2,000 square feet

 Use Parking Requirements

 Lecture and meeting hall 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Major durables, sales, service, and 1 for each 2,000 square feet. rental

 Manufacturing, general 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, heavy 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, light 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Marine service station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Medical services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Miniature golf 1 for each 2 holes.

 Mini-warehouse 1 for each 30 storage units.

 Mobile home park 1 for each mobile home.

 Mortuary services 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Motels 1 for each sleeping room or suite.

 Motion picture studio 1 for each 1,500 square feet

 Motion picture theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Multi-family structures4 except those Lots containing 2--10 dwelling units: listed below 1.1 for each dwelling unit. Lots containing 11--30 dwelling units:

 for each dwelling unit. Lots containing 31--60 dwelling units: for each dwelling unit. Lots containing more than 60 dwelling units: for each dwelling unit.

 In addition, for all multi-family structures whose average gross floor area per dwelling unit, excluding decks and all portions of a structure shared by multiple dwelling units, exceeds 500 square feet, an additional .0002 spaces per square foot in excess of 500 shall be required up to a maximum additional .15 spaces per dwelling unit; and

 When at least 50 percent of the dwelling units in a multi-family structure have 3 bedrooms, an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 3 bedrooms shall be required; and

 Any multi-family structure which contains a dwelling unit with 4 or more bedrooms shall be required to provide an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 4 or more bedrooms.5

 Use Parking Requirements

 Multi-family structures containing 1.5 spaces per unit with 2 or more dwelling units with 2 or more bedrooms. The requirement for units bedrooms, when within the area with 3 or more bedrooms contained impacted by the University of above shall also apply. All other Washington as shown on Map A requirements for units with fewer than following this section. 2 bedrooms shall be as contained above.5

 Multi-family structures, when within 1.5 spaces per unit. the Alki area as shown on Map B following this section.

 Multi-family structures development, 1 for each dwelling unit. for those ground-related structures within the development with 10 units or fewer

 Multi-family structures for 1 for each 6 dwelling units low-income elderly

 Multi-family structures for 1 for each 4 dwelling units. low-income disabled

 Multi-family structures: low-income 1 for each 5 dwelling units. elderly/low-income disabled

 Multi-family structures, when within 1 for each dwelling unit the Seattle Cascade Mixed zone

 Multi-purpose convenience store 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Museum1 1 for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, not containing fixed seats; or 1 for every 10 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; plus 1 space for each 250 square feet of other gross floor area open to the public.

 Non-household sales and services, 1 for each 2,000 square feet. except sales, service and rental of office equipment

 Nursing homes6 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 3 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Office, administrative 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Office, customer service 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Outdoor storage 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Parks None.

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 for each 350 square feet. indoor, unless otherwise specified

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 for each 350 square feet. outdoor, unless otherwise specified

 Passenger terminals (waiting area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Performing arts theater 1 for each 8 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Personal transportation services 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Playgrounds None.

 Use Parking Requirements

 Power plants 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Private club1 1 for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or 1 for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Railroad rights-of-way None.

 Railroad switchyard 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Railroad switchyard with mechanized 1 for each 2,000 square feet. hump

 Recreational marinas 1 for each 75 lineal feet of moorage.

 Recycling center 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Recycling collection station None.

 Religious facility1 1 for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms.

 Research and development laboratory 1 for each 1,000 square feet.

 Restaurant 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Restaurant, fast-food 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Sale and rental of large boats 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sale and rental of motorized vehicles 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sale of boat parts or accessories 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Sale of heating fuel 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sales, service and rental of 1 for each 2,000 square feet. commercial equipment

 Sales, service and rental of office 1 for each 350 square feet. equipment

 Salvage yard 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 School, private elementary and 1 for each 80 square feet of all secondary1,2 auditoria and public assembly rooms, or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 for each staff member.

 School, public elementary and 1 for each 80 square feet of all secondary 1,2,7 auditorium or public assembly rooms, or 1 for every 8 fixed seats in auditoria or public assembly rooms, containing fixed seats, for new public schools on a new or existing public school site.

 Sewage treatment plant 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Single-family dwelling units 1 for each dwelling unit

 Skating rink (rink area) 1 for each 100 square feet.

 Solid waste transfer station 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Specialty food stores 1 for each 350 square feet.

 Spectator sports facility10 1 for each 10 fixed seats or 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats

 Sport range 1 for each 2 stations.

 Swimming pool (water area) 1 for each 150 square feet.

 Taverns 1 for each 200 square feet.

 Use Parking Requirements

 Transit vehicle base 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Universities 8 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Utility service uses 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle repair, major 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle repair, minor 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vessel repair, major 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vessel repair, minor 1 for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vocational or fine arts school 1 for each 2 faculty and full-time employees; plus 1 for each 5 students (based on the maximum number of students in attendance at any one time).

 Warehouse 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Wholesale showroom 1 for each 1,500 square feet.

 Work-release centers 1 for each 2 full-time staff members; plus 1 for each 5 residents; plus 1 for each vehicle operated in connection with the work-release center.

 1When permitted in single-family zones as conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of Seattle Transportation, may allow adult care and childcare centers locating in existing structures to provide loading and unloading spaces on-street when no other alternative exists.

 2Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall they be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they contain bleachers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers, the parking requirement for the entire gymnasium shall be one (1) parking space for every eight (8) fixed seats. Each twenty inches (20") of width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed seat for the purposes of determining parking requirements. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no parking requirement for the gymnasium. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center, the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each 350 square feet. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center owned and operated by the Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR), the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each five hundred fifty-five (555) square feet.

 3When family support centers are located within community centers owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined parking requirement by up to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%), pursuant to Section 23.54.020 I.

 4Parking spaces required for multi-family structures may be provided as tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.

 5Bedroom--Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code which, in the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a bedroom.

 6When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the Director may waive some or all of the parking requirements.

 7For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements shall be determined based on the new construction. When an existing public school on an existing public school site is remodeled, additional parking is required if any auditorium or other place of assembly is expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additional parking is required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor area or increase in number of seats only. If the parking requirement for the increased area or seating is ten percent (10%) or less than that for the existing auditorium or other place of assembly, then no additional parking shall be required.

 8 Development standards departure may be granted or required pursuant to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce the required or permitted number of parking spaces.

 9 Child care facilities, when co-located with assisted living facilities, may count the passenger load/unload space required for the assisted living facility toward its required passenger load/unload parking spaces.

 10 Required parking for spectator sports facilities or exhibition halls must be available when the facility or exhibition hall is in use. A facility shall be considered to be "in use" during the period beginning three (3) hours before an event is scheduled to begin and ending one (1) hour after a scheduled event is expected to end. For sports events of variable or uncertain duration, the expected event length shall be the average length of the events of the same type for which the most recent data are available, provided it is within the past five (5) years. During an inaugural season, or for non-recurring events, the best available good faith estimate of event duration will be used. A facility will not be deemed to be "in use" by virtue of the fact that administrative or maintenance personnel are present. The Director may reduce the required parking for any event when projected attendance for a spectator sports facility is certified to be 50% or less of the facility's seating capacity, to an amount not less than that required for the certified projected attendance, at the rate of one space for each ten fixed seats of certified projected attendance. An application for reduction and the certification shall be submitted to the Director at least 15 days prior to the event. When the event is one of a series of similar events, such certification may be submitted for the entire series 15 days prior to the first event in the series. If the Director finds that a certification of projected attendance of 50% or less of the seating capacity is based on satisfactory evidence such as past attendance at similar events or advance ticket sales, the Director shall, within 15 days of such submittal, notify the facility operator that a reduced parking requirement has been approved, with any conditions deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure adequacy of parking if expected attendance should change. The parking requirement reduction may be applied for only if the goals of the facility's Transportation Management Plan are otherwise being met. The Director may revoke or modify a parking requirement reduction approval during a series, if projected attendance is exceeded.

 Section 10. A new Chapter 23.74 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 Chapter 23.74

 Stadium Transition Area Overlay District

 Subchapter I. Establishment of Overlay District.

 23.74.002. Purpose, Intent and Description of the Overlay District; Rezone Requirement; Rezone Criteria.

 A. Purpose and Intent

 The purpose of this Chapter is to implement the City's Comprehensive Plan, including the neighborhood plan for the Greater Duwamish Manufacturing/Industrial Center, by establishing a Stadium Transition Area Overlay District for the area shown on Exhibit 23.74.004 A. The Stadium Transition Area centers on large sports facilities and allows uses complementary to them. It is intended to contribute to a safer pedestrian environment for those attending events and permits a mix of uses, supporting the pedestrian-oriented character of the area as well as the surrounding industrial zone, while minimizing conflicts with industrial uses. Within the Overlay District, use provisions and development standards are designed to create a pedestrian connection with downtown; discourage encroachment on nearby industrial uses to the south; and create a pedestrian-friendly streetscape. Allowing a mix of uses, including office development, is intended to encourage redevelopment and to maintain the health and vibrancy of the area during times when the sports facilities are not in operation.

 B. Relationship To Surrounding Activity of Areas Located Within the District.

 The District is an area where stadiums and similar major, regional attractions are located, in which transportation and other infrastructure can support additional development. It is an area surrounded by land with widely varying development patterns and land use characteristics including the mixed use urban development of south Downtown, Pioneer Square, the working waterfront, and the industrial area.

 The desired relationship of the Stadium Transition Area is with Pioneer Square and First Avenue, permitting strong pedestrian and transit links to the north. There should be well-defined edges between the pedestrian activity of the Stadium Transition Area and industrial activity surrounding it. The portion of Fourth Avenue South that is north of Royal Brougham and the main line railroad tracks create a strong edge to the east and should be the eastern boundary. South Holgate Street, the first major cross street to the south of Safeco Field, should be the southern boundary. Boundaries should not be shifted farther into the industrial area.

 C. Rezones resulting in Boundary Changes to the Stadium Transition Overlay Area District

 A rezone pursuant to Chapter 23.34 shall be required to change the established boundaries of the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District. A rezone shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions. Areas to be included within the District boundaries shall be compatible with the purpose and intent as stated in this section, and shall either be areas developed as major spectator sports facilities, or areas that meet the criteria for Industrial Commercial zoning and are along preferred pedestrian routes that can provide safe and attractive passage for pedestrians between the stadiums and retail areas and transit service.

 23.74.004. Stadium Transition Area Overlay District established.

 There is established pursuant to Chapter 23.59 of the Seattle Municipal Code, the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District, and the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32, is hereby amended to show such District, as depicted on [Exhibit 23.74.004A](/~ordpics/113163e.gif).

 23.74.006. Application of Regulations.

 Land located within the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District, as shown on Exhibit 23.74.004 A, is subject to the regulations of the underlying zone except as otherwise expressly provided in this Chapter. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Chapter and the underlying zone, the provisions of this Chapter apply. Where the provisions of the underlying zone are more restrictive, that is not considered a conflict and compliance with the provisions of the underlying zone is required, except as specifically provided in this Chapter. Where the provisions of this Chapter are more restrictive, compliance with those provisions is required, subject to any departures that may be authorized pursuant to design review under Section 23.41.012 and to provisions for nonconforming uses and structures in Sections 23.50.008 and 23.50.010.

 Subchapter II. Uses and Development Standards.

 23.74.008. Uses.

 Notwithstanding the use provisions of the underlying zone, the following use provisions apply:

 A. The following uses are permitted outright:

 1. Medical services;

 2. Museums;

 3. Community centers;

 4. Private clubs;

 5. Religious facilities; and

 6. Community clubs.

 B. The following uses are permitted in buildings existing on September 1, 1999:

 1. Artist/Studio dwellings

 2. Major institutions.

 C. The following uses are prohibited:

 1. Heavy manufacturing uses;

 2. High impact uses;

 3. Salvage and recycling facilities;

 4. Solid waste transfer stations;

 5. Animal services;

 6. Airports, land and water based;

 7. Sewage treatment plants;

 8. Solid waste incineration facilities;

 9. Hospitals;

 10. Elementary and secondary schools;

 11. Drive-in businesses, except gas stations;

 12. Transit vehicle bases;

 13. Principal use parking1;

 14. Lodging;

 15. Colleges2, and

 16. Universities2.

 1 Parking required for a spectator sports facility or exhibition hall is allowed and shall be permitted to be used for general parking purposes or shared with another such facility to meet its required parking. A spectator sports facility or exhibition hall within the Stadium Transition Overlay Area District may reserve non-required parking only outside the Overlay District. Such reserved, non- required, parking is allowed, shall be permitted to be used for general parking purposes, and is exempt from the maximum parking ratio, if  (a) the parking is owned and operated by the owner of the spectator sports facility or exhibition hall, and

 (b) the parking is reserved for events in the spectator sports facility or exhibition hall, and

 (c) the reserved parking is south of South Royal Brougham Way, west of 6th Avenue South and north of South Atlantic Street.

 Parking that is provided to meet required parking will not be considered reserved parking.

 2 Training facilities for industrial trades operated by colleges and universities are permitted.

 23.74.009. Height

A. Within the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District, maximum height limits of the underlying zone are not applicable to spectator sports facilities. B. Parking garages accessory to spectator sports facilities north of South Royal Brougham Way may exceed the height limit if all the conditions in this subsection B are satisfied. 1. A Master Use Permit ("MUP") decision to permit the parking garage was issued before June 12, 2000. 2. Any height above the maximum height permitted by such MUP decision is allowed by the Director pursuant to applicable provisions of this title for modification of such decision. 3. The total height of the parking garage does not exceed 130 feet. If additional height is granted as described in subsection B2 above, exemptions for rooftop features from height limits of the underlying zone shall apply only to the extent the Director determines such features and exemptions are necessary to the operation of the structure. 4. All floor area above the maximum height allowed by such MUP decision is used as parking required for the spectator sports facility, or for storage or meeting space accessory to the spectator sports facility or exhibition hall.

 23.74.010. Development standards.

 A. Within the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District, the following development standards apply to all uses and structures except for spectator sports facilities:

 1. Accessory Parking and Outdoor Storage.

 a. Accessory parking or outdoor storage on any lot to the side of a structure on that lot shall not exceed sixty feet (60') of street frontage along 1st Avenue South or along Occidental Avenue South, and may not be located within the first forty feet (40') from any intersection described in 23.74.010C. Parking shall be screened in accordance with screening standards for Class II Pedestrian Streets in downtown zones.

 b. The maximum parking ratio is one (1) space per 650 square feet of gross floor area of all uses for which required parking is expressed in terms of square footage, except for institutions for which minimum parking requirements apply. Non-required parking accessory to a spectator sports facility or exhibition hall is not permitted in the Overlay District, and is subject to the further limitations in footnote 6, Section 23.50.012 Chart A and footnote 1, Section 23.74.008.

 2. Curb cuts.

 Curb cuts are limited to three (3) per block front along north-south streets and Railroad Way South within the area described in subsection C of this section. No curb cuts are allowed within the first forty (40) feet from any intersection described in subsection C of this section. On east-west streets outside the area described in subsection C of this section, curb cuts are limited to two (2) per block front. On east-west streets, additional curb cuts may be allowed if no other access is possible, including in the forty feet (40') from intersections described in subsection C of this section.

 B. For the areas marked on Exhibit 23.74.010A, the following development standards and provisions apply to all uses and structures except for spectator sports facilities:

 1. Floor Area Ratio (FAR).

 The maximum FAR for all uses is 3.0. FAR limits of the underlying zone do not apply, but limits in Section 27.50.027A1 on gross floor area of certain uses, including limits based on lot area, do apply.

 2. Exemptions

 The first 75,000 square feet of street-level retail sales and service or street-level customer service office uses on any lot are exempt from the maximum FAR limit. Exemptions in Section 23.50.028E also apply.

 C. The following development standards apply to each use and structure, except spectator sports facilities, to the extent that the use or structure either is on a lot fronting on Railroad Way South, 1st Avenue South, South Holgate between 1st Avenue South and Occidental Avenue South, or Occidental Avenue South, or is within a forty foot (40') radius measured from any of the block corners of 1st Avenue South or Occidental Avenue South intersecting with the following streets: Railroad Way South, South Royal Brougham, South Atlantic, South Massachusetts, South Holgate and any other streets intersecting with 1st Avenue or Occidental Avenue South that may be established between South Holgate Street and Railroad Way South, as depicted in Exhibit 23.74.010A. Railroad Way South, First Avenue South, South Holgate Street and Occidental Avenue South within the Stadium Transition Overlay District, and all street areas within a forty (40) foot radius of any of those block corners described above, are referred to in this section as the "pedestrian environment," except that in applying this Section to a through lot abutting on Occidental Avenue South and on 1st Avenue South, Occidental Avenue South is not considered part of the pedestrian environment.

 1. Street Facade Requirements.

 The following requirements apply to facades or portions thereof facing streets or portions of streets in the pedestrian environment:

 a. Minimum Facade Height.

 Minimum facade height shall be twenty-five (25) feet, but minimum facade heights shall not apply when all portions of the structure are lower than the elevation of the required minimum facade height.

 b. Facade Setback Limits.

 (i) Within the first twenty-five (25) feet of height measured from sidewalk grade, all building facades must be built to within two (2) feet of the street property line for the entire facade length. For purposes of this subsection 1(b), balcony railings and other nonstructural features or nonstructural walls are not considered parts of the facade of the structure.

 (ii) Above twenty-five (25) feet measured from sidewalk grade, the maximum setback is ten (10) feet, and no single setback area that is deeper than two (2) feet shall be wider than twenty (20) feet, measured parallel to the street property line.

 (iii) The facade shall return to within two (2) feet of the street property line for a minimum of ten (10) feet, measured parallel to the street property line, between any two setback areas that are deeper than two feet.

 2. Outdoor service areas.

 Gas station pumps, service islands, queuing lanes, and other service areas related to fueling are not allowed between any structure and the pedestrian environment area described in this section. Gas station pumps, service islands, queuing lanes, and other service areas related to fueling must be located behind or to the side of a gas station, as viewed from any street in such pedestrian environment and are not allowed between any structure on the same lot and the pedestrian environment area described in this section.

 3. Screening and Landscaping.

 The requirements of Sections 23.50.016, 23.50.034, and 23.50.038, including requirements contingent on location near a commercial zone, apply to all new uses and structures. Requirements in Section 23.50.038 contingent on location near a residential lot do not apply. In addition, the screening and landscaping requirements for outdoor storage in subsections a and c of Section 23.47.016D5 apply, with respect to street property lines abutting the pedestrian environment, to the following uses, where a principal or accessory use is located outdoors: outdoor storage (except for outdoor storage associated with florists and horticultural uses), surface parking, sales and rental of motorized vehicles, towing services, sales and rental of large boats, dry storage of boats, sales, service and rental of commercial equipment and construction materials, heavy commercial services, outdoor participant sports and recreation, wholesale showroom, mini-warehouse, warehouse and outdoor storage, transportation facilities, and utilities (except for utility service uses), and light and general manufacturing.

 4. Blank Facades and Transparency Requirements.

 In addition to the blank facade requirements of Section 23.50.038A(2), the blank facade limits and transparency requirements of Section 23.49.076C, D, E and F apply to facades or portions thereof facing streets in the pedestrian environment, except that requirements for Class I Pedestrian Streets and Green Streets do not apply.

 5. Principal Pedestrian Entrances

 A principal pedestrian entrance to a structure having a facade along Railroad Way South, 1st Avenue South, or Occidental Avenue South shall be located on Railroad Way South, 1st Avenue South, or Occidental Avenue South, respectively. If the structure has facades along both 1st Avenue South and Occidental Avenue South, a principal pedestrian entrance is required only on 1st Avenue South.

[Exhibit 23.74.010A](/~ordpics/113163f.gif)

 Section 11. The Downtown Design Guidelines as adopted by Ordinance 119399 are amended by adding the following Section after Page 48:

Design Guidelines applicable to the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District

The purpose of these guidelines is to ensure an appropriate transition between the industrial-scale development to the south of the Overlay District, which tends to feature large buildings, blank facades and minimal design details, and the rich, finely detailed and distinctive building designs found in the Pioneer Square District to the north. Projects in the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District will be reviewed by the Downtown Design Review Board, using the Design Guidelines applicable to the Stadium Transition Area Overlay District to augment Downtown Design Guidelines.

 Guideline 1: Development on sites with greater than 360 feet of linear street frontage should be divided into separate buildings or substantially separate components of no greater than approximately 300 feet in width.

 Considerations:

 * Between buildings or building components, vehicular drives and/or pedestrian walkways are encouraged. Such drives would act to create the perception that these large sites are broken down into more human- scale blocks, such as found in the nearby Pioneer Square District.

 Guideline 2: Bulk and scale of development should be broken down architecturally to respond to the historical development pattern in Pioneer Square - characterized by buildings of approximately 60 to 120 linear feet in width along the street.

 Considerations:

 * Expression of individual structural bays, different building uses or functions, varying heights of cornice lines or parapet walls, and other techniques, are encouraged to achieve a compatible relationship with nearby historic development patterns.

 * In order to provide appropriate transition to historic properties to the north, architectural composition and details compatible with the historical development should be considered.

 * In particular, new buildings should be designed with a solid base that grounds the buildings to the streetscape, a distinct middle or body of the building that may often comprise the principal architectural statement, and a strong top or cap to the building that terminates the facades with a distinctive treatment and/or creates an interesting feature in the skyline.

 Guideline 3: New buildings, and separate components of multi-building or multi-component large developments, should be designed with variety in overall architectural expression and design details.

 Considerations:

 * Attention should be paid to the relationships between the new buildings and the design of nearby buildings - with the intent to create harmony yet variety in the streetscape.

 * Variety may be achieved by techniques such as varying widths of modules or bays, varying heights of cornice lines and/or parapet walls, varied design expression, and varied design details and/or materials.

 * A homogeneous design theme and/or single design expression can exacerbate the appearance of a development's height, bulk and scale. In order to provide greater variety in design and break down the overall height, bulk and scale of large developments, separate components of the development should employ different overall design themes and/or expression.

 For uses and structures developed on lots in the area defined in Section 23.74.010C, Guideline 4 applies:

 Guideline 4: The pedestrian experience in the pedestrian environment, as defined in 23.74.010C, should be visually interesting and safe. The Downtown Design Guidelines applying to pedestrian experience, active facades and building entries should be considered in applying this Guideline.

 Section 12. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provisions shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 13. The City Council finds that the land use code changes established by this ordinance will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public and implement the City's Comprehensive Plan, as amended.

 Section 14. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ___ day of ______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ___ day of _____________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ___ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this ___ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Joyce Kling/Kristian F. Kofoed and Joyce KlingRevision 3 113163.doc 06/12/00 8:55 AM

```
