

********

**Council Bill Number: 113153**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, adding a new Chapter 23.61, Commercial Master Plans, to the Seattle Municipal Code, and amending Sections 23.41.012, 23.76.004, 23.76.005, 23.76.006, 23.76.036 and 23.84.025.

**Status:** Retired 04/05/04
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Godden, Steinbrueck)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 10, 2000
   
**Committee:** Landlord/Tenant and Land Use
   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-REGULATIONS, LAND-USE-PLANNING, LAND-USE-CODE, COMMERCIAL-AREAS, DEVELOPMENT-ACTIVITIES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use, adding a new Chapter 23.61, Commercial Master Plans, to the Seattle Municipal Code, and amending Sections 23.41.012, 23.76.004, 23.76.005, 23.76.006, 23.76.036 and 23.84.025.

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. A new Chapter 23.61, Commercial Master Plans, is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 23.61.002 Purpose and intent.

 The purpose of this Chapter is to establish a review process for large-scale commercial and/or mixed-use development that is located in certain commercial and industrial zones that will balance the needs of these sites to continue to develop with the need to minimize impacts of such development on surrounding neighborhoods. The intent is to provide early public notice of commercial master plans and subsequent Master Use Permit applications; provide enhanced opportunity to plan for capital improvements related to such new development; and provide an improved method to evaluate and mitigate the cumulative impacts of associated projects.

 23.61.004 Designation of commercial master plan sites.

 A. The Director may designate a commercial master plan site for which a commercial master plan is required. Designation shall be made in accordance with this Section and the procedures for Type II decisions in Chapter 23.76.

 B. When an application is made for new development on a site that meets the criteria of subsection D, the Director shall not issue any permit that would result in an increase in gross floor area until the determination is made about site designation, the site is designated and a complete application for a commercial master plan is filed according to the provisions of this Chapter and Chapter 23.76.

 C. An applicant for development of a site that is likely to meet the criteria of subsection D may elect to prepare a commercial master plan without the site having been designated by the Director.

 D. Commercial master plan site designation criteria. The Director may designate a site a commercial master plan site if all of the following are satisfied:

 1. The site, which may be divided by streets, is a minimum of ten (10) acres in size.

 2. The site is located within a Commercial (C), Neighborhood Commercial (NC) or Seattle Cascade Mixed (SCM) zone or within an Industrial Commercial (IC) zone outside of Manufacturing/Industrial Centers, or is located in some combination of these listed zones.

 3. The site is not used as a public park, playground or school.

 4. The site is, or is proposed to be, a functionally integrated development. The following characteristics shall be used by the Director to determine whether a site or proposal is a functionally integrated development:

 a. Parcels are in common ownership or have a functional contractual association;

 b. Parcels have direct physical circulation/access connections;

 c. Parcels have a degree of interdependence;

 d. Parcels are used for a similar or common function, services or products.

 5. At least one of the following descriptions applies to the site or proposed development:

 a. Proposed development plans show a commercial or mixed-use, development with retail use and a total gross floor area of at least two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet; or

 b. The site has substantial zoned development capacity that if developed to or near this capacity, could result in significant changes to current traffic and/or parking patterns. For the purpose of this Chapter, substantial development capacity means that, at the time the site is considered for commercial master plan designation, the site has capacity for further development that is equal to or exceeds 25% of the total structure gross floor area, excluding parking, permitted by zoning.

 E. The following are exempt from designation as a commercial master plan site:

 1. All land located within the Northgate Overlay District established by Chapter 23.71.

 2. All land located within the Major Institution Overlay District established by Chapter 23.69 and all land qualifying as a major institution.

 F. If property adjacent to a commercial master plan site is functionally integrated with the commercial master plan site, upon agreement by both the owner of the adjacent property and the owner of the commercial master plan site, the property may be included in the designation of the commercial master plan site.

 23.61.006 Development initiating the commercial master plan process.

 A. Unless there is an adopted commercial master plan in effect, a commercial master plan must be prepared for designated commercial master plan sites when an application is submitted for the following:

 1. A development proposal within the commercial master plan site that is not categorically exempt from SEPA under Section 25.05.800; or

 2. A development proposal within the commercial master plan site that is categorically exempt from SEPA, but which would not be exempt if it were considered to be part of all other exempt applications on the commercial master plan site approved within a period of eighteen (18) months prior to the current application.

 23.61.008 Review procedures.

 The approval of commercial master plans are Type IV Council Land Use Decisions and shall be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in Ch. 23.76 except as modified by this Chapter.

 23.61.010 Relationship to zoning, design review and environmental review.

 A. Applicable Regulations. All land located within the boundaries of a commercial master plan site shall be subject to the regulations and requirements of the underlying zone unless specifically modified by this Chapter or by an adopted commercial master plan.

 B. Design Review.

 1. Pursuant to Section 23.61.020 (C), early design guidance shall be provided for commercial master plan applications.

 2. Design review of Master Use Permit applications, if required, for projects within a commercial master plan site, shall be processed in accordance with the procedures for design review provided in Chapter 23.41. In reviewing the application, the Design Review Board or DCLU, if design review is administrative, shall use the design guideline priorities, if any, identified by the commercial master plan advisory committee.

 C. Environmental Review. Environmental information prepared pursuant to the City's SEPA Rules, Ch. 25.05, and the commercial master plan may be integrated into one document.

 23.61.012 Initiation of the commercial master plan review process.

 A. The applicant shall file a notice of intent to prepare a commercial master plan with the DCLU Director at least eight (8) weeks prior to applying for a commercial master plan.

 B. Following submittal of a notice of intent to prepare a commercial master plan, the Director shall initiate the establishment of a commercial master plan advisory committee pursuant to Section 23.61.036.

 C. A pre-application conference pursuant to Section 23.76.038 is required for commercial master plan applications. The pre- application conference may be held at any time after submittal of the notice of intent to prepare a commercial master plan but prior to submittal of a commercial master plan.

 23.61.014 Application for a commercial master plan.

 A. Within sixteen (16) weeks after filing a notice of intent to prepare a commercial master plan, the applicant shall submit an application and pay the applicable fees for a commercial master plan.

 B. In addition to the submittal requirements of Section 23.76.040, an applicant seeking commercial master plan approval shall also submit a preliminary commercial master plan concept plan, consisting of the following:

 1. Illustrations and accompanying written description of the proposed build-out of the area included in the commercial master plan at the end of a period of time to be chosen by the applicant, up to a maximum of ten (10) years after adoption of the commercial master plan.

 2. The commercial master plan area boundaries and the existing uses within at least three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the commercial master plan area.

 3. The planned uses of the entire commercial master plan area, including, but not limited to, estimated total gross floor area, number of dwelling units, open space area, location and quantity of parking spaces, vehicle access, view corridors, building height, bulk and scale, landscaping and any proposed project phasing.

 4. Connections or transitions to buildings, the surrounding street system, including features such as street alignment, design, intersections, crosswalks, sidewalks, pedestrian and bicycle trails, beyond the commercial master plan area boundary.

 5. Alternative build-out proposals for the commercial master plan area.

 C. Within four (4) weeks following the submittal of the commercial master plan application, a preliminary commercial master plan concept meeting shall be held with the commercial master plan advisory committee. The purpose of the meeting is to review and provide comments on the preliminary commercial master plan concept and environmental checklist and to provide early design guidance. The commercial master plan advisory committee shall use the citywide and neighborhood design review guidelines adopted pursuant to Section 23.41.010 in providing such guidance. The committee shall identify any guidelines that may not be applicable to the site and identify those guidelines of highest priority to the neighborhood. The committee shall also review and comment on the environmental checklist.

 D. Notice of the preliminary commercial master plan concept meeting shall be provided by General Mailed Release, mailed notice, and posting as set forth in Section 23.76.011. When convenient, the notices required by this subsection and the notice required by Section 23.76.042 may be combined.

 E. After the preliminary commercial master plan concept meeting, the Director shall determine, based on the recommendation of the commercial master plan advisory committee and the Director's review of the application whether the applicant has failed to provide any omitted information required by subsection B. If the Director determines that information required by subsection B has been omitted, the Director shall require the applicant to revise the preliminary commercial master plan concept plan. A revised preliminary commercial master plan shall include a description of how the revised plan addresses the comments received during preliminary review. The commercial master plan advisory committee shall meet and review any revised preliminary commercial master plan concept plan that is submitted within four (4) weeks of the applicant's submittal of such information.

 F. Within two (2) weeks after the preliminary concept plan meeting or any meeting held to review any revisions required by subsection E, the Director shall issue a threshold determination in accordance with Ch. 25.05.

 23.61.016 Scoping and draft commercial master plan.

 A. When a Determination of Significance (DS) is issued, DCLU shall provide for scoping and notice of scoping as provided in Section 23.76.014 (A). The commercial master plan advisory committee shall meet and prepare its comments on the scope of the EIS before the end of the scoping comment period, which shall be a minimum of twenty-one (21) days.

 B. The applicant shall prepare and submit a draft commercial master plan or commercial master plan/EIS containing the information described in Section 23.61.024. The applicant shall use the preliminary commercial master plan concept as guidance in preparing the draft. Within six (6) weeks after submission of the complete draft commercial master plan or draft commercial master plan/EIS, DCLU shall review the draft commercial master plan or commercial master plan/EIS and provide comments to the applicant. The applicant shall revise and submit the draft commercial master plan or commercial master plan/EIS, providing any omitted information required by Section 23.61.024 and describing how the document(s) has been revised.

 23.61.018 Contents of commercial master plan.

 The draft commercial master plan to be submitted pursuant to Section 23.61.022 (B) shall consist of three sections: commercial master plan summary; a description of Planning Horizon and Phasing Plan; and commercial master plan elements.

 A. Commercial master plan summary. The commercial master plan summary shall consist of a written description and accompanying plan(s) summarizing the existing conditions and proposed plans for the proposed build-out detailed in subsection C.

 B. Description of Planning Horizon and Phasing Plan. The commercial master plan shall be based on a planning horizon of not more than ten (10) years from the date of the commercial master plan final approval. This section of the commercial master plan shall describe the planning horizon and the reasons for choosing that horizon. The commercial master plan shall include a phasing plan consisting of:

 1. Proposed project phasing and plans for each phase, to the extent known;

 2. Estimated dates of construction and occupancy of buildings or portions thereof in each phase; and

 3. Proposed interim uses and timing for all portions of the commercial master plan site awaiting development in later phases.

 C. Commercial master plan elements. The Commercial master plan shall consist of the following elements:

 1. Existing Conditions. The commercial master plan shall include detailed plans and a written narrative description of the following:

 a. The boundaries of the commercial master plan site and the area within three hundred (300') feet of the commercial master plan boundaries; and

 b. For the commercial master plan site and the area within three hundred feet (300') in all directions:

 i. Underlying zoning; and

 ii. All existing natural and man-made features including, but not limited to, critical areas, buildings, parking areas, streets, sidewalks and other pedestrian pathways, open space and landscaping.

 2. Proposed Plans and Projects. All proposed plans and projects for the commercial master plan site during the planning horizon, to the extent known, must include plans and a narrative that show, with as much detail as possible:

 a. Location of proposed uses and structures. Include proposed changes of use for existing structures or areas, any proposed additions or alterations to existing structures, and any proposed new uses and structures. Include the size (square footage, density, number of units) and type of proposed uses, estimated hours of operation, and approximate number of employees, visitors, residents and special events.

 b. Development plans. Show how proposed on-site development complies with applicable development standards, including setbacks, height, lot coverage, parking, and landscaping. If any development standard departure is requested, include a written description of the reasons for requesting the departure and of how granting the departure will result in a project that better meets the intent of this Chapter, the adopted design guidelines and the standards in Section 23.41.012 for design departures.

 c. Compliance with Early Design Guidance. Show how the proposed on- site development responds to the early design guidance provided by the commercial master plan advisory committee during the preliminary concept review.

 d. Off-site improvements. Identify all off-site improvements planned in conjunction with the proposed development.

 e. Open space. Identify existing open space that will remain and locations of proposed new open space.

 3. Transportation Plans. The commercial master plan shall include a transportation plan that includes the following:

 a. Copies of all transportation studies performed for the commercial master plan;

 b. A plan and description of existing and proposed on and off-site parking facilities available for use by those using the commercial master plan site;

 c. A plan and description of bicycle, pedestrian, and traffic circulation systems and their relationship to the external bicycle, pedestrian and street system.

 d. A description of impacts on traffic and parking in the surrounding area and proposed measures to mitigate those impacts. If mitigation is to be phased, a description of the phasing must be included.

 e. A transportation management program (TMP) in compliance with Section 23.54.016 to mitigate the traffic impacts of the projects proposed in the commercial master plan, including plans to encourage the use of public transit, carpools, vanpools, and other alternatives to single-occupancy vehicles. The plan must examine opportunities for shared parking, carpool and vanpool programs with nearby major institutions and/or nearby large employers.

 f. Concurrency Analysis. The plan must describe how the proposed development will meet the concurrency requirements of Ch. 23.52 As part of this description, the plan must describe the proposed timing of completion of all transportation infrastructure improvements proposed as part of the plan. If the construction of projects proposed under the commercial master plan is to be phased, the transportation plan must describe how each of the phases will meet the concurrency requirements of Ch. 23.52.

 4. Utilities and Public Services. The commercial master plan shall include a information demonstrating the sufficiency of utilities and public services for the proposed development.

 5. Alternative proposals for development. The draft commercial master plan shall include one alternative proposal for development. The description of the alternative shall summarize the commercial master plan elements in subsection C in narrative and plans.

 23.61.020 Public hearing on draft commercial master plan and preparation of final commercial master plan.

 A. Within two (2) weeks after receipt of the draft commercial master plan or draft commercial master plan/EIS, the Director shall determine whether the documents contain all of the information required by Section 23.61.018. If the documents are complete, the DCLU shall publish notice of a public hearing to be held in accordance with Section 23.76.046 (B).

 B. Within six (6) weeks of the close of the public hearing, the commercial master plan advisory committee and DCLU shall provide comments to the applicant on the draft commercial master plan or draft commercial master plan/EIS.

 C. Within twelve (12) weeks after receipt of DCLU and the commercial master plan advisory committee comments, the applicant shall prepare and submit the final commercial master plan or final commercial master plan/FEIS. The Director and the commercial master plan advisory committee shall review the final document(s) and the Director may require further documentation or analysis from the applicant. The Director shall provide notice of the availability of the final commercial master plan or final commercial master plan/EIS and distribute copies in the same manner as that required by Section 23.76.018.

 23.61.022 Preparation of Director and commercial master plan advisory committee reports and recommendations.

 A. Within five (5) weeks after publication of the final commercial master plan and EIS, the Director shall prepare a draft report on the commercial master plan application as provided in Section 23.76.050. The Director's report shall include a recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the commercial master plan application. The Director's report shall specify all measures or actions necessary to be taken by the applicant to mitigate the adverse impacts of the proposed development. The recommendation may include design guideline priorities for the Design Review Board or DCLU to apply to projects within the boundaries of an approved commercial master plan. The Director's report shall consider the following:

 1. The plan's compliance with the City's SEPA policies pursuant to Section 25.05.660, other applicable City policies and neighborhood plan policies adopted into the Seattle Comprehensive Plan;

 2. The plan's compliance with the applicable provisions of the Seattle Municipal Code in effect at the time of the Director's recommendation, or if an EIS is required, at the date of issuance of the Draft EIS, or any development standard departures requested pursuant to Section 23.41.012.

 3. The extent to which the impacts on the surrounding area are to be mitigated.

 4. The phasing of construction proposed in the commercial master plan and the phasing of any required or proposed improvements to public infrastructure, open space or other amenities.

 B. The Director shall provide the draft Director's report to the commercial master plan advisory committee. The committee shall provide its comments to the Director within three (3) weeks of receipt of the draft report. In making its comments, the committee shall consider whether issues and potential impacts identified by the advisory committee were adequately addressed in the final commercial master plan or final commercial master plan/EIS. If the committee believes there are outstanding or unresolved issues, the committee shall clearly state its position on those issues.

 C. Within two (2) weeks after receipt of the written comments from the advisory committee, the Director shall review the advisory committee's comments and prepare a final Director's report. The Director shall address each of the issues relevant to the criteria for Director approval of a commercial master plan in the commercial master plan advisory committee's comments. In addition, where the Director's recommendation differs from the commercial master plan advisory committee's comments, the Director shall include an explanation of the difference.

 D. The Director shall submit the final Director's report to the commercial master plan advisory committee. Within three (3) weeks after receipt of the final Director's report, the advisory committee shall indicate its concurrence with the Director's final recommendation or shall prepare its own report and recommendation. The commercial master plan advisory committee report, if any, shall be based upon the criteria of subsection A and shall clearly state its position on recommendations that vary from the Director's recommendation. The commercial master plan advisory committee may issue minority reports.

 23.61.024 Hearing Examiner consideration of the commercial master plan.

 A. The Director shall submit his/her report and recommendation, together with any reports of the commercial master plan advisory committee to the Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner shall review the Director's report and recommendation and any commercial master plan advisory reports as provided in Section 23.76.052, Hearing Examiner open record predecision hearing and recommendation.

 B. The Hearing Examiner shall examine the proposed commercial master plan and all recommendations for changes, alternatives, mitigating measures and conditions. The Hearing Examiner's recommendation to adopt, adopt with conditions, or deny an application for a commercial master plan shall comply with the requirements of Section 23.76.052.

 C. If the Hearing Examiner determines that a significant commercial master plan element or environmental issue was not adequately addressed by the proposed commercial master plan, the Hearing Examiner may request the applicant to prepare revised or new proposals on the issue identified or request the Director and/or commercial master plan advisory committee to conduct further analysis or provide clarification. Revised or new proposals, if any, shall be forwarded to the Director, commercial master plan advisory committee and parties of record for comment. After the revised or new proposals and comments have been received, the Hearing Examiner may hold the hearing record open for evidence on the revised or new proposals, and/or any comments pertaining to the limited issues which were presented by other parties of record.

 D. The Hearing Examiner shall submit a recommendation to the Council on the proposed commercial master plan within thirty (30) days following the end of the hearing. In addition to the Hearing Examiner's recommendation, the Hearing Examiner shall transmit to Council the proposed commercial master plan, environmental documentation, the advisory committee's reports, and the report and recommendation of the Director.

 23.61.026 Council consideration and decision.

 A. The Council shall review the Hearing Examiner's recommendation as provided in Section 23.76.054. The goal of the Council shall be to take final action on the Hearing Examiner's recommendation no later than three (3) months after the date it receives the recommendation. Additional time may be necessary if the Council requests a revised or new proposal pursuant to subsection C.

 B. The Council shall examine the proposed commercial master plan and all recommendations for changes, alternatives, mitigating measures and conditions. The Council's decision to adopt, adopt with conditions, or deny an application for a commercial master plan shall comply with the requirements of Section 23.76.056 .

 C. If the Council determines that a significant commercial master plan element or environmental issue was not adequately addressed by the proposed commercial master plan, the Council may request the applicant to prepare revised or new proposals on the issue identified or request the Director and/or commercial master plan advisory committee to conduct further analysis or provide clarification. Revised or new proposals, if any, shall be forwarded to the Director, commercial master plan advisory committee and parties of record for comment. After the new proposals and comments have been received, the Council may:

 1. Direct the Hearing Examiner to conduct another hearing and to reconsider the recommendation based on the revised or new proposals and/or any comments pertaining to the limited issues that were presented by other parties of record; or

 2. Supplement the record on the revised or new proposals, and any comments pertaining to the limited issues that were presented by other parties of record.

 D. Adoption of a commercial master plan shall be by ordinance.

 23.61.028 Requirement for compiled plan.

 Within thirty (30) days after the commercial master plan becomes final as provided in Section 23.61.030(A), the applicant shall submit a draft copy of the compiled adopted plan for the Director's review and approval. This compiled plan shall incorporate all changes and conditions imposed by the Council. The Director shall review the compiled plan within thirty (30) days of receipt of the plan, and may request corrections or clarifications if necessary. No Master Use Permit for development permitted in the adopted plan shall be issued until the compiled plan has been reviewed and approved by the Director, except as provided in Section 23.61.038.

 23.61.030 Effect of commercial master plan adoption.

 A. A commercial master plan shall become final when the ordinance approving it becomes law pursuant to the City Charter.

 B. After a commercial master plan becomes final, the commercial master plan shall remain in effect for the period of time specified in the approved plan, but not longer than ten (10) years from the date the plan becomes final.

 C. The approved commercial master plan shall be placed on file in the Department. A copy shall be microfilmed.

 D. After a commercial master plan is adopted the applicant may submit applications to develop in accordance with the adopted commercial master plan. Applications for Master Use Permits for development contained in the adopted commercial master plan shall be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in Ch. 23.76. Applications are subject to the requirements of Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures.

 E. The applicant shall provide an annual status report to the Director that shall detail the progress of the commercial master plan projects. The annual report shall include the status of projects that were initiated or under construction during the previous year and progress made in meeting conditions of commercial master plan approval.

 F. Vesting. The provisions of Section 23.76.026 apply except that applications for Master Use Permits for development within the boundaries of an adopted commercial master plan site shall be considered under the Land Use Code and other land use control ordinances effective prior to the date of adoption of a commercial master plan and the provisions of the adopted commercial master plan. Vesting, as provided for in this subsection, expires when the applicable commercial master plan expires pursuant to subsection B of this Section.

 23.61.032 Review of Master Use Permit applications prior to commercial master plan decision.

 A. The applicant may submit Master Use Permit application(s) for projects within a commercial master plan site prior to, concurrent with, or at any time after the commercial master plan application is filed.

 B. A Master Use Permit application for a project within such an area prior to approval of a commercial master plan shall be processed as set forth in Ch. 23.76 Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions. The Director may approve a Master Use Permit application(s) prior to a commercial master plan decision as an administrative conditional use. In granting a conditional use, adverse impacts may be mitigated by imposing conditions needed to mitigate adverse impacts and to protect the public interest. The Director shall deny a conditional use if it is determined that adverse impacts cannot be mitigated satisfactorily.

 1. The application may be approved only if all of the following conditions are met:

 a. A complete commercial master plan application has been submitted;

 b. The project is included in the proposed commercial master plan;

 c. The use will not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property in the zone or vicinity in which the property is located;

 2. The Director's decision to grant, grant with conditions or deny a conditional use shall include consideration of comments from the commercial master plan advisory committee.

 23.61.034 Commercial master plan amendments.

 A. The Director shall determine whether an application for development not described in the commercial master plan meets the criteria of subsection E, in which case a major amendment is required. The Director's decision that a major amendment is required is a Type II decision, pursuant to Ch. 23.76. This decision process does not apply if the Director and the applicant agree that a major amendment is required.

 B. If a major amendment is required, the applicant shall submit an addendum to the commercial master plan that includes at a minimum revised plans, narrative descriptions, and supporting studies that describe the scope and impact of the proposed amendment. If a major amendment is not required, the proposed, non-major changes to the commercial master plan shall be reviewed through the Master Use Permit application review process.

 C. Major amendments shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 23.61.014 through 23.61.028, except as follows:

 1. A major amendment draft report shall replace the requirement for a draft commercial master plan required by Section 23.61.016 (B).

 2. If an EIS is required for the major amendment, the draft EIS shall be prepared after submittal of the major amendment draft report required by Section 23.61.016 (B). After comments are received on the major amendment draft report, the applicant shall prepare the major amendment final report and the final EIS.

 3. If an EIS is not required for the major amendment, the Director is not required to hold a public hearing on the major amendment draft report as otherwise required by Section 23.61.020.

 D. The Director shall reconvene the commercial master plan advisory committee for the purpose of reviewing major amendments. If necessary, new members will be appointed in the same manner as the original committee.

 E. Major amendment criteria. An application for a change to an adopted commercial master plan shall be a major amendment when any of the following criteria are met:

 1. The change to the commercial master plan is not consistent with the original intent of the commercial master plan and may result in environmental impacts not addressed in the environmental documentation that accompanied the original commercial master plan, or cannot be mitigated by the conditions of the original commercial master plan approval. The following characteristics shall be considered by the Director in determining consistency with the original intent of the commercial master plan:

 a. change in use from one land use category to another,

 b. relocation of structures on the site,

 c. increases in floor area of more than 20% of the total amount of gross floor area allowed or the total number of parking spaces allowed in the adopted commercial master plan.

 2. The change to the commercial master plan violates the conditions of commercial master plan approval.

 3. An increase in a height above the height limit of the underlying zone not included in the adopted commercial master plan.

 4. The change presents unusual circumstances such as substantially different size or shape, topography, or infrastructure that would result in adverse environmental impacts substantially exceeding those anticipated by the original commercial master plan approval.

 5. Amendments to the commercial master plan that individually do not meet the above criteria, but which would meet the criteria if they were considered to be part of all other non-major amendments within a period of two (2) years prior to the current application.

 23.61.036 Advisory committee - responsibilities, qualifications, and appointment.

 A. A commercial master plan advisory committee shall review and provide advice and guidance on the commercial master plan and its components. The committee shall participate in the formulation of the commercial master plan from the time of its preliminary concept so that the concerns of the community and the applicant are considered early on in the development of the commercial master plan. Advisory committee comments shall be focused on identifying and mitigating the potential impacts of development on the surrounding community.

 B. The Department of Neighborhoods (DON) shall assist DCLU in the formation of the committee. DCLU shall send the Director of DON a copy of the notice of intent to prepare a commercial master plan. Upon receipt of the notice, DON shall develop a list of potential members to serve on the commercial master plan advisory committee based on the qualifications contained in subsection C. The DON Director shall review the list of potential members and recommend to the Council those individuals appropriate to achieve a balanced, independent and representative committee. The Council shall either confirm the advisory committee composition, make changes in the size and/or composition of the advisory committee, or remand the matter to the DON Director for further action. The Council shall establish the final composition of the committee by resolution. After Council confirmation, the Director of DON shall convene the commercial master plan advisory committee for the purposes of training, rulemaking, and/or to begin the review of a commercial master plan application.

 C. The committee shall consist of a minimum of seven (7) and a maximum of eleven (11) voting members. Voting members shall comply with Section 4.16.070. Qualifications for commercial master plan advisory committee membership include:

 1. Residency in Seattle, except business and development interest members, who need not reside, but must work or own a business in Seattle; and

 2. Membership in one or more of the following groups or categories: community groups, residents, property owners, businesspersons and any other persons or organizations directly affected by the commercial master plan proposal. Community groups may recommend to DON a representative and an alternate for appointment; and

 3. Expertise or experience, to the extent possible, in such areas as neighborhood organizing and neighborhood issues, including land use and zoning, architecture or landscape architecture, economic development, or building development.

 D. There shall be three (3) nonvoting, ex-officio members on the advisory committee representing the applicant, the Department of Construction and Land Use, and Seattle Transportation. The DON Director may recommend additional nonvoting members as appropriate.

 E. The Committee shall be staffed by DON. DCLU, Seattle Transportation and DON shall provide technical assistance to the committee. DON shall assist the advisory committee with preparation of its report and recommendations.

 F. During the commercial master plan review and adoption process, the Council may, in the interest of ensuring representative community participation on the advisory committee, amend the size and/or composition of the advisory committee.

 G. The DCLU Director, in consultation with the DON Director, shall promulgate rules applicable to commercial master plan advisory committees, including terms of office, selection of chairpersons, and methods of conflict resolution.

 H. A quorum shall be two-thirds of the committee members.

 I. To the extent possible, meetings of the commercial master plan advisory committee shall be held in the evening in a location that is accessible and conveniently located in the vicinity of the commercial master plan site. Committee meetings shall be open to the general public.

 J. Once the decision on the commercial master plan is adopted and in effect, the committee's work is finished and the committee has no further duties unless a major amendment is submitted. If necessary, new or replacement members are to be appointed as provided in this Chapter. The Director and the committee may agree to meet annually to review the status of the commercial master plan.

 23.61.038 Land use fee.

 The fee to be collected by the Director for designation, review and issuance of recommendations for Commercial Master Plans shall be the same as established in item number 4 of Council and Hearing Examiner Approvals in Table C-1 of Section 23.900C.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 Section 2. Subsection B of Section 23.41.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118362, is amended as follows:

 23.41.012 Development standard departures.

 * * *

 B. Departures may be granted from the following requirements:

 1. Structure width and depth limits;

 2. Setback requirements;

 3. Modulation requirements;

 4. SCM zone facade requirements, including transparency and blank facade provisions;

 5. Design, location and access to parking requirements;

 6. Open space or common recreation area requirements;

 7. Lot coverage limits;

 8. Screening and landscaping requirements;

 9. Standards for the location and design of nonresidential uses in mixed use buildings;

 10. Within Urban Centers, in L3 zones only, the pitched roof of a structure, as provided in Section 23.45.009C, may incorporate additional height of up to twenty (20) percent of the maximum height permitted, as provided in Section 23.45.009A, subject to the following limitations:

 a. A pitched roof may not incorporate the additional height if the structure is on a site abutting or across a street or alley from a single-family residential zone,

 b. The proposed structure must be compatible with the general development potential anticipated within the zone,

 c. The additional height must not substantially interfere with views from up-slope properties, and

 d. No more than one (1) project on one (1) site within each Urban Center may incorporate additional height in the pitched roofs of its structures pursuant to this subsection unless development regulations enacted pursuantto a neighborhood planning process allow other projects to incorporate such additional height;

 11. Downtown street facade requirements;

 12. Downtown upper-level development standards;

 13. Downtown coverage and floor size limits;

 14. Downtown maximum wall dimensions;

 15. Downtown street level use requirements; and

 16. Combined coverage of all rooftop features in downtown zones subject to the limitations in Section 23.49.008C2.

17. Height limits within commercial master plan sites with an approved commercial master plan pursuant to Chapter 23.61, limited to an increase in height of up to twenty (20) feet over the designated maximum structure height, provided there is a corresponding reduction in height elsewhere on the site an amount of structure footprint equal to or greater to the area where the structure height is increased.

 ***

 Section 3. Exhibit 23.76.004A of Section 23.76.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119618, is amended as follows:

 Exhibit 23.76.004 A Land Use Decision Framework

 DIRECTOR'S AND HEARING EXAMINER'S DECISIONS REQUIRING MASTER USE PERMITS

 TYPE I Type II Type III Director's Decision Director's Decision Hearing (No Administrative Appeal) (Appealable to Examiner's Hearing Examiner*) Decision (No Admin- istrative Appeal)

 Compliance with Temporary uses, Subdivisions development standards more than four (preliminary weeks plats) Uses permitted outright Variances Temporary uses, four Administrative weeks or less conditional uses Certain street uses Shoreline decisions Lot boundary adjustments (*appealable to Shorelines Hearings Board along with all realted environmental appeals) Modifications of features Short subdivisions bonused under Title 24 Determinations of sig- Special Exceptions nificance (EIS required) except for determinations Design Review of significance based solely on historic and cultural preservation Temporary uses, twelve  Northgate General months or less, for Development Plan relocation of police and fire protection Exemptions from right-of- Light rail transit way improvement facilities requirements Special accommodation Commercial Master plan site desig- nation, pursuant to Ch. 23.61 Reasonable accommodation The following Minor amendment to a environmental Major Phased Development determinations: Permit Determination of nonsignificance (EIS not required) Determination of final EIS adequacy Determinations of significance based solely on historic and cultural preservation A decision by the Director to approve, condition or deny a project based on SEPA Policies A decision by the  Director that a project is consistent with a Planned Action Ordinance and EIS (no threshold determination or EIS required) Major Phased Development

 Council Land Use Decisions

 Type IV Type V (Quasi Judicial) Legislative Land use map amendments (rezones) Land use code text amendments Public project approvals Rezones to implement new city facilities Major institution master plans Concept approval for city facilities Commercial Master Plans Major institution designations Council conditional uses Waive or modify development standards for city facilities Downtown planned community Planned action ordinance developmentsSection 4. Subsection B of Section 23.76.005 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 23.76.005 Time for decisions.

 * * *

 B. Exclusions pursuant to RCW 36.140 (1).

 1. Type III decisions.

 a. DCLU shall issue its recommendation within one hundred twenty (120) days as that time period is calculated pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090; and

 b. The Hearing Examiner shall issue his or her decision within ninety (90) days of issuance of the DCLU recommendation.

 2. Type IV decisions.

 a. There shall be no time limit for decisions on Commercial Master Plans, pursuant to Ch. 23.61, or Major Institution Master Plans.

 b. All other Type IV Council land use decisions and any associated Type II decisions listed in Section 23.76.006 C2 shall be made within the following time periods:

 (1) DCLU shall issue its recommendation within one hundred twenty (120)days as that time period is calculated pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090;

 (2) The Hearing Examiner shall issue his or her recommendation within ninety (90) days of issuance of the DCLU recommendation; and

 (3) The Council shall issue its decision within ninety (90) days of the issuance of the Hearing Examiner recommendation.

 3. Any application for a land use decision that the Hearing Examiner or Council remands for further information or analysis shall be excluded from the time periods of RCW 36.70B.090 for the period of remand. The Hearing Examiner or Council shall set a reasonable period for the remand after consideration of the nature and complexity of the issues and, when practicable, after consultation with the parties about the reasonableness of the remand period.

 * * *

 Section 5. Subsection C of Section 23.76.006 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 119096, is amended as follows:

 23.76.006 Master Use Permit required.

 * * *

 C. The following are Type II decisions:

 1. The following procedural environmental decisions for Master Use Permits and for building, demolition, grading and other construction permits are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner and are not subject to further appeal to the City Council (supplemental procedures for environmental review are established in SMC Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures):

 a. Determination of Nonsignificance (DNSs), including mitigated DNSs;

 b. Determination that a final environmental impact statement (EIS) is adequate; and

 c. Determination of Significance based solely on historic and cultural preservation.

 2. The following decisions, including any integrated decisions to approve, condition or deny based on SEPA policies, are subject to appeal to the Hearing Examiner (except shoreline decisions and related environmental determinations which are appealable to the Shorelines Hearings Board):

 a. Establishment or change of use for temporary uses more than four (4) weeks not otherwise permitted in the zone or not meeting development standards, except temporary relocation of police and fire stations for twelve (12) months or less;

 b. Short subdivisions;

 c. Variances; provided that, variances sought as part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 d. Special exceptions; provided that, special exceptions sought as part of a Type IV decision may be granted by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 e. Design review;

 f. The following Street use decisions:

 (1) Sidewalk cafes,

 (2) Structural building overhangs,

 (3) Areaways;

 g. Administrative conditional uses; provided that, administrative conditional uses sought as part of a Type IV decision may be approved by the Council pursuant to Section 23.76.036;

 h. The following shoreline decisions (supplemental procedures for shoreline decisions are established in Chapter 23.60):

 (1) Shoreline substantial development permits,

 (2) Shoreline variances,

 (3) Shoreline conditional uses;

 i. Northgate General Development Plan;

 j. Major Phased Development; ~~and~~

 k. Determination of project consistency with a planned action ordinance and EIS~~.~~; and  l. Designation of Commercial Master Plan Sites, pursuant to Ch. 23.61.

* * *

 Section 6. Subsection A of Section 23.76.036 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 119096, is amended as follows:

 23.76.036 Council decisions required.

 A. The Council shall make the following Type IV Council land use decisions, including any integrated decisions to approve, condition or deny based on SEPA Policies, and any associated Type II decisions listed in Section 23.76.006C2, except Commercial Master Plan site designation:

 1. Amendments to the Official Land Use Map, including changes in overlay districts and shoreline environment redesignations, except those initiated by the City to implement new land use policies adopted by ordinance, and except boundary adjustments caused by the acquisition, merger or consolidation of two (2) Major Institutions pursuant to Section 23.69.023;

 2. Public projects proposed by applicants other than The City of Seattle that require Council approval;

 3. Major Institution commercial master plans (supplemental procedures for master plans are established in SMC Chapter 23.69);

 4. Council conditional uses; ~~and~~

 5. Downtown planned community developments~~.~~; and  6. Commercial Master Plans.

* * *

 Section 7. Section 23.84.025 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which was last amended by Ordinance 119151, is amended as follows:

 * * *

"Commercial Master Plan" is a document that shows, using text, drawings, diagrams or charts, as necessary, the full extent of anticipated future development in a defined area over a certain, long-term time period. The plan is expected to cover actions broader than a single development project and may be conceptual in nature. The commercial master plan includes any conditions of approval.* * *

 Section 8. Severability. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, subsection, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 9. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________,2000. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________,2000. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 3/28/00, 5:00 PM v. 14

```
