

********

**Council Bill Number: 113128**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119897**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent to enter into a lease agreement with Seattle School District No. 1 concerning T.T. Minor Playground.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 27, 2000
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** March 31, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 31, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 20, 2000
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, SCHOOL-DISTRICT-1, SCHOOLS, PLAYGROUNDS-AND-PLAYFIELDS, CENTRAL-AREA

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _______

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the Superintendent to enter into a lease agreement with Seattle School District No.1 concerning T. T. Minor Playground.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle through its Department of Parks and Recreation and Seattle School District No. 1 have cooperated since 1979 in providing space for public park and school playground activities on District property at T. T. Minor School through a lease authorized by Ordinance 108565; and

 WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation has obtained funds to expand and enhance space for public park and playground activities on District property at T. T. Minor School; and

 WHEREAS, a new lease replacing the existing lease and redefining the lease area will allow the City to develop and maintain property known as T. T. Minor Playground for public park, recreation and playground purposes, including use for playground and education purposes by the students of T. T. Minor School during the course of the normal school day;

 NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ("Superintendent") is hereby authorized to execute for and on behalf of the City of Seattle a lease agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit X attached hereto, for property commonly known as T. T. Minor School grounds, such property located on the 1600 block of East Union Street, Seattle, and legally described as follows:

 Lots 7 - 11, Block 13, Renton's Addition to the City of Seattle, as recorded in Volume 3 of Plats at Page 118, Records of King County, Washington, together with adjacent vacated 17th Avenue, as vacated by Ordinance 92340, less the easterly 16 feet of said 17th Avenue.

 Section 2. The execution of the Lease Agreement authorized in Section 1 and any other act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after

 presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________,2000.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 _____________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 _____________________________________

 City Clerk

 (seal)

 Prop

 ORD TTMinor lease Mar2000

 MLW:mlw v-1

 LEASE AGREEMENT

 This Lease Agreement is entered into by SEATTLE SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.1 (hereinafter "District"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, and the CITY OF SEATTLE, acting through its Department of Parks and Recreation (hereinafter "City," referring to the corporate entity; or "Parks," referring specifically to a Department of the City), concerning the District's T.T. Minor Elementary School, located at 1710 East Union Street, Seattle, King County, Washington.

 This Lease Agreement describes a cooperative use arrangement for the mutual benefit of the parties and the public whereby property owned by the District, referred to hereinafter as the Leased Area and as the Auxiliary Park Area or referred to jointly as the Park, may be improved and maintained by Parks for use as a public park as well as a school playground.

 In addition to this Lease Agreement, the parties may choose to enter into a separate Maintenance Agreement for the benefit of both parties to assure the adequacy and economy of maintenance operations.

 This Lease Agreement (hereinafter "Lease") replaces a lease between the parties concerning T.T. Minor Elementary School which was entered into July 18, 1979, as authorized by City Ordinance #108565.

 If, prior to the effective date of this Lease, the parties have agreed to a temporary arrangement, such as a Right of Entry from the District to the City or some other instrument or agreement, whereby construction work, as described in this Lease Agreement, has been allowed to begin, such temporary right or agreement is extinguished as of the effective date of this Lease Agreement.

 WITNESSETH,

 FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION of the rent herein and in further consideration of the mutual promises, terms and conditions hereof, the District and Parks hereby agree as follows:

 1. LEASED AREA

 The District hereby leases to Parks and Parks hereby leases from the District that certain real property situated in King County, Washington, hereinafter referred to as Leased Area, as shown on Exhibit A attached to this Lease, and described as:

 Lots 7 - 11, Block 13, Renton's Addition to the City of Seattle as recorded in Volume 3 of Plats at Page 118, Records of King County, Washington, together with adjacent vacated 17th Avenue, as vacated by Ordinance 92340, less the easterly 16 feet of said 17th Avenue.

 2. AUXILIARY PARK AREA

 Adjacent property owned by the District, located immediately east and south of the Leased Area, is referred to as the Auxiliary Park Area and is also shown on Exhibit A. The Auxiliary Park Area will be improved, used, and maintained, all as described elsewhere in this Lease Agreement, in conjunction with the Leased Area. The Auxiliary Park Area includes certain adjacent landscaped areas, walkways, a parking lot, and a loading dock area which are necessary to the operation of the school and complementary to the design and use of the Park.

 3. BUSINESS PURPOSES

 The Leased Area is to be used for the purpose of public park, recreation, and playground purposes, including use for playground and education purposes by the students of T.T. Minor School during the course of the normal school day. The Auxiliary Park Area is to be used for such purposes determined by the District to be necessary to the operation of the school during the course of the normal school day, including pedestrian circulation, staff parking, and service deliveries, and for public park, recreation, and playground purposes at other times.

 4. DEFINITION OF NORMAL SCHOOL DAY

 "Normal school day" or "normal school hours" or similar references herein shall be interpreted to mean the usual days during the calendar year and the usual times during each day that students attend school at T.T. Minor School, generally Monday through Friday from approximately 8:00 a.m. to approximately 4:00 p.m. excepting school vacation days or holidays. The specific days and times of day may vary from year to year during the term of this Lease.

 5. SHARED USE of THE LEASED AREA and THE AUXILIARY PARK AREA

 5.1 The Leased Area shall be available to the general public as a public park during normal school hours EXCEPT that District personnel may restrict or deny access or occupancy of the Leased Area at such times during the school day when T.T. Minor School children are present in the Leased Area as part of their normal school day activities. The District reserves the right to limit general public use or access of District-owned property in order to assure the safety of the students. See also Section 9.2 of this Agreement.

 5.2 Parks shall have authority to allow general public use or to schedule special use (such as group activities or special events) of the entire Park, including both the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area, at all times other than during normal school hours.

 5.3 The District may schedule use of the Leased Area for school activities occurring before or after the normal school day through the application procedures of the Joint Use Agreement between the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation and the Seattle School District.

 5.4 District must provide adequate adult supervision of T.T. Minor School students anywhere on the Leased Area or the Auxiliary Park Area at all times said Areas are occupied by students in connection with the normal school day schedule or special school activities.

 5.5 Parks may restrict District's access to or use of the Leased Area or to portions of the Leased Area during the normal school day IF NECESSARY for maintenance of the Leased Area or to protect the Leased Area from damage due to use (for example, restricting use of a play field to allow turf restoration).

 6. TERM

 The term of this Lease shall be for FORTY (40) years and shall commence on the first day the agreement is fully executed and shall terminate FORTY years from that date. Extension of the Lease may be proposed at any time by either party.

 7. RENT

 Rent in the amount one dollar ($1.00) shall be paid by Parks to the District for the term of this Lease.

 8. ALTERATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS

 8.1 Parks may make or allow to be made under Parks' supervision, direction or guidance such alterations, additions, renovations or improvements to the Leased Area and to the Auxiliary Park Area to allow the Park to be used for the stated purposes, in accordance with the plan, as approved by Parks and the District, and attached hereto as Exhibit A.

 8.2 As of the effective date of this Lease BUT after two (2) business days notice to District, Parks shall have a right to enter and occupy Leased Area and Auxiliary Park Area for purposes of making improvements noted in 8.1 above.

 8.3 Prior to construction, Parks shall erect safety fencing around the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area. Throughout construction period, Parks shall take whatever other safety precautions deemed prudent to assure District's safe use or occupancy of the Auxiliary Park Area.

 8.4 During construction Parks will establish and maintain vehicle access from the north end of the construction site to the school's asphalt play area for the benefit of the District to allow parking, deliveries, and other service needs and Parks will ensure that emergency exit from the school building's west door remains clear.

 8.5 Park improvements may include art work or art installations authorized and approved by the City through an established public process.

 8.6 After the initial construction period, EXCEPT in the case of an emergency affecting the Leased Area or the Auxiliary Park Area or any of the improvements made thereto, Parks shall give District thirty (30) days prior notice of Parks' intent to make any alteration that could impact use of the Auxiliary Park Area or use of District's adjoining property.

 8.7 If, during the term of this Lease but after the installation of the improvements as shown on Exhibit A, Parks wishes to make additional improvements or alterations to the Leased Area or if Parks or the District wishes to make certain changes to the Auxiliary Park Area, the parties agree to consult with each other prior to any action to alter the Park. Parks may make no significant changes or improvements to the Park without the review and written permission of the District.

 8.8 The District shall have the right to enter and inspect the Leased Area at all reasonable times. Neither party shall install any lock or bolt on any gate to the Auxiliary Park Area without the other's written consent.

 8.9 Initial construction period is anticipated to be completed within approximately six (6) months of start of construction or by approximately February 15, 2000, whichever is later.

 9. SIGNS OR ADVERTISING

 9.1 Parks may place permanent sign(s) identifying Leased Area as a public park and may place such other permanent or temporary signs as may be necessary or appropriate to provide information or notice of regulation for the orderly operation of the Park.

 9.2 The District and Parks shall cooperate in developing acceptable wording for Parks signage that acknowledges the shared use of the park, as defined in Section 5 of this Agreement, and advises the public of the District's right to limit access.

 10. UTILITIES

 Parks shall pay, when due, all charges for providing water service to the Leased Area and to the Auxiliary Park Area for the operation of the Park (plus whatever other charges are automatically incurred as a consequence of the City's use of a combined utility billing system to bill for water use) during the term of this Lease.

 11. MAINTENANCE and UPKEEP or CARE OF THE PARK

 11.1 Parks has had access to the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area for the purposes of planning the Park and has inspected the same and accepts the same "AS IS" in their present condition, with the intent of making the aforementioned alterations and improvements as described.

 11.2 Maintenance of all improvements made by Parks to the Leased Area, including plantings, play equipment, paved or otherwise hard surfaces, and utility installations installed by Parks to serve the Park, including irrigation, lighting, and drainage, shall be the responsibility of Parks.

 11.3 Maintenance and upkeep of certain improvements to the Auxiliary Park Area, specifically plantings and utility installations installed by Parks to serve the Park, including irrigation, lighting, and drainage, shall be the responsibility of Parks.

 11.4 Parks shall employ qualified personnel for maintenance, who shall be licensed, if such is required by applicable law or ordinance.

 11.5 Maintenance of paved or otherwise hard surfaces in the Auxiliary Park Area, notably the common pedestrian walkways, the parking lot, and the loading dock area, shall be the responsibility of the District.

 11.6 Upkeep or care of the Park, meaning routine litter pick-up and trash removal, lawn mowing and other plant care such as watering and weeding, of the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area shall be the responsibility of Parks.

 11.7 The District and Parks may, during the term of this Lease, enter into a separate Maintenance Agreement further defining and assigning the maintenance responsibilities of the parties or altering the maintenance responsibilities as herein described in order to assure the adequacy and economy of such maintenance for both parties.

 11.8 In the event Parks fails to maintain the Leased Area in good order, condition and repair, the District shall give Parks notice to take such action(s) as may be reasonably required to so maintain the Leased Area. Nothing herein shall require Parks to maintain the Leased Area or the Auxiliary Park Area in a better condition than that of the average Parks facility of an equivalent type.

 12. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS and WITH DISTRICT POLICIES

 12.1 Parks shall comply fully with all federal and state statutes and City ordinances now or hereafter in force in respect to the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area. Parks warrants and represents to District that Parks shall use the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area only for lawful purposes.

 12.2 Neither party shall commit or suffer waste upon the Leased Area or the Auxiliary Park Area and shall not do or permit to be done in or about the Leased Area or the Auxiliary Park Area anything that is illegal or unlawful.

 12.3 City shall comply fully with all Seattle School Board policies now or hereafter in force with respect to the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area and City's activities thereon provided that such policies are consistent with City policies, laws or regulations.

 13. SURRENDER OR REMOVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS

 13.1 Upon expiration or termination by the City of this Lease, Parks may, at its option, remove its improvements to the Leased Area at its own expense or may surrender those same improvements to remain and to become the property of the District. Removal of the improvements must not unreasonably disturb the Leased Area or leave the Leased Area in a condition that could be hazardous or injurious to the public.

 13.2 In the event of cancellation of this Lease, as provided for at Paragraph 17, the District and Parks shall jointly determine the value of the improvements. The District shall, at Parks' option, pay to remove and relocate the improvements for use by Parks elsewhere or compensate Parks for the value of the improvements. Compensation in the amount agreed therefor shall be made to Parks within thirty (30) days of surrender of the Leased Area.

 14. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES

 Parks shall keep the Leased Area free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising out of Parks' use or occupancy of same. At District's request, Parks shall furnish District with written proof of payment of any item which, if not paid, would or might constitute the basis for such a lien on District property.

 15. TAXES

 If District requests and obtains segregation of Leased Area as a discrete tax parcel according to King County Assessor records and notifies Parks of same, Parks shall be responsible for Surface Water Management (SWM) charges for Leased Area.

 16. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES

 Parks shall not allow the use or storage of hazardous substances on the Leased Area other than those reasonably necessary for operating the Park. In the event Parks brings into or uses hazardous substances in the Park, Parks shall, at its sole cost, dispose of all hazardous substances that it brings into the Park. Parks shall be responsible for complying with all federal, state and local laws and regulations in regard to the handling and disposing of hazardous substances. In no instance shall Parks allow the release or disposal of hazardous substances in the Park.

 17. CANCELLATION

 In the event the District determines at any time during the term of this Lease that the Leased Area is required for District purposes other than school playground purposes, this Lease shall be subject to cancellation by the District upon District's providing to Parks one year's prior written notice of such cancellation. In the event of such cancellation, the District shall make a good faith effort, subject to the reasonable satisfaction of Parks, to provide equivalent land and facilities as a substitute for the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area, at no cost to Parks, for the remaining term of this Lease for the benefit of Parks and the general public.

 18. INDEMNIFICATION

 18.1 City to Indemnify District: Except as provided in Paragraph 18.3 hereof, the City shall indemnify and hold the District harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions and damages suffered by any person or entity by reason of or resulting from any negligent, reckless, or intentionally wrongful act or omission of the City or any of its officers, employees or agents on the Leased Area; and if, as a consequence of any such act or omission, any suit or action is brought against the District, the City, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at no cost and expense to the District, and promptly satisfy any final judgment adverse to the District.

 18.2 District to Indemnify City: Except as provided in Paragraph 18.3 hereof, the District shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions and damages suffered by any person or entity by reason of or resulting from any negligent, reckless or intentionally wrongful act or omission of the District or any of its officers, employees or agents on the Leased Area; and if, as a consequence or any such act or omission, any suit or action is brought against the City, the District upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at no cost and expense to the City, and promptly satisfy any final judgment adverse to the City; provided that in the event the City determines that one or more principles of governmental or public law are involved, the City retains the right to participate in such action.

 18.3 Indemnification Regarding Any Alteration, Addition, or Improvement: Where any bodily injury or damage to property results from or arises out of any construction, alteration, repair, addition to, subtraction from, improvement to or maintenance of, any building, road, excavation, or other structure, project, development, or improvement attached to real estate including moving and demolition in connection therewith, the indemnification provided pursuant to paragraphs 18.1 and 18.2 hereof, shall be limited to the extent of the indemnitor's negligence.

 18.4 Prorating of Costs and Expenses in Event of Joint Liability: In the event that both parties are held to have been or agree to be treated as having been jointly liable in any suit arising out of their acts or omissions under this Lease, the costs and expenses arising therefrom shall be prorated between the parties according to the relative degrees of their liability.

 18.5 Survival of Indemnification Obligation: The indemnification obligations set forth in Paragraph 18 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination or cancellation of this Lease.

 18.6 Waiver of Immunity and Liability Limitations Regarding Industrial Insurance: For purposes of this Lease only, each of the parties hereto specifically and expressly waives, with respect to the other, its immunity and limitations on liability under any industrial insurance legislation including but not limited to Title 51 RCW and acknowledges that this waiver was specifically entered into after mutual negotiation.

 19. PROPERTY INSURANCE/LIABILITY

 Parties acknowledge that both City and District are self-insured and District does not require further evidence of insurance for purposes of this Lease.

 20. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION or DECLARATION AS SURPLUS

 20.1 In the event the Leased Area or the improvements thereon are damaged by fire, earthquake, act of war, or other extraordinary casualty to such an extent as to render the Leased Area unusable for park, recreation and playground purposes, Parks may, at its option, repair or rebuild the same or terminate this Lease by providing written notice thereof to the District within thirty (30) days after such damage or destruction has been determined to be irreparable. If Parks elects to repair or rebuild, such work shall proceed without unnecessary delay.

 20.2 In the event any principal building(s) on the adjacent lands owned by the District are damaged in substantial part thereof or are destroyed (whether or not the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area are damaged or destroyed) to such an extent that, in the opinion of the District, it is not practical to repair or rebuild such principal building(s); or in the event the adjacent lands owned by District are declared to be surplus; and in response to either of these events, the District decides to sell the entire site, the City shall have the first right of purchase for the entire site or for the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area pursuant to Paragraph 21.

 21. FIRST RIGHT TO PURCHASE

 In the event that the District determines to sell the entire tract of land of which the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area are a part, the City shall have the first right to purchase the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area or the entire tract of land at a value determined by an independent appraiser, such value to be for the land only, exclusive of the value of the City-added improvements and further exclusive of the leasehold interests granted by this Lease Agreement. The City shall have 120 days from the time notice of such determination to sell is received from the District to give notice to the District that the City wishes to exercise its first right to purchase. If the City decides not to exercise its first right to purchase, the District shall be free to sell its entire tract of land, including the Leased Area and the Auxiliary Park Area to a third party. The third party would purchase the tract of land subject to this Lease Agreement.

 22. CONDEMNATION

 If any part of the District's property at this site, including the Leased Area or the Auxiliary Park Area, shall be taken or condemned, and a part thereof remains which is susceptible of occupation and use as a park and recreation facility of the type and nature for which the property is hereby leased, then this lease shall continue in full force and effect from and after the date title to such portion shall vest in the condemnor, except with respect to such portion; otherwise this Lease shall terminate. If part or all of the property be taken or condemned, the compensation awarded on such condemnation or taking shall be awarded to the District and the City in proportion to their respective interests.

 23. COSTS AND ATTORNEY'S FEES

 If, by reason of any default or breach hereunder by the District or by the City, it becomes necessary to institute suit, the prevailing party in such suit shall be entitled to recover, as part of any judgment, such amount as the court shall determine reasonable attorney's fees for the prevailing party in such suit, together with taxable costs.

 24. NONWAIVER OF BREACH

 The failure of either party to insist upon strict performance of any of the covenants and agreements of this Lease or to exercise any option herein conferred in any one or more instances shall not be construed to be a waiver or relinquishment of any such other covenant or agreement, but the same shall be and remain in full force and effect.

 25. SUCCESSORS and ASSIGNMENT

 25.1 All the covenants, agreements, terms and conditions contained in this Lease shall apply to and be binding upon the District and the City and their respective successors and assigns.

 25.2 The City shall not transfer or assign this Lease, in whole or in part, or sublet the Leased Area or any part thereof.

 26. NOTICES

 All notices, statements, demands, requests, consents, approvals, authorizations, offers, agreements, appointments, or designations under this Lease by either party to the other shall be in writing and shall be served upon the other party or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid and addressed as follows, or to such other place as District or Parks may designate from time to time.

 To Parks, addressed to:

 City of Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation

 Property Management

 800 Maynard Avenue South

 Seattle, WA 98134-1336

 To District, addressed to:

 Seattle School District

 Property Management Office

 4141 Fourth Avenue South

 Seattle, WA 98134

 27. MISCELLANEOUS

 27.1 The paragraph and section heading hereof are for convenience only and shall not be used to expand or interpret the meaning of any part of this Lease.

 27.2 Time is of the essence hereof.

 27.3 If any portion of this Lease shall be deemed void, illegal or unenforceable, the balance of this Lease shall not be affected.

 27.4 This Lease shall be interpreted under the laws of the State of Washington.

 27.5 The parties agree that the Superior Court of the State of Washington for King County shall have sole jurisdiction over any question, claim, loss or injury arising hereunder.

 For Seattle School District No. 1:

 __________________________________________________________________

 Name Title Date

 For City of Seattle, Department of Parks and Recreation:

 __________________________________________________________________

 Name Title Date

 Exhibit A - Site Plan

 Prop 6 of 10

```
