

********

**Council Bill Number: 113167**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120066**
********

 AN ORDINANCE Amending the Seattle Fire Code, Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.600.020 and Ordinance 119124, amending and adding to amendments made by Ordinance 119125, and relating to the fueling of motor vehicles directly from a tank vehicle; allowing unsupervised dispensing at motor-vehicle fueling stations; revising allowed flammable liquid quantities in protected above ground tanks; requiring Class K fire extinguishers in specified commercial cooking facilities; eliminating the requirement of a high-rise fire brigade; correlating vertical clearance requirements with the Seattle Building Code; and clarifying requirements for removal of exterior fire escapes.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 21, 2000
   
**Vote:** 7-0 Nicastro out (Absent: Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 25, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 24, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** April 24, 2000
   
**Committee:** Public Safety and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** FIRE-CODES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 119124, 119125

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE amending the Seattle Fire Code, Seattle Municipal Code Section 22.600.020 and Ordinance 119124, amending and adding to amendments made by Ordinance 119125, and relating to the fueling of motor vehicles directly from a tank vehicle; allowing unsupervised dispensing at motor-vehicle fueling stations; revising allowed flammable liquid quantities in protected above ground tanks; requiring Class K fire extinguishers in specified commercial cooking facilities; eliminating the requirement of a high-rise fire brigade; correlating vertical clearance requirements with the Seattle Building Code; and clarifying requirements for removal of exterior fire escapes;

 WHEREAS, an industry workgroup and interested parties developed and recommended approval of proposed amendments to allow mobile fleet fueling of motor vehicles; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Fire Code Advisory Board, comprised of citizens and representatives of major business and industry groups, has reviewed and recommended approval of the following amendments;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Section 22.600.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code (Ordinance 119124 Section 2 (part) is hereby amended to read as follows:

 22.600.020 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM FIRE CODE

 The Uniform Fire Code, 1997 Edition with Appendices I-C, II-A, II-B, II-C, II-D, II-E, II-F, II-I, II-J, III-A, III-B, III-C, IV-A, IV-B,V- A, VI-A, VI-B, VI-C, VI-E, VI-F, VI-G, VI-H and VI-I thereto, and the Uniform Fire Code Standards, 1997 Edition, both published by the International Fire Code Institute, one copy of which is filed with the City Clerk (C.F. 302780, are adopted and by this reference made part of this subtitle. This Uniform Fire Code, together with the City of Seattle amendments thereto, as adopted under separate ordinances and known as the Seattle Fire Code Supplement, shall constitute the Official Seattle Fire Code. In any case in which there is a conflict between the component parts of the Seattle Fire Code, the Seattle Fire Code Supplement shall be controlling over the Uniform Fire Code.

 Section 2. Section 28 of Ordinance 119125, regarding Subsection 105.8, items f.2., f.3., f.4, f.5, and f.6, as it may have been amended, of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code which was previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section 2 (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

 f.2. Fire and life safety system installation, inspection, maintenance and service. Any person, or corporation or other organization, engaged as a contractor in the business of installing, inspecting, maintaining or servicing the fire and life safety systems and equipment regulated by Appendix III-B of the Seattle Fire Code must obtain an annual permit.

 EXCEPTION: 1. Fire protection sprinkler system contractors as defined in RCW 18.160.010.

 f.3. Fireworks. For permits for fireworks, see Article 78.

 f.4. Flammable or combustible liquids. See Article 79.

 1. To use or operate, repair or modify a pipeline for the transportation of flammable or combustible liquids.

 2. To store, handle or use Class I liquids in excess of 5 gallons (18.9 L) in a building or in excess of 10 gallons (37.9 L) outside of a building, except that a permit is not required for the following:

 2.1. The storage or use of Class I liquids in the fuel tank of a motor vehicle, aircraft, motorboat, mobile power plant, mobile heating plant, or storage of portable motor boat fuel tanks of six (6) gallons (22.7L) or less individual capacity and twelve (12) gallons (45.4L) or less aggregate capacity.

 2.2 The incidental storage or use of paints, oils, varnishes or similar flammable mixtures in quantities permitted by this code when such liquids are stored for maintenance, painting or similar purposes for a period of not more than 30 days.

 3. To store, handle or use Class II or Class III-A liquids in excess of 25 gallons (94.6 L) in a building or in excess of 60 gallons (227.1 L) outside a building, except for fuel oil used in connection with oil-burning equipment.

 4. To remove Class I or Class II liquids from an underground storage tank used for fueling motor vehicles by any means other than the approved, stationary on-site pumps normally used for dispensing purposes.

 5. To install, construct, alter or operate tank vehicles, equipment, tanks, plants, terminals, wells, fuel-dispensing stations, refineries, distilleries and similar facilities where flammable and combustible liquids are produced, processed, transported, stored, dispensed, or used.

 6. To install, alter, remove, abandon, place temporarily out of service or otherwise dispose of a flammable or combustible liquid tank. Additionally, an annual permit shall be required for any person, or corporation or other organization, engaged as a contractor in the business of installing, altering, removing, abandoning, placing temporarily out of service or otherwise disposing of flammable or combustible liquid tanks.

 7. To change the type of contents stored in a flammable or combustible liquid tank to a material other than that for which the tank was designed and constructed.

 8. To store, handle or use Class III-B liquids in excess of 1,000 gallons.

9. To transfer fuel into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle directly from a tank vehicle, and for any site where fuel is transferred into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle directly from a tank vehicle.

 f.5. Fruit ripening. To operate a fruit-ripening process regulated by Article 46.

 f.6. Fumigation or thermal insecticidal fogging. To operate a business of fumigation or thermal insecticidal fogging and to maintain a room, vault or chamber in which a toxic or flammable fumigant is used. See Article 47.

 Section 3. As an addition to Ordinance 119125 as it may have been amended, Subsection 902.2.2.1 of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code, previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section 2 (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

 902.2.2.1 Dimensions. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less than 20 feet (6096 mm) and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 14 feet (4267 mm). ~~13 feet 6 inches (4115 mm.~~

 EXCEPTION: Vertical clearance may be reduced, provided such reduction does not impair access by fire apparatus and approved signs are installed and maintained indicating the established vertical clearance when approved.

 Vertical clearances or widths shall be increased when, in the opinion of the chief, vertical clearances or widths are not adequate to provide fire apparatus access.

 Section 4. As an addition to the amendments made by Ordinance 119125 as it may have been amended, Subsection 1006.2.7 of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code, previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section 2 (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended by adding Subsection 1006.2.7.1 to read as follows:

1006.2.7.1 Portable fire extinguishers for vegetable oils. A portable fire extinguisher that is listed and labeled for Class K fires shall be installed within 30 feet (9144 mm) of commercial deep fat fryers where vegetable oils are used as a frying medium. An unobstructed path of travel to said extinguisher shall be maintained in accordance with UFC Standard 10-1.  1006.2.7.1.1 Placard. A placard shall be conspicuously placed near the extinguisher that reads as follows:

 The fire protection system shall be activated prior to using the fire extinguisher.

 Section 5. As an addition to the amendments made by Ordinance 119125 as it may have been amended, Subsection 5201.1 of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code, previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section 2 (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

 Section 5201.1 Scope. Automotive, marine and aircraft motor vehicle fuel-dispensing stations shall be in accordance with Article 52 and UFC Standard 52-1. Such operations shall include both public accessible and private operations.

For provisions relating to the transfer of flammable and combustible liquids directly from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles, see Section 7904.5.4.2.

The storage and use of~~F~~flammable and combustible liquids and LP-gas shall also be in accordance with Articles 79 and 82.

 Section 6. Section 84 of Ordinance 119125, amending Subsection 5201.6.3 of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code, is hereby repealed.

 Section 7. As an addition to the amendments made by Ordinance 119125 as it may have been amended, Subsection 7901.2.1, previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section 2 (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

 7901.2.1 General. For definitions of ATMOSPHERIC TANK; AUTOMATIC FIRE CHECK; BOILING POINT; BOILOVER; CLASSIFIED PRODUCT; CLOSED CONTAINER; COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID; CONDENSATE TANKS; DIP TANK; DISPENSING; DOT; FIRE POINT; FIXED ROOF TANK; FLAME ARRESTER; FLAMMABLE LIQUID; FLASH POINT; LABELED; LIQUID; LIQUID STORAGE ROOM; LIQUID STORAGE WAREHOUSE; LISTED; LOW-PRESSURE TANK; MOTOR VEHICLE; PORTABLE TANK; REMOTE SOLVENT RESERVOIR; RETAIL SALES OCCUPANCY; UNSTABLE (Reactive) LIQUID; USE (Material); USE, CLOSED SYSTEM; USE, OPEN SYSTEM, see Article 2.

 Section 8. Section 116 of Ordinance 119125, regarding Subsection 7901.2.2 of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code which was previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code Ordinance 119124 section 2 (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

 7901.2.2 Limited application. For the purpose of Article 79, certain terms are defined as follows:

AUTO START AND STOP NOZZLE is an approved dispensing nozzle that is not capable of dispensing liquid unless the nozzle is in contact with the fuel fill opening of the motor vehicle. The nozzle must be incapable of dispensing liquid until the nozzle has entered the fuel fill opening of the motor vehicle fuel tank. The nozzle will automatically stop dispensing prior to fully extracting the nozzle from the fuel tank opening.

 CONTAINER is a vessel of 60 US gallons (227.1 L) or less capacity used for transporting or storing flammable or combustible liquids. Pipes, piping systems, engines and engine fuel tanks are not considered to be containers.

 FLOATING ROOF TANK is a tank which incorporates either:

 1. A pontoon or double-deck metal floating roof in an open-top tank, or

 2. A fixed metal roof with ventilation at the top and roof eaves and containing a metal floating roof or cover meeting the following requirements:

 2.1 A pontoon or double-deck metal floating roof, or

 2.2 A metal floating cover supported by liquid-tight metal pontoons or floats which provide sufficient buoyancy to prevent sinking of the cover when one half of the pontoons or floats is punctured.

 An internal metal floating pan, roof or cover which does not meet the requirements of Item 2, or one which uses plastic foam, except for seals, for flotation, even if capsulated in metal or fiberglass, shall be treated as a fixed roof tank.

 FUEL-DELIVERY SYSTEM is a system that consists of a tank vehicle containing a pump, a fill hose with appropriate connections and a person who performs the tank filling operation of transferring fuel from the tank vehicle to an aboveground tank. The two types of fuel- delivery systems for aboveground tanks are as follows:

 Preconnected Flexible Hose System is a fuel-delivery system containing a reel-mounted preconnected flexible hose having a maximum nominal diameter of 2 inches (50.8 mm) and a manually controlled fuel-delivery nozzle at the downstream end of the hose.

 Rigid Hose System is a fuel-delivery system utilizing one or more sections of large diameter rigid hose [usually 3 to 4 inches (76.2 mm to 101.6 mm)in nominal diameter] that does not contain a nozzle but which contains interlocking connections for manually connecting the hose from the tank vehicle to the tank.

 MIXING is the combining, blending or bringing together within the same container, tank or vessel flammable or combustible liquids or other materials whereby flammable vapors could be liberated to the atmosphere.

 OUTDOOR AREA is a single, contiguous property exterior to buildings or without buildings thereon which is under the ownership or control of a single person. See also definition of PERSON in Section 217.

REMOTE EMERGENCY SHUT OFF DEVICE is a device capable of halting the pumping of fuel from the furthest point at which the fuel is being dispensed, but not less than 100 feet.

 STORAGE is the keeping, retention or leaving of flammable or combustible liquids in closed containers, tanks or similar vessels.

 Section 9. Section 128 of Ordinance 119125, regarding Subsection 7902.2.10 of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code which was previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

 7902.2.10 Additional requirements for protected aboveground tanks.

 7902.2.10.1 General. The installation of protected aboveground tanks shall be in accordance with Section 7902.2.10.

 7902.2.10.2 Quantity limitations. The maximum quantity of flammable and combustible liquids allowed in protected aboveground tanks shall be in accordance with Table 7902.2.10.2-A.

 TABLE 7902.2.10.2-A QUANTITY LIMITATIONS FOR PROTECTED ABOVEGROUND STORAGE TANKS USED FOR DISPENSING INTO EQUIPMENT

 TYPE OF LIQUID LOCATION OF TANK

 Within Within I- Outside I- Fire zone 1,2 zone 1,2 District

 Class I Prohibited Maximum primary Maximum tank capacity = primary 1,000 gallons tank capacity = 500 gallons

 Class II ~~Prohibi- Maximum primary Maximum For Open ted~~ tank capacity primary use 660 2,000 gallons tank gallons= capacity= ~~500~~600 gallons

 Combination Prohibited 3,000 gallons 3 1,000 Class I gallons 3 and Class II liquids in compart- mentalized tanks for open use

 Class II ~~Pro- Maximum primary Maximum outside hibited~~ tank capacity = primary for closed 2,000 4,000 gallons tank use (e.g. gallons capacity = emergency 2,000 generators) gallons

 1I-zone means Industrial zones identified in accordance with the City Land Use Code.

 2Additional tanks are allowed on the same site when separated from one another by a minimum of 100 feet.

 3Maximum individual compartment capacities shall not exceed the maximum allowable primary tank capacity for the class of liquid.

 Section 10. As an addition to the amendments made by Ordinance 119125 as it may have been amended, Subsection 7904.5.4.2 of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code, previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section 2 (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended to read as follows:

 7904.5.4.2 Destination of liquids off loaded from tank vehicles and tank cars.

 7904.5.4.2.1 General. Class I, II or III liquids shall be transferred from a tank vehicle or tank car only into an approved atmospheric tank or approved portable tank, except as provided in Sections 7904.5.4.2.2 through 7904.5.4.2~~6~~7.

 Section 11. As an addition to Ordinance 119125 as it may have been amended, Subsection 7904.5.4.2.1 of the 1997 Uniform Fire Code, previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section 2 (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended by adding Subsection 7904.5.4.2.7 to read as follows:

7904.5.4.2.7 Fueling of motor vehicles from tank vehicles.  7904.5.4.2.7.1 General. The transfer of gasoline or other Class I flammable liquid into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle is prohibited except as provided for in Sections 7904.5.4.2.2 through 7904.5.4.2.6. The transfer of a Class II combustible liquid (e.g., diesel fuel) into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle shall be in accordance with Section 7904.5.4.2.7.except as provided for in Section 7904.5.4.2 through 7904.5.2.6.

 7904.5.4.2.7.2 Permits and plans. See also Section 105.8, item f.4. A permit is required:

 1. To transfer fuel into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle directly from a tank vehicle.

 2. For any site where fuel is transferred into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle directly from a tank vehicle.

 The following information shall be included with any application for permit to transfer fuel into a motor vehicle from a tank vehicle:

 * A signed agreement acknowledging the requirements of mobile fueling in the City of Seattle.

 * License number of each fuel delivery vehicle.

 * Proof of tank vehicle compliance with 49 CFR 178 requirements and inspections. Documentation showing inspection approval of the vehicles by a DOT registered inspector shall be proof of compliance.

 * An approved Spill Response Plan.

 The following information shall be included with any application to utilize a site for the transfer of fuel into motor vehicles from tank vehicles:

 * A site plan showing all property lines, buildings, facilities, hazardous materials, parking, lighting, fencing, openings into buildings, storm drains, unpaved areas, lanes of egress and the proposed location(s) of fueling.

 * Signed Acknowledgment of Fueling Operations Form.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3 Fuel delivery vehicles.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3.1 Maintenance. All required equipment, safety features and devices on the fuel delivery vehicle shall be maintained in full working order at all times.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3.2 Compliance with DOT regulations. Fuel delivery vehicles shall comply with all applicable 49 CFR 178 requirements. Documentation from a DOT registered inspector shall be available for review by the Fire Department and shall be accepted by the Fire Department as proof of compliance.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3.3 Fuel dispensing hoses. The fueling hose shall not be extended beyond 50 feet.

 EXCEPTION: The fueling hose may be extended up to a maximum distance of 125 feet if the operator carries an approved remote emergency shut- off device capable of stopping the flow of fuel. The actual extension distance that will be approved will be the shorter of the maximum distance to which the remote emergency shut-off device is demonstrated to be reliable, or the effective distance of the shut-off device specified by the manufacturer. The fueling hose shall be clearly marked with a minimum 12-inch wide band of contrasting color at the approved extension distance.

 All pressure hoses and couplings shall be inspected at intervals appropriate to the service. Any hose showing materials deterioration, signs of leakage or weakness in its carcass or at the couplings shall be withdrawn from service and repaired or discarded.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3.4 Hose diameter. The inside diameter of the delivery hose shall not exceed 1-1/4 inches.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3.5 Spill control equipment. Fuel delivery vehicles shall be equipped with at least the following clean up supplies:

 * Non-water absorbents capable of absorbing 16 gallons of diesel;

 * A storm drain plug kit; and

 * A containment boom having a minimum length of 10 feet.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3.6 Nozzle. The dispensing nozzle shall be an approved listed automatic closing type hose nozzle without a latch open device or an approved auto start and stop nozzle with a latch-open device.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3.7 Emergency shut-off valve. The fuel delivery vehicle shall have an approved emergency shut-off valve.

 7904.5.4.2.7.3.8 Fire extinguisher. The fuel delivery vehicle shall have a fire extinguisher with a minimum rating of 2A 20BC located in a readily accessible location.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4 Operation Requirements.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.1 Training. Fuel delivery vehicle operators shall comply with current training and certification requirements in accordance with local, state and federal regulations for handling, dispensing and transporting hazardous materials.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.2 Notification of spills. The fuel delivery vehicle operator shall, without delay, directly notify the Seattle Fire Department via 911 when an unauthorized discharge becomes reportable under state, federal or local regulations or when any spill or accidental release, inside or outside of a building, could present a fire or life safety hazard.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.3 Location of attendant during dispensing. The attendant shall be located at the nozzle at all times when fuel is being dispensed.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.4 Signage. Signs stating NO SMOKING or OPEN FLAME WITHIN 25 FEET, or an approved equivalent, shall be visible and readable at the fueling site. [Tanker must either have signage on it stating this or portable signs may be provided.]

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.5 Emergency communication. Each tanker shall have a mobile or portable phone or two way radio to an attended base.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.6 Warning lights. The fuel delivery vehicle's parking brake and the hazard warning lights shall be activated during fueling operations.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.7 Spill prevention.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.7.1 Overfill and drip protection. Operators shall place a drip pan or absorbent, in good condition, under each fuel fill opening prior to and during all dispensing operations. Drip pans shall be liquid tight. The pan or absorbent shall have a capacity of at least 5 gallons. Spills retained in the drip pan or absorbent pillow need not be reported. Operators, when fueling, shall have on their persons an absorbent pad capable of capturing diesel foam overfills. Except during fueling, the nozzle shall face upwards and an absorbent pad shall be kept under the nozzle to prevent drips. Contaminated absorbent pads shall be disposed of regularly in accordance with local, state and federal requirements.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.7.2 Topping off. Fuel expansion space shall be provided in each motor vehicle tank to prevent overflow. Tanks shall not be topped off. The operator shall cease filling and remove the fill nozzle if the automatic shut-off engages.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.8 Lighting. The operator shall provide lighting that provides clear illumination at the point of fueling.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.9 Vehicle motor shutdown. The vehicle being fueled shall be shut off during fueling operations.

 7904.5.4.2.7.4.10 Fuel hoses. At no time shall the fueling hose extend across a trafficable lane without fluorescent traffic cones conspicuously placed so that all vehicle traffic is blocked.

 The fuel hose shall be returned to its storage location on the vehicle prior to repositioning the vehicle. At no time shall the hose be allowed to drag behind the vehicle while it is in motion.

 7904.5.4.2.7.5 Site Requirements.

 7904.5.4.2.7.5.1 Acknowledgement of Fueling Operations. It shall be the responsibility of the permit applicant to ensure that all persons and parties with an interest in the property (i.e., property owner, lessor, real-estate company, property manager as well as operators of the property) have given explicit consent to allow mobile fueling to occur on the property. Managers, lessees, renters and other persons can not solely give permission for mobile fueling to occur on the property.

 7904.5.4.2.7.5.2 Location of Fueling. Each fueling area shall be:

 1. At least 15 feet from all property lines, streets, alleys, public ways, building openings and storm drains.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1) The distance to storm drains can be eliminated if an approved storm drain cover or an approved equivalent that will prevent any fuel from reaching the drain is in place prior to fueling or hose being placed within 15 feet of the drain. When placement of a storm drain cover will cause the accumulation of excessive water or difficulty in safely conducting the fueling, it shall not be used and fueling shall not take place within 15 feet of a drain.

 2) The distance to storm drains can be eliminated for drains that direct intake to approved oil-water separators.

 2. Have a surface that will be protected by continuous pavement (cement or asphalt) which is in good repair. Good repair means that a surface has no cracks, holes or means through which a spill could reach soil.

 EXCEPTION: Demonstration by the vehicle operator that the flow of fuel can be stopped from the furthest fueling location within 15 seconds.

 7904.5.4.2.7.5.3 Sources of Ignition. Fuel dispensing is prohibited within15 feet of any source of ignition.

 7904.5.4.2.7.5.4 Access. Mobile fueling operations shall not be performed during times when the public has access to the area unless restricted by remoteness of the property, fencing or other control measures.

 Section 12. Section 173 of Ordinance 119125, regarding Article 193 which was previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended by amending Subsection 19302.3 to read as follows:

 19302.3 Fire Escapes. Exterior fire escapes shall be accessible and structurally safe at all times. Owners of high-rise buildings shall load test fire escapes at least once every five (5) years with a weight of not less than 100 lb/sq. foot. The results of such a load test shall be submitted in writing to the chief. In lieu of such a test, the chief may accept the opinion of a structural engineer licensed by the State of Washington describing his inspection and/or tests and stating that the fire escape is structurally safe and will support a load of 100 lb/sq. foot. There shall be signs approved by the chief clearly identifying the route of access to the fire escape from every public corridor. ~~Fire escapes which are not maintained structurally safe and not otherwise required by provisions of the Fire Code shall be removed~~.)) Fire escapes that are not structurally safe must be repaired so as to be fully functional and must pass the testing criteria specified in this paragraph.  Point of Information

 Fire escapes may only be modified or removed under permit from the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use.

 Locked doors or windows are prohibited between public corridors and fire escapes.

 EXCEPTIONS: Where all of the following criteria are met and approved by the chief:

 1. An identified tool or device for opening the locked door or window is permanently affixed in close proximity to the locked point.

 2. The area around the locked door or window is served by emergency illumination.

 3. Clearly understandable directions indicating the use of the tool and the route to the fire escape are posted at the locked door or window.

 Section 13. Section 173 of Ordinance 119125, regarding Article 193 which was previously adopted as part of the Seattle Fire Code by Ordinance 119124 section (part) as it may have been amended, is hereby amended by amending Subsection 19309 to read as follows:

 Section 19309.2 Building staff training. Owners of high-rise buildings shall designate from existing staff a building fire safety director ~~and a building firefighting unit who shall be responsible for the operation of the building fire protection equipment and first aid fire fighting~~. Owners of high-rise buildings, and/or tenants employing over 100 persons, shall designate a floor warden for each floor to ~~be responsible for~~assist in evacuating the people on their respective floor in emergencies. The names and work locations of the building fire safety director ~~, the fire fighting unit~~ and the floor wardens shall be maintained on a roster contained in the building emergency operations plan.

POINT OF INFORMATION  The Seattle Fire Department offers a free, voluntary class for building fire safety directors and other interested parties that provides information on fire and life safety in high-rise buildings. The Fire Department will also provide a free, voluntary on-site review of a building's emergency procedures for new Building Fire Safety Directors, at the request of the Building Fire Safety Director or the building owner's representative. Please contact the Fire Prevention Division at (206) 386-1450 for information.

 Section 14. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 4/10/00 V2

```
