

********

**Council Bill Number: 113218**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119962**
********

 AN ORDINANCE Relating to the Seattle Center; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a Second Amendment to the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement with the Seattle Children's Theatre (SCT) Association in regard to SCT's new Technical Pavilion addition.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 30, 2000
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 5, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 5, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 15, 2000
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, SEATTLE-CENTER, THEATERS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a Second Amendment to the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement with the Seattle Children's Theatre (SCT) Association in regard to SCT's new Technical Pavilion addition.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Second Amendment to the agreement with the Seattle Children's Theatre (SCT) Association substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "SECOND AMENDMENT TO FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE CHILDREN'S THEATRE ASSOCIATION" which specifies the terms and conditions under which the site of SCT's new Technical Pavilion addition is leased by SCT from the City.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2000. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20____. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment - Second Amendment to Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement Between The City of Seattle and Seattle Children's Theatre Association

 Exhibit F -- Allocation of Insurance Proceeds if Neither Party Elects to Rebuild

 Exhibit H - Unamortized Value of Amounts Paid by SCT to Total Project Costs

 Exhibit M - Insurance Requirements

 Exhibit N-Depiction of the Technical Pavilion

 D:\DATA\LEGISLAT\CAP_Comm\SCT\Lease\lseord.doc 5/10/00 V #1 SECOND AMENDMENT TO FACILTY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SEATTLE CHILDREN'S THEATRE ASSOCIATION

 On September 23, 1993, pursuant to Ordinance No. 116846, the City of Seattle ("City) and the Seattle Children's Theatre Association ("SCT") executed a Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement ("Lease") for the Charlotte Martin Theatre at Seattle Center. In 1998, pursuant to Ordinance No. 118861, the Lease was amended to include the "PAC Supplemental Space," including the Eve Alvord Theatre (the "First Amendment").

 On August 9, 1999, the City Council enacted Ordinance No. 119592, authorizing the Seattle Center Director to enter into a construction agreement with SCT for the construction of a new technical pavilion. Construction is underway and occupancy is scheduled for May 22, 2000. Unlike the Charlotte Martin and Eve Alvord theatres, which are owned by the City, the addition will be owned by SCT for the duration of the Lease.

 The parties presently wish to amend the 1993 Lease between SCT and the City to include the technical pavilion real property in the property leased to SCT.

 Unless expressly stated otherwise elsewhere in this Amendment, all references herein are to the Article numbers in the September 23, 1993, Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement Between Seattle Children's Theatre Association and the City of Seattle. References herein to "the First Amendment" are to the January 28, 1998, First Amendment to Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement. All provisions of the Facility Use & Occupancy Agreement and the First Amendment that have not been modified by this Second Amendment shall remain in full force and effect.

 1. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION I.

 Section I. of the Facility Use & Occupancy Agreement, as amended, is further amended to add a new section D., as follows:

 I. LEASE AND DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.

 D. Property: That real property depicted in Exhibit N, upon which the Technical Pavilion is constructed, legally described as follows:

 Portions of Lots 4, 5, 8,and Lots 9 and 10, Block 40, D.T. Denny's Third Addition to North Seattle according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, page 145, King County, Washington, together with that portion of the Alley in said Block 40 vacated under Ordinance 116138 of The City of Seattle that is adjacent thereto.

 2. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION II.

 Subsections II.B and II.C of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement and the First Amendment are amended and a new Subsection II.E. is added, as follows:

 II. TERM OF AGREEMENT.

 B. Term. SCT's right to use and occupy the Technical Pavilion shall commence on May 22, 2000. Unless extended pursuant to the provisions of Subsection II.C., , the use and occupancy rights granted to SCT under the Lease and all amendments thereto, shall expire on September 7, 2013.

 C. Option for Extension of Term. Subject to the conditions in Subsection II.D., hereof, SCT may extend the term of this agreement for up to two additional terms. The first extension shall be ten (10) years and the second extension shall be seventeen (17) years, to September 7, 2023, and September 7, 2040, respectively (the "Extended Terms"). Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the options to extend the term of this agreement shall not be assignable or exercisable by any person or entity other than SCT or such assignee as has been approved pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section XX.

 E. First Right to Negotiate. In the event SCT exercises both of its options to extend the term of this Lease, then at the end of the second Extended Term, if the City desires to re-let the Premises, SCT shall have the first right to negotiate a new lease with the City upon such terms and conditions as are agreeable to the parties. Any potential new lease shall be subject to approval by the Seattle City Council.

 3. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION V.

 Subsection V.B.1. of the First Amendment is amended and a new Subsection V.J. is added as follows:

 V. CITY AND FESTIVAL CO-SPONSOR USE.

 B. Other Reserved Dates. Subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in this Agreement as amended, the City shall be entitled to reserve the use of the CMT Production Areas and Alvord Production Areas and Rehearsal Rooms 250, 251, and 252 for up to eight (8) additional dates, annually, throughout the term of this Agreement and any extension thereof. In addition, the City shall be entitled to one (1) move-in date immediately preceding and (1) move-out date immediately following each such reserved date in the CMT and Alvord Production Areas. The City's use of the areas described in this Section shall be at no charge to the City and shall be contingent on approval by SCT, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Use of the Production Areas shall not conflict with SCT's performance, class or rehearsal schedule, and shall be for activities that are compatible with the general goals of SCT and the Mission Statement of Seattle Center.

 J. Dates Reserved Due to Flag Pavilion Construction. Recognizing that the SCT performance and rehearsal schedule shall take scheduling precedence, the parties shall work together to allow the CMT Production Areas and the Alvord Production Areas to be used for all or parts of the following events/festivals sponsored or co-sponsored by the Seattle Center during reconstruction of the Flag Pavilion. Martin Luther King J. Day: Energizing the Dream Festival Sundiata (African-American Cultural Festival) Tet Festival (Vietnamese Cultural Festival) Irish Week Festival World Rhythm Days of Percussion (Percussion Festival) Seattle Jewish Festival Seattle Cherry Blossom & Japanese Cultural Festival Pagdiriwang '2000 (Philippine Cultural Festival) Chinese Culture & Arts Festival Juneteenth Celebration Festival do Brazil Tibet Fest Fiestas Patrias Festa Italiana (Italian Cultural Festival) Hmong New Year Celebration (Laotian Cultural Fest)

 1. The City shall provide written notice to SCT of the dates of proposed usage as soon as is practicable after the determination of the Flag Pavilion construction schedule. The City and SCT shall determine the dates potentially available for use by the events/festivals identified above prior to discussing the availability of the facilities with the producers of said events/festivals. The parties agree that these additional uses are intended only for the period of the Flag Pavilion reconstruction In the event the reconstruction period exceeds 13 months, then SCT and the City shall meet to negotiate the terms and conditions of additional use by the City during ongoing construction.

 2. The terms and conditions of reserved date use outlined in Subsection V.A.2., Subsection V.A.3., Subsection V.D, Subsection V.E., and Subsection V.G. through V.I. shall apply for all reserved days use identified in Section V.J.1.

 4. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION VI.

 Section VI. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement, as amended, is further amended by substituting the following section:

 VI. RENT. SCT hereby covenants to and shall pay rent and additional rent for the Premises as follows, without any offset or deduction whatsoever except, as authorized by the Director.

 A. Amount of Rent.

 1. Rent During Initial Term.

 a. For the Premises excluding "Portion B" and the "Technical Pavilion". During the initial term of this Agreement the rent shall be $5,628.00 per year.

 b. For "Portion B" of the Premises. Commencing June 1, 1997 the rent shall be $3.00 per square foot per year ($2,617.25 per month or $31,407.00 per year). Commencing June 1, 2001, the rent shall be $4.00 per square foot per year ($3,489.67 per month or $41,876 per year) as adjusted by the CPI for the years 1997 on, as described in Subsection VI.A.1.d. below.

 c. For the Technical Pavilion portion of the Premises. Commencing May 22, 2000 the rent shall be $4.69 per square foot per year or $51,355.50 per year. Of this amount, upon the mutual agreement of the parties, not more than $15,000.00 per year may be paid in the form of in-kind services to Seattle Center. Such services may include the provision of educational workshops, performances and/or the provision of services and materials by the SCT scene shop. By November 15th of each calendar year of the Initial Term, SCT and Seattle Center shall mutually determine the amount, if any, of in-kind services SCT shall provide to Seattle Center for the following calendar year. A written summary of the planned in-kind services and their agreed value, signed by both SCT and the Seattle Center Director, shall be provided to Seattle Center Fiscal Services to document the planned provision of in-kind services. At the end of each calendar year, the Director and the SCT Managing Director shall mutually determine any variance between the value of the in-kind services planned and those actually provided by SCT, and SCT shall promptly pay the City the amount of any such variance together with the December rent due. The amount of the potential in-kind services shall also be adjusted upwards to reflect annual CPI adjustments as provided in Subsection VI.A.1.d. below.

 Notwithstanding the foregoing, in recognition of SCT's capital investment and the artistic elements of the facility created for the public's enjoyment, the rent during the first three years of SCT's occupation of the Technical Pavilion shall be reduced as follows:

 i. For the year May 22, 2000 -May 22, 2001 the rent shall be reduced by $18,500.

 ii. For the year May 22, 2001 - May 22, 2002 the rent shall be reduced by $10,000.

 iii. For the year May 22, 2002 - May 22, 2003 the rent shall be reduced by $5,000.

 The annual rent reduction shall be applied in twelve equal installments and credited against each monthly payment of rent due.

 d. Effective January 1, 1997, and each January 1st every year thereafter during the Initial Term of the Agreement for the Technical Pavilion and Portion B of the Premises, and during the Extended Term(s) of the Agreement for the Technical Pavilion, the monthly rent or CPI-adjusted monthly rent shall be increased by the percentage increase (if any) in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers ("CPI-U") in the Seattle-Tacoma Metropolitan Area during the immediately preceding calendar year, as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics or its successor. Provided, further, that in no event shall the amount of the CPI- adjusted monthly rent for any calendar year or portion thereof ever be less than the amount of the CPI-adjusted monthly rent due and payable during the immediately preceding calendar year. In the event of any change in the CPI index base (1982-84 = 100) or other modification of such index, the City shall apply whatever conversion factors are necessary to establish the true percentage increase in the CPI for any year(s) in which such modification(s) occur. In the event such index is discontinued, the parties hereto shall select and use for such monthly rent adjustment purpose, another, similar index that reflects consumer price changes.

 B. Rent During Extended Terms. In the event that SCT exercises its options to extend the term of this Agreement, the rent for the Technical Pavilion shall be as stated in Section VI.A.1.c. and the rent to be paid for the remainder of the Premises during each extended term shall be adjusted based on the fair market value of the Premises at the commencement of such extended term to an amount negotiated in good faith by the parties. The negotiated amount shall recognize, among other things, the implicit value of SCT to the artistic environment of the City. The parties may negotiate a combined rent for the entire Premises, including the Technical Pavilion, and in such event the provisions of Section VI.A.l.c. shall not apply.

 C. Additional Rent. SCT shall pay as additional rent the following City expenses to the extent reasonably incurred, and the following City charges:

 1. All City expenses for HVAC utility services as well as for maintenance and repair work to the HVAC system located in the Premises.

 2. The cost of City repair and maintenance work performed on the Premises on behalf of SCT pursuant to Subsection XII.D, hereof.

 3. The cost of City repairs to damaged City property performed pursuant to Subsection XV.A. or Subsection XVIII.A, hereof.

 4. The cost of insurance coverage secured for SCT by City, if any, pursuant to Subsection XVII.D. hereof.

 5. As consideration for use of the Seattle Center grounds for the construction staging area for the Technical Pavilion construction, SCT shall, prior to occupying the Technical Pavilion and at its sole expense:

 a. design and install, subject to the Seattle Center Director's approval, a curved planter on the east wall of the Seattle Children's Theatre Technical Pavilion. SCT's assistance in the creation of this new garden shall be acknowledged in a manner mutually agreed to by the Seattle Center Director and SCT;

 b. install a Seattle Center informational directory in the southwest portion of the Seattle Children's Theatre Technical Pavilion hardscape. Installation includes the site preparation, electrical service and attachment of the directory only. The directory will be provided by Seattle Center; and

 c. extend decorative step lights in the steps south of the Seattle Children's Theatre to the planter southwest of the Technical Pavilion to provide pathway lighting to 2nd Ave. North.

 D. Times and Place for Payments.

 1. Monthly Rent. The initial payment of monthly rent for the Premises, excluding the Technical Pavilion, shall be due and payable by the fifth (5th) calendar day of the month following the month in which the Initial Term commenced. The initial payment of monthly rent for the Technical Pavilion shall be due and payable on or before July 5, 2000. Such initial payment shall include rent for the period May 22, 2000, to May 31, 2000 (calculated on a per diem basis on the reduced monthly payments due in the first six months of this Agreement as stated in Subsection VI.A.1.c.).After such initial payments have been made, each payment of the monthly rent shall be due and payable on or by the fifth (5th) day of the applicable month; provided, that the amount of the CPI-adjustment due and payable in each year from and after 1997 shall be calculated after the publication of the percentage increase in the CPI that occurred during the immediately preceding calendar year. Until such time as the Director gives notice to SCT of the amount of the CPI-adjusted monthly rent, as most recently increased, SCT shall remit to the City as a partial payment, the amount of the monthly rent payable during the immediately preceding calendar year. Within thirty (30) days after SCT's receipt of the Director's notice of the amount of the applicable CPI-adjusted monthly rent, SCT shall remit to the City the difference between the aggregate amount of the monthly rent paid to date in such year and the aggregate amount of the CPI-adjusted monthly rent due and payable to date in such year, and shall thereafter remit to the City the amount of the CPI-adjusted monthly rent as most recently calculated and specified in the Director's notice. In the event this Agreement is scheduled to expire or terminate on a day other than the last day of a month, the rent for that last partial month shall be pro-rated by dividing the aggregate monthly rent amount prescribed in the Rent Schedule (for the Premises excluding "Portion B and the Technical Pavilion" thereof) and in Subsection VI.A.1. (for the "Technical Pavilion" and "Portion B" of the Premises) for the final year of this Agreement by thirty (30) and multiplying the resulting quotient by the number of days between the first day of that final month and the expiration or termination date, inclusive. All payments of rent shall be due and payable by SCT without any invoice from City.

 2. Additional Rent. All Additional Rent due from SCT pursuant to Subsection VI.C. shall be payable within thirty (30) days after invoicing by City therefor unless SCT disputes the reasonableness of the charge made by City. In such event, SCT shall pay the undisputed amount within said thirty- (30) day period, and shall notify the City of the basis for dispute as to the remaining amount. SCT shall not be deemed to be in breach of this Agreement if SCT has a reasonable basis for contesting charges made by City pursuant to Subsection VI.C..

 3. Remittance Address; Delinquencies. All payments shall be made to The City of Seattle and delivered to the Seattle Center Accounting Office at the street address specified in or pursuant to Section XXXVI hereof. All delinquent sums shall bear interest at a rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date of delinquency to the date paid.

 4. Additional Fee Due for Dishonored Check. In the event SCT presents to the City a check that is later dishonored for insufficient funds or other reason, SCT shall pay whatever additional fee has been established therefor by ordinance, rule or regulation generally applicable to dishonored check.

 E. Adjustment to Rent for "Portion B". In the event SCT makes further capital improvements to "Portion B" of the Premises, the amount of the rent due and payable for such space shall be renegotiated in good faith to recognize the value (if any) to the City of such capital improvements.

 5. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION IX

 Subsections IX.A and IX.E. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement are amended to read as follows:

 IX. IMPROVEMENTS, ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS TO THE PREMISES.

 A. SCT Responsibility for Premises Modifications Subsequent to the Making of the Initial Improvements. From the date of this Amendment, SCT shall be responsible for making all subsequent improvements, additions, and alterations to the Premises deemed by SCT to be necessary for its use. No such improvement, addition, or alteration, or any portion thereof, shall be made at City expense unless otherwise specifically and expressly agreed upon, in writing. No subsequent alterations, additions or improvements to the Premises shall be made by the City without prior written approval by SCT, and SCT shall be under no obligation to approve City-proposed alterations, additions or improvements even if proposed to be made solely at City expense except when the City reasonably determines that the proposed alteration, addition or improvement is required as a matter of public health, safety or welfare.

 E. Ownership of Improvements, Alterations & Additions. For the duration of this lease, SCT shall hold title to the Technical Pavilion. All alterations, additions, and improvements to the Premises subsequent to the date a Certificate of Occupancy is issued by City, except for improvements and additions that can be removed without causing material damage to the Premises, shall become part of the Premises immediately upon their affixation to the Premises.

 6. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION X.

 Subsection X.B. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement is amended as follows:

 X. ACCEPTANCE OF PREMISES.

 B. Construction Warranties. The City and SCT acknowledge that certain warranties were given to the City and to SCT by the construction contractors for the Premises, suppliers of materials and equipment for the Premises, and other parties who provided labor or materials for the design and construction of the Premises (the "Construction Warranties"). The City agrees that SCT may, unless prohibited by the terms of a warranty, make claims on all warranties given to the City in connection with the construction and design of the Premises, or under any other agreements for the provision of materials, labor or other services for the Premises. The City shall also, on notice from SCT, and SCT shall, on notice from the City, make such warranty claims as SCT or the City reasonably requests pursuant to the terms of the warranties. The City and SCT further agree to provide one another with copies of all warranty documents relating to the Construction Warranties. The City and SCT agree to cooperate in enforcing the parties' rights under applicable warranties to correct any defects or deficiencies in labor, equipment and materials covered by such warranties.

 7. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION XI.

 Section XI. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement is amended to add a new Subsection D.9. as follows:

 XI. SCT QUIET ENJOYMENT OF PREMISES/CITY CONTROL OF CENTER BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.

 D. City Control of Center Buildings and Grounds.

 (9) Determine and control the installation and/or operation of cash machines, ATM's, cash dispensing machines (other than bill-changing machines), or other customer bank communication terminals (other than telephones) in all facilities and the grounds at Seattle Center including the Premises.

 8. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION XII.

 Subsections XII.A. 1., XII.B.1. and XII.B.3. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement are amended as follows:

 XII. MAINTENANCE, CLEANING & REPAIR.

 A. SCT Janitorial, Maintenance & Repair Responsibilities.

 1. General Obligations. SCT, at no cost or expense to City, shall keep and maintain the Premises, generally, and all improvements, additions and alterations thereto, including but not limited to all water and sewer pipes located in the Premises; the electrical system, including its panel(s); and the exterior doors, in good, clean and sanitary order, condition, and repair, damage by fire or other casualty and reasonable wear and tear excepted, but excluding the items for which the City is responsible under Section XII.B. SCT is specifically responsible for all maintenance and repair associated with any latent design problems of the Technical Pavilion or the building seams between the Technical Pavilion and the rest of the Premises. SCT shall have discretion to select its own agents or designees to perform such tasks without interference by the City.

 B. City Maintenance & Repair Responsibilities Regarding Premises. City shall be under no obligation to perform any maintenance or to make any repair, alteration or improvement to or upon the Premises or any part thereof at any time, except as is expressly otherwise provided in Exhibit E. The City's maintenance and repair responsibilities provided in Exhibit E shall not apply to the Technical Pavilion. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, City shall, at City expense, repair and maintain in good order, condition, and repair, reasonable wear and tear and damage by fire or other casualty excepted, the following portions of the Premises:

 1. Exterior Windows, Roof and Exterior Walls Owned by the City. The roof, exterior windows and exterior walls of the Premises owned by the City, other than exterior doors and locks, provided however, City shall be responsible to wash City-owned exterior windows only one (1) time each year;

 3. HVAC system. Subject to the provisions of Subsection VI.C.1., hereof, the HVAC system and all component parts, exclusive of the Technical Pavilion's HVAC system. Upon SCT's request the City may agree to maintain and repair the Technical Pavilion's HVAC system pursuant to a maintenance and fee schedule negotiated by the parties.

 All City repair and maintenance required by this Agreement shall be performed with the least inconvenience to SCT as is reasonably possible under the circumstances.

 9. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION XIII.

 Subsection XIII.E. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement is amended to read as follows:

 XIII. UTILITY SERVICE.

 E. Fire Alarm System. SCT shall install and the City shall periodically test a fire alarm system for the Premises. SCT shall reimburse the City for SCT's share of testing of the alarm system.

 10. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION XVI.

 Subsection XVI. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement is amended to add a new Section C. as follows:

 XVI. INDEMNIFICATION.

 C. Waiver of Immunity. For purposes of this Agreement, only, SCT and the City hereby waive, as to one other only, their immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial Insurance.

 11. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION XVII.

 Subsection XVII.A. of the of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement as amended, is further amended to read as follows:

 XVII. INSURANCE.

 A. General. SCT shall secure and maintain, at no expense to City, a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated in Exhibit M, and shall comply with all other requirements of this Section.

 12. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION XXVIII.

 Subsection XXVIII.A. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement is amended to read as follows:

 XXVIII. SURRENDER OF PREMISES AND REMOVAL OF SCT'S PROPERTY.

 A. Surrender of Premises. Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, including any Extended Term, but in no event later than September 7, 2040, the Technical Pavilion shall become the property of the City. SCT shall surrender to City the Premises and all keys therefor and shall have no further interest in the Premises. If so requested by the City, SCT shall convey to the City by special warranty deed and/or by bill of sale, all improvements, subject only to such encumbrances as shall have been specifically approved in writing by the Director. On or before such termination date SCT shall also deliver to the Director all plans, blueprints, surveys, diagrams, leases, contracts and documents relating to the Premises or the improvements. In the event SCT contests such termination or expiration of this Agreement and has begun judicial processes with respect to such termination or expiration, then, if so provided by continuing court order, SCT shall have no obligation to comply with the requirements of this subsection, including but not limited to surrendering or otherwise vacating the Premises until the conclusion, including any appeals, of such judicial process.

 13. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION XLI.

 Section XLI. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement, as amended, is further amended as follows:

 XLI. PHASE II. The parties acknowledge that by executing this Agreement, all obligations of the parties under the Facilities Use and Occupancy Agreement, as previously amended, are hereby discharged.

 14. AMENDMENT OF FACILITY USE AND OCCUPANCY AGREEMENT SECTION XLII.

 Subsection XLII. of the Facility Use and Occupancy Agreement is amended as follows:

 XLII. NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT.

 The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that this is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Amendment reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof. This Amendment, the Lease, the First Amendment, and the exhibits to such documents, as from time to time amended, constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject-matter of this Agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have had their authorized representatives affix their respective signatures in the space provided below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, SEATTLE CHILDREN'S THEATRE a municipal corporation ASSOCIATION, a Washington not for profit corporation By __________________________ By _______________ Virginia Anderson, Director (Print or type name) (Signature) ___________________ Seattle Center Department (Print or type title)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON) ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING ) On this _____ day of _____________, 2000, before me personally appeared Virginia Anderson, to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center Department of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, the Landlord that executed the within and foregoing agreement, and acknowledged said agreement to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said Landlord, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year first above written.

 ______________________________ (Signature) (Print or type name of notary public)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at My Commission expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of _____________, 2000, before me personally appeared ___________________, to me known to be the _____________________ of SEATTLE CHILDREN'S THEATRE ASSOCIATION, the Tenant that executed the within and foregoing agreement, and acknowledged said agreement to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said Tenant, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that s/he was authorized to execute said agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year first above written.

 ______________________________ (Signature) (Print or type name of notary public)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at ______________

 My Commission expires: _______________

 sct_2nd.doc 5/8/00 EXHIBIT F

 Allocation of Insurance Proceeds if Neither Party Elects to Rebuild (Section XVIII.D)

 1. The Premises, Excluding Portion B Term Remaining on and the Technical Pavilion: Lease(excluding any extension period) SCT Share of Insurance Proceeds 20 x SCT % Interest x

 City Share of Insurance Proceeds Period expired on x City % Interest x Lease (excluding any extension period) 20

 (Total Project Costs) - ($2,400,000) - (Costs of City capital improvements subsequent to initial SCT SCT % Interest = occupancy)

 Total Project Costs $2,400,000 + (Costs of City capital improvements subsequent to initial SCT City % Interest = occupancy

 Total Project Costs

 Total Project Costs means (1) Total Project Costs as defined in the Construction Agreement plus (2) SCT project management costs plus (3) the cost of capital improvements made by SCT or the City to the Premises subsequent to SCT's initial occupancy (as documented by records delivered to the Director immediately after the making of such additional capital improvements). SCT project management costs means all fees and expenses paid to Paul Brenna Associates for duties relating to project management for SCT in connection with the Construction Contract. 2. Portion B: In the event that SCT elects not to reconstruct Portion B following its damage or destruction, then the parties agrees that all insurance proceeds Payable on account of such damage or destruction shall be paid to Seattle Center.

 3. Technical Pavilion: In the event that SCT elects not to reconstruct the Technical Pavilion following its damage or destruction, then the parties agree that all insurance proceeds Payable on account of such damage or destruction shall be applied, first, to the restoration of that portion of the Premises upon which the Technical Pavilion is located to their condition immediately prior to the commencement of the Lease.

 EXHIBIT H

 Unamortized Value of Amounts Paid By SCT to Total Project Costs

 (Section XXVII)

 In the event of termination of SCT's right to use and occupy the Charlotte Martin and Eve Alvord theatres, only, as a result of a City default, the City shall pay SCT the following sum:

 Remaining Term of Lease SCT Share of Total Project Costs x (Excluding extension) 20

 SCT Share of Total Project Costs means (1) SCT Share of Total Project Costs as defined in the Construction Agreement, plus (2) SCT project management costs plus (3) the cost of capital improvements made by SCT to the Charlotte Martin theatre and Portion B of the premises subsequent to SCT's initial occupancy (as documented by records delivered to the Director immediately after the making of such additional capital improvements). SCT project management costs means all fees and expenses paid to Paul Brenna Associates for duties relating to project management for SCT in connection with the Construction Contract.

 In the event of termination of SCT's right to use and occupy the Technical Pavilion as a result of a City default, the City shall pay SCT the following sum:

 Remaining Term of Lease SCT Construction Costs x (Excluding extension)

 13

 SCT Construction Costs means (1) The final amount of the construction contract between SCT and its general contractor for construction of the Technical Pavilion plus (2) SCT project management costs plus (3) the cost of capital improvements made by SCT to the Technical Pavilion subsequent to SCT's initial occupancy (as documented by records delivered to the Director immediately after the making of such additional capital improvements). SCT project management costs means all fees and expenses paid to Paul Brenna for duties relating to project management for SCT in connection with the Technical Pavilion construction contract. F-1 H-1 EXHIBIT M

 Insurance Requirements

 1. A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01) or equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as:

 * Premises/Operations Liability * Products/Completed Operations * Personal/Advertising Injury, to include * Contractual Liability * Independent Contractors Liability * Elevator and Hoist Liability * Explosion, Collapse or Underground (XCU) * Stop Gap/Employers Contingent Liability * Fire Damage Legal Liability * Per Location Aggregate CG2504

 Such policy must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage $1,000,000 General Aggregate $1,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate $1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury $1,000,000 Each Occurrence $ 100,000 Fire Damage Stop Gap Employers Liability $1,000,000 Each Accident $1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit $1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim payment falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of SCT.

 2. A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, lease or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent.

 Such policy must provide the following minimum limit: Bodily Injury and Property Damage $1,000,000 per accident

 3. A policy of Excess Insurance above the primary general liability policies that will provide a total limit of insurance of $5,000,000. The excess policy must be at a minimum as broad as the primary policies.

 4. A policy of Worker's Compensation. As respects Workers' Compensation insurance in the state of Washington, SCT shall secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington. If SCT is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, SCT shall so certify by providing a copy of the state Certificate of Self-Insurance, and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees.

 5. A policy of Property Insurance providing coverage for all buildings, SCT's furniture, fixtures, equipment, inventory, and all other improvements which SCT makes to the Premises on an "All Risk" basis, in an amount equal to replacement cost thereof, against (a) loss from the perils of fire and other risks of direct physical loss, (including earthquake and flood damage), not less broad than provided by the insurance industry standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form (CP 10 30)"; (b) loss or damage from water damage, or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in any building on the premises; (c) loss or damage by explosion of steam boilers, pressure vessels, oil, or gasoline storage, tanks or similar apparatus; (d) Business Interruption or Extra Expense insurance, with sufficient coverage to provide for the payment of rent and other fixed costs during any interruption of SCT's business because of fire or other cause.

 B. Additional Insured, Cancellation and Primary Coverage. The insurance provided under Subsections XVIII.A. 1 - 3. above, shall be (a) endorsed to include the City, its officers elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as additional insured, and (b) shall provide that it shall not be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City.

 C. Changes of Coverage &/or Limits. The City shall have the right to periodically review the appropriateness of such limits in view of inflation and/or changing industry conditions and to require an increase in such limits upon ninety (90) days' prior written notice to SCT.

 D. Evidence of Insurance. SCT shall provide the following documents as evidence of insurance coverage: (i) a copy of each policy's declarations pages, showing the insuring company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements; (ii) a copy of the endorsement naming the City as an additional insured, showing the policy number, and signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company on Form CG2026(ISO) or equivalent; (iii) a copy of the "Endorsements Form List" to the policy or policies showing endorsements issued on the policy, and including any company-specific or manuscript endorsements; (iv) a copy of an endorsement stating that the coverages provided by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at lease forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City; and (iv) a copy of the "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause, indicating essentially that, except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought (for Commercial General Liability & Business Automobile Liability Insurance).

 E. All policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager. Policies shall be issued by companies rated A-: VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker.

 F. If SCT fails to maintain any required insurance, the City may secure the same and SCT shall reimburse City for the full expenses thereof upon demand. SCT shall not keep or use in or about the Premises any article, which is prohibited by any insurance policy. SCT shall pay immediately any increase in the City's premiums for insurance during the term of this Lease that results from SCT's use of the Premises.

 G. Self-Insurance. If SCT is self-insured for general or automobile liability insurance, SCT shall provide the City with a letter from its corporate risk manager, or appropriate financial officer, indicating if actuarially funded and fund limits, and shall provide the City with copies of any excess declaration pages, demonstrating compliance with the contract requirements. Further, this letter shall advise how SCT would protect and defend the City as an additional insured in SCT's self-insured layer, and include claims handling directions in the event of a claim.

 H. Contractors and Subcontractors. SCT shall include all subcontractors as insureds under its policies or shall furnish separate evidence of insurance as stated above for each subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be subject to all the requirements stated herein and applicable to their profession.

```
