

********

**Council Bill Number: 113275**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120026**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Festivals, Inc. for the presentation of annual Bite of Seattle festivals at Seattle Center.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 10, 2000
   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Compton, Conlin, Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 17, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 17, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 19, 2000
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, LEASES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department; authorizing execution of an agreement with Festivals, Inc. for the presentation of annual Bite of Seattle festivals at Seattle Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, said Director is hereby authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with Festivals, Inc. substantially in the form attached hereto and identified as "2000-2002 'BITE OF SEATTLE' AGREEMENT" for purposes related to the presentation of annual Bite of Seattle festivals at Seattle Center from 2000 through 2002.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachment

 2000-2002 BITE OF SEATTLE AGREEMENT

 6/12/00

 V #1

 AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND FESTIVALS, INC REGARDING THE "BITE OF SEATTLE"

 THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE (hereinafter referred to as the "City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through its Seattle Center Director (hereinafter referred to as the "Director"), and FESTIVALS, INC. (hereinafter referred to as the "Concessionaire"), a corporation organized under the laws of, and authorized to do business in, the State of Washington as the "Bite of Seattle."

 IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual promises, covenants, conditions and performances hereinafter described, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. TERM. The Term of this Agreement shall commence on January 1, 2000, and shall expire on December 31, 2002, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof. Each of the calendar years included in the Term is deemed a "Festival Year" herein. 2. USE OF PREMISES. Concessionaire shall use the Premises only for the purpose of organizing and staging an annual "Bite of Seattle Festival" ("Festival") that shall be presented over not less than two and one-half (2 1/2) consecutive days; shall be primarily a food sales event; and for which there shall be no admission charge to the general public.

 The Director shall Approve all sales of all food, beverages and other products or merchandise. Any such Approval shall be subject to such conditions as the Director deems appropriate. 3. PREMISES.

 A. Description of Premises Licensed:

 The Festival shall take place on and in those portions of the Seattle Center grounds and facilities as shall be indicated in the Approved site plan described in Section 9. The areas identified on each annual Approved site plan shall constitute that Festival Year's premises ("Premises").

 The Festival shall occur on the following dates:

 July 21-23, 2000 July 20-22, 2001 July 19-21, 2002

 Depending on the availability of grounds and/or facilities, as determined by the Director, Concessionaire may book Festival-related events on the grounds or in facilities prior to the opening days of the Festivals, consistent with the requirements and deadlines specified herein as further outlined in Section 9. Such event(s) shall occur no earlier than the Monday immediately preceding the Friday opening of such Festival.

 B. Acceptance of Premises:

 Concessionaire warrants and represents that it has investigated the grounds and facilities that may comprise the Premises from year to year, and that the same are suitable for Concessionaire's intended purpose. The City disclaims all representations, statements, and warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to the condition of the Premises or the use and occupancy authorized other than those contained in this Agreement.

 C. Nonexclusive License to Common Areas:

 The City hereby grants to Concessionaire and its officers, employees, agents, customers, and invitees the nonexclusive right to use the Seattle Center Common Areas as the same may be constituted from time to time, for the duration of each Festival. Such use shall be in common with all other visitors and users of the Seattle Center and shall be subject to such current rules and regulations as the Director may have promulgated.

 D. South Key Arena Courtyard Area:

 On each Festival day, Concessionaire may use on a twenty-four (24) hour-per- day basis, the South Key Arena Courtyard area unless the use of such area is required by a third party for an event in the KeyArena. When using the Courtyard, Concessionaire shall ensure that all fire lanes remain open for emergency access and that parking is made available at no charge for vehicles driven by officers or employees of the Washington State Liquor Control Board, the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, and the Seattle Fire Department, on official business. 4. FEES AND CHARGES PAYABLE TO CITY.

 A. Concessionaire's Obligation to Pay Fees and Charges:

 Concessionaire shall pay to the City, without offset, all fees and charges described in this Agreement for each Festival presented during the Term hereof. Charges for services not enumerated herein but requested by Concessionaire shall be payable at the rates shown in the then-current Seattle Center Equipment, Services, & Facilities Schedule or any successor publication.

 B. Fee for Food, Retail and Wine Sales:

 Ten percent (10%) of Gross Receipts derived from any and all sales of or charges imposed for non-alcoholic beverages, food, wine-tasting opportunities, and wine samples, bottled wines for consumption off the Premises, and merchandise of any kind whatsoever.

 C. Sale of Beer in Designated Areas:

 Twenty percent (20%) of Gross Receipts derived from the sale of beer in the designated beer garden(s) and dance hall(s) described in each year's Approved site plan.

 D. Landscape Maintenance Fee:

 Thirty-five Thousand Dollars ($35,000), annually, for basic Festival-related landscape maintenance.

 E. Parking:

 The then-applicable charge at the Seattle Center "client twenty-four (24)hour all-hours" parking rate for such number and days of daily twenty-four (24) hour parking permits as may be desired by Concessionaire, up to a maximum of fifty- one (51) permits, for vehicle parking in designated Seattle Center parking lot(s). The permits shall be valid only on days that the Festival is open for food and beverage service to the public, and only for vehicles that are no more than nineteen (19) feet long. Use of such Seattle Center parking lot(s) shall be on a first come, first served basis.

 F. Event Service Order Charges:

 Licensee shall pay all applicable charges, as specified in the then- current Facility License Fee Schedule of the Seattle Center Equipment, Services, & Facilities Schedule, or any successor publication, for the following:

 (1) Dumpster Rent & Disposal Fee:

 Rent for dumpsters specifically ordered for the Festival and disposal charges for compacted waste generated by the Festival.

 (2) Natural Gas Distribution:

 All charges for the above-ground distribution of natural gas and for all natural gas consumption during the Festival; charges resulting from operation or location changes to the Festival unless the Seattle Center requires such changes.

 (3) Electricity Charges:

 All fees and charges for electricity use and service provided for the Festival including, but not limited to, special utility equipment such as transformers, converters, and the installation, change, and relocation of points and means of service as well as a prorated share of electricity use from service connections that are not separately metered but are shared with other Seattle Center users. The City shall determine Concessionaire's prorated share of such utility service and shall bill Concessionaire for such service. Concessionaire shall make arrangements directly with Seattle City Light to secure whatever additional electrical service is needed on the Premises beyond that presently installed at Seattle Center. All electricity use and service shall be separately metered, where reasonably possible. The City shall make every reasonable effort to ensure that the electrical power capacity made available for Festival use at the 2000 and any succeeding Festival is equal to that made available at the 1999 Festival. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if equal electrical power capacity cannot be provided because of any Seattle Center campus redevelopment work, the City and Concessionaire shall equally share the cost of securing whatever power capacity is required to make up the deficiency. If electrical power is provided for Festival purposes from the Charlotte Martin Theatre, Concessionaire shall reimburse all costs incurred by the Seattle Children's Theatre for the providing of such electrical power within thirty (30) days after the date of the Seattle Children's Theatre's invoice therefor.

 (4) Sound and Stage Labor:

 All personnel charges for sound and stage staff as established in the then current Seattle Center Equipment, Services, & Facilities Schedule or any successor publication, whenever use of such staff is required, as determined by the Director.

 (5) Grounds Cleaning:

 A disposal fee established by the Director to recover the City's expenses (labor, equipment and supplies) in the removing of grease, ashes and debris left by food or beverage vendors or merchandise retailers in areas of the Seattle Center other than those designated for such purpose. The condition of the Premises shall be verified by photographs and/or video taken prior to the move- in of each year's Festival and the Monday morning immediately following each year's Festival. Designees of the Director and Concessionaire shall undertake an inspection of the Premises on the Tuesday morning following each year's Festival.

 (6) Seattle Center Admissions & Security Personnel & City-Contracted Peer Group Security Personnel:

 (a) The applicable charge as established in the then- current Seattle Center Equipment, Services, & Facilities Schedule or any successor publication, for the following personnel who are scheduled to perform Festival-related work at any time prior to, during, or following the Festival:

 (i) Admissions personnel; and

 (ii) Seattle Center Security personnel; plus

 (b) The actual cost for City-contracted peer group security.

 (7) Mercer Street Garage Overpass Charges:

 The labor cost incurred by the City in mounting on and removing from the Mercer Street Garage overpass a "Bite of Seattle" banner, which shall be mounted as early as reasonably possible during the two weeks before the Festival and removed and returned to Concessionaire as soon as reasonably possible after the Festival. 5. TIME AND PLACE OF PAYMENT-DELINQUENCY CHARGE.

 A. Time and Place of Payments:

 (1) The Landscape Maintenance Fee referenced in Subsection 4.E, is due and payable on the Monday immediately preceding the Friday opening of each year's Festival, with or without invoice.

 (2) Fees and charges specified in Subsections 4.C, 4.D, and 4.F, hereof, are due and payable on the September 1st immediately following each Festival.

 (3) Fees and charges under any year's Seattle Center Event Service Order (including but not limited to the charges imposed pursuant to Subsection 4.G and all other fees and charges not otherwise specified herein) are due and payable no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the City invoice therefor.

 B. Delinquencies:

 Payments not received on or by the date due shall be considered delinquent. In the event of any delinquency, a service charge of the greater of 18% per annum or such amount as may be established by City ordinance, shall be added to the outstanding balance from the date due to the date paid. Concessionaire's obligation to pay to the City the fees and charges specified herein shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 C. Disputed Fees:

 In the event Concessionaire disputes any City invoice or other charge imposed pursuant to the Agreement, Concessionaire shall remit to the City the full amount of the invoice or charge on or by the date it is due and payable, and concurrently submit to the Director a notice explaining the basis for Concessionaire's dispute. Upon receipt of any disputed payment and Concessionaire's explanation notice, the Director shall schedule a meeting to be held with Concessionaire within the following thirty (30) calendar days to provide an opportunity for the parties to resolve without further proceedings, their dispute regarding such invoice or charge. If the dispute is not resolved through such meeting, Concessionaire may then commence legal proceedings to resolve the same. Concessionaire's failure to remit the disputed amount(s) as provided herein shall constitute a waiver of Concessionaire's dispute with respect to such invoice and other charge and the amount shall then be considered delinquent.

 D. Address for Payments to City:

 All payments shall be made payable and shall be delivered to The City of Seattle c/o Seattle Center Fiscal Control & Accounting, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, WA 98109. or to such other address as the Director shall specify by notice to Concessionaire. 6. BOOKS AND RECORDS; FINANCIAL REPORTS.

 A. Books and Records:

 Concessionaire shall maintain, and ensure that each of its Subconcessionaires maintains, true, separate, complete and auditable records, and an accounting system having controls governing inventories and receipts, and detailed records of all income and expenses of all business conducted in, on or from the Premises, which records and accounting system shall be subject to the approval of the City. Neither Concessionaire nor any of its Subconcessionaires shall destroy any dated daily cash register tapes generated as a result of commercial activity undertaken pursuant to this Agreement at any time during the term of this Agreement or during the three years following the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, except with the Approval of the City.

 B. Financial Reports:

 On or by the first day of September for each year of this Agreement, Concessionaire shall submit to the Seattle Center Fiscal Services/Accounting Office at the address specified in Section 5 hereof, a detailed Festival report of the Gross Receipts generated during that year's Festival, on a form provided by the City, together with such other information regarding that year's Festival as may be requested by the City.

 C. Survival of Record-keeping & Reporting Obligations:

 The record-keeping and reporting obligations of Concessionaire shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement. 7. AUDIT.

 A. Audit:

 Concessionaire shall keep true, separate, complete and auditable records and maintain an accounting system having controls governing (1) inventories and receipts, and (2) detailed records of all income from all business conducted on or from the Premises.

 Concessionaire shall permit the City, from time to time, as the Director or the City Auditor deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, at any and all reasonable times, all pertinent books and records of Concessionaire pertaining to the activity undertaken on or from the Premises pursuant to this Agreement, and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City to make, a copy of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon the request of the Director or City Auditor or either's designee. The Director shall give notice to Concessionaire of the amount of any over- or underpayment found. Any overpayment shall be a credit against any fees and charges subsequently due or shall be refunded to Concessionaire; any underpayment shall be immediately due and payable and shall be delinquent if not paid within ten (10) days after the date of such notice. Concessionaire shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the City is a condition of any subcontract, concession or catering agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to use or occupy the Premises or engage in catering and concession activity on or from the Premises. 8. LIABILITY.

 A. Indemnity:

 Concessionaire shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out of or resulting from acts and omissions of Concessionaire, its Subconcessionaires, agents and employees under this Agreement. In the event that any loss, claim, action, damage, or expense is asserted or brought against the City, Concessionaire, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the City against the same at its sole cost and expense and if final judgment be adverse to the City, or the City and Concessionaire jointly, Concessionaire shall promptly satisfy the same. The liability described in this subsection shall not be diminished by the fact, if it be a fact, that any such death, injury, damage, loss, cost or expense may have been contributed to, or may be alleged to have been contributed to, in part, by the negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents; provided, that nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as requiring Concessionaire to indemnify the City against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from sole negligence of the City, its employees, officers, or agents. The indemnification provided for in this subsection shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement. Concessionaire further waives with respect to the City and for purposes of this Agreement only, its immunity under RCW Title 51, the Industrial Insurance Act.

 B. Insurance:

 Concessionaire shall at all times during the term of this Agreement, obtain and maintain continuously, at its own expense, and file with the Agency and the City's Risk Manager, evidence of a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below:

 1) A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01) or equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability - Products/Completed Operations - Personal/Advertising Injury - Contractual Liability - Independent Contractors Liability - Stop Gap/Employers Contingent Liability - Liquor Liability/Host Liquor Liability - Fire Damage Legal Liability - Elevator & Hoist Liability

 Such policy (ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage - $ 2,000,000 General Aggregate $ 2,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate $ 1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury $ 1,000,000 Each Occurrence $ 300,000 Fire Damage

 Stop Gap Employers Liability $ 1,000,000 Each Accident $ 1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit $ 1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of the Concessionaire.

 2) A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent.

 Such policy (ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage - $ 1,000,000 per accident

 3) A policy of Worker's Compensation, securing Concessionaire's liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington. If the Concessionaire is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Concessionaire shall so certify by providing a copy of the state Certificate of Self-Insurance, and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees.

 4) A policy of Property Insurance covering its furniture, fixtures, equipment and inventory and all improvements which it makes to the Premises in an amount equal to replacement cost thereof, against (a) loss from the perils of fire, and other risks of direct physical loss, not less broad than provided by the insurance industry standard "Causes of Loss - Special Form (CP 10 30), (b) Loss or damage from water damage, or sprinkler systems now or hereafter installed in on the premises; (c) Loss or damage by explosion of steam boilers, pressure vessels, oil or gasoline storage; (d) Business Interruption or Extra Expense, with sufficient coverage to provide for the payment of rent and other fixed costs during any interruption of Concessionaire's business because of fire or other cause.

 Such insurance, as provided under items (1), (2) and (4) above, shall be endorsed to include the City, its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as additional insured, and shall not be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City. In addition, Concessionaire's insurance shall be primary, as respects the City, and any other insurance maintained by the City shall be excess and not contributing insurance with the Concessionaire's insurance.

 Coverage &/or limits may be altered or increased as necessary, to reflect type of or exposure to risk. City shall have the right to periodically review the appropriateness of such limits in view of inflation and/or changing industry conditions and to require an increase in such limits upon ninety (90) days prior written notice.

 Evidence of Insurance: The following documents must be provided as evidence of insurance coverage:

 *A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the Insuring Company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 * A copy of the endorsement naming The City as an Additional Insured, showing the policy number, and signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company on Form CG2026 (ISO) or equivalent.

 * A copy of the "Endorsements Form List" to the policy or policies showing endorsements issued on the policy, and including any company-specific or manuscript endorsements.

 * A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverages provided by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City.

 * A copy of A "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause, indicating essentially that - except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought (Commercial General Liability & Business Automobile Liability Insurance).

 All policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager as to company (must be rated A-: VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker), form and coverage, and primary to all other insurance.

 If Concessionaire fails to maintain such insurance, City may do so, and Concessionaire shall reimburse City for the full expense thereof upon demand. Concessionaire shall not keep or use in or about the Premises any article, which is prohibited by City's insurance policy. Concessionaire shall pay immediately any increase in City's premiums for insurance during the term of this Lease that results from Concessionaire's use of the Premises.

 Waiver of Subrogation. Neither City nor Concessionaire shall be liable to the other party or to any insurance company (by way of subrogation or otherwise) insuring the other party for any loss or damage to any building, structure or tangible personal property of the other occurring in or about the Premises or Building, even though such loss or damage might have been occasioned by the negligence of such party, its' agents or employees, if such loss or damage is covered by insurance benefiting the party suffering such loss or damage or was required under the terms of this Lease to be covered by insurance procured by the party suffering the loss.

 Self-Insurance: Should Concessionaire be self-insured, under items (1) or (2) above, a letter from the Corporate Risk Manager, or appropriate Finance Officer, is acceptable - stipulating if actuarially funded and fund limits; plus any excess declaration pages to meet the contract requirements. Further, this letter should advise how Concessionaire would protect and defend the City of Seattle as an Additional Insured in their Self-Insured layer, and include claims handling directions in the event of a claim.

 Subconcessionaires - Concessionaire shall include all Subconcessionaires as insureds under its policies or shall furnish separate evidence of insurance as stated above for each subcontractor. All coverages for Subconcessionaires shall be subject to all the requirements stated herein and applicable to their profession.

 9. CONCESSIONAIRE'S ADDITIONS, ALTERATIONS, AND OPERATIONS.

 A. Submission of Planning Documents:

 (1) Not later than February 28th of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall provide the Director with a detailed preliminary site plan identifying Concessionaire's proposed booth layout (including "portable" booth locations), special sponsorship exhibits, beer garden(s), required Seattle Center buildings or service facilities, vendor washing facilities, special venues and stages. Not later than May 31st of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall provide the Director with a revised site plan, including such information as proposed locations for refrigerated trucks, storage trucks, ice trucks, and other on- grounds vehicles; every inflated structure or object requiring any form of tether or connection to the ground or any Seattle structure or landscaping element; dumpsters; and service areas for Festival plumber(s), Festival electricians and/or decorators. All site plans shall conform to the requirements of the then-current Seattle Center Technical Services User Guidelines or any successor publication. The Director shall have twenty (20) days to review any proposed site plan. At the end of said twenty- (20) day period, the Director shall inform Concessionaire, in writing, of any changes required to the site plan then under review. Concessionaire shall submit for Approval a further revised site plan incorporating the Director's requested revisions within ten (10) days after the date of the Director's notice. If the Director fails to approve the revised site plan, Concessionaire may request a meeting with the Director to resolve the situation.

 All proposed changes to an approved site plan must be submitted for Approval in writing by May 31st of each Festival Year. In no event shall the number of food booths be increased or the size of food booths changed from that originally approved.

 If Concessionaire determines after May 31st of any Festival Year that it will not utilize any facility on the Premises reserved for it in accordance with the Approved site plan, Concessionaire shall pay a cancellation fee equal to the greater of either (a) revenue lost due to the non-availability of such facility for booking or (b) the applicable current daily license fee to for-profit users of such facility, as published in the then-current Equipment, Services, & Facilities Schedule or its successor publication.

 (2) Electricity Requirements Plan:

 By May 15th of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall submit for Approval an electrical plan showing electrical panels and amperage required at each electrical panel within the Premises.

 (3) Security Plan:

 By May 15th of each Festival Year Concessionaire shall submit for Approval a Security Plan detailing how Concessionaire intends to provide protection for its personal property and Seattle Center property during the Festival, including during move-in and move-out periods and after-hours.

 (4) Mercer Garage Overpass Signage:

 By May 15th of each Festival Year, Concessionaire shall submit for Approval the proposed design and size of any banner Concessionaire wishes to have displayed on the Mercer Street Garage overpass during the Festival.

 The design and size of said banner shall be deemed to have been approved by the Director unless the Director notifies Concessionaire otherwise within fourteen (14) days after receiving the proposal.

 B. No Representation or Liability Created by Approval:

 The Director's approval of any plan required pursuant to this Agreement shall not constitute an opinion or representation by the City as to their compliance with any law or ordinance or their adequacy for other than the Seattle Center's own purposes. Such approval shall not create or form the basis of any liability on the part of the City or any of its officers, employees, or agents for any injury or damage resulting from any inadequacy or error therein or any failure to comply with applicable laws or ordinances.

 C. Work Inconsistent with Approved Plans and Specifications:

 No improvement, alteration, or addition shall be constructed, placed, or erected on the Premises except in accordance with plans and specifications therefor approved by the City in writing. Immediately following its receipt of notice by the City that an improper improvement, addition, or alteration has been erected in, on, or is being made to the Premises, Concessionaire shall either desist from the occupation, use, and operation of such improvement, addition, or alteration and remove it from the Premises or make it consistent with such approved plans and specifications within such time period and as otherwise ordered by the Director whose decision shall be final. In the event Concessionaire fails to comply with any such order, the City may remove such unauthorized alteration or addition and charge Concessionaire for such removal expense.

 D. Pre-Festival Meeting At Seattle Center:

 Concessionaire shall schedule a meeting with the Event Service Representative assigned to the Festival, the Seattle Center Contracts and Concessions Manager, the Seattle Police Department liaison to Seattle Center and any other Seattle Center personnel whom Concessionaire deems necessary, which meeting shall occur on or before June 1st of each Festival Year. At such meeting a preliminary determination of the extent of police coverage that is necessary for the Festival shall be made by a representative of the Seattle Police Department, and Concessionaire shall introduce the on-grounds administrative staff responsible for that year's Festival operations, which personnel shall be available to answer such questions as may be directed to them.

 Concessionaire waives any and all claims it may have or assert for damages, lost profits and other injuries arising out of or in any way connected with Concessionaire's making an unauthorized improvement, alteration or addition on or to the premises and any action taken by the City to implement any such order of the Director.

 E. Sequencing of Move-in Activities:

 (1) Move-in:

 Concessionaire's move-in activities shall be sequenced in substantially the following order on or after the day immediately preceding the Friday opening of the Festival that is specified below; provided, that if such activity interferes or is likely to interfere with the use and enjoyment of any Seattle Center facility or area leased or licensed for use by a person or entity other than Concessionaire during such week, or with the Seattle Center's ability to provide appropriate service to any such other person or entity, all as determined by the Director in the exercise of such official's sole discretion, Concessionaire shall reschedule such activity to the time specified by the Director:

 Monday: (a) Tent pole arrangement and assembly on hard-surfaced areas of the Premises (asphalt, concrete, brick, stone cobbles, etc.)

 (b) Gas line and plumbing installations.

 (c) Electrical service installations.

 Tuesday: Erection of tents on hard surfaced areas of the Premises.

 Wednesday: (a) Installation of raised flooring for booths and tents on hard-surfaced areas of the Premises.

 (b) Erection of tents on soft-surfaced areas of the Premises (lawns, gravel, etc.)

 Thursday: (a) Installation of raised flooring for booths and tents on soft-surfaced areas of the Premises.

 (b) Completion by Vendors' of booths and tents installed on soft- surfaced areas of the Premises.

 (2) Move-out:

 Move-out from the grounds shall be finished by 11:59 p.m. on the first Monday following the Festival.

 F. City Not Responsible for Concessionaire's Improvement Work:

 All improvements, additions, and alterations made to the Premises to convert the same to the condition desired by Concessionaire for the operation of its Festival shall be at no expense to the City unless otherwise specifically agreed upon in writing.

 G. Extra Charges:

 If the Director Approves an improvement, addition, or alteration requested by Concessionaire that requires any change in any facility, utility or service provided by the City, Concessionaire shall pay, as an additional charge, any costs incurred by the City in connection therewith provided that the City notifies Concessionaire of the estimated amount of such charge at the time the improvement, addition or alteration is Approved.

 H. Improvements, Additions, and Alterations must be Removed:

 All improvements, additions, and alterations made to the Premises by or on behalf of Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires must be removed by 11:59 p.m. of the day following the close of each Festival. Failure to remove such improvements, additions and alterations may, in the Director's sole discretion, result in an additional charge for costs incurred by the City to accomplish such removal. 10. LIENS AND ENCUMBRANCES. Concessionaire shall keep the Premises free and clear of any liens and encumbrances arising or growing out of its use and occupancy thereof. At the Director's request, Concessionaire shall deliver to the Seattle Center Contracts and Concessions Manager written proof of the payment of any item that could be the basis of such a lien, if not paid.

 11. COVENANTS REGARDING CONCESSIONAIRE'S OPERATING CONDITIONS.

 A. Business Hours:

 (1) Concessionaire shall not leave the Premises unoccupied or unsecured. It shall open and maintain its operation ready for the transaction of business with the public on such days and during such operating hours as are Approved by the Director for each Festival.

 The Director shall notify Concessionaire of the operating hours when the site plan for the current year's Festival is Approved, but not later than May 31st of each Festival Year.

 (2) Concessionaire shall maintain that level of security agreed to in the Approved Security Plan described in Subsection 9.A.3.

 B. Maximization of Gross Receipts:

 Concessionaire and its Subconcessionaires shall carry on their business with diligence and efficiency and keep in stock lines of merchandise, food products and beverages of such size, quality and character as will maximize the generation of Gross Receipts.

 C. Personnel:

 Concessionaire and its Subconcessionaires shall employ courteous, competent, and efficient help in such numbers, skills, and experience as is necessary to properly and efficiently conduct their activities on the Premises. At all times the Festival is open for business, Concessionaire shall have on the Premises a qualified representative authorized to represent Concessionaire in dealings with the City, and Concessionaire shall keep the Director informed of the identity of such person and any limits on such person's authority.

 D. Business Name:

 Concessionaire shall not change the name by which it carries on its business without the prior written consent of the Director.

 E. Electricity:

 The City shall provide Concessionaire with electrical outlets and capacity as described in the Electricity Requirements Plan described in Subsection 9.A (2). The City shall not be liable for the interruption of any utility service unless due to the City's sole negligence.

 F. Sound and Stage Equipment:

 The City shall provide stage and sound equipment as its Seattle Center Department inventory permits and to the extent specified in Concessionaire's Approved Event Service Order, at no charge. Concessionaire shall obtain any additional necessary sound and stage equipment at its sole expense.

 G. Grounds Cleaning:

 The City shall provide grounds clean-up service in all areas outside of the vendor and service booths at the Festival. Concessionaire shall ensure that all grease, ashes and debris generated as a consequence of activity of Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires, are deposited in appropriate disposal locations prior to, during and after each Festival.

 H. Readerboards:

 The City shall provide Concessionaire with readerboard space, as available, for the two (2) weeks prior to and during each Festival, at no charge. The number of such readerboards and their locations shall be determined solely by the Director.

 I. Grounds and Landscaped Areas:

 Using lime line, cording, fencing, or other means, Concessionaire shall delineate at the rear of each booth or tent location designated on any Approved site plan, an area no larger than six feet multiplied by "X" (where "X" equals the width of such booth or tent area) to mark the area to which the occupants of such booth or tent are restricted when engaged in food or beverage preparing, cooling, cooking, or selling, supply storing, or any other Festival-related activity (other than the receiving of deliveries). Concessionaire shall ensure that each of its Subconcessionaires and every officer, employee, and agent thereof and volunteer therefor engages in such activity only within such area. Concessionaire shall further ensure that all booths and other sales and demonstration facilities erected or installed on the Premises, and other areas of the Premises being used by Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires for any Festival purpose, include a means of protecting the grass and other surfaces of the Premises from wear or damage to the extent practicable. Such booths and other sales and demonstration facilities or other Subconcessionaire use areas on lawn or landscaped areas must be constructed as follows:

 (1) On Soft Surfaces (Grass and Dirt):

 The entire area being used must have flooring covered by 5/8" CDX plywood built on 2" x 4"s on their edge. If end pieces are connected to such 2" x 4"s, a 1" diameter hole shall be drilled through the 4" side of such end pieces approximately every 8" to allow air to circulate under the raised flooring.

 (2) On Hard Surfaces Where Cooking Is Undertaken:

 The entire area being used, whether for booth, food preparing and cooking, or other purposes) must be thoroughly protected against food, beverage, ash and grease spills by having flooring in layers as follows:

 (a) Lower layer of 4' x 8' CDX 1/2" or thicker plywood installed directly under each cooking unit (barbecues, deep fryers, grills, griddles, spit, woks, etc.) as well as not less than 4' around each cooking unit.

 (b) Upper layer of rubber backed carpet or Astroturf securely joined together in a manner that covers the entire booth, i.e., cooking and all other areas.

 (3) On Hard Surfaces Where No Cooking Is Undertaken:

 Rubber backed carpet or Astroturf securely joined together in a manner that covers the entire area being used.

 J. Parking:

 On an annual basis for each year of this Agreement, the City shall provide Concessionaire with two (2) parking permits for the Seattle Center Mercer Street Garage or the Fifth Avenue North Parking Lot, to assist Festival organizers visiting Seattle Center on Festival business, only.

 K. Fixtures, Furnishings, and Trade Equipment:

 All fixtures, furnishings, and trade equipment installed on the Premises shall be of high quality, of a modern type, and either new or completely reconditioned. Temporary or portable concession facilities shall be of the same quality as those commonly found in permanently installed concessions.

 Concessionaire shall provide refuse and garbage containers in such number and style as may be approved by the Director and shall provide special containers, and/or compactor and disposal system(s) whenever the Director determines such equipment to be necessary.

 L. Deliveries:

 All deliveries shall be made to a mutually pre-determined delivery location or entrance specified on the Approved site plan, and during such periods as shall be designated by the Director.

 M. No Nuisances or Objectionable Activity:

 Neither Concessionaire nor any of its Subconcessionaires shall permit any excessive or objectionable noise, odor, dust, vibration or similar substance or condition to remain on or be emitted from the Premises; interfere with access from the Seattle Center or any part thereof, including the Premises, or with the traffic thereon; create any nuisance in or adjacent to the Seattle Center; or do anything at the Seattle Center that will create a danger to life or limb. As between the City and Concessionaire, Concessionaire shall be solely responsible for ensuring that all Festival activities comply with applicable safety and health laws and regulations.

 N. Food and Beverage Standards:

 All food and beverages offered for sale on or from the Premises shall be of the best quality, wholesome, and pure. All canned edible food products used on the Premises shall be approved by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and of the quality commonly known as "fancy". Baked goods, dairy and other food products shall not be served or used after their pull dates. No meat products containing texturized vegetable protein or other meal, grain or filler products shall be used on the Premises.

 O. No Misbranding or Misrepresentation:

 Neither Concessionaire nor any of its Subconcessionaires shall offer for sale or rent on or from the Premises any food, beverage or other merchandise or service that is misbranded, or misrepresent the size, quality, capabilities, or other characteristics of any food, beverage, merchandise or service offered for sale or rent.

 P. Limitations on Use of Common Areas:

 Neither Concessionaire nor any of its Subconcessionaires shall use the Seattle Center common areas to meet governmental requirements peculiar to Concessionaire's operations hereunder, and whenever facilities are required to satisfy such governmental requirements, the facilities shall be located within the Premises at Concessionaire's sole expense unless the Director determines otherwise.

 Q. Environmentally Sensitive Food Service Material Required:

 Concessionaire shall not use or permit the use of any food or beverage container that on or after the date this Agreement is executed, is prohibited by the Director for use or service at the Seattle Center.

 R. Lost Children on Premises:

 Concessionaire shall identify on each proposed site plan the location of a "Lost Child" area for the full three days of the Festival. The "Lost Child" area shall be staffed with competent childcare providers from the opening of each Festival day through one hour after the close of each Festival day. Such childcare providers shall have reasonable access to, and training in. the use of adequate life-safety communications equipment at that specific site.

 S. Medic Station on Premises:

 Throughout the Festival, Concessionaire shall install and operate on the Premises a first aid center equipped with sufficient certified medical personnel and adequate supplies for first-aid treatment to Festival patrons, staff, and volunteers. The minimum hours of operation shall be one (1) hour prior to the opening of each Festival Day through one (1) hour after closing. Concessionaire shall pay all costs for such medical personnel and supplies. Concessionaire shall ensure that a written report is prepared immediately after any treatment is provided from such first aid center, identifying the individual treated, by name, and describing the nature of the incident that made such treatment necessary. Concessionaire shall deliver a copy of each such report to the Director at the end of each day of the Festival.

 T. Festival Dumpsters:

 The Director shall determine the number, size, and location of dumpsters for the Festival after consultation with Concessionaire regarding its needs and considering the City's ability to service said dumpsters.

 U. Ash and Grease Barrels:

 Concessionaire shall provide in sufficient quantities appropriate ash and grease barrels to all authorized Subconcessionaires engaged in spit-barbecuing, deep-frying and other similar cooking methods requiring such equipment. Concessionaire shall pay all costs to remove and dispose of ash and grease barrels and their contents. Concessionaire shall ensure that no Subconcessionaire disposes of any ash or grease in City-owned dumpster(s) or waste receptacles.

 V. Security Services To Be Provided by On- and Off-Duty Seattle Police Personnel:

 (1) Concessionaire's Obligations:

 Concessionaire shall secure and pay for the services of such off-duty Seattle Police Department personnel as are necessary to implement the Security Plan described in Subection 9.A.3.

 (2) Compensation Payable:

 The compensation payable by Concessionaire for the security services shall be equal to the actual number of officers, sergeants, administrative sergeants, and lieutenants engaged in such security work at the Festival pursuant to this Agreement multiplied by their respective, then-current, hourly compensation rates, as established by the City, multiplied by the actual (not estimated) number of hours each was engaged in such work; provided, that the hours worked for police officers and sergeants shall be consistent with the scheduled hours outlined in the "Event Staffing Matrix" or its successor publication, provided each year by the Seattle Police Department unless the Seattle Police commander scheduled for work at Seattle Center deems an extension of those hours to be necessary, in which case each such officer and sergeant may work for up to one additional hour. Police officer time expended processing an arrest after the scheduled hours will not be chargeable to Concessionaire. The hours expended by an administrative sergeant and lieutenant staffing any Festival may vary from the scheduled hours to meet administrative responsibilities. Full payment for the services of all off-duty police personnel is to be made by Concessionaire in the form of a check made payable to the Seattle Police Trust Account, delivered to the Commander of the Seattle Police Department's Special Activities Section, no later than 5:00 p.m. on the Wednesday immediately following the close of each year's Festival.

 12. ADVERTISING, PUBLICITY & ENTERTAINMENT.

 A. Submission and Approval of Annual Advertising and Promotion Plan:

 Ninety (90) days prior to each Festival Concessionaire shall submit to the Seattle Center Marketing Director and Manager, Event Servicing, for Approval, an Advertising and Promotion Plan for that Festival Year. Any changes or additions to such plan shall also be approved by the Marketing Director prior to implementation.

 Concessionaire shall conduct its promotions, marketing, advertising, publicity and public relations regarding the Festival in a manner that both distinguishes the "Bite of Seattle" as a separate and unrelated festival from the annual "Northwest Folklife Festival" and "Bumbershoot Festival" and is consistent with the Seattle Center Vision Statement and Goals; furthermore Concessionaire and Seattle Center personnel designated by the Director shall cooperatively plan such promotions, marketing, advertising, publicity and public relations.

 B. Prohibited Promotion and Other Material; Removal of Same:

 Neither Concessionaire nor any of its Subconcessionaires shall display, post, or distribute any sign, symbol, advertising of any nature, or any printed material on any part of the Seattle Center without prior written permission therefor from the Director, nor shall Concessionaire permit such activity to occur in or on location(s) other than those specifically approved by the Director. Within forty-eight (48) hours after the conclusion of each Festival contemplated hereunder, Concessionaire shall remove all such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material from the Seattle Center at no cost to the City, and shall correct any unsightly condition, and repair any damage or injury to City property caused by such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material, and the removal thereof. The City may remove unauthorized display material from City property at any time.

 C. Use of Photos and Similar Material:

 Each party hereto may make photographs, videotapes, and motion pictures of the Premises and the activity, people, displays and exhibits thereon except that if Concessionaire intends to use such visual material for commercial advertising, filming, promotion, public relations or other similar purposes, Concessionaire shall obtain the prior written approval of the Director for such use, which approval may be conditioned upon, among other things, Concessionaire's payment of additional consideration to the City and the securing of satisfactory releases, permissions and other documents .

 13. MAINTENANCE, CLEANING AND REPAIR.

 A. City's Responsibilities:

 The City shall maintain, clean, and repair the exterior and structural aspects of the permanent facilities on the Premises; the common areas therein; and all fixtures and improvements installed by the City therein; together with the general grounds areas of the Seattle Center, all to the ordinary standard of maintenance, cleaning, and repair provided to other major users of the facilities and grounds at Seattle Center and shall keep the same in good condition, normal wear and tear and damage and destruction by fire and other extraordinary casualty excepted. The City will provide or undertake general gardening and landscaping; sanitary control; removal of snow; removal of garbage and other refuse from the City's designated locations; and repair of water, sanitary sewer, and storm water lines connecting with similar lines on the Premises consistent with such repair, cleaning and maintenance obligation. In undertaking such maintenance, cleaning and repair, the City shall make a good faith effort to not unreasonably interfere with Concessionaire's business on and from the Premises. Concessionaire waives all claims for damages, including for any loss of business, resulting from City maintenance, cleaning and repair.

 B. Concessionaire's Responsibilities:

 Concessionaire, at its own cost and expense, shall keep the Premises and all improvements, alterations, and additions thereto, and Concessionaire's fixtures, furnishings, and trade equipment at all times in a neat, clean, and sanitary condition, and shall permit no waste, damage, or injury thereto. Concessionaire shall also preserve the Premises and all improvements thereto in good repair, except for the effects of normal wear and tear and damage by fire or other unavoidable casualty. In carrying out such responsibilities Concessionaire, among other things, shall:

 (1) Pay Seattle Center or Seattle Center's contractor to replace any glass in a window, door, display case, or equipment immediately after it becomes cracked or broken;

 (2) Keep all drainage pipes free and open;

 (3) Repair all damage from leaky plumbing or drainage pipes not installed on the Premises by the City or caused by Concessionaire's failure to keep drainage pipes free and open;

 (4) Remove, periodically, in a timely and careful manner, to an area designated by the Director, all debris generated by or peculiar to Concessionaire's operations on the Premises, e.g. grease, ashes;

 (5) Prevent the presence of vermin, insects, and other pests on the Premises.

 14. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.

 A. General Requirements:

 Concessionaire, at its sole cost and expense, shall comply with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and Ordinances of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof.

 B. Licenses and Similar Authorizations:

 Concessionaire, at no expense to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 C. Taxes:

 Concessionaire shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities on or occupancy of the Premises, including, but not limited to taxes arising out of the activity or business conducted on the Premises, such as the rental or sale of goods or services; equipment and improvements on the Premises; and taxes on Concessionaire's interest in this Agreement.

 D. Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action:

 Concessionaire will comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and the City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code (SMC), notably SMC 20.44, and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 E. Applicable Law:

 This Agreement shall be construed under the laws of the State of Washington. Venue for any action hereunder shall be in the King County Superior Court.

 15. CITY'S POWER TO CONTROL BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS AND ACTIVITIES.

 A. City's Powers of Control:

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the City, without liability of any kind, may:

 (1) Increase, reduce, and change in any manner whatsoever the number, appearance, dimensions, and locations of the Seattle Center walks, buildings, landscaping, parking, and service areas, and may also make improvements, alterations, and additions to the common areas;

 (2) Regulate all traffic within and adjacent to the Seattle Center;

 (3) Impose a reasonable charge for admission to the Seattle Center and facilities therein, including parking facilities; provided, that no City fee or charge shall be imposed for such admission during a Festival (other than for parking or admission to a facility not used for Festival purposes) unless such fee or charge is effective during the thirty (30) days prior to and after such Festival;

 (4) Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events on the Seattle Center grounds, buildings, and facilities including the common areas;

 (5) Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle Center;

 (6) Restrict or prohibit the parking on City-owned or leased property of motor vehicles owned or operated by Concessionaire and any of its officers, employees, agents, suppliers, and invitees;

 (7) Determine the days and hours the Seattle Center and various business operations will be open to the public; provided, that the operating hours of the Festival shall not be changed without the prior consent of Concessionaire; and

 (8) Change the size, number, and type and identity of other concessions, stores, businesses, and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center.

 B. Concessionaire's Option to Terminate or Reservation of the Right to Terminate should the City Exercise its Options under Subsection 15.A or Section 27:

 If the City exercises any power under Subsection 15.A or Section 27 hereof, the Director promptly inform Concessionaire. If Concessionaire reasonably determines that the exercise of such City power will negatively impact Concessionaire or its Subconcessionaires, whether financially or as to the quality of the Festival, Concessionaire shall have the option either of terminating this Agreement or of reserving such right and awaiting the conclusion of the next scheduled Festival to determine the impact of the City's exercise of any such City power. In order to exercise either option, Concessionaire must give notice thereof to the Director within thirty (30) days after Concessionaire's receipt of the Director's notice of exercise specified above. If Concessionaire exercises its option to terminate this Agreement, such termination shall be effective upon the Director's receipt of Concessionaire's notice. If, however, Concessionaire reserves its right to terminate this Agreement and elects to await the conclusion of the next scheduled Festival to determine the impact of the City's exercise of power, Concessionaire may terminate this Agreement only by providing a written notice of termination to the Director by November 1st of that Festival Year, which termination shall be effective as of that November 1st. In all cases where Concessionaire elects to exercise its option to terminate this agreement as provided herein, Concessionaire shall pay all applicable fees and charges due from Concessionaire's operations and use of the Premises through the effective date of termination.

 16. CITY'S RIGHT TO DISAPPROVE MERCHANDISE AND PRICES.

 In order to protect the public visiting Seattle Center from price gouging, and to ensure that a variety and diversity of food, beverages, merchandise, services and entertainment are offered to the same, and to protect the public image of the City, the City reserves the right to:

 A. Prohibit Price Gouging:

 Disapprove the price of any food, beverage, item of merchandise, or service that is substantially higher than the price charged by a substantially similar business in the region, and prohibit the charging of such substantially higher price.

 B. Prohibit the Sale of Objectionable Materials:

 Prohibit the sale of any food, beverage, items of merchandise, or service that the Director determines is unsafe; portrays the City or Seattle Center or any aspect thereof in any incorrect, misleading, or unfavorable manner; depicts or suggests in words, symbols, illustrations, or other forms, any act of violence, or any lewd, immoral, or obscene activity; is inappropriate for a family- oriented recreation and entertainment facility such as Seattle Center; or that may create a substantial litter or other maintenance problem at Seattle Center.

 17. CITY'S RIGHT TO PREMISES: INSPECTION, REPAIR, AND IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES AND OTHER PROPERTY.

 A. Access to Premises:

 Concessionaire shall provide the City with access to the Premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and to make any repair, improvement, alteration or addition thereto or any property owned by or under control of the City, deemed necessary by the Director, but this right of access shall not impose on the City any obligation to make any repair, alteration, addition, or improvement except as specifically provided herein.

 B. Permitted Interference with Concessionaire's Operations:

 In inspecting, and in making repairs, alterations, additions, and improvements, the City may erect barricades and scaffolding in and outside of the Premises, and may otherwise interfere with the conduct of the business and operations of Concessionaire and any of its Subconcessionaires where such action is reasonably required by the nature of the City's work; and such interference shall not be deemed to be a breach or default under this Agreement. The City shall use its best efforts to minimize interference with access to and from the Premises and with business and operations in, on or from the Premises.

 C. Suspension of Concessionaire's Operations:

 If any such inspection, repair, alteration, addition, or improvement work necessitates the temporary suspension of the business or operations of Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires in, on, or from the Premises for a period of two (2) hours or less, the Director shall give Concessionaire notice of such necessity and the anticipated beginning and ending dates of such suspension. Concessionaire waives on behalf of itself and all of its Subconcessionaires all claims for damages and for any injury to and interference with business operations and losses occasioned by any such suspension.

 D. City's Retention and Use of Key to Premises:

 For each of the aforesaid purposes, the City shall at all times have and retain a key with which to unlock all of the doors in, upon, and about the Premises, excluding the vaults, safes, and files of Concessionaire and any of its Subconcessionaires. The City shall have the right to use any and all means which the Director deems proper to open said doors in an emergency, in order to obtain entry, without liability to Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires except for any failure to exercise due care for Concessionaire's or Subconcessionaire's property. Any entry to the Premises obtained by the City by any of said means, or otherwise, shall not under any circumstances be construed or deemed to be a forcible or unlawful entry into, or a detainer of, the Premises or a termination of this license to use and occupy the Premises or any portion thereof.

 18. ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER.

 Concessionaire shall not assign or transfer this Agreement or any rights hereunder without the Approval of the Director. Neither this Agreement, nor any right, privilege, or interest conferred shall pass to any trustee or receiver in bankruptcy or to any receiver or assignee for the benefit of creditors; nor shall this Agreement or any rights, privilege, or interest be transferable by operation of law or proceeding of any court. Any attempted assignment in violation of this provision shall immediately terminate this Agreement. If Concessionaire is a partnership, limited or general, a withdrawal of a general partner, or change, voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, or a general partner thereof, shall be deemed an assignment. If Concessionaire is a corporation, the merger, consolidation, or liquidation of Concessionaire or any change in the ownership of or power to vote thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3%) or more of its capital stock, as held as of the date of execution of this Agreement, shall be deemed an assignment except for transfers of stock to Jody May, an individual, or to a trust for her benefit, which transfers are hereby approved. In the event Concessionaire in any manner permits anyone to occupy all or any portion of the Premises for any purpose including conducting business or other activities, whether or not business related, not within the intent of this Agreement, such permission shall be deemed an assignment. No assignment of this Agreement, with or without the Director's consent, shall release or relieve Concessionaire of or from any of the obligations on Concessionaire's part to be kept and performed under this Agreement. Any such assignment shall be subject to all the terms and provisions of this Agreement. In the event of any assignment of this Agreement, Concessionaire shall cause to be delivered to the Director, in care of the Contracts and Concessions Office, simultaneously with such assignment, an instrument, in writing, executed by the assignee, in which the assignee shall assume and agree to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement on Concessionaire's part to be kept and performed that theretofore have not been fully performed.

 19. SUB-CONCESSIONAIRE AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.

 Concessionaire is hereby authorized to grant subordinate rights hereunder, including the right to use and occupy the Premises or such portions thereof as may be specified by Concessionaire but only for the purpose of engaging in food, beverage, food- or beverage-related merchandise sales or demonstrations, and novelty sales, all during a Festival, and only to:

 * Food and/or beverage service providers (food service establishments);

 * Food or beverage service-related merchandise retailers;

 * Food or beverage service-related merchandise demonstrators;

 * Retailers of sunglasses, novelties imprinted with the words "Bite of Seattle", and other novelties that have been approved for sale on the premises by the Director. 20. DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.

 A. Concessionaire's Report of Damage:

 Concessionaire shall submit a written report to the Director, in care of the Contracts and Concessions Office, regarding the circumstances of any damage to the Premises within twenty-four (24) hours after any such event.

 B. Obligation to Pay Fees and Charges in the Event of Damage or Destruction:

 In the event the Premises are destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Concessionaire, or are damaged so extensively as to render the Premises unusable, Concessionaire's obligation to pay fees and charges therefor shall be suspended until the Premises are made usable. If only a portion of the Premises are damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Concessionaire and the Premises remain usable, the fees and charges hereunder shall be prorated and Concessionaire shall pay only fees and charges in an amount proportionate to the extent of the Premises that remain usable for the purposes identified in Section 3, hereof.

 C. Concessionaire's Right to Terminate:

 Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that fifty percent (50%) or more of the Premises is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Concessionaire, Concessionaire may terminate this Agreement by providing notice thereof to the City within (60) days after the occurrence of the damage or destruction and shall specify the effective date of such termination.

 D. City's Right to Terminate:

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that fifty percent (50%) of the Premises is destroyed or is so damaged by fire or other casualty as to be untenantable or unusable, or if the City desires to discontinue Concessionaire's operations because of substantial destruction of the Premises or other part of Seattle Center, regardless of whether the Premises are destroyed, damaged, or otherwise, the City may terminate this Agreement by providing prior notice thereof to Concessionaire.

 E. Notice of Termination:

 Any notice of termination pursuant to this section shall be provided within sixty (60) days after the occurrence of the damage or destruction and shall specify the effective date of such termination.

 21. DEFAULT AND BREACH; TERMINATION THEREFOR.

 A. Act of Default and Breach of Concessionaire:

 The following acts and omissions shall constitute a default and material breach of this Agreement by Concessionaire:

 (1) The failure to comply with all of the requirements of Section 8 hereof, regarding insurance; or

 (2) The violation of any law, Charter provision, ordinance, rule, regulation, order, or directive; or

 (3) The failure of Concessionaire to submit in a timely manner all fees and charges due and owing, and all written reports due to the City; or

 (4) The assignment of Concessionaire's interest in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the Director; or the filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy, or for reorganization or an arrangement; or the adjudication of Concessionaire as being bankrupt or insolvent; or the appointment of a receiver of or for Concessionaire if such appointment, adjudication or similar order or ruling remains in force or unstayed for a period of thirty (30) days; or

 (5) The failure to perform or the violation of any other condition or covenant of this Agreement where such default or deficiency in performance was not remedied within a reasonable time determined by the Director.

 B. City's Notice of Default and Breach:

 The Director shall provide notice to Concessionaire of any event of default, specifying the nature of the act or omission, the reasonable number of hours or days (not to exceed sixty [60] days after the date of the notice) within which such failure must be corrected or the violation must be ceased or remedied to avoid termination, and the City's intention to terminate this Agreement in the event such act or omission has not been corrected within such stated period.

 C. Remedies Upon Termination:

 In the event Concessionaire fails to correct, remedy, or cease such failure or violation within the time specified in the City's notice, the City may thereafter terminate this Agreement without any further proceedings, re-enter the Premises, lease and license others to use said Premises during any portion of the period of use remaining under this Agreement had it not been terminated, and receive rent and license fees therefor. Notwithstanding any such termination and re-entry, Concessionaire's liability for the minimum fees and charges to be paid to the City hereunder shall not be extinguished, and Concessionaire shall pay to the City the difference between said fees and charges and the sum the City receives for the use of the Premises by one or more other users during the period beginning on the date Concessionaire's rights under this Agreement are terminated and ending on the expiration date of this Agreement. Such payment shall be made annually, within fifteen (15) days after the date of any invoice therefor provided to Concessionaire by the City. Such termination and payments shall not relieve Concessionaire from liability to the City for any damages caused by Concessionaire's default and breach and expenses incurred in the leasing or licensing of the Premises.

 D. Default By The City:

 The City shall not be in default of any obligation to perform under this Agreement unless the City fails to perform such obligation within a reasonable time, which time shall not extend more than thirty (30) days after notice by Concessionaire to the City specifying the particular obligation that the City has failed to perform; provided, however, that if the nature of the City's obligation is such that more than thirty (30) days are required for performance, then the City shall not be in default if the City commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 22. SURRENDER OF PREMISES, HOLDING OVER.

 A. Surrender and Delivery:

 Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, and in no event later than 11:59 p.m. on the first Tuesday following each Festival, Concessionaire shall surrender the Premises and promptly deliver to the Director all keys Concessionaire, its Subconcessionaires and any of their officers, agents, and employees may have to the Seattle Center and the Premises.

 B. Removal of Concessionaire's and Subconcessionaire's Property:

 Prior to the expiration date of this Agreement, or within five (5) days after the termination of this Agreement, Concessionaire shall remove all fixtures, furnishings, trade equipment, and personal property owned or installed by Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires in, on, or from the Premises, taking due care to not unreasonably injure or damage the Premises, and shall ensure that such repairs to the Premises as shall be necessary are made, at no cost to the City, to restore the Premises to their condition as of the commencement date of this Agreement, ordinary wear and tear and improvements, additions, and alterations approved by the City excepted. Improvements, additions, and alterations installed on the Premises by the City shall not be removed.

 C. Storage of Concessionaire's and Subconcessionaire's Property:

 If Concessionaire fails to remove all fixtures, furnishings, trade equipment, and other personal property owned or installed by or for Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires on or by the time specified in Subsection 22.B, hereof, the City may, but shall not be required to remove such material from the Premises and store the same, all at Concessionaire's expense; and if the City removes or arranges for the storage of such material, the City shall be reimbursed its costs therefor, including any administrative costs, which reimbursement shall constitute a claim upon Concessionaire.

 D. Hold-over Use and Occupancy of Premises:

 In the event Concessionaire, with or without consent, holds over after the expiration or termination of this Agreement or the deadline for Surrender and Delivery specified in Subsection 22 A., Concessionaire shall pay to the City an additional holdover fee in the amount of $5,000 within twenty (20) days after the date of a City invoice therefor, and shall continue to be bound by all the provisions of this Agreement.

 E. No Claims For Removal:

 In no event shall Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires make any claim or demand upon the City nor shall the City be liable for any inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, or loss of business or any other damage suffered by Concessionaire or any of its Subconcessionaires arising out of such removal operations under Subsection 22.B or 22.C, hereof.

 23. NOTICES AND OTHER DELIVERABLE MATERIALS.

 All notices required by this Agreement shall be in writing. Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, all notices and other material to be delivered hereunder shall be delivered or mailed to the following:

 To City: Sr. Strategic Advisor, Festivals Coordination Seattle Center 305 Harrison Street Seattle, Washington 98109

 To Concessionaire: Festivals, Inc. d/b/a Bite of Seattle P.O. Box 1158 9655 SE 36th Street Mercer Island, WA 98040

 or such other respective addresses as either party may from time to time designate in writing.

 24. NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED.

 The City shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate, or joint venturer of Concessionaire, or any party associated with Concessionaire. Concessionaire is not an agent of the City for any purpose whatsoever. Concessionaire shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the City or bind the City in any manner.

 25. SEATTLE CENTER DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY.

 The term "Seattle Center Director" or "Director", as used throughout this Agreement in regard to permission, warrant, consent, approval, rights, interpretation, and discretionary matters, shall mean the Seattle Center Director or his/her designee. The action of the Seattle Center Director or his/her designee pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official action by any other City Department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation before Concessionaire may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge or terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain or exercise any particular right or privilege under this Agreement. Decisions to be made by the Seattle Center Director shall be left to his/her reasonable discretion.

 26. AMENDMENTS.

 No modifications or amendment of the terms hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by authorized representatives of the parties hereto. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement from time to time, by mutual agreement.

 27. REDEVELOPMENT MODIFICATIONS.

 The Director and Concessionaire, or their designees, shall meet on or before the October 15th immediately prior to each Festival during the term of this Agreement to review the on-going activity and any planned activity on the grounds and/or in the facilities of the Seattle Center with respect to Seattle Center redevelopment and the next succeeding Festival. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, in the event the Director determines, in the exercise of his/her discretion, that in order to facilitate the redevelopment of the Seattle Center in a manner consistent with the "Seattle Center 2000 Plan" approved through Seattle City Council Resolution 28210 or any subsequent redevelopment plan developed for Seattle Center, any portion of the Premises is required for some use or purpose other than that contemplated by the parties under this Agreement, the Director shall have the power to materially change the Premises without recourse by Concessionaire, by providing to Concessionaire not less than ninety (90) days prior to Concessionaire's first authorized Premises use under this Agreement during the Festival Year in which such City use or purpose is required, notice of such material change and the effective date thereof.

 28. NO WAIVER.

 No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of any compensation or fee for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 29. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. Each party shall also have any other remedy given by the law. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 30. JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY.

 In the event Concessionaire is composed of more than one person, entity, or corporation, each of the persons, entities, and corporations composing Concessionaire shall be jointly and severally liable under this Agreement.

 31. USE OF LANGUAGE.

 Terms used in the neuter gender include the masculine and feminine; and terms used in the singular or plural include the other, as the context may require.

 32. CAPTIONS.

 The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 33. INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS.

 Should any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this Agreement or the application thereof be held to be inoperative, invalid, or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement or the application of such term or provision to person or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected hereby and shall continue in full force and effect.

 34. BINDING EFFECT.

 The provisions, covenants, and conditions contained in this Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 35. PREVIOUS AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED.

 The terms and conditions of this Agreement supersede the terms, obligations and conditions of any existing or prior agreement between the parties regarding the subject matter hereof.

 36. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT.

 The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 37. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

 This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Addenda attached hereto and forming a part hereof, are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions, either oral or written, between the parties.

 38. DEFINITIONS

 "Approval", "Approve", "Approved" means the prior written approval of the Director or the Director's designee.

 "Common Areas" means and includes any Seattle Center area designated by the City as being for the general use of tenants, licensees, concessionaires, patrons, employees, and invitees of the Seattle Center and not within the exclusive control of any tenant, licensee, or concessionaire. Such areas shall include but not be limited to parking areas, landscaped areas, areaways, roads, walks, corridors, malls, public toilets, public stairs, ramps, elevators, escalators, and shelters.

 "Gross Receipts" means and includes the total income of Concessionaire and every other person or entity conducting business in, on or from the Premises pursuant to this Agreement ("Subconcessionaires") including but not limited to the proceeds from all retail and wholesale sales of food, beverages, and services; the sale and rental of all merchandise, of any kind whatsoever, for cash, barter, exchange or credit, regardless of collections; sales from vending devices; mail or telephone orders received or filled on or from the Premises; all deposits not refunded to purchasers; orders taken although filled elsewhere; fees; commissions; catalog sales; and rental receipts. All installment or credit sales shall be deemed to have been made for the full price on the date of sale regardless of when payment is received.

 The term "Gross Receipts" does not mean or include the amount of money refunded to, and not merely credited to the account of customers who return or do not accept merchandise or services sold by Concessionaire or any Subconcessionaire; any exchange of merchandise between stores or the central warehouses of Concessionaire or any Subconcessionaire where such exchange is made solely for the convenient operation of Concessionaire's or any Subconcessionaire's business and not for the purpose of consummating a sale made in, on or from the Premises; returns to shippers or manufacturers; any discount allowed by Concessionaire or any Subconcessionaire to customers; the Washington State Sales Tax and any other tax imposed by any government agency directly on sales.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this AGREEMENT to be executed by having its authorized representative affix his/her signature below:

 CONCESSIONAIRE: THE CITY OF SEATTLE: Festivals, Inc. d/b/a Bite of Seattle By: By: Al Silverman, President Virginia Anderson Seattle Center Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. (Festivals, Inc. Acknowledgement) COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ______ day of ____________ , 2000, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Al Silverman, to me known to be the President of Festivals, Inc., who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said instrument for and on behalf of Festivals, Inc.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written. ________________________________ (Signature) __________________________________ (Printed or typed name)

 Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at _________ My appointment expires _____________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) )ss. (City Acknowledgment) THE COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _________ day of ____________ , 2000, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Virginia Anderson, to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle, who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute said instrument for and on behalf of The City of Seattle.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written. ___________________ (Signature) ___________________ (Printed or typed name) Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, residing at __________ My appointment expires __________________

 June 27, 2000

```
