

********

**Council Bill Number: 113239**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120004**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code, to rezone properties located in the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village boundaries; adding a new Section 23.73.010; amending Sections 23.47.032, 23.47.040, Chart A of 23.54.015, Exhibit 23.73.004A, and 23.73.008 to implement the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Neighborhood Plan and repealing Section 5 of Ordinance 119413.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 26, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 5, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 3, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 30, 2000
   
**Committee:** Landlord/Tenant and Land Use
   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, REZONES, NEIGHBORHOOD-PLANS, CAPITOL-HILL

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 115326, 119235, 118414, 119413

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; amending the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code, to rezone properties located in the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village boundaries; adding a new Section 23.73.010; amending Sections 23.47.032, 23.47.040, Chart A of 23.54.015, Exhibit 23.73.004A, and 23.73.008 to implement the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Neighborhood Plan and repealing Section 5 of Ordinance 119413.

 WHEREAS, City Council Resolution 28966, adopted August 1, 1994, established a Neighborhood Planning Program for the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, a coalition of Pike/Pine neighborhood stakeholders came together to form the Pike/Pine Urban Neighborhood Coalition in the Autumn, 1995 for the purpose of preparing a Neighborhood Plan as provided for in the City of Seattle Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, stakeholders in this community formed a Planning Committee and worked with City staff and consultants to develop specific plan recommendations; and

 WHEREAS, a final plan incorporating Key Strategies and Additional Activities for Implementation was reviewed and approved by the Pike/Pine Urban Neighborhood Coalition and validated by the community in response to a community-wide mailer and validation event; and

 WHEREAS, the GMA requires development standards to be consistent with comprehensive plans; and

 WHEREAS, the overall vision of the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Neighborhood Plan is consistent with the goals and policies of Seattle's Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, on March 22, 1999, by Ordinance 119413, the City Council amended the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate portions of the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Neighborhood Plan, including the Pike/Pine Plan goals and policies; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the proposed amendments to the Land Use Code established by this ordinance and to the City's SEPA policies are consistent with the adopted the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Neighborhood Plan; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the proposed amendments to the Land Use Code established by this ordinance and to the City's SEPA policies will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public; and

 WHEREAS, Section 5 of Ordinance 119413 incorrectly stated that single- purpose residential structures would continue to be conditional uses in commercial zones, when the intent was to continue to permit them as uses permitted outright within the Pike/Pine Overlay District and as conditional uses in other commercial areas of the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Attached to this ordinance are zoning maps, identified as Attachment A, and incorporated herein by reference. The Official Land Use Map, SMC 23.32.016, pages 110 and 111, is hereby amended to rezone the properties shown on the maps in Attachment A.

 Section 2. Subsection A of Section 23.47.032 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 115326, is further amended as follows:

 23.47.032 Parking location and access

 A. Parking for nonresidential uses shall be located on the lot or built into or under the structure or within eight hundred (800) feet of the lot on which the use is located ~~((,except that parking for residential uses shall be located on the same lot~~. When parking is provided on a lot other than the lot of the use to which it is accessory, the provisions of Section 23.54.025, Parking covenants, shall apply. Parking for residential uses must be located on the same lot as the residential use to which it is accessory.

 * * *

 Section 3. Subsection C of Section 23.47.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119235, is further amended to add new principal pedestrian streets and to display the full list in alphabetical order, as shown below:

 23.47.040 General provisions for pedestrian-designated zones.

 * * *

 C. For purposes of this subchapter, the following streets are principal pedestrian streets when located within a pedestrian- designated zone:

~~Lake City Way Northeast; Roosevelt Way Northeast; Greenwood Avenue North; North 85th Street; East Greenlake Drive North; Woodlawn Avenue Northeast; University Way Northeast; Northeast Forty-fifth Street; Northwest Market Street; Fremont Avenue North; Fremont Place North; Queen Anne Avenue North; Mercer Street; Roy Street; First Avenue North; 15th Avenue East; Broadway Avenue East; East Olive Way; East Madison Street; Madison Street; California Avenue Southwest; Southwest Alaska Street; Rainier Avenue South; 12th Avenue; E. Union Street; 23rd Avenue; and 25th Avenue Northeast.~~

10th Avenue; 11th Avenue; 12th Avenue; 15th Avenue East; 23rd Avenue; 25th Avenue Northeast; Broadway; California Avenue Southwest; East Union Street; East Greenlake Drive North; East Madison Street; East Olive Way; East Pike Street; First Avenue North; Fremont Avenue North; Fremont Place North; Greenwood Avenue North; Lake City Way Northeast; Madison Street; Mercer Street; North 85th Street; Northeast 45th Street; Northwest Market Street; Queen Anne Avenue North; Rainier Avenue South; Roosevelt Way Northeast; Roy Street; Southwest Alaska Street; University Way Northeast; and Woodlawn Avenue Northeast.

 Section 4. Chart A of Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance ________________ (Council Bill 113151) and

 Ordinance ________________ Council Bill 113163), is further amended as follows:

 23.54.015 Required parking.

 * * *

 Chart A for Section 23.54.015 PARKING

 Use Parking Requirements

 Adult care center1 1 space for each 10 adults (clients) or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 adults (clients).

 Adult family home 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Adult motion picture theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Adult panoram 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Airport, land-based (waiting area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Airport, water-based (waiting area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Animal services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Animal husbandry (retail area only) 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Aquaculture (retail area only) 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Artist's studio/dwelling 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Assisted living facility2 1 space for each 4 assisted living units plus 1 space for each 2 staff members on- site at peak staffing time; plus 1 barrier-free passenger loading and unloading space; plus loading berth requirements per Section 23.54.035.

 Automotive parts or accessory sales 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Ball courts 1 space per court.

 Bed and breakfast 1 space for each dwelling, plus 1 space for each 2 guest rooms or suites.

 Bowling alley 5 spaces for each lane.

 Brewpub 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Business support services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Business incubators 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Carwash 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Caretaker's quarters 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Cargo terminal 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Cemetery None.

 Child care center1,9 1 space for each 10 children or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 children.

 Colleges1 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Commercial laundries 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Commercial moorage 1 space for each 140 lineal feet of moorage.

 Communication utilities 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Community centers1, 2 and 1 space for Community clubs1, 2 each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or 1 space for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 space for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Community centers owned and operated 1 space for by the Seattle Department of Parks each 555 square and Recreation (DOPAR)1, 2, 3 feet.

 Congregate residences 1 space for each 4 residents.

 Construction services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Custom and craft work 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Dance halls (dance floor and table 1 space for area) each 100 square feet.

 Dry storage of boats 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Family support centers located in 1 space community centers owned and for each 100 operated by the Seattle DOPAR3 square feet.

 Floating homes 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Food processing for human consumption 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Gas station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 General retail sales and services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Ground-floor businesses in None, maximum multi-family zones of 10 spaces.

 Heavy commercial services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Heliports (waiting area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 High-impact uses. 1 space for each 1,500 square feet or as determined by the Director.

 Horticultural uses (retail area 1 space for only) each 350 square feet.

 Hospitals1 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 5 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Hotels 1 space for each 4 sleeping rooms or suites.

 Institute for advanced study1 1 space for each 1,000 square feet of administrative offices and similar spaces; plus 1 space for each 10 fixed seats in all auditoria and public assembly rooms; or 1 space for each 100 square feet of public assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Institutes for advanced study in 3.5 spaces for single-family zones (existing) each 1,000 square feet of office space; plus 10 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of additional building footprint to house and support conference center activities, or 37 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of actual conference rooms to be constructed, whichever is greater.

 Kennel 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Lecture and meeting hall 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Library10 1 space for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public meeting rooms; plus 1 space for each 500 square feet of floor area, excluding auditoria and public meeting rooms.

 Major durables, sales, service, 1 space for and rental each 2,000 square feet.

 Manufacturing, general 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, heavy 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, light 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Marine service station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Medical services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Miniature golf 1 space for each 2 holes.

 Mini-warehouse 1 space for each 30 storage units.

 Mobile home park 1 space for each mobile home.

 Mortuary services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Motels 1 space for each sleeping room or suite.

 Motion picture studio 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Motion picture theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Multifamily uses4 Uses~~Lots~~~~structures~~ except those containing listed below 2--10 dwelling units: 1.1 spaces for each dwelling unit.

Uses~~Lots~~ containing 11-- 30 dwelling units: 1.15 spaces for each dwelling unit.

Uses~~Lots~~ containing 31-- 60 dwelling units: 1.2 spaces for each dwelling unit.

Uses~~Lots~~ containing more than 60 dwelling units: 1.25 spaces for each dwelling unit.

 In addition, for all multifamily uses~~structures~~ whose average gross floor area per dwelling unit, excluding decks and all portions of a structure shared by multiple dwelling units, exceeds 500 square feet, an additional .0002 spaces per square foot in excess of 500 shall be required up to a maximum additional .15 spaces per dwelling unit; and

 When at least 50 percent of the dwelling units in a multi-family ~~structure~~use have 3 bedrooms, an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 3 bedrooms shall be required; and

 Any multi-family ~~structure~~use which contains a dwelling unit with 4 or more bedrooms shall be required to provide an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 4 or more bedrooms.5

 Multifamily ~~structures~~ 1.5 spaces per unit uses containing dwelling with 2 or more units with 2 or more bedrooms, bedrooms. The when within the area requirement for units impacted by the University of with 3 or more Washington as shown on Map A bedrooms contained following this section, above shall also unless such multifamily uses are apply. All other occupied by low-income elderly, low- requirements for income disabled, or low-income units with fewer than elderly/low-income disabled 2 bedrooms shall be households, in which case the as contained above.5 provisions below apply

 Multifamily ~~structures~~ 1.5 spaces per unit. uses, when within the Alki area as shown on Map B following this section, unless such multifamily uses are occupied by low-income elderly, low- income disabled, or low-income elderly/low-income disabled households, in which case the provisions below apply

 Multifamily development, for 1 space for those ground-related each dwelling unit. ~~structures~~uses within the development with 10 units or fewer

 Multifamily ~~structures~~ 1 spaceusesoccupied by for each 6 dwelling ~~for~~ low-income elderly units households

 Multifamily ~~structures~~ 1 spaceusesoccupied by for each 4 ~~for~~ low-income dwelling units. disabled households

 Multifamily ~~structures~~ 1 spaceusesoccupied by for each 5 ~~:~~ low-income elderly dwelling units. /low-income disabled households

~~Multifamily structures, ~~1 for when within the Seattle each dwelling Cascade Mixed zone~~~~unit.

Multifamily uses, when 1 space for within the Seattle Cascade each dwelling Mixed zone or the Pike/Pine unit. Overlay District

Multifamily uses, when within 1 space for the Pike/Pine Overlay District, every 2 dwelling for each residential unit rented units, when to households at rents not applicants exceeding 30 percent of 60 percent demonstrate of the median income, adjusted for compliance with household size, for the Seattle- these criteria Everett Standard Metropolitan for the life Statistical Area, as defined by of the building. the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development

 Multi-purpose convenience store 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Museum1 1 space for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, not containing fixed seats; or 1 space  for every 10 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; plus 1 space for each 250 square feet of other gross floor area open to the public.

 Nonhousehold sales and services, 1 space except sales, service and rental for each 2,000 of office equipment square feet.

 Nursing homes6 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 3 employees; plus 1 space for each 6 beds.

 Office, administrative 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Office, customer service 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Outdoor storage 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Parks None.

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 space for indoor, unless otherwise specified each 350 square feet.

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 space for outdoor, unless otherwise specified each 350 square feet.

 Passenger terminals (waiting area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Performing arts theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Personal transportation services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Playgrounds None.

 Power plants 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Private club1 1 space for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or

 1 space for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or

 if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 space for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Railroad rights-of-way None.

 Railroad switchyard 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Railroad switchyard with 1 space for each mechanized hump 2,000 square feet.

 Recreational marinas 1 space for each 75 lineal feet of moorage.

 Recycling center 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Recycling collection station None.

 Religious facility1 1 space for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms.

 Research and development laboratory 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Restaurant 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Restaurant, fast-food 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Sale and rental of large boats 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sale and rental of motorized 1 space for each vehicles 2,000 square feet.

 Sale of boat parts and accessories 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Sale of heating fuel 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sales, service and rental of 1 space for each commercial equipment 2,000 square feet.

 Sales, service and rental of 1 space for each office equipment 350 square feet.

 Salvage yard 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 School, private elementary and 1 space for each secondary1,2 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1  space for each staff member.

 School, public elementary and 1 space for each secondary 1,2,7 80 square feet of all auditorium or public assembly rooms, or 1 space for every 8 fixed seats in auditoria or public assembly rooms, containing fixed seats, for new public schools on a new or existing public school site.

 Sewage treatment plant 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Single-family dwelling units 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Skating rink (rink area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Solid waste transfer station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Specialty food stores 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Spectator sports facility 1 space for each ~~10~~11 10 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Sport range 1 space for each 2 stations.

 Swimming pool (water area) 1 space for each 150 square feet.

 Taverns 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Transit vehicle base 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Universities 8 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Utility service uses 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle and vessel repair 1 space for each ~~, major~~ 2,000 square feet.

~~Vehicle repair, minor~~~~1 for each 2,000 square feet.~~

~~Vessel repair~~~~1 for each 2,000 ~~, major~~~~square feet.

~~Vessel repair, minor~~~~1 for each 2,000 square feet.~~

 Vocational or fine arts school 1 space for each 2 faculty plus~~and~~ full- time employees; plus 1 space for each 5 students (based on the maximum number of students in attendance at any one time).

 Warehouse 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Wholesale showroom 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Work-release centers 1 space for each 2 full-time staff members; plus 1 space for each 5 residents; plus 1 space for each vehicle operated in connection with the work-release center.

 1 When permitted in single-family zones as conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multifamily zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of Seattle Transportation, may allow adult care and childcare centers locating in existing ((structures))s to provide loading and unloading spaces on- street when no other alternative exists.

 2 Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall they be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they contain bleachers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers, the parking requirement for the entire gymnasium shall be one (1) parking space for every eight (8) fixed seats. Each twenty inches (20") of width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed seat for the purposes of determining parking requirements. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no parking requirement for the gymnasium. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center, the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each 350 square feet. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center owned and operated by the Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR), the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each five hundred fifty-five (555) square feet.

 3 When family support centers are located within community centers owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined parking requirement by up to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%), pursuant to Section 23.54.020 I.

 4 Parking spaces required for multifamily ~~structures~~uses may be provided as tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.

 5Bedroom-Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code which, in the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a bedroom.

 6When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the Director may waive some or all of the parking requirements.

 7For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements shall be determined based on the new construction. When an existing public school on an existing public school site is remodeled, additional parking is required if any auditorium or other place of assembly is expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additional parking is required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor area or increase in number of seats only. If the parking requirement for the increased area or seating is ten percent (10%) or less than that for the existing auditorium or other place of assembly, then no additional parking shall be required.

 8 Development standards departure may be granted or required pursuant to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce the required or permitted number of parking spaces.

 9 Child care facilities~~faculties~~, when co-located with assisted living facilities, may count the passenger load/unload space required for the assisted living facility toward its required passenger load/unload spaces.

 10 When permitted in single-family zones as conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multi-family zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122; and when permitted in commercial zones, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022L.

~~10~~11 Required parking for spectator sports facilities or exhibition halls must be available when the facility or exhibition hall is in use. A facility shall be considered to be "in use" during the period beginning three (3) hours before an event is scheduled to begin and ending one (1) hour after a scheduled event is expected to end. For sports events of variable or uncertain duration, the expected event length shall be the average length of the events of the same type for which the most recent data are available, provided it is within the past five (5) years. During an inaugural season, or for non-recurring events, the best available good faith estimate of event duration will be used. A facility will not be deemed to be "in use" by virtue of the fact that administrative or maintenance personnel are present. The Director may reduce the required parking for any event when projected attendance for a spectator sports facility is certified to be 50% or less of the facility's seating capacity, to an amount not less than that required for the certified projected attendance, at the rate of one space for each ten fixed seats of certified projected attendance. An application for reduction and the certification shall be submitted to the Director at least 15 days prior to the event. When the event is one of a series of similar events, such certification may be submitted for the entire series 15 days prior to the first event in the series. If the Director finds that a certification of projected attendance of 50% or less of the seating capacity is based on satisfactory evidence such as past attendance at similar events or advance ticket sales, the Director shall, within 15 days of such submittal, notify the facility operator that a reduced parking requirement has been approved, with any conditions deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure adequacy of parking if expected attendance should change. The parking requirement reduction may be applied for only if the goals of the facility's Transportation Management Plan are otherwise being met. The Director may revoke or modify a parking requirement reduction approval during a series, if projected attendance is exceeded.

 * * *

 Section 5. Exhibit 23.73.004A of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Exhibit was last amended by Ordinance 118414, is hereby repealed and replaced as follows:

 23.73.004 Pike/Pine Overlay District established.

 There is hereby established pursuant to Chapter 23.59 of the Seattle Municipal Code, the Pike/Pine Overlay District as shown on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32, and [Exhibit 23.73.004A](/~ordpics/113239D.gif)

 Section 6. Subsections B and C of Section 23.73.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118414, are further amended as follows:

 23.73.008 Uses.

 * * *

 B. Required Uses at Street Level.

 1. Commercial use is required at street level for all structures fronting on the following streets:

 East Pike Street;

 East Pine Street;

 East Union Street, east of Broadway ~~Ave~~; and

 2. Mixed use structures must meet the standards prescribed by Section 23.47.008.

 C. Single-purpose Residential Structures.

 1. Single-purpose residential structures are permitted outright where commercial use is not required by subsection B, above, or as provided for in Section 23.47.023 B.~~; and~~

 2. A density of one unit per four hundred (400) square feet of lot area is permitted except that density shall be unlimited in areas where single-purpose residential is permitted outright, as per Section 23.73.008C1, subject to the following:~~.~~

 a. Single-purpose residential structures are located in NC zones with a height limit of sixty-five (65) feet or more; and

 b. At least forty (40) percent of all units are rented to households at rents not exceeding thirty (30) percent of sixty (60) percent of the median income for the Seattle-Everett Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).

 c. Applicants shall demonstrate compliance with these income criteria for the life of the building.

~~2. A density of one unit per four hundred (400) square feet of lot area is permitted~~.

 * * *

 Section 7. A new Section, 23.73.010, is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 23.73.010 Development standards.

 A. Height Exception for Mixed Use Structures

 1. In zones with a sixty-five (65) foot height limit, the Director may permit the height of the structure to exceed the height limit of the zone by up to four (4) feet, only if the residential and nonresidential uses are located in the same structure and subject to the following:

 a. The nonresidential use at street level requires a ceiling height that exceeds the minimum required ceiling height of thirteen (13) feet floor to ceiling to support business operations; and

 b. The additional height will not permit an additional story to be built beyond what could be built under a sixty-five (65) foot height limit if a ceiling height of more than thirteen (13) feet floor to ceiling is not needed to support street level commercial uses.

 B. Open Space.

 1. Open space is not required for structures existing as of April 1, 2000, that are repaired, renovated or structurally altered to the extent permitted by the development standards of the Land Use Code, provided that street facing facades are retained and fifty (50) percent or more of the gross floor area is retained.

 2. Open space is not required for new construction, when affordable housing is provided by a nonprofit organization that meets the following criteria:

 a. At least forty (40) percent of the units are rented to households at rents not exceeding thirty (30) percent of sixty (60) percent of the median income, adjusted for household size, for the Seattle- Everett Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); and

 b. Applicants shall demonstrate compliance with these income criteria for the life of the building.

 3. Existing residential uses that meet the open space requirements of Section 23.47.024, Open space standards, may eliminate the open space, provided they comply with the requirements of Section 23.73.010B2.

 C. Parking.

 1. Required parking. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for multifamily uses is specified in Chart A of Section 23.54.015, Required parking.

 2. Location of parking. Parking for residential shall be provided on the same lot as the principal use. Parking for non-residential uses may be located on the lot or built into or under the structure or within eight hundred (800) feet of the lot on which the use is located. When parking is provided on a lot other than the lot of the use to which it is accessory, the provisions of Section 23.54.025, Parking covenants, shall apply.

 Section 8. Section 5 of Ordinance 119413 passed by City Council on March 22, 1999, is hereby repealed.

 Section 9. Within twenty-four (24) months from the effective date of this ordinance, or longer if necessary to enable analysis of a sufficient number of developments to substantiate the study, DCLU shall submit to the City Council an evaluation of developments built under the parking provisions proposed in this ordinance, which are specific to the Pike/Pine Overlay District. This study shall include an analysis of the following elements:

 A. Affordability and Applicability. A summary of developments built and occupied during this twenty-four (24) month period, and review of projects in the development pipeline. The summary will include discussion on the types of developers (e.g., market rate, nonprofit, mixed-income, etc.) making use of these provisions, affordability levels, and lessons learned both from them. Feedback from developers who did not make use of these provisions will be included as well.

 B. On-Street Parking Impacts. A survey of new buildings to determine whether tenants are parking in the new buildings or on-street.

 C. Enforcement. A briefing on enforcement issues resulting from noncompliance with the proposed parking provisions in this ordinance.

 D. Other issues, if applicable.

 In preparing the study, DCLU shall consult with plan reviewers and permit administrators, developers, residents and neighbors, and other City departments, including the Office of Housing. DCLU may make recommendations for Code amendments based on the study's findings.

 Section 10. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 11. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000. __________________________________ City Clerk

 LIST OF ATTACHMENTS:

 Attachment A: Amendments to the Official Land Use Map

 6/19/00 V4 LIST OF ATTACHMENTS:

 Attachment A: Amendments to the Official Land Use Map PR Pike/Pine-Land Use 4/20/00 2:54 PM V1E

 ATTACHMENT A

[Amendment to Official Land Use Map Page 111](/~ordpics/113239a.gif)

[Rezone of Heath Property, 1617 Boylston Ave.](/~ordpics/113239b.gif)

```
