

********

**Council Bill Number: 113242**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119990**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing the Superintendent or his designee to enter into a long-term point-to-point transmission agreement with the Bonneville Power Administration together with a companion amendment to Seattle's current power sales contract with Bonneville.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 19, 2000
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 26, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 23, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 5, 2000
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** WILLS
   
   
**Index Terms:** CITY-LIGHT, CONTRACTS, ELECTRICITY, BONNEVILLE-POWER-ADMINISTRATION

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ______

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing the Superintendent or his designee to enter into a long-term point- to-point transmission agreement with the Bonneville Power Administration together with a companion amendment to Seattle's current power sales contract with Bonneville.

 WHEREAS, City Light is dependent on the high voltage transmission services of the Bonneville Power Administration for the transmission of much of Seattle's power to its load center; and

 WHEREAS, City Light also purchases power from the Bonneville Power Administration to meet a portion of its electric load; and

 WHEREAS, during its 1996 rate case, Bonneville introduced several new transmission products, including a new point-to-point transmission service; and

 WHEREAS, over a series of short term agreements entered into with Bonneville, City Light has found advantages in both price and the flexibility of the new point-to-point transmission service over that of the previous integrated resource transmission service; and

 WHEREAS, Bonneville is now willing to enter into long-term point- to-point transmission service contracts; Now Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his designee, is hereby authorized to enter into a service agreement for point-to-point transmission with the Bonneville Power Administration substantially in the form of the agreement entitled "Service Agreement No. 96MS-96018" attached to this ordinance. This transmission agreement will supercede Seattle's current short term point-to-point transmission agreement and the previous integrated resource transmission agreement. The new point-to-point transmission agreement is a long-term agreement that will run until September 30, 2025.

 Section 2. The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his designee, is also authorized to enter into a an amendment of its current power sales agreement with the Bonneville Power Administration, substantially in the form of "Amendatory Agreement No. 9" attached to this ordinance. This amendment is necessary to reflect the change to a point-to-point transmission service in the delivery of that component of Seattle's power resources purchased from Bonneville. Previously, transmission was an integral part of the power sale, whereas now the power sale will be separate from the transmission service.

 Section 3. Any act taken in furtherance of this ordinance prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4 This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 June 1, 2000

 (Ver. 1 ) _______ Service Agreement No. 96MS-96018

 SERVICE AGREEMENT for POINT-TO-POINT TRANSMISSION executed by the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY acting by and through the BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION and THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 Index Article Page 1. Scope of Service Agreement 2 2. Definitions 3 3. Term of Service Agreement 3 4. Charges and Payments 3 5. Notices 4 6. Miscellaneous 5 7. Signatures 8

 Exhibit A (Statement of Specifications for Long-Term Firm Transmission Service) Exhibit B (Facilities Charges) Exhibit C (Ancillary Services)

 This TRANSMISSION SERVICE AGREEMENT is made by and between the Bonneville Power Administration (hereinafter referred to as "BPA") and The City of Seattle (hereinafter referred to as "the Transmission Customer"). The Transmission Customer and BPA are sometimes referred to individually as "Party" and collectively as "Parties," as the context suggests below.

 RECITALS

 The Parties are interconnected directly or through their Designated Agent(s) with each other and/or with other electric utility systems; and

 The Parties previously entered into a General Transmission Agreement (IR Contract), Contract No. DE-MS79-88BP91657, for transmission of non-Federal power, and the Transmission Customer now desires to receive Firm Transmission Service under the Open Access Transmission Tariff (Tariff); and

 BPA provides Point-to-Point Transmission (PTP) Service under BPA's Tariff or its successor; and

 The Parties entered into an agreement for PTP Service on a temporary basis beginning October 1, 1996; and

 In consideration of the promises and mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the Parties do agree as follows:

 ARTICLE 1 SCOPE OF SERVICE AGREEMENT

 1.1 TERMS AND CONDITIONS BPA agrees to provide and the Transmission Customer agrees to take and pay for PTP Transmission Services in accordance with the provisions of this Service Agreement and the Open Access Transmission Tariff. The Tariff in effect at the time of execution of this Service Agreement is hereby incorporated by this reference. BPA may change the terms and conditions of the Tariff upon, and only upon, a determination by the Commission that such change is just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. BPA and the Transmission Customer agree that Transmission Service provided pursuant to this Service Agreement may be provided under a Commission-approved successor tariff after September 30, 2001, if BPA supersedes the Tariff.

 1.2 STATEMENT OF SPECIFICATIONS FOR LONG-TERM FIRM TRANSMISSION SERVICE The Statement of Specifications for Long-Term Firm PTP Transmission Service under this Service Agreement requested by the Transmission Customer for each individual transaction and accepted by BPA is hereby incorporated and made a part of this Service Agreement as Exhibit A and made applicable to that transaction.

 1.3 WHOLESALE POWER AND TRANSMISSION RATES SCHEDULES BPA's Wholesale Power and Transmission Rates Schedules are hereby incorporated by this reference.

 1.4 FACILITIES CHARGES All applicable charges pursuant to the Direct Assignment Facilities Provisions for existing facilities and facilities built as a result of this Service Agreement are hereby incorporated as Exhibit B.

 1.5 ANCILLARY SERVICES The Ancillary Services for PTP Transmission Service under this Service Agreement are hereby incorporated as Exhibit C.

1.6 TRANSMISSION SCHEDULING PROVISIONS The Transmission Customer shall schedule transmission transactions in accordance with BPA's Transmission Scheduling Provisions and Procedures as posted on BPA's OASIS located at the following Internet URL address: http://www.nwoasis.org/OASIS/BPAT

 ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS

 Unless otherwise defined herein, all capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Tariff. ARTICLE 3 TERM OF SERVICE AGREEMENT

 Service under this Service Agreement shall commence on the earlier of (a) 2400 hours on September 30, 2000; or (b) upon date of execution by both parties in Article 7. Service under this Service Agreement shall terminate on September 30, 2025. All liabilities and obligations incurred under this Service Agreement shall be preserved until satisfied.

 ARTICLE 4 CHARGES AND PAYMENTS

 4.1 CHARGES FOR TRANSMISSION SERVICE The Transmission Customer shall pay BPA the applicable charges for services provided hereunder pursuant to the BPA Wholesale Power and Transmission Rate Schedules. BPA may change the rates that apply to Transmission Service under this Service Agreement pursuant to applicable law.

 4.2 BILLING AND PAYMENT Bills for all services provided under this Service Agreement shall be rendered monthly by BPA and shall be payable in accordance with the Tariff.

 4.3 LOAD REDUCTION DUE TO CHANGES IN FEDERAL OR STATE LAW The Transmission Customer shall provide written notice to BPA as soon as practicable in the event that a retail consumer of the Transmission Customer obtains access to a power supplier other than the Transmission Customer because a regulatory, legislative, or judicial body of competent jurisdiction, not including any governing body, commission, or board of the Transmission Customer, has required that the Transmission Customer provide such access through the use of the Transmission Customer's transmission and/or distribution facilities, and the Transmission Customer thereby suffers a reduction in retail load. At a mutually agreeable time thereafter, BPA and the Transmission Customer shall initiate discussions to determine whether a change in the Transmission Customer's

 Transmission Demand, as designated in Exhibit A, Summary Of Points Of Interconnection And Points Of Delivery/Delivering Party/Control Area/Receiving Party/Scheduling Agent, is appropriate and, if so, the mitigation, if any, to which BPA is entitled.

 4.4 BPA APPROPRIATIONS REFINANCING ACT, PUBLIC LAW 104-134 The Transmission Customer and BPA agree that provisions of Section 3201(i) of Public Law 104-134 (BPA Refinancing Act) are incorporated in their entirety and hereby made a part of this Service Agreement.

 ARTICLE 5 NOTICES

 5.1 NOTICES RELATING TO PROVISIONS OF THE SERVICE AGREEMENT Any notice, request, demand, or statement which is given to or made upon either Party by the other Party under any of the provisions of this Service Agreement, except those specified in Article 5.2 below, shall be in writing and shall be considered delivered when either personally delivered to the following or deposited in the mail postage prepaid and properly addressed to the following:

 If to City of Seattle If to BPA

 Seattle City Light 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300 Seattle, WA 98104-5031 Attention: Deputy Superintendent of Power Management Branch

 Bonneville Power Administration P. O. Box 491- TM/Ditt2 Vancouver, WA 98666-0491 Or 5411 NE Highway 99 - TM/Ditt2 Vancouver, WA 98663 Attention: Transmission Account Executive for Seattle City Light

 5.2 NOTICES OF AN OPERATING NATURE Any notice, request, or demand pertaining to matters of an operating nature, exclusive of requests for additional or modified Transmission Service under the Tariff, shall be sufficient if given in writing, by telephone, by facsimile, or orally in person to the person designated in writing by the Party as its representative for such purposes, provided that should such notice, request, or demand not be in writing, confirmation thereof shall be made in writing as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, upon request of the Party being served. The representative for receiving notices pursuant to this Article and such representative's address shall be communicated by the Parties under separate letter within forty-five (45) days from the date of execution of this Service Agreement.

 ARTICLE 6 MISCELLANEOUS

 6.1 INTERCONNECTION WITH OTHER SYSTEMS Nothing contained in this Service Agreement shall restrict or limit either Party from establishing, altering, or terminating interconnection points with any entity not a party to this Service Agreement or amending or entering into such agreements.

 6.2 GOVERNING LAW This Service Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and enforced in accordance with Federal law.

 6.3 AMENDMENTS Except as provided in Articles 1.1, 6.4, and 6.5, this Service Agreement may be amended only upon the mutual agreement of the Parties, which amendment shall be reduced to writing and executed by both Parties.

 6.4 TARIFF REVISIONS Article 6.4 shall be effective from the date of Execution of this Service Agreement to September 30, 2001.

 In the event that BPA proposes to revise the Tariff, either on its own initiative or in response to a directive or order of the Commission, BPA may revise this Service Agreement to remove any irreconcilable differences between this Service Agreement and the proposed revised Tariff, provided that BPA has given the Transmission Customer a copy of the proposed revised Tariff and proposed revised Service Agreement not less than sixty (60) days prior to the date BPA submits such proposed revised Tariff and proposed revised Service Agreement to the Commission for approval, and provided the Commission approves the proposed revised Tariff and proposed revised Service Agreement. Within thirty (30) days of receiving the proposed revised Tariff and proposed revised Service Agreement, the Transmission Customer may provide BPA notice of its intent to terminate this Service Agreement in the event that the Commission approves the revised Service Agreement. If the Transmission Customer provides BPA such notice, and the Commission then approves the revised Service Agreement, the Transmission Customer may terminate this Service Agreement by providing BPA an additional notice of its intent to do so, so long as the Transmission Customer provides such additional notice within thirty (30) days after the effective date of Commission approval of the revised Service Agreement. If the Transmission Customer terminates the Service Agreement pursuant to this Article 6.4, the Transmission Customer shall replace the Transmission Service provided under this Service Agreement by commencing other transmission service under the Tariff.

 6.5 REVISION OF EXHIBITS If any changes to Exhibits A, B, or C are necessary to reflect changes specified below, new exhibits shall be substituted for the exhibits then in effect and shall become effective as of the date specified therein. The Transmission Customer may use the dispute resolution procedures available under the Tariff to challenge such changes.

 6.5.1 Subject to the rights and obligations of the Parties as set forth in the Tariff, if the Parties agree to change Exhibit A pursuant to this Service Agreement, BPA shall prepare a revised Exhibit A. BPA reserves the unilateral right to amend contiguous point of delivery provisions in Exhibit A of this Service Agreement.

 6.5.2 If the Parties agree to change Exhibit B, BPA shall prepare a new Exhibit B. BPA reserves the right to revise Exhibit B annually to reflect changes consistent with the provisions of Exhibit B, section 1.

 6.5.3 If the Parties agree to change Exhibit C, BPA shall prepare a new Exhibit C. BPA reserves the right to update the loss factors identified in Exhibit C, section 2, Transmission Loss Factors.

 6.6 TEMPORARY LOAD SHIFTS AND MAINTENANCE NOTIFICATION The Parties may temporarily interrupt, reduce, or shift deliveries at a Point of Interconnection or Point of Delivery contained in Exhibit A of electric power if any such Party determines that such interruption, reduction, or load shift is necessary or desirable in case of system emergencies or operational constraints on the system of either Party, or to install equipment in, make repairs to, make replacement within, conduct investigations and inspections of, or perform other maintenance work on the Parties' facilities. To the extent reasonable or appropriate, the Parties will use temporary facilities or equipment to minimize the effect of any such interruption, reduction, or load shift.

 The Transmission Customer must submit a report concerning any such interruption, reduction, or load shift to BPA within four (4) days of such interruption, reduction, or load shift. Reports may be made by telephone, mail, or other electronic processes. The point of contact for each Party will be designated pursuant to Article 5.2 of this Service Agreement. On receipt of the Transmission Customer's report, BPA will adjust the Transmission Customer's billing determinants pursuant to BPA's billing procedures. If the Transmission Customer does not submit the report within four4 days of the interruption, reduction, or load shift, BPA shall assess charges based on available data.

 6.7 SEVERABILITY In the event any of the terms, covenants, or conditions of this Service Agreement, or any amendment hereto, or the application of such terms, covenants, or conditions shall be held invalid as to any Party or circumstance by the Commission or by any court having jurisdiction, all other terms, covenants, and conditions of this Service Agreement or any amendment hereto, and their application shall remain in full force and effect.

 6.8 COMPUTATION OF TIME To compute any period of time prescribed or allowed by this Service Agreement, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period shall run until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. For purposes of the administration of this Service Agreement, Pacific Time shall be used.

 6.9 NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES This Service Agreement creates rights and obligations only between the Parties hereto. The Parties hereto do not intend to create any obligation or promise of performance to any other person or entity nor have the Parties conferred any right to enforce this Service Agreement or any remedy upon any third person or entity other than the Parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns.

 6.10 WAIVERS Any waiver at any time by either Party of its rights with respect to a default under this Service Agreement, or with respect to any other matter arising in connection with this Service Agreement, shall not be deemed a waiver with respect to any other or subsequent default or matter.

 6.11 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS This Service Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Parties and their respective successors and assigns.

 6.12 SERVICE AGREEMENT GOVERNS Article 6.4 shall be effective from the date of Execution of this Service Agreement to September 30, 2001.

 In the event of any irreconcilable difference between the Tariff and this Service Agreement, the language of this Service Agreement shall govern.

 6.13 TERMINATION OF PRIOR AGREEMENT Transmission Customer's General Transmission Agreement, Contract No. DE-MS79-88BP91657, is hereby terminated.

 6.14 ENTIRE AGREEMENT This Service Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and there are no other understandings or agreements between the Parties with respect hereto.

 ARTICLE 7 SIGNATURES

 The signatories represent that they are authorized to enter into this Service Agreement on behalf of the Party for whom they sign.

 CITY OF SEATTLE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Department of Energy Bonneville Power Administration By: By: Name: Name:Sally J. Long (Print/Type) (Print/Type) Title: Title: Transmission Account Executive Date Date:

 {W:\TMC\CT\Seattle\Contracts (Final)\96018.doc} Exhibit A STATEMENT OF SPECIFICATIONS FOR LONG-TERM FIRM TRANSMISSION SERVICE

 1. TERM OF TRANSACTION

 Start Date: 2400 hours on September 30, 2000, or upon date of execution by both parties in Article 7.

 Termination Date: 2400 hours on the termination date established pursuant to Article 3 of this Service Agreement.

 2. SUMMARY OF POINTS OF INTERCONNECTION AND POINTS OF DELIVERY/DELIVERING PARTY/CONTROL AREA/RECEIVING PARTY/SCHEDULING AGENT

 Effective from the Start Date to 2400 hours on September 30, 2025 POI (Voltage)/ (Resource) POI Delivering Control Area Maximum POI Demand (kW) Scheduling Agent

 POD (Voltage) POD Receiving Control Area Maximum POD Demand (kW) Scheduling Agent Bell (230 kV) (GCPHA Summer Falls) Avista Corp-oration (Avista) 48,000 Seattle

 Contiguous PODs (230 kV)1/, 2/, Seattle 1,182,000 Seattle Bell (230 kV) (GCPHA Main Canal Headworks) Avista 13,000 Seattle

 John Day (500 kV) BPA 100,000 Seattle Boundary (230 kV) Seattle 1,023,000 Seattle

 LaGrande (230 kV) IPC 30,000 Seattle Box Canyon (115 kV) Avista 16,000 Seattle

 Glade (13.8 kV)/ (GCPHA PEC 66) Seattle 2,000 Seattle

 John Day (500 kV) BPA 33,000 Seattle

 LaGrande (230 kV) IPC 100,000 Seattle

 Midway (230 kV) Grant County PUD (Grant) 71,000 Seattle

 Ringold (13.8 kV) (GCPHA EBC 4.6) Seattle 2,000 Seattle

 Scooteney (34.5 kV) (GCPHA Russell D. Smith) Seattle 4,000 Seattle

 Total Transmission Demand

 1,312,000

 1,312,000

 Federal System 3/

 350,000

 Billing 3/ Transmission Demand = 1,312,000 kW Scheduling 3/ Total Point of Interconnection Transmission Demand: 1312 MW; Total Point of Delivery Transmission Demand: 1312 MW

 ___________________________ 1/ 230 kV Contiguous POD consists of: Snohomish Substation (230 kV), Sno-King Substation (230 kV), Maple Valley Substation (230 kV), Covington Substation (230 kV), Bothell Substation (230 kV).

 2/ Contiguous Point(s) of Delivery. The Transmission Customer's designated contiguous points of delivery are subject to the following terms.

 (a) All points of delivery on the delivery side must be interconnected through a transmission or distribution system. If the customer's system is operated normally open, the customer and BPA shall agree to an operating plan for any load shifting between /and/or/among points of delivery in the contiguous set in order to prevent adverse impacts on the reliability of the FCRTS. The points of delivery must be significantly interconnected electrically on both high side and low side.

 (b) In the event of a credible outage, each point of delivery within the contiguous set must be capable of providing electric backup service to any other point of delivery of that contiguous set so that retail customers within the load center served by the contiguous set of points of delivery realize no interruption in service. However, if a substation or interconnection serves two or more PODs at different voltage levels and the source is a single transmission line, the PODs may be considered contiguous if there are reasonable technical and/or historical bases for doing so.

 (c) All points of delivery in the set of contiguous points of delivery must be located on the same side of a constraint or potential constraint. Shifts in loads from one point of delivery to another point of delivery in the contiguous set may not adversely affect any constraint, such as those posted on BPA's Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS).

 (d) The Transmission Customer may not direct BPA to deliver a specific amount of demand to a specific point of delivery within the contiguous set of points of delivery. BPA has no obligation to deliver specific amounts to the delivery points which constitute the contiguous set of points of delivery. BPA has no obligation to construct new facilities at or between points of delivery. BPA has no obligation to construct new facilities at or between points of delivery included in the contiguous set of points of delivery as long as BPA can deliver the combined demands to the contiguous sets of points of delivery.

 (e) All points of delivery within the contiguous set of points of delivery must be in a single Control Area; all power associated with the contiguous set of points of delivery must be scheduled.

 (f) All points of delivery associated with the Southern Intertie are specifically excluded from consideration as part of a contiguous set of points of delivery. Big Eddy, John Day, California-Oregon Border, and Nevada-Oregon Border are independent points of delivery.

 (g) The utility requesting contiguous points of delivery must be capable of receiving electric service at each of the points of delivery in the contiguous set. If the utility is requesting contiguous points of delivery in order to deliver to a third party, then that third party must be capable of receiving delivery at each of the points of delivery in the contiguous set.

 (h) Where appropriate, the Transmission Customer must agree to use limits on the individual points of delivery included in the contiguous set of points of delivery.

 (i) Contiguous points of delivery are granted for real power only. Issues associated with reactive power shall be covered by separate procedures.

 (j) These criteria shall be reviewed annually. An individual customer's situation shall be reviewed if there are any changes in how its system is served or impacted by any transmission system conditions. BPA reserves the right to modify any characteristics of a customer's contiguous point of delivery if changes in a system warrant such modification.

 3/ The Federal System POI transmission demand is not used in the calculation of the relevant transmission demands under revised rate schedule for PTP-96. FERC has granted a no Federal System POI demand until 2400 hours September 30, 2001. The parties agree to discuss the transmission arrangements for federal power prior to September 30, 2001.

 3. DESCRIPTION OF POINTS OF INTERCONNECTION

 (a) Bell Substation

 Location. The points in the United States of America (Government) Glenn H. Bell Substation where the 230 kilovolt facilities of the Government and Avista are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Glenn H. Bell Substation in the 230 kV circuits over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. None.

 (b) Boundary Substation

 Location. The points in the Government's Boundary Substation where the 230 kV facilities of the Parties are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Boundary Substation in the 230 kV circuit over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. The adjustment for losses between the Transmission Customer's Boundary Project and the Government's Boundary 230 kV bus is by an adjustment to the Boundary Transmission Demand.

 (c) Box Canyon

 Location. The points in the vicinity of the Box Canyon Project where the facilities of the Government (please see footnote #3 on page 3 for possible control area change) and Public Utility District No. 1 of Pend Oreille County (PUD) are connected.

 Voltage. 115 kV.

 Metering. In the PUD's Box Canyon Powerhouse in the 13.2 kV circuits over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. There shall be an adjustment for losses between the point of delivery and meter points, such adjustment shall be made in accordance with arrangements between the Transmission Customer and the PUD, and is reflected in the determination of the Box Canyon Transmission Demand.

 (d) Glade Substation

 Location. The point in the Government's Glade Substation where the 13.8 kV facilities of the Government and Grand Coulee Power Hydroelectric Authority (GCPHA) are connected.

 Voltage. 13.8 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Glade Substation in the 13.8 kV circuit over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. The losses associated with the 115/13.8 kV transformer at Glade will be waived since the Potholes East Canal 66 Project generation will displace the loading at Glade Substation.

 (e) John Day Substation

 Location. The points of the Government's John Day Substation where the line terminals of the Southern Intertie are connected to the 500 kV bus.

 Voltage. 500 kV.

 (f) La Grande Substation

 Location. The point adjacent to the Government's La Grande Substation where the 230 kV facilities of the Government and Idaho Power Company are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering: In the Government's La Grande Substation in the 230 kV circuit over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. None.

 (g) Midway Substation

 Location. The points in the Government's Midway Substation where the 230 kV facilities of the Government and Grant are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Midway Substation in the 230 kV circuits over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. None.

 (h) Ringold Substation

 Location. The point in the Government's Ringold Substation where the 13.8 kV facilities of the Government and GCPHA are connected.

 Voltage. 13.8 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Ringold Substation in the 13.8 kV circuit over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. The losses associated with the 115/13.8 kV transformer at Ringold will be waived since the Eltopia Branch Canal 4.6 Project generation will displace loading at Ringold Substation.

 (i) Scooteney Substation

 Location. The point in the Government's Scooteney Substation where the 34.5 kV facilities of the Government and GCPHA are connected.

 Voltage. 34.5 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Scooteney Substation in the 34.5 kV circuit over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. The losses associated with the 115/34.5 kV transformer at Scooteney will be waived since the Russell D. Smith Project generation will displace the loading at Scooteney Substation.

 4. DESCRIPTION OF POINTS OF DELIVERY

 (a) Bothell Substation (Part of the Contiguous POD)

 Location. The point in the Transmission Customer's Bothell Substation where the Snohomish-Bothell 230 kV #1 transmission line facilities of the Parties are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering. The Government's Snohomish Substation, in the 230 kV circuits over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. There shall be an adjustment for losses between the point of delivery and the metering point.

 (b) Covington Substation (Part of the Contiguous POD)

 Location. The points in the Government's Covington Substation where the 230 kV facilities of the Parties are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Covington Substation in the 230 kV circuits over which such electric power flows.

 Exception. There shall be an adjustment for losses by meter compensation between the point of delivery and the meter point.

 (c) John Day Substation

 Location. The points of the Government's John Day Substation where the line terminals of the Southern Intertie are connected to the 500 kV bus.

 Voltage. 500 kV.

 (d) La Grande Substation

 Location. The point adjacent to the Government's La Grande Substation where the 230 kV facilities of the Government and Idaho Power Company are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering: In the Government's La Grande Substation in the 230 kV circuit over which such electric power flows.

 (e) Maple Valley Substation (Part of the Contiguous POD)

 Location. The points in the Government's Maple Valley Substation where the 230 kV facilities of the Parties are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Maple Valley Substation in the 230 kV circuits over which such electric power flows.

 (f) Snohomish Substation (Part of the Contiguous POD)

 Location. The point in the vicinity of the Government's Snohomish Substation where the Snohomish-Bothell 230 kV #2 transmission line facilities of the Parties are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Snohomish Substation in the 230 kV circuit over which such electric power flows.

 (g) Sno-King Substation (Part of the Contiguous POD)

 Location. The point in the vicinity of the Government's Sno-King Substation where the 230 kV facilities of the Parties are connected.

 Voltage. 230 kV.

 Metering. In the Government's Sno-King Substation in the 230 kV circuit over which such electric power flows.

 5. DESIGNATION OF PARTY SUBJECT TO RECIPROCAL SERVICE OBLIGATION Seattle.

 6. NAME(S) OF ANY INTERVENING SYSTEMS PROVIDING TRANSMISSION SERVICE None.

 {W:\TMC\CT\Seattle\Contracts (Final)\96018.doc}

 ________________________________________________________________________________ ____ 96MS-96018, The City of Seattle 7 of 7 Exhibit A, Statement of Specifications for Long-Term Firm Transmission Service

 ________________________________________________________________________________ ____ 96MS-96018, The City of Seattle 1 of 7

 ________________________________________________________________________________ ____ 96MS-96018, The City of Seattle 8 of 7 Exhibit A, Statement of Specifications for Long-Term Firm Transmission Service

 ________________________________________________________________________________ ____ 96MS-96018, The City of Seattle 8 of 7

```
