

********

**Council Bill Number: 113204**
********

 AN ORDINANCE Relating to land use and zoning, amending the Official Land Use Map, Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.32, to approve boundaries for the Station Area Overlay District; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 23.34.008, 23.34.024, 23.47.004, 23.47.008, 23.47.009, 23.47.040; repealing Chapter 23.70; and adding a new Section 23.34.089 and a new Chapter 23.70, Station Area Overlay District, to the Seattle Municipal Code; to establish permanent regulations to prohibit uses incompatible with transit-oriented development and revise development standards within approximately one-quarter mile of Sound Transit light rail stations.

**Status:** Retired 04/01/02
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 8, 2000
   
**Committee:** Landlord/Tenant and Land Use
   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-CODE, ZONING, MASS-TRANSIT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending the Official Land Use Map, Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 23.32, to approve boundaries for the Station Area Overlay District; amending Seattle Municipal Code Sections 23.34.008, 23.34.024, 23.47.004, 23.47.008, 23.47.009, 23.47.040; repealing Chapter 23.70; and adding a new Section 23.34.089 and a new Chapter 23.70, Station Area Overlay District, to the Seattle Municipal Code; to establish permanent regulations to prohibit uses incompatible with transit-oriented development and revise development standards within approximately one- quarter mile of Sound Transit light rail stations.

 WHEREAS, RCW 81.104 directs municipalities to regulate land uses in a manner that supports high capacity transportation systems; and

 WHEREAS, in November 1996, the voters of the three-county Sound Transit District approved Sound Move, the ten-year regional transit system plan, which includes a 23-mile new electric light rail line connecting SeaTac, Tukwila, and Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, Sound Transit is proceeding to implement the Sound Move plan, including the light rail component; and

 WHEREAS, in April 1998, the City of Seattle and Sound Transit executed a Memorandum of Agreement for Intergovernmental Cooperation for the Central Light Rail Transit Project (hereinafter, the MOA), as authorized by Ordinance 118927; and

 WHEREAS, under the terms of the MOA, the City is conducting station area planning for light rail station areas in Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council adopted Resolution 29867 in December 1998, establishing goals and strategies to promote transit-oriented development in light rail station areas; and

 WHEREAS, the City has given guidance to Sound Transit as to preferred light rail routes and station locations, and desired patterns for development around light rail stations, in previous legislation, including Resolution 29904 adopted on February 22, 1999; and

 WHEREAS, on February 25, 1999, the Sound Transit Board of Directors identified the Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) light rail alignment and station locations; and

 WHEREAS, the Station Area Interim Overlay District was established in March 1999 by Ordinance 119394 around proposed Sound Transit Link light rail stations for the purpose of preserving opportunities for transit and pedestrian-oriented development in accordance with Council approved goals and objectives; and

 WHEREAS, the boundaries of the Station Area Interim Overlay District were modified in November 1999 by Ordinance 119672; and

 WHEREAS, the Station Area Interim Overlay District expiration date was extended until September 1, 2000 in February 1999 by Ordinance 119838; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council is currently considering Resolution 30165, which would approve concept-level station area planning recommendations for the areas around the light rail stations; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council finds that these proposed amendments will implement the policies contained in RCW 81.104 and the resolutions identified above, and will promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public; and

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended to show the boundaries of the Station Area Overlay District as shown in Attachment A to this ordinance.

 Section 2. Section 23.34.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118408, is amended by adding a new subsection K as follows:

 23.34.008 General rezone criteria.

 K. In evaluating a proposed rezone inside of or within one thousand three hundred and twenty feet (1,320') of the boundary of the Station Area Overlay District, Chapter 23.70, rezone proposals that would result in one or more of the following are preferred:

 1. increases opportunities for housing development; or

 2. increases pedestrian activity; or

 3. encourages mixed-use development; or

 4. encourages transit use or alternative modes of transportation other than automobile; or

 5. encourages uses that would provide goods or services for the neighborhood.

 Section 3. Subsection B of Section 23.34.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118794, is amended as follows:

 23.34.024 Midrise (MR) zone, function and locational criteria.

 B. Locational Criteria.

 1. Threshold Conditions. Subject to subsection B2 of this section, properties that may be considered for a Midrise designation are limited to the following:

 a. Properties already zoned Midrise;

 b. Properties in areas already developed predominantly to the intensity permitted by the Midrise zone; ~~or~~

 c. Properties within an urban center, the village core of a hub urban village, or a residential urban village, where a neighborhood plan adopted or amended by the City Council after January 1, 1995 indicates that the area is appropriate for a Midrise zone designation~~.~~; or  d.

Properties within the Station Area Overlay District.

 2. Environmentally Critical Areas. Properties designated as environmentally critical may not be rezoned to a Midrise designation, and may remain Midrise only in areas predominantly developed to the intensity of the Midrise zone.

 3. Other Criteria. The Midrise zone designation is most appropriate in areas generally characterized by the following:

 a. Either:

 (1) Areas that are developed predominantly to the intensity permitted by the Midrise zone~~,~~; or

 (2) Areas that are within an urban center, the village core of a hub urban village, or a residential urban village, where a neighborhood plan adopted or amended by the City Council after January 1, 1995 indicates that the area is appropriate for a Midrise zone designation; or  (3)

Areas within the Station Area Overlay District.

 b. Properties that are adjacent to business and commercial areas with comparable height and bulk;

 c. Properties in areas that are served by major arterials and where transit service is good to excellent and street capacity could absorb the traffic generated by midrise development;

 d. Properties in areas that are in close proximity to major employment centers;

 e. Properties in areas that are in close proximity to open space and recreational facilities;

 f. Properties in areas along arterials where topographic changes either provide an edge or permit a transition in scale with surroundings;

 g. Properties in flat areas where the prevailing structure height is greater than thirty-seven (37) feet or where due to a mix of heights, there is no established height pattern;

 h. Properties in areas with moderate slopes and views oblique or parallel to the slope where the height and bulk of existing structures have already limited or blocked views from within the multifamily area and upland areas;

 i. Properties in areas with steep slopes and views perpendicular to the slope where upland developments are of sufficient distance or height to retain their views over the area designated for the sixty (60) foot height limit;

 j. Properties in areas where topographic conditions allow the bulk of the structure to be obscured. Generally, these are steep slopes, sixteen (16) percent or more, with views perpendicular to the slope.

 Section 4. A new Section 23.34.089 is added to the Seattle Municipal Code as follows:

 23.34.089 Locational Criteria - Station Area Overlay District.

 In reviewing a proposal to include land in the Station Area Overlay District, the following criteria shall be considered:

 A. Function. To preserve or encourage a diverse, mixed-use community with a pedestrian orientation around light rail stations, where incompatible automobile-oriented uses are discouraged and transit- oriented use and development is encouraged.

 B. Desired Characteristics. The Station Area Overlay District designation is most appropriate in areas generally characterized by one or more of the following:

 1. high levels of pedestrian activity at street level in commercial and mixed use zones; or

 2. presence of a wide variety of retail/service activities in commercial and mixed use zones; or

 3. minimal pedestrian-auto conflicts; or

 4. higher residential density in close proximity to light rail stations.

 C. Physical Conditions Favoring Designation as Station Area Overlay District. The station area overlay district shall be located around a light rail station and include land within approximately one thousand three hundred and twenty feet (1,320') of the station. Other factors to consider in including properties within the overlay district include, but are not limited to the following:

 1. presence of medium to high density residential zoning in proximity to the light rail station;

 2. presence of a commercial or mixed use area where goods and services are available to the public and where opportunities for enhancement of the pedestrian environment exist;

 3. opportunities for new development to access transit, bicycle and pedestrian modes of transportation;

 4. opportunities for construction of new development that will support light rail transit.

 D. Revisions to an Existing Station Area Overlay District Boundary.

 1. In considering a proposal to revise the boundaries, the land proposed to be added must be contiguous to an existing Station Area Overlay District.

 2. To remove land from the Station Area Overlay District, an applicant must demonstrate the following:

 a. the land does not meet the criteria in subsections B and C; and

 b. the lot or area is contiguous with a lot or area outside the boundary.

 Section 5. Subsection E of Section 23.47.004 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119698, is amended as follows:

 23.47.004 Permitted and prohibited uses.

 E. Residential Uses.

 1. Residential Use in Single-purpose Residential Structures. Residential use in single-purpose residential structures is permitted as an administrative conditional use, unless:

 a. The structure is located within an area in which the use is either permitted outright or prohibited, as shown on the Maps 23.47.004 A, B, C,D, E, F, G, H and I;

 b. The structure is located in a pedestrian-designated zone, in which case residential use is prohibited at street level along the designated principal pedestrian street as provided in Section 23.47.042;

 c. The structure is located within a zone which has a height limit of eighty-five (85) feet or higher, in which case single-purpose residential structures are prohibited;

 d. The residential use is a nursing home, in which case it is permitted outright unless prohibited as provided in subsection E1b~~.~~; or

e. The structure is located within the Station Area Overlay District, in which case the provisions of Chapter 23.70 apply.

 2. Residential Use in Mixed-use Development. Residential use in mixed-use development is permitted outright in NC1, NC2, NC2/R, NC3, NC3/R and C1 zones; provided that, for assisted living facilities, which are considered mixed-use development, private living units and parking accessory to those units are prohibited at street level.

 Section 6. Subsection D of Section 23.47.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is amended as follows:

 23.47.008 Mixed use development.

 D. Above thirteen (13) feet from finished grade, the residential portion of a structure containing residential and nonresidential uses shall be limited to a maximum lot coverage of sixty-four (64) percent. Portions of structures exempted from structure width as provided in Section 23.86.014 C shall also be exempt from lot coverage calculations. If the nonresidential and residential uses are located in separate structures, this provision shall apply only to the portion of the residential structure more than thirteen (13) feet above finished grade. This provision shall not apply when an area in an existing building, in nonresidential use as of April 3,1995, is converted to residential use, provided that the structure is not modified in any way that increases the coverage to greater than sixty- four (64) percent of the portion of the structure in residential use and over thirteen (13) feet above finished grade. This subsection D does not apply within the Station Area Overlay District, Chapter 23.70.

 Section 7. Subsection B of Section 23.47.009 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118414, is amended as follows:

 23.47.009 Density limits for residential uses.

 B. Density limits shall not apply to single-purpose residential structures within the Station Area Overlay District, pursuant to Chapter 23.70, or along selected streets in the Pike/Pine Overlay District, pursuant to Chapter 23.73. Where the Station Area Overlay District and the Pike/Pine Overlay District overlap, the provisions of the Pike/Pine Overlay District shall prevail.

 Section 8. Subsection B of Section 23.47.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance __________, is amended to add new principal pedestrian streets as follows:

 23.47.040 General provisions for pedestrian-designated zones.

 B. For purposes of this subchapter, the following streets are principal pedestrian streets when located within a pedestrian- designated zone:

 10th Avenue;

 11th Avenue;

 12th Avenue;

 15th Avenue East;

 23rd Avenue;

 25th Avenue Northeast;

27th Avenue South;  Beacon Avenue South;

 Boren Avenue;

 Boylston Avenue;

 Broadway;

 California Avenue Southwest;

 East Union Street;

 East Greenlake Drive North;

 East Madison Street;

 East Olive Way;

 East Pike Street;

 First Avenue North;

 Fremont Avenue North;

 Fremont Place North;

 Greenwood Avenue North;

 Lake City Way Northeast;

 Madison Street;

Martin Luther King Jr. Way South;

 Mercer Street;

 North 85th Street;

Northeast 43rd Street;

 Northeast 45th Street;

 Northwest Market Street;

 Queen Anne Avenue North;

 Rainier Avenue South;

 Roosevelt Way Northeast;

 Roy Street;

South Alaska Street;  South Forest Street;

 South Henderson Street;

 South Lander Street;

 South McClellan Street;

 South Othello Street;

 South Stevens Street;

 Summit Avenue;

 Southwest Alaska Street;

 University Way Northeast; and

 Woodlawn Avenue Northeast.

 Section 9. Chapter 23.70 of the Seattle Municipal Code, adopted by Ordinance 119394, is hereby repealed.

 Section 10. A new Chapter 23.70, Station Area Overlay District, is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 Chapter 23.70 Station Area Overlay District

 23.70.002 Purpose and Intent.

 The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to regulate land use and development in a manner that supports transit-oriented development near light rail stations.

 23.70.004 Station Area Overlay District Established.

 There is hereby established pursuant to Chapter 23.59 of the Seattle Municipal Code, the Station Area Overlay District, as shown on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32.

 23.70.006 Application of Regulations.

 All land located within the Station Area Overlay District is subject to the regulations of the underlying zone unless specifically modified by the provisions of this Chapter. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Station Area Overlay District and the underlying zone, the provisions of this Chapter prevail, except that where a conflict exists between the provisions of this Chapter and Chapter 23.69, Major Institution Overlay District, or the provisions of Chapter 23.73, Pike/Pine Overlay District, the provisions of Chapter 23.69 or Chapter 23.73 prevail.

 23.70.008 Prohibited Uses.

 The following uses are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses within the Station Area Overlay District:

 A. Car wash;

 B. Drive-in businesses;

 C. Dry storage of boats;

 D. General manufacturing;

 E. Heavy commercial services;

 F. Sales and rental of large boats;

 G. Vessel repair (major or minor);

 H. Marine service station;

 I. Mini-warehouse;

 J. Nonresidential long-term parking;

 K. Outdoor storage, except associated with retail sales and service uses;

 L. Sales and rental of motorized vehicles;

 M. Sale of heating fuel;

 N. Sales, service and rental of commercial equipment and construction

 materials;

 O. Salvage and recycling;

 P. Spectator sports facilities;

 Q. Towing services;

 R. Vehicle repair (major or minor);

 S. Wholesale showroom;

 T. Work release centers;

 U. Warehouse.

 23.70.010 Location and access to parking.

 A. Parking must be located to the rear of a structure or built into or under a structure; or parking may be located between a rear or side lot line and a structure. The provisions of subsection 23.47.032 B2c do not apply.

 B. Parking for residential and nonresidential uses may be located on a lot within the Station Area Overlay District and within one thousand three hundred and twenty feet (1,320') of the lot to which it is accessory, subject to the provisions of Section 23.54.025, Parking covenants and subsection A.

 C. In pedestrian-designated zones, location and access to parking is governed by the provisions of 23.47.046, Parking location in pedestrian-designated zones.

 23.70.012 Single purpose residential development.

 A Single-purpose residential structures located in a commercial zone are permitted outright, unless the structure is located on a lot in a pedestrian-designated zone, in which case they are prohibited.

 B. The density limits of 23.47.009 do not apply to single-purpose residential structures in the Station Area Overlay District.

 Section 11. Severability. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, subsection, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 12. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ______ day of ______________, 2000. ________________________________________ President ...................... of the City Council

 Approved by me this ________ day of ______________, 2000. ________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this ________ day of ______________, 2000. ________________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment A: Maps for:

[Henderson Station](/~ordpics/113204a.gif);

[Edmunds Station](/~ordpics/113204b.gif);

[Othello Station](/~ordpics/113204c.gif);

[McClellan Station](/~ordpics/113204d.gif);

[Beacon Hill Station](/~ordpics/113204e.gif);

[First Hill Station](/~ordpics/113204f.gif);

[Capitol Hill Station](/~ordpics/113204g.gif);

[NE 45th Station](/~ordpics/113204h.gif).

 Station Area Overlay District May 4, 2000 v.4

```
