

********

**Council Bill Number: 113267**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120014**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Community Development Block Grant Float Loan Program; authorizing a short-term loan of up to Two Million Nine Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,900,000) in federal Block Grant funds to Rose & Associates, L.L.C. to finance the costs of leasehold improvements, inventory and equipment for the Union Street Red Apple Market; appropriating funds for the loan and for possible new advances after early repayments; authorizing related agreements and amendment of the Consolidated Plan and Action Plan to reflect such loan; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 26, 2000
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 5, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 3, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 19, 2000
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LOANS, ECONOMIC-DEVELOPMENT, CENTRAL-AREA, RETAIL-STORES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ______________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Community Development Block Grant Float Loan Program; authorizing a short-term loan of up to Two Million Nine Hundred Thousand Dollars ($ 2,900,000) in federal Block Grant funds to Rose & Associates, L.L.C. to finance the costs of leasehold improvements, inventory and equipment for the Union Street Red Apple Market; appropriating funds for the loan and for possible new advances after early repayments; authorizing related agreements and amendment of the Consolidated Plan and Action Plan to reflect such loan; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 WHEREAS, the City Council, by Ordinance 116402, adopted policies for short-term loans of Community Development Block Grant ("CDBG") funds, known as "CD Float Loans"; and

 WHEREAS, the City's Director of the Office of Economic Development has identified a project in which the City would provide a CD Float Loan (the "Loan") to Rose & Associates, L.L.C. for an economic development project (the "Project") involving the financing of new leasehold improvements and the acquisition of inventory and equipment for the Union Street Red Apple Market (the "Market"); and

 WHEREAS, the Project will benefit low- and moderate-income persons, which will satisfy the CD Float Loan policies, and the City's Loan Committee has approved the proposed Loan in accordance with those policies; and

 WHEREAS, the Project is expected to provide expanded grocery and other services to the Market's service area which includes census tracts 76, 77, 79, 87 and 88, all of which census tracts are primarily residential and have well in excess of 51% of their residents qualifying as low- and moderate income persons; and

 WHEREAS, the making of the proposed Loan will not impair the implementation of other projects or programs of the City using CDBG funds; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Director of the Office of Economic Development ("OED Director") is authorized, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, to lend up to TWO MILLION NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($2,900,000) of CDBG funds (which may include available CDBG program income), subject to availability of sufficient CDBG funds, to Rose & Associates, L.L.C. for costs of the Project, subject to the terms and conditions stated in this ordinance. The amount of up to TWO MILLION NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($2,900,000) is hereby appropriated from the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund for such purpose.

 Section 2. The Loan shall be payable upon the earlier of (i) thirty (30) months from Loan closing,, (ii) sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the letter of credit securing the Loan as required under Section 3 below, or (iii) ten (10) days after demand by the City. The Loan shall bear interest at a rate of two and one- half percent (2.5%) per annum. The Loan shall require monthly payments in amounts based on an amortization schedule of approximately seven (7) years. The OED Director may require a loan fee from Rose & Associates, L.L.C., payable to the City, not to exceed one percent (1%) of the maximum Loan amount, which fee shall be deposited in the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund. The OED Director is authorized to cause all or a portion of such fee to be (a) paid to the National Development Council ("NDC") in accordance with an existing contract under which NDC develops and facilitates eligible CD Float Loan projects; (b) applied to legal and other costs related to the administration of the transaction authorized by this ordinance; and/or (c) applied to payment of expenses incurred in the administration of any federally funded economic development projects or programs administered by the OED Director. The amount of up to TWENTY NINE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($29,000) is hereby appropriated for such purposes from the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund, subject to receipt of such funds in payment of the loan fee.

 Section 3. The Loan shall be secured by one or more irrevocable letters of credit that shall have a total amount available for drawing, at all times, at least equal to the outstanding principal amount and accrued interest, plus all additional interest that will accrue for the next thirty (30) days. The letter(s) of credit shall be issued or confirmed by a commercial bank satisfactory to the OED Director and shall be in form and content satisfactory to the OED Director.

 Section 4. Disbursement of the Loan shall be conditioned upon satisfactory environmental review in accordance with CDBG requirements, and upon other conditions required by law or deemed appropriate by the OED Director.

 Section 5. The OED Director is hereby authorized to execute, deliver, accept, administer, modify and enforce, as appropriate, for and on behalf of the City, a Loan Agreement and Promissory Note, evidencing the CD Float Loan authorized hereby, based upon the forms attached hereto as Exhibits A and B with such insertions, additions and revisions as she shall deem appropriate to implement the intent of this ordinance.

 Section 6. In order that the OED Director may exercise the authority granted in Ordinance 119932 to make new advances on the Loan after any early payment(s) that may be required so that the City may meet temporary cash requirements for CDBG activities pending the City's receipt of its annual CDBG entitlement from HUD, there is hereby appropriated from the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund an additional amount of up to TWO MILLION NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($2,900,000), conditioned upon the availability of sufficient CDBG funds (including program income), solely for new advances on the Loan in a total amount not exceeding the total amount of such early payment(s), and subject to the limits in Ordinance 119932. The principal balance outstanding on the Loan at any time shall not exceed TWO MILLION NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($2,900,000).

 Section 7. The OED Director is hereby authorized to take such other actions and execute and deliver such other documents as shall be reasonably necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of this ordinance.

 Section 8. Payments of interest on the Loan and principal repayments shall be deposited in the Housing and Community Development Revenue Sharing Fund, and may be expended pursuant to any past or future appropriations of CDBG funds, whether in the annual budget or otherwise, unless such other appropriations are limited by their express terms to CDBG program income from other programs.

 Section 9. The Director of the Human Services Department is authorized to amend the City of Seattle's Consolidated Plan and Action Plan and to take such other actions as are appropriate to implement the intent of this ordinance under applicable laws and regulations, and to provide necessary assurances to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

 Section 10. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 11. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor; but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of , 2000.

 ___________________________________

 President ___________of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 EXHIBIT A TO ORDINANCE

 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT FLOAT LOAN AGREEMENT

 UNION STREET RED APPLE MARKET PROJECT CDBG FLOAT LOAN

 THIS AGREEMENT, dated ________________________, 2000, is entered into by Rose & Associates, L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company ("Borrower"), and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation ("City").

 RECITALS

 This Agreement is entered into upon the basis of the following facts and circumstances:

 A. Borrower operates a store known as "Red Apple Market" on leased property located at 1126 Martin Luther King Jr. Way South (the store, including all improvements and fixtures, is referred to as the "Property"). Borrower desires to finance improvements to the store and certain equipment and inventory costs in order to expand needed services to the community.

 B. Borrower is currently sub-leasing the store from Associated Grocers. The intended construction of leasehold improvements, including acquisition and installation of equipment as permanent fixtures and the acquisition of inventory, as generally described in Exhibit "A" attached hereto and made a part hereof, and are hereinafter collectively called the ("Project").

 C. The Office of Economic Development ("OED") is responsible within the City for making, subject to City Council approval, short-term loans of Community Development Block Grant ("CDBG") funds made available to the City by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD"), known as "CD Float" loans, pursuant to the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and the federal regulations promulgated thereunder (hereinafter collectively called the "Act").

 D. Borrower has requested a CD Float loan from the City (the "Loan") as interim financing for the Project.

 E. The Loan meets a national objective under the CDBG program as an area benefit where the assistance to the grocery store will ensure the availability of goods and services to the community. The City has determined that the support of a neighborhood grocery market is necessary to achieve the City's community development objectives.

 F. The Loan shall be evidenced by this Agreement and by Borrower's Promissory Note ("Note") in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "B" and hereby incorporated by reference, and secured by an unconditional irrevocable letter of credit from Bank of America or another financial institution acceptable to City (the "Bank"), payable upon demand. The Note, this Agreement, and any other documents or instruments executed by Borrower in favor of City pursuant to this Agreement, are collectively referred to as the "Loan Documents".

 G. Borrower is also the borrower on another CD Float loan made with respect to another store operated by borrower, under a promissory note and loan agreement dated December 23, 1998 (the "Promenade Loan").

 NOTICE: ORAL AGREEMENTS OR ORAL COMMITMENTS TO LOAN MONEY, EXTEND CREDIT, OR TO FORBEAR FROM ENFORCING REPAYMENT OF A DEBT, ARE NOT ENFORCEABLE UNDER WASHINGTON LAW.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and the covenants, conditions, representations and warranties contained herein, the parties agree as follows:

 ARTICLE I - THE LOAN

 1.1 The Loan. In reliance upon Borrower's representations and warranties, and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the City agrees to lend Borrower a sum of money not to exceed TWO MILLION NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($2,900,000) solely for the purposes set forth in this Agreement. Loan disbursements shall be made only to the extent of available funds received by City from HUD under the CDBG program (and any available program income derived from such funds), not yet required for any other CDBG-funded program or project of the City, and the City shall have no obligation to make disbursements from any other source or to disburse any Loan proceeds if funds from the CDBG program are unavailable. Borrower shall have the right to receive Loan funds from the City only pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and in accordance with the Act.

 1.2 Interim Financing Only. The Loan is made solely to provide interim financing for financing leasehold improvement costs of the Property, including acquisition and installation of equipment acquisition of inventory, and fees and costs directly connected to such improvements, all to the extent eligible under the Act.

 1.3 Loan Documentation, Interest and Security. The Loan shall be evidenced by this Agreement and by the Note. Payment of interest and principal shall be made in the amounts and at such times as is set forth in the Note. Any principal or interest outstanding after the date when payment is due shall bear interest at the default rate stated in the Note. The Loan at all times shall be secured by an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit (the "Letter of Credit") from a bank acceptable to City in its sole discretion, which Letter of Credit shall allow partial drawings and shall be in form and content acceptable to City in its sole discretion, with an available balance at least equal to the sum of the full balance outstanding on the Loan (including principal and accrued interest) plus all interest that will accrue in the next thirty (30) days, and with an expiration date at least thirty (30) days after the Maturity Date (as defined in the Note).

 1.4 Method of Payment. Unless otherwise requested by the City, Borrower shall make all scheduled principal and interest payments to the City during the term of the Loan by check or wire transfer, but the final interest and principal payment shall be made by draw on the Letter of Credit. When any principal payment is due under the Note, whether or not Borrower shall be in default, the City shall have the absolute right, without notice or demand, immediately to draw on the Letter of Credit for the amount of principal and interest then due. In addition, in its sole discretion, the City shall have the right, without notice or demand, to draw on the Letter of Credit all or any portion of any amount due and payable, or prepaid, hereunder, notwithstanding receipt of all or part of such amount from Borrower. In such case the City shall promptly thereafter return the payment made by Borrower to the extent necessary to avoid duplication in payments.

 1.5 Loan Fee. Borrower agrees to pay to City a loan fee of one percent (1%) of the maximum principal amount of the Loan, which shall be due in full on the date of first disbursement of Loan proceeds under this Agreement. Borrower authorizes the City to deduct such fee from the Loan proceeds.

 1.6 Revolving Feature. If principal shall have been repaid on the Loan prior to ________, 2002, then Borrower may request one or more further advances to be used for eligible costs, or to repay interim financing used for eligible costs or for such principal payments, in amounts such that the total amount outstanding on the Loan would not exceed the maximum Loan amount set forth in Section 1.1 above. The decision to make any such further advances shall be in the discretion of the OED Director. Any such further advances, if made, shall be subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, shall be evidenced by the Note, and shall be secured by the Letter of Credit.

 ARTICLE II - REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

 In order to induce City to make the Loan, Borrower represents and warrants as set forth below in this Article II. Each request for a draw on the Loan by Borrower shall constitute a representation and warranty that the facts set forth below are true and correct as of the execution hereof and as of the date of such request. These representations and warranties shall survive the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents and the repayment of the Loan.

 2.1 Authority. Borrower is an entity of the type stated on the first page of this Agreement, duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Washington, and has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement, to borrow money as contemplated herein and to execute and carry out the provisions of the Loan Documents. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Loan Documents have been duly authorized by all necessary action, and no other action of Borrower is required for the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the Loan Documents. This Agreement and the Note constitute valid and binding obligations of Borrower, each enforceable in accordance with their respective terms. The execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents and the transactions contemplated thereby have been duly authorized by all necessary action by Borrower.

 2.2 Investigation of Property; No Reliance on City. Borrower has conducted its own thorough investigation of the Property, including without limitation investigations with respect to prior uses and hazardous materials. Borrower is not relying in any way upon any statements or representations made by or on behalf of the City with respect to any of the Property, and Borrower agrees that the City has no obligation to investigate or disclose to Borrower any information that may be in the possession of the City with respect to any of the Property.

 2.3 No Litigation. There is no action, suit or proceeding pending, or to the knowledge of Borrower threatened, against or affecting Borrower or relating to the Project or the Property in any court of law or in equity, or before or by any governmental authority contesting the legality of the Project or of any of the terms and conditions of the Loan Documents, or that might adversely affect the ability of Borrower to perform its obligations under any of the Loan Documents.

 2.4 Title. Borrower has a valid leasehold interest in the Property, under a sublease dated ________________, 2000 from Associated Grocers, Inc., in good standing, which leasehold has not been mortgaged, assigned or sublet except as disclosed in writing to City.

 2.5 Covenants, Zoning and Codes. Borrower has complied to date and will continue to comply with all applicable environmental and land use statutes, regulations, ordinances and covenants applicable to Borrower's development and intended use of the Property.

 2.6 Project and Application. The description of the Project set forth in Exhibit "A" hereto is an accurate description of the Project. All information contained in Borrower's application for the Loan and all additional information submitted to the City by or on behalf of Borrower in connection with such application is true, complete and correct in all material respects.

 2.7 Compliance with Documents. Borrower is and will remain in full compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the Loan Documents and any and all other agreements, instruments and other documents affecting the Property or Borrower's operation of the Property, and no event of default has or shall have occurred and be continuing, which, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute such an event of default under any of the foregoing. Borrower also is and will remain in full compliance with all loan documents and requirements in connection with the Promenade Loan.

 ARTICLE III -- CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO LOAN DISBURSEMENT; TIMING AND METHOD OF DISBURSEMENTS

 3.1 Conditions Precedent. The City's obligation to perform its duties under this Agreement and to disburse the Loan proceeds shall be subject to the full and complete satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:

 (a) Documents. Prior to the first disbursement, the City shall have received fully executed originals of each of the following documents which shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto, and shall be in form and content satisfactory to City: this Agreement; the Note; the Letter of Credit; a Jobs Agreement between Borrower and the City regarding the manner in which new permanent jobs to be created through the Project will be made available to low-and-moderate income persons, and any and all other documents as City may deem necessary or appropriate with respect to the Loan.

 (b) Evidence of Authority; Opinions. Prior to the first disbursement, the City shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that Borrower and the persons signing on behalf of Borrower have the capacity and authority to execute and deliver Loan Documents on behalf of Borrower. If so requested by the City, Borrower shall provide an opinion of legal counsel, in form and content acceptable to the City, addressing the valid existence and status of Borrower, the due authorization, execution, delivery, binding effect and enforceability of the Loan Documents, and the fact that the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents does not violate, cause a default under, or conflict with, any applicable laws or regulations, or any judgments, orders, decrees, agreements or instruments known to such counsel affecting Borrower or the Property. Borrower shall provide or cause the Bank to provide satisfactory evidence of the authority of the individuals executing the Letter of Credit and, if so requested by the City, an opinion of counsel for the Bank as to the valid existence and status of Bank and the due authorization, execution, delivery, binding effect and enforceability of the Letter of Credit.

 (c) Other Project Funding. N/A.

 (d) Conditions to Each Disbursement. The City's obligation to make each disbursement shall be subject to satisfaction of the following conditions:

 (1) Receipt by City of any documents and assurances as it may reasonably request or that are required by HUD or any federal, state or county regulatory agency;

 (2) City shall have received and have in its possession sufficient Community Development Block Grant funds (which may include CDBG program income), not otherwise required to meet commitments of City, to fund the Loan;

 (3) Borrower shall be in full compliance and shall not be in default hereunder or under any other Loan Documents, nor under any loan documents in connection with the Promenade Loan;

 (4) Borrower shall have provided satisfactory documentation that it has paid or incurred costs eligible for Loan funds consistent with the budget included in Exhibit A, and shall have supplied all documentation required by the City to support such costs (including, in the case of payments to contractors, vendors, consultants or service providers, copies of contracts complying with this agreement and invoices acceptable to the City);

 (5) There shall be no legal or administrative action pending or threatened seeking to enjoin or prevent the Project or operation of the Property as contemplated in the Loan Documents, or contesting the legality of any of the arrangements contemplated by the Loan Documents or any other financing for the Project, and no order, judgment, finding, or ruling of any court or administrative agency shall be in effect that would prohibit, restrain, create reasonable uncertainty as to the legality of, or otherwise adversely affect, the completion of the Project, the funding of the Project as contemplated hereby, or the operation of the Property as contemplated in the Loan Documents; and

 (6) Prior to any disbursement for construction or rehabilitation costs, the Borrower and the City shall have agreed upon a plan by which Borrower shall ensure that applicable "Section 3" requirements will be satisfied (See Section 5.1 below).

 All conditions to disbursement herein are for the sole protection and benefit of the City, and

 may be waived in the discretion of the City. No waiver of any condition for purposes of one disbursement shall affect the City's right to withhold further disbursements based on failure to satisfy such condition, nor affect the City's right to pursue remedies at any time for any default.

 3.2 Timing and Method of Disbursements. Subject to the terms of this Agreement and the availability of funds, City shall normally disburse funds within seven (7) days after all conditions to disbursement are satisfied hereunder. The City may, at its option, make Loan disbursements directly to vendors or others entitled to payment from Borrower, as indicated by Borrower's request for disbursement, or by checks payable jointly to Borrower and such persons. Unless otherwise agreed in writing by OED, no further Loan disbursements shall be available after __________________.

 3.3 Retention.

 A. Withholding. City shall have the right to withhold, from disbursements for construction, ten percent (10%) of the entire amount of the construction contract until the Borrower has satisfied the conditions stated below final disbursement of construction costs. Until such conditions are met, in no case shall City be required to make disbursements for construction costs in a cumulative amount that, together with any disbursements for construction costs made from other fund sources, exceeds ninety percent (90%) of the cumulative amount of draw requests approved by City for construction costs. Retention is withheld for the protection of the City and to ensure compliance with certain regulatory requirements of City and HUD, and not for the benefit of any third parties.

 B. Disbursement. In order to obtain disbursement of retention, Borrower shall submit its request for disbursement, together with (i) a certification that the leasehold improvements have been completed, including without limitation all "punchlist" items; and (ii) evidence of compliance with labor standards and contracting requirements in form required by City. Such requirements include, without limitation, prevailing wage and federal "Section 3" requirements. Borrower shall not be entitled to disbursement of retention until the leasehold improvements have been completed, as confirmed by inspection of City at City's option; a certificate of occupancy has been issued for Borrower's space; City has completed its review of evidence of compliance with labor and contracting provisions and Borrower has resolved to City's satisfaction all issues disclosed by such review; and Borrower shall have provided such other reports and documentation as City shall request in order to demonstrate compliance with this Loan Agreement and document costs incurred. Borrower must resolve all issues of compliance or insufficient documentation within sixty (60) days of notice by City. City may withhold from disbursement of retention any amounts deemed reasonably necessary by City due to potential defects in compliance with provisions of this Loan Agreement, including without limitation prevailing wage provisions. Any disbursement by City of amounts that City would have the right to withhold shall not constitute a waiver of any rights of City. City may, at its option, disburse funds to cure any such defects in compliance that are not remedied by Borrower in such sixty (60) day period, or any lesser period that may be required by HUD. Any funds so disbursed shall be considered advances on the Loan. If, as a result of such disbursements, the total amount disbursed exceeds the maximum amount of the Loan hereunder, then Borrower shall pay the difference to City on demand.

 ARTICLE IV -- GENERAL LOAN COVENANTS

 Borrower covenants and agrees as follows:

 4.1 General. From and after the date hereof and so long as any amount remains unpaid on the Note, Borrower covenants and agrees that it will promptly pay principal and interest pursuant to the Note as and when the same becomes due and payable. Borrower further covenants and agrees that Borrower shall comply with each and every other obligation of Borrower under the Loan Documents and any other agreements or instruments related to the financing and development of the Project.

 4.2 Completion of Project. There shall be no material change to Borrower's plans and specifications for leasehold improvements to the Property, as approved by the City, without the prior written approval of OED, in its discretion. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and applicable laws and regulations, Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with such plans and specifications and the terms of Exhibit A , including without limitation the schedule set forth therein. Borrower shall, as soon as practicable, and in any event not later than ___________________, implement the new and expanded services and facilities for the community described in Exhibit A hereto. If Borrower shall be unable despite diligent efforts to establish or expand any of such services or facilities as described in Exhibit A then Borrower shall report such fact in writing to OED no later than _________________ with an explanation of the efforts made and the reason for such inability, and Borrower shall, if feasible, propose a substitute new or expanded service or facility to be provided. If OED shall determine that the Borrower was unable, despite diligent efforts, to establish or expand such service or facility, and that the proposed substitute is acceptable or no substitute is feasible, then Borrower shall not be in default for failure to provide such new or expanded service or facility, provided that the approved substitute, if any, is established within such period as OED shall approve.

 4.3 Call Provision. In addition to, and not in any way to be deemed any limitation upon, City's right to demand repayment of the Loan at any time, City may call the Loan immediately due and payable without notice and may draw on the Letter of Credit, at City's option, if at any time during the term of the Loan without City's prior written approval:

 (a) Borrower sells, transfers or assigns (except for security purposes) all or substantially all of Borrower's interest in the Property, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, or by the operation of law;

 (b) there is not a Letter of Credit securing the Loan that complies strictly with all requirements of this Agreement; or

 (c) there occurs any breach or default under the terms of the Note, this Agreement or any other Loan Document that is not remedied in full within any applicable cure period.

 In addition, upon the occurrence of any of the foregoing, City may declare an Event of Default hereunder and exercise its rights and remedies under Article VI.

 4.4 Inspections. The City and its representatives shall have the right at all reasonable times during regular business hours (and at any time in the event of an emergency) to enter upon and inspect the Property to determine that the same is in conformity with this Agreement and all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations applicable to Borrower's use of the Loan funds. City shall have the further right, from time to time, to inspect Borrower's books and records relating to Borrower's use of the Loan funds, provided that the City gives Borrower not less than forty- eight (48) hours notice except in any case of investigation of allegations of fraud or misuse of funds. Without limiting the foregoing, Borrower shall permit City to examine and copy all books, records and other papers relating to Borrower's use of the Loan funds to insure Borrower's compliance with this Agreement, the Act and applicable provisions of federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.

 4.5 Compliance with Laws; Notify City of Litigation or Complaints. The Project shall in all respects conform to and comply with all covenants, conditions, restrictions and reservations affecting the Property and with all applicable zoning, environmental protection, use and building codes, laws, regulations and ordinances. Borrower shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations in the rehabilitation and operation of the Property. Borrower shall promptly notify City in writing of all litigation or possible litigation, and of all complaints or charges made by any governmental authority, that might adversely affect the ability of Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement or under any Loan Document to which Borrower is a party.

 4.6 Indemnify City. To the full extent permitted by applicable law, Borrower shall indemnify and hold City, its elected and appointed officials and employees, harmless from all liability for any actual or alleged damage or injury of whatsoever nature arising out of or in any way connected with the Project or the Loan, or arising out of Borrower's breach of the provisions of this Agreement, including the cost of defense thereof using counsel approved by City. Borrower's obligation under this section shall apply notwithstanding any acts, omissions or negligence of the City or its officials, employees or agents, except that if RCW 4.24.115 (or successor provision) shall apply to any claim for any such damage or injury, then to the extent required by such statute, (1) this indemnity shall not apply in case of any liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused or resulting from the sole negligence of the City, its agents or employees, and (2) in case of liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from the concurrent negligence of (a) the City or its agents or employees, and (b) Borrower or its agents or employees, this indemnity shall apply only to the extent of Borrower's negligence. City may commence, appear in or defend any action or proceeding purporting to affect the rights, duties or liabilities of the parties hereto, and subject to the limitation in the preceding sentence Borrower shall pay all of the City's costs and expenses incurred thereby, including reasonable attorneys' fees, on demand. This section shall survive execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Note and the Loan Documents and repayment of the Loan.

 Borrower waives, solely with respect to the City, its immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial Insurance. Borrower and City acknowledge that this waiver has been specifically negotiated and that City would not enter into this Loan Agreement absent this waiver.

 4.7 Further Actions. Borrower will at any time and from time to time upon request of City take or cause to be taken any action, execute, acknowledge, deliver or record any further documents, opinions, or other instruments as City shall request in order to give effect to the intent of this Agreement, or as the City is required to do or obtain by HUD or other federal, state or county regulatory agency.

 4.8 Reporting. Borrower shall provide the following reports to OED or such other City office as OED shall designate: 1) Reports on the implementation of the "Section 3" plan, including monthly reports and income certifications for all new hires from each construction contractor and construction services contractor; 2) a close-out report showing the total costs of the Project, describing the leasehold improvements completed and the implementation of new and expanded services to the community as described in Exhibit A; 3) wage and hour data for all employees of contractors and subcontractors on the Project; 4) demographic information on all contractors and subcontractors receiving contracts of $10,000 or more, and the amount of each such contract; and 5) reports on lead-based paint abatement and testing activities, and any other reports on hazardous materials abatement or remediation required by or submitted to the Bank. Where the timing is not specified, information shall be submitted at such times as OED shall request after reasonable notice to Borrower. All reports submitted shall be complete and accurate in all material respects and shall be supported by sufficient documentation, which shall be provided to OED promptly upon request.

 4.9 Use of Property; Conditions on Development; Permitting .

 A. The Property shall be held for the purposes described on  Exhibit A shall not be used for any other purpose, nor sold, transferred, or leased without the express written consent of the City until the Loan has been repaid in full and Borrower has fulfilled all reporting requirements related to the Loan to the full satisfaction of City.

 B. To the extent required by applicable laws or regulations, any development, demolition, or other physical change in the Property shall be subject to review and approval under the National Environmental Policy Act and related laws, and to any conditions or mitigation imposed by the City or other authorities thereunder, in addition to all applicable requirements under the State Environmental Policy Act, City Land Use and Building Codes, and other regulations generally applicable to development of real property.

 C. By ________________, Borrower shall substantially complete work on the Property and the store shall be in full operation.

 4.10 Documentation of Costs and Other Financial and Record- keeping Requirements.

 (a) All costs for which Borrower uses Loan funds shall be supported by properly executed payrolls, time records, invoices, vouchers or other official documentation, as evidence of the nature and propriety of the charges. All accounting documents pertaining in whole or in part to this Agreement shall be clearly identified and readily accessible, and the City shall have the right to audit the records of the Borrower as they relate to this Agreement, upon reasonable notice. The Borrower also shall:

 1. Maintain an effective system of internal control over and accountability for all funds and property supplied and make sure the same are used solely for authorized purposes.

 2. Keep a continuing record of all disbursements by date, check number, amount, vendor, description of items purchased and line item from which money was expended, as reflected in the Borrower's accounting records. The line item notations must be substantiated by a receipt, invoice marked "Paid," or payroll record.

 3. Maintain payroll and financial records for a period of six (6) years after receipt of the final disbursement under this Agreement.

 4. Permit inspection and audit of the Borrower's records, and records of any bank account of Borrower, with respect to all matters related to this Agreement, by representatives of the City, the United States, the State Auditor, and any independent auditor at any time during normal business hours and as often as necessary.

 5. Inform the City about any funds allocated to the Borrower that the Borrower anticipates will not be expended during the Agreement period and permit reassignment of the same by the City to other agencies.

 (b) Borrower shall establish and maintain all financial records and fiscal control systems in a manner to meet the approval of the City Auditor, the State Auditor and the United States. Records and reports submitted shall be satisfactory to meet the approval of the City Finance Director.

 ARTICLE V -- REGULATORY PROVISIONS

 5.1 Federal Regulations. Borrower acknowledges that the Loan is to be made with federal funds received by City under the Community Development Block Grant ("CDBG") program under applicable regulations of the Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD"). Accordingly, Borrower agrees, represents and warrants that Borrower has complied with and shall comply with all applicable federal requirements related to the use of CDBG funds, as applicable, including without limitation applicable provisions of 24 CFR Part 5, subpart A, any applicable provisions of the federal act appropriating such funds, and those set forth below:

 (a) Economic Opportunities for Low- and Very Low-Income Persons.

 Borrower shall comply, and cause all contractors and subcontractors to comply, with Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended, 12 U.S.C.onstruction 1701u, the purpose of which is to ensure that employment and other economic opportunities generated by Federal financial assistance for housing and community development programs shall, to the greatest extent feasible, be directed toward low- and very-low-income persons, particularly those who are recipients of government assistance for housing. Borrower shall comply, and shall require all contractors and subcontractors to comply, with regulations issued pursuant thereto by the Secretary of HUD and set forth in 24 C.F.R. Part 135, and with all applicable rules and orders of HUD issued thereunder. Without limiting the foregoing, unless another method of demonstrating compliance has been approved in writing by City or by HUD, Borrower shall comply, and shall cause all contractors and subcontractors to comply, with the applicable numerical goals in 24 C.F.R. Section 135.30. Borrower certifies and agrees that Borrower is under no contractual or other disability that would prevent Borrower from complying with these requirements.

 Borrower shall cause the "Section 3 clause" set forth in 24 C.F.R. Section 135.38 to be included in all contracts and subcontracts for the Project. Borrower shall, at the direction of the City, take appropriate action pursuant to any such contract upon finding that the contractor is in violation of regulations issued by the Secretary of HUD in 24 C.F.R. Part 135. Borrower shall not let any contract unless the contractor has first provided Borrower with a preliminary statement of ability to comply with the requirements of these regulations.

 (b) Equal Opportunity. Borrower shall ensure compliance with Executive Order 11246, entitled "Equal Opportunity" (3 CFR, 1958-1963 Comp., p. 339), as amended by Executive Orders 11375, 11478, 12086 and 12107, and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, 41 C.F.R. Part 60, which provide that no person shall be discriminated against because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all phases of employment during the performance of federal contracts and subcontracts, and Borrower shall take affirmative action to ensure fair treatment in employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation and selection for training or apprenticeship. The "equal opportunity clause" set forth in 41 C.F.R. Section 60-1.4(a) is hereby incorporated by reference as though fully set forth, with Borrower as "Contractor" thereunder. The equal opportunity clause set forth in 41 C.F.R. Section 60-1.4(b) shall be set forth or incorporated by reference in each "federally assisted construction contract" (as defined in 41 CFR Section 60-1.3, including subcontracts) for the Project, except as expressly exempted under 41 C.F.R. Part 60.

 (c) Nondiscrimination. No person shall on the grounds of race, color, national origin, religion or sex be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity funded in whole or in part with CDBG funds. Borrower shall comply fully with all of the requirements and prohibitions of 24 C.F.R. Section 570.602 and 24 C.F.R. Part 6, implementing the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, with the requirements of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. Sections 3601-20) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR Part 100; Executive Order 11063, as amended by Executive Order 12259 (3 CFR, 1958-1963 Comp., p. 652 and 3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p. 307) (Equal Opportunity in Housing) and with implementing regulations at 24 CFR Part 107. Borrower shall comply fully with all requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., which provides that no person in the United States shall on the ground of race, color or national origin, be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance; and with Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") regulations implementing such requirements, 24 C.F.R. Part 1.

 Borrower shall comply fully with all of the requirements and prohibitions of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. Sections 6101-07) and implementing regulations at 24 C.F.R. Part 146; the Americans with Disabilities Act and regulations thereunder; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. Section 794), and implementing regulations at 24 C.F.R. Part 8. Borrower shall include, in any instrument effecting or recording any transfer of its interest in the Property, the covenant required by 24 C.F.R. Section 8.50 with regard to compliance with regulations under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

 No otherwise qualified handicapped individual in the United States shall, solely by reason of handicap, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.

 (d) Minority and Women's Business Enterprises. Borrower shall comply with, and shall cooperate fully in programs and procedures adopted by the City to comply with, the requirements of Executive Orders 11625 and 12432 (concerning Minority Business Enterprise) and 12138 (concerning Women's Business Enterprise). When procuring property or services wholly or in part with Loan funds, Borrower shall take affirmative steps to assure that minority firms, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms are used when possible, in accordance with 24 C.F.R. Section 85.36(e)(2), and shall maintain records of those steps. These efforts shall not include any discrimination or preferential treatment contrary to applicable law.

 (e) Benefit to Low- and Moderate Income People. Borrower's installation of leasehold improvements and use of the Property shall benefit low- and moderate-income persons (as defined by HUD) to the maximum extent feasible.

 (f) Conflict of Interest; Consultants. Borrower shall ensure compliance with the provisions of 24 C.F.R. Section 570.611, which provide generally that no officer, agent, employee, consultant or elected or appointed official of The City of Seattle or of any subrecipient or designated public agency receiving CDBG funds who exercises or has exercised any functions or responsibilities with respect to activities assisted by CDBG funds or who is in a position to participate in a decision making process or gain inside information with respect to these activities, shall obtain any financial interest or benefit from or have and financial interest in, for himself or herself or those with whom he or she has business or immediate family ties, any activity funded under this Agreement or any contract or subcontract or agreement with respect thereto or the proceeds thereof; nor shall (s)he, for one year after completion of his or her tenure with the City or such subrecipient or designated public agency, obtain or have any such financial interest or benefit. Borrower represents and warrants that to the best of its knowledge no such person has any financial interest in or benefit from any such existing contract or subcontract or the proceeds thereof, and Borrower shall incorporate in all such contracts or subcontracts a provision prohibiting any such interest or benefit.

 No Loan funds may be used to pay or to provide reimbursement for payment of the salary of a consultant at more than the daily equivalent of the rate paid for level IV of the federal Executive Schedule, unless specifically authorized by law.

 (g) Debarred Contractors. No portion of the Loan shall be used directly or indirectly to employ, award contracts to, or otherwise engage the services of, or fund, any contractor during any period of debarment, suspension, voluntary exclusion or placement in ineligibility status of such contractor or subrecipient under the provisions of 24 C.F.R. Part 24. Borrower shall obtain, and shall require contractors and subcontractors to obtain, the certification required by appendix B of 24 CFR part 24 from each prospective contractor or subcontractor on the Project. Borrower represents and warrants that Borrower is not debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in federal assistance programs under such regulations or Executive Order 12549, "Debarment and Suspension."

 (h) Lead-Based Paint. Borrower shall comply at its sole expense with all applicable requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. sections 4821-4846) and 24 C.F.R. Part 35 and Section 570.608, with regard to lead-based paint, and with any and all applicable laws, regulations or standards hereafter enacted or issued with regard to lead-based paint.

 (i) Davis-Bacon and Related Acts. The Borrower shall comply and shall ensure that all contractors and subcontractors comply with the Davis-Bacon Act, 40 U.S.C. Section 276a et seq. and regulations thereunder. In addition, the Borrower shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act, 40 U.S.C. Section 327 et seq.; Copeland Act (Anti-Kickback Act), 18 U.S.C. Section 874; the Fair Labor Standards Act, and regulations under such Acts, including 29 C.F.R. Parts 3 and 5, and with HUD Handbook 1344.1. The requirements include, but are not limited to: language within each contract for construction (including rehabilitation) work; payment of prevailing wages and fringe benefits; the submittal of various documents as evidence of compliance; withholding of funds; equal employment opportunity; and work hours.

 (j) Architectural Barriers. Borrower shall ensure that the Property, upon completion of rehabilitation, shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (see 42 U.S.C. Sections 4151-57), and shall comply with the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (Appendix A to 24 CFR part 40 for residential structures, and Appendix A to 41 CFR part 101- 19, subpart 101-19.6, for general type buildings).

 (k) Relocation and Property Acquisition.

 (1) Borrower represents, warrants and agrees that Borrower has taken and shall take all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (families, individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) in connection with the Project.

 (2) Borrower represents and warrants that no occupants of the Property have been or will be displaced by the Project.

 (3) Borrower represents, warrants and agrees that, with respect to all property acquired and to be acquired for the Project: Borrower has provided in a timely manner, and shall provide in a timely manner, all notices, advisory services, payments, and other assistance required so as to comply with each of the following: 24 C.F.R. Part 42 and Section 570.606; the federal Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, 42 U.S.C. Sections 4601-4655, and regulations thereunder, 49 C.F.R. Part 24; HUD's current acquisition and relocation assistance handbook; and any other applicable federal laws or regulations. Borrower shall maintain complete and accurate records demonstrating such compliance.

 (4) Borrower agrees that any determination by City of the amount of relocation assistance due to any person shall be final and binding upon Borrower, unless a different determination is made by HUD, in which case the HUD determination shall be final and binding on Borrower. Borrower agrees that the City may, at its option, provide relocation assistance directly to any person in connection with the Project and that any payment by the City for such person, at the City's sole option, may be charged against any funds remaining to be disbursed hereunder without any requirement for a draw request by, or consent of, Borrower. If, as a result of any such direct disbursement by the City, the total amount of City funds expended shall exceed the total amount of disbursements for which Borrower is eligible hereunder, then Borrower shall repay such excess to the City on demand.

 (5) Borrower shall carry out the terms of any relocation plan submitted to and approved by City, but the terms of any such plan shall not limit Borrower's obligations under this Agreement or applicable laws or regulations, and no such approval by City shall be construed as a waiver or modification of any requirement of this Agreement or applicable laws or regulations.

 (l) Lobbying. Borrower hereby certifies and agrees as follows, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. section 1352, to the best of its knowledge and belief:

 1. No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of Borrower, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement;

 2. If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, it will complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying," in accordance with its instructions; and

 3. It will require that the language of this Section be included in the award documents for subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.

 4. This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is made a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction by section 1352, Title 31, U. S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

 (m) Environmental and Related Laws. Borrower shall ensure that the Project and the use of the Property shall comply with all applicable environmental standards, including without limitation those promulgated under, or that may be prescribed pursuant to, any of the following: (a) institution of environmental quality control measures under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (P.L. 91-190), as amended, and Executive Order (EO) 11514; (b) notification of violating facilities pursuant to EO 11738; (e) protection of wetlands pursuant to EO 11990; (d) evaluation of flood hazards in floodplains in accordance with EO 11988; (e) assurance of project consistency with the approved State management program developed under the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. sections 1451 etseq.); (f) conformity of Federal actions to State (Clear Air) Implementation Plans under Section 176(c) of the Clear Air Act of 1955, as amended (42 U.S.C. section 7401 etseq.); (g) protection of underground sources of drinking water under the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended, (P.L. 93-523); and (h) protection of endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, (P.L. 93- 205). Borrower shall ensure that the Project and the use of the Property shall comply with all applicable provisions of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470 etseq.); Executive Order 11593; the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. section 469a-1 etseq.) and all regulations under such acts. No activities on the Property shall involve the demolition or alteration of any structure listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places without full compliance with such Acts and regulations.

 (n) Disclosures. Borrower represents, warrants and agrees that it has provided to OED any and all disclosures required by the HUD Reform Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 3545, and regulations thereunder, 24 CFR Part 4; that it will provide timely updated disclosures to OED to the extent required by such act and regulations; and that all such disclosures are and shall be complete and accurate.

 (o) Records. Borrower shall maintain and make available to the City and HUD all records reasonably required to demonstrate compliance with all of the requirements of this Section, for at least three years after the later of full repayment of the Loan or the completion of the Project.

 (p) Prior Actions; Indemnity. Borrower represents and warrants that in all actions related to the Project to date Borrower has complied with all requirements referred to in this Section 5.1, and that Borrower has not omitted to take any action that would have been required under the terms of this Section 5.1 had this Agreement been in effect at the time of the Borrower's first actions related to the Project. Borrower shall hold the City harmless from any loss, damage, expense, claim or demand resulting from Borrower's failure to complete the Project, failure to comply with any federal requirement, or failure to maintain adequate records to demonstrate such compliance. This provision shall survive expiration of this Agreement and repayment of the Loan.

 5.2 Certain City Requirements and Policies: Non-discrimination; Equal Opportunity; Affirmative Efforts in Contracting

 (a) Discrimination Prohibited

 During the performance of this Agreement, neither Borrower nor any party contracting with Borrower who would be paid with Loan funds under this Agreement shall discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, creed, marital status, sexual orientation, age or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap in employment or application for employment or in the administration or delivery of services or any other benefits under this Agreement.

 The Borrower shall comply and shall require all contractors and subcontractors to comply fully with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances, executive orders and regulations that prohibit such discrimination. These laws include, but are not limited to, Chapter 49.60 of the Revised Code of Washington, Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Chapters 14.04 and 20.44 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 (b) Fair Employment Practices

 Borrower acknowledges notice of the following excerpted from Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 14.04.020, as amended:

 It is declared to be the policy of the City, in the exercise of its police powers for the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare, and for the maintenance of peace and good government, to assure equal opportunity to all persons, free from restrictions because of race, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, political ideology, age, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap.

 (c) Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Efforts in Contracting

 Notwithstanding any other provision in this Loan Agreement:

 (1) General. City women- and minority-owned business ("WMBE") utilization requirements shall not apply to this Project. The City does not require any minimum level of WMBE subcontractor participation as a condition of awarding any contract and does not require that any preference be given to a bidder or proposer for its WMBE utilization or WMBE status.

 (2) Non-Discrimination.

 (a) Each party is required to comply with the Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance of the City of Seattle (Ordinance 119601), as amended. Conduct made unlawful by that ordinance constitutes a breach of contract. Engaging in an unfair contracting practice may also result in the imposition of a civil fine or forfeiture under the Seattle Criminal Code as well as various civil remedies.

 (b) Borrower shall not create, and shall not permit contractors or bidders to create, barriers to open and fair opportunities for WMBEs to participate in contracts for the Project, and to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services. Borrower shall not, and Borrower shall require any contractor to agree that it shall not, in considering offers from and doing business with contractors, subcontractors and suppliers, discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, ethnicity, sex, age, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, or the presence of any mental or physical disability in an otherwise qualified disabled person.

 (3) Record-Keeping. Borrower shall maintain, for at least 12 months after completion of the Project, all bids or proposals from general contractors for the Project, and relevant records and information necessary to document level of utilization of WMBEs and other businesses as subcontractors and suppliers on the Project. Borrower shall require that its general contractor maintain and provide to the City on request all written quotes, bids, estimates, or proposals submitted to the contractor by all businesses seeking to participate as subcontractors or suppliers on the Project. The City shall have the right to inspect and copy such records. Borrower and its general contractor shall comply with all record- keeping requirements set forth in any federal rules, regulations or statutes included or referenced in this Loan Agreement or the contract documents.

 (4) Affirmative Efforts to Utilize WMBEs. The City encourages the utilization of minority owned businesses ("MBEs") and women-owned businesses ("WBEs") (collectively, "WMBEs"), in contracts funded by the City. The City encourages, and Borrower shall encourage with respect to the Project, the following practices to open competitive opportunities for WMBEs:

 * Attending a pre-bid or pre-solicitation conference, if scheduled by the City or Borrower, to provide project information and to inform WMBEs of contracting and subcontracting opportunities.

 * Placing all qualified WMBEs attempting to do business in the City on solicitation lists, and providing written notice of subcontracting opportunities to WMBEs capable of performing the work, including without limitation all businesses on any list provided by the City, in sufficient time to allow such businesses to respond to the written solicitations.

 * Breaking down total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities, where economically feasible, in order to permit maximum participation by small businesses including WMBEs.

 * Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirements of this contract permit, that encourage participation by WMBEs.

 * Providing WMBEs that express interest with adequate and timely information about plans, specifications, and requirements of the contract.

 * Utilizing the services of available minority community organizations, minority contractor groups, local minority assistance offices, the City, and other organizations that provide assistance in the recruitment and placement of WMBEs.

 (5) Sanctions for Violation - Any violation of any mandatory provision of this subsection (c) (paragraphs (2) and (3)) shall be a material breach of contract for which the Borrower may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by contract and by applicable law.

 5.3 Political Activity.

 No portion of the Loan shall be used for any partisan political activity or to further the election or defeat of any candidate for public office or to influence the approval or defeat of any ballot issue or legislation.

 ARTICLE VI -- DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

 6.1 Event of Default. Occurrence of any of the following events shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder:

 (a) Any failure by Borrower to pay when due any principal, interest or other amounts owing to City under any of the Loan Documents;

 (b) If at any time the balance outstanding under the Note and this Agreement is not fully secured by a Letter of Credit strictly satisfying all of the requirements of this Agreement.

 (c) Any breach by Borrower of any of the other non-monetary covenants and conditions of this Agreement which breach is not cured to City's satisfaction within ten (10) working days from the occurrence thereof, provided, that in the event of a nonmonetary breach or default by Borrower which is outside of the control of Borrower and which cannot be cured within said ten (10) working days, Borrower shall have commenced to cure its breach or default within said ten (10) working days and thereafter diligently proceeds to cure its breach or default.

 (d) Any representation, warranty or disclosure made to City by Borrower related to this Loan or the Project proves to be materially false or misleading as of the date when made, whether or not such representation, warranty or disclosure appears in this Agreement.

 (e) A petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization or for an arrangement under any bankruptcy or insolvency law or for a receiver or trustee for any of Borrower's property is filed by Borrower, or is filed against Borrower and is not dismissed within forty-five (45) days, or if Borrower makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or becomes insolvent or unable to pay its debts as they mature or any attachment or execution is levied against a substantial portion of the property of Borrower and is not discharged within forty-five (45) days.

 (f) There occurs any event which in City's reasonable judgment adversely affects (i) the ability of Borrower to perform any of its obligations hereunder or under any of the Loan Documents (ii) the business or financial condition of Borrower; or (iii) compliance with the Act.

 (g) There occurs any Event of Default as defined in the loan agreement for the Promenade Loan.

 6.2 Remedies.

 (a) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, City may, in addition to any other remedies which City may have hereunder or under the Loan Documents or by law, at its option and without prior demand or notice take any or all of the following actions:

 (1) Immediately terminate any further advance of Loan funds hereunder.

 (2) Declare the Note immediately due and payable and immediately draw against the Letter of Credit in the full amount owing.

 (b) All remedies of City provided for herein are in addition to its rights and remedies under the Note. All of the City's rights and remedies in the Loan Documents are cumulative and shall be in addition to all other rights and remedies provided by law, and in addition to all rights and remedies of the City under any other agreements. The exercise of any right or remedy by City hereunder shall not in any way constitute a cure or waiver of default hereunder or under any other Loan Document or invalidate any act done pursuant to any notice of default, or prejudice City in the exercise of any of its rights hereunder or under any other documents.

 ARTICLE VII -- MISCELLANEOUS

 7.1 No Waiver. No waiver of any default or breach by Borrower hereunder shall be implied from any failure by City to take action on account of such default if such default persists or is repeated, and no express waiver shall affect any default other than the default specified in the waiver and shall be operative only for the time and to the extent therein stated. Waivers of any covenants, term or condition contained herein shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same covenant, term or condition. The consent or approval by City to, or approval of, any act by Borrower requiring consent or approval shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary the consent or approval to, or of, any subsequent similar act.

 7.2 Successors and Assigns; Assignment. This Agreement is made and entered into for the sole protection and benefit of the City, Borrower, and their successors and assigns, and no other person or persons shall have any right of action hereunder, except to the extent that specific provisions grant rights to the State or federal governments. The terms hereof shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties hereto; provided, however, that the Borrower's interest hereunder cannot be assigned or otherwise transferred without the prior written consent of City, in its sole discretion.

 7.3 Notices. Any notice, demand or request required hereunder shall be given in writing at the addresses set forth below by personal delivery, facsimile transmission, or first class mail. The addresses or telephone numbers may be changed by notice to the other party given in the same manner as provided above. If notice is given by mail, it shall be deemed received on the earlier of: (i) if by certified mail, the date of receipt as shown on the return receipt, or (ii) three (3) days after deposit in the U.S. mail. If notice is given by facsimile it shall be effective on the day when the transmission is completed if by 5:00 P.M. Seattle time on any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or City of Seattle holiday, and otherwise on the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or City of Seattle holiday.

 If to Borrower: Rose & Associates, L.L.C.

 2701 Beacon Avenue South

 Seattle, Washington 98144

 facsimile: (206) 323-1920

 If to City: Office of Economic Development

 City of Seattle

 2nd Floor, 600 Fourth Avenue

 Seattle, Washington 98104

 Attn: Director

 facsimile: 684-0379

 7.4 Time. Time is of the essence of all provisions of the Loan Documents.

 7.5 Entire Agreement; Amendments; No Commitment to Future Support. This Agreement and the documents incorporated herein by reference embody the entire Agreement between the City and the Borrower with respect to the Loan that is the subject matter hereof, but this Agreement does not supersede or modify, except as may be expressly stated herein, any agreement or obligation of the Borrower with respect to other funding for the Project or for other activities. No verbal agreements or conversation with any officer, agent or employee of the City before or after the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Documents. No amendment, modification, or termination of any provisions of this Agreement or of any of the Loan Documents shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the City and Borrower. The City makes no commitment of future support and assumes no obligations for future support of the Borrower or the Project.

 7.6 Headings. The article and section headings in no way define, limit, extend or interpret the scope of this Agreement or of any particular article or section.

 7.7 Number and Gender. When the context in which the words are used in this Agreement indicate that such is the intent, words in the singular number shall include the plural and vice- versa. References to any gender shall also include the other gender or neutral gender, as appropriate.

 7.8 Validity. In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this Agreement.

 7.9 Governing Law; Construction. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle, except to the extent federal law applies. This Agreement is the product of negotiation and shall not be construed strictly against the party responsible for drafting this Agreement. Borrower agrees that because the City is not a commercial lender and is providing the Loan, subject to federal regulations, as a temporary use of funds allocated to other CDBG-eligible activities, the City shall not be subject to any standard of commercial reasonableness as to the administration of the Loan, any consents or approvals hereunder, or the enforcement of the Loan Documents.

 7.10 Survival. All agreements, representations and warranties made herein and in the Note shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and of the Loan Documents and the making of the Loan hereunder and continue in full force and effect until the obligations of Borrower hereunder and the indebtedness evidenced by the Note have been fully and finally paid and satisfied, regardless of whether the Note is surrendered or marked as canceled or paid in full. In addition, the obligations of Borrower with respect to the development and completion of the Project, reports to the City, recordkeeping, and federal requirements, shall survive the repayment of the Loan and remain in full force and effect, and other provisions shall survive repayment of the Loan to the extent provided in the Loan Documents.

 7.11 Venue and Forum. In the event that any legal action should be filed by either party against the other, the venue and forum for such action shall be the Superior Court of the State of Washington for the County of King.

 7.12 Attorney's Fees. In the event either party shall bring an action to enforce the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or if there shall be any legal proceedings involving this Agreement (including without limitation any bankruptcy proceedings), the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover all of its costs and expenses, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney's fees as determined by the court. "Reasonable attorney's fees" shall include the reasonable value of the services of in-house counsel.

 7.13 Effect of Consents and Approvals; Borrower's Obligations Absolute. Any approval granted by the City for purposes of this Agreement shall not constitute, nor waive the requirement for, any other approval that may be required under any other agreement, law, ordinance, or regulation, nor may any such approval be relied upon by any person for any purpose other than compliance with this Agreement. Borrower acknowledges that its plans for the Project are subject to various processes, reviews, and permits, and that the feasibility and cost of the Project may be substantially affected by actions of various City departments, including without limitation determinations on land use and environmental matters (and the timing thereof). Borrower understands and agrees that neither this Agreement nor any authorization or approval of the Loan by the Mayor or City Council constitutes any assurance as to the consistency of the Project with any regulatory requirements or as to the timing or substance of any actions, approvals, or permits desired or required by Borrower for the Project, or any conditions that may be imposed thereon. Borrower irrevocably agrees that its payment obligations under the Loan Documents are absolute and unconditional, and that no action or omission of the City with respect to any of the matters described in this Section, even if untimely or contrary to law, shall in any way give rise to any defense to, or grounds for equitable relief from the strict enforcement of, such obligations. Borrower further irrevocably agrees that no claim, defense, or counterclaim of any nature shall be grounds for any injunction or order restraining the City from drawing upon the Letter of Credit or restraining the Bank from honoring any draw on the Letter of Credit, and that if Borrower shall have any claim or counterclaim concerning any drawing on the Letter of Credit it shall be an adequate remedy for the Borrower to pursue an action at law against the City.

 7.14 Duplicate Originals. This Agreement may be executed in duplicate, and if so executed, each of the parties hereto shall receive an original, and each original shall constitute one and the same agreement.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the Borrower have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above by and through their duly authorized representatives.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a

 Washington municipal corporation

 By: ____________________________

 Mary Jean Ryan

 Director of Economic Development

 Rose & Associates, L.L.C.

 By: _____________________________

 Print Name: ______________________

 Title:____________________________

 By: _____________________________

 Print Name: ______________________

 Title:____________________________

LIST OF EXHIBITS

 A. Description of Project, Budget and Schedule

 B. Form of Promissory Note

 Exhibit A to Ordinance - Page 7 of 1

 Exhibits:

 EXHIBIT B TO ORDINANCE

 PROMISSORY NOTE

 UNION STREET RED APPLE MARKET PROJECT CDBG FLOAT LOAN

 $2,900,000.00 ______________, 2000

 Seattle, Washington

 1. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, Rose & Associates, L.L.C., a Washington limited liability company ("Borrower"), promises to pay to the order of The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("City"), at its Office of Economic Development, 600 Fourth Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104, or such other place as the holder of this Note may from time to time designate, the amount of all advances ("Advances") made by the City pursuant to the terms of the Community Development Block Grant Float Loan Agreement between the Borrower and City dated ________________, 2000, as the same may be amended (the "Loan Agreement"), plus interest as provided below. The unpaid principal balance of this Note at any time shall be equal to the aggregate amount of all Advances then made less the aggregate amount of all payments received by the holder of this Note and applied to principal hereunder. The unpaid principal balance of the loan evidenced hereby (the "Loan") shall not at any time exceed the sum of TWO MILLION NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($2,900,000.00). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement unless the context otherwise clearly requires. Disbursement of the Loan evidenced by this Note is to be made subject to the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement.

 2. Interest. Borrower agrees to pay interest from the date funds are advanced at a rate of two and one-half percent (2.5%) per annum, computed on the outstanding principal balance as it exists from time to time.

 3. Principal and Interest Payments. Borrower shall make monthly installment payments of principal and interest owing hereunder in the amount of THIRTY NINE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED NINETY-TWO AND 37/100 DOLLARS ($39,392.37) on or before the seventh (7th) day of each calendar month, commencing with the month after the month in which the first Loan disbursement is made and continuing until the Maturity Date set forth below or until the Loan is repaid in full, if earlier. Any prepayment of principal or partial payment of principal pursuant to demand under Section 6 below shall not reduce the required monthly payment amount unless expressly agreed in writing by the holder of this Note.

 4. Maturity; Demand Feature. The principal balance outstanding hereon, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and any other sums due hereunder, shall be due and payable in full on the earliest of (i) ten (10) calendar days after demand by the holder hereof for full repayment under Section 5 below, or (ii) the date ("Maturity Date") thirty (30) months after the date of this Note, or (iii) thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of the Letter of Credit (as defined below). Borrower acknowledges that demands for payment may be made by the holder of this Note at any time for any reason.

 5. Letter of Credit. This Note shall be secured by an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit (the "Letter of Credit"), payable upon demand, issued by a banking institution mutually agreeable to Borrower and the holder of this Note, all as more fully set forth in the Loan Agreement.

 6. Demands for Full or Partial Payment. The holder of this Note has the absolute right to make demand for full or partial payment of principal and accrued interest at any time for any reason regardless of Borrower's full compliance with all terms of the Loan Documents. The holder shall make such demand in writing, by hand delivery, mailing or facsimile transmission in the manner set forth in the Loan Agreement. Payments pursuant to a demand under this section shall be due and payable on or before ten (10) calendar days from the date the demand is effective under the notice provisions of the Loan Agreement. If the holder of this Note so specifies in the demand or other written communication, payment shall be made by a draw against the Letter of Credit, and the holder shall have the right to submit such draw at any time on or after on the tenth calendar day after such demand is effective. The requirements for demand and the notice period under this Section shall not apply in case of acceleration pursuant to any other provision of this Note or the Loan Agreement.

 7. Application of Payments. Payments under this Note shall be applied first to any costs or fees owing hereunder or under the Loan Agreement, next to accrued interest, and finally to the reduction of the principal of this Note. Any payment made at any time when any amount is due or past due from Borrower to the holder of this Note on the Promenade Loan (as defined in the Loan Agreement) may, in the discretion of such holder, be applied in payment of all or part of such amount prior to any application to amounts owing under this Note.

 8. Prepayment. Provided that Borrower shall first give the holder of this Note thirty (30) calendar days' prior notice, the indebtedness evidenced hereby may be prepaid in whole or in part from time to time without premium or penalty. If so elected by the holder of this Note, any prepayment shall be made by draw against the Letter of Credit.

 9. Default and Acceleration. Should default be made in any payment when due or in the performance or observance of any of the covenants and agreements of this Note, or if there shall be an Event of Default under the Loan Agreement, the whole sum of principal and interest shall become immediately due and payable at the option of the holder without notice, and the holder shall have the right immediately to draw on the Letter of Credit. Failure to exercise the option to accelerate shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise it in the event of a continuing or subsequent default.

 10. Interest on Past Due Amounts. Whether or not the entire balance is accelerated, all amounts of principal and interest past due shall bear interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from and after the due date.

 11. Sale of Property. Upon the sale, transfer or assignment, whether voluntary, involuntary or by operation of law, of all or substantially all of Borrower's interest in the Property (as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement), at its sole option the holder hereof may, by written notice to Borrower, declare all sums then outstanding hereunder to be immediately due and payable.

 12. Unconditional Obligations. The obligations of the Borrower under this Note are absolute, unconditional and irrevocable. All payments required hereunder shall be made without any setoff, counterclaim, deduction or withholding whatsoever.

 13. Waivers. Except for the demands described in Section 6 above, Borrower hereby waives diligence, demand, presentment for payment, and notice of whatever kind or nature. Without discharging or in any way affecting the liability of Borrower or any other person who may become liable on this Note, Borrower hereby consents to any and all extensions of this Note as the holder hereof may in its sole discretion grant from time to time, to the release of all or any part of the security for the payment hereof and to the release of any party liable for repayment of the obligations hereunder.

 14. Manner of Payment. All payments due on this Note shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America at the time of payment. Unless otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement or requested by the holder of this Note, Borrower shall make all scheduled monthly payments hereunder to the holder hereof by check or wire transfer. All payments of principal other than as part of scheduled monthly payments shall be by drawing on the Letter of Credit unless otherwise approved in writing by the holder of this Note. At any time and in its discretion the holder hereof may require that any payment(s) shall be made by draws against the Letter of Credit, or by cashier's check, or wire transfer, as the holder shall elect. If the issuer of the Letter of Credit fails to honor any draw by the holder of this Note in full or in part, or if the amount remaining on the Letter of Credit is insufficient to pay the amount due on the Note, or in the event that the holder of this Note is required by any law or court order to refund or otherwise relinquish any portion of any amount received from any draw on the Letter of Credit, then Borrower shall pay the full balance due immediately on demand. Any such payment shall be in immediately available funds, and shall be made to the holder at the address first hereinabove indicated, or such other address as the holder may hereafter designate.

 15. Governing Law. This Note shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington, except to the extent that Federal laws or regulations may preempt the laws of the State of Washington.

 16. Costs and Attorney's Fees. In the event that this Note is placed in the hands of an attorney at law for collection after maturity or upon default or in the event that proceedings at law or in equity are instituted in connection herewith, Borrower shall pay all costs of collecting or attempting to collect this Note and all costs incurred by the holder in any such proceedings, including, without limitation, reasonable attorney's fees (including costs and fees incurred in any bankruptcy, appellate, or arbitration proceeding); and all such amounts shall be secured by the Letter of Credit. "Reasonable attorney's fees" shall include the reasonable value of services of in-house counsel.

 17. No Usury. This Note and the Loan Agreement are subject to the limitation that in no event shall interest or any other amount paid or agreed to be paid for the use, forbearance or detention of money to be advanced hereunder or pursuant to the Loan Agreement exceed the highest lawful rate permissible under applicable usury laws, if any. If fulfillment of any provision hereof or of the Loan Agreement shall be deemed by a court of competent and final jurisdiction to violate any applicable usury restrictions, then ipso facto, the obligation to be fulfilled shall be reduced to such highest lawful rate, and any amount received in excess of such limit shall be applied to reduce the unpaid principal balance hereof and not to the payment of interest.

 18. Time. Time is of the essence of this Note and of each and every provision hereof.

 19. Purpose. Borrower represents and warrants that this Note is made, and the proceeds hereof are to be used, solely for business and commercial purposes, and not for personal, consumer, household or family purposes.

 NOTICE: ORAL AGREEMENTS OR ORAL COMMITMENTS TO LOAN MONEY, EXTEND CREDIT, TO FORBEAR FROM ENFORCING REPAYMENT OF A DEBT, ARE NOT ENFORCEABLE UNDER WASHINGTON LAW.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Borrower has executed this Promissory Note as of the date first above written.

 BORROWER:

 Rose & Associates, L.L.C.

 By:___________________________

 Print name:_____________________

 Title:__________________________

 By:___________________________

 Print name:_____________________

 Title:__________________________

 Exhibit B to Ordinance - Page 4 of 1

 A. Union Street Red Apple Float Loan Agreement

 ATTACHMENT A TO LOAN AGREEMENT

 UNION STREET RED APPLE MARKET LOAN AGREEMENT

 PROJECT DESCRIPTION, BUDGET AND SCHEDULE

Background

 Leonard E. and Laurie Ann Rose formed Rose & Associates, L.L.C. in July, 1996 and are the sole stockholders of this company. Rose & Associates leases the Union Street Red Apple Market, located at 1126 Martin Luther King Jr. Way South, under a sublease from Associated Grocers, Inc. dated _______________, 2000.

Project Description

 The float loan will allow Rose & Associates to rehabilitate the store and expand its retail area along with financing certain inventory and equipment costs. The store's current design dates back to its original design in 1962. The square footage of actual retail selling space is approximately 13,000 square feet although the actual store is 20,000 square feet. Rose & Associates plans to add an approximate 3,000 square feet to the store and capture 4,000 square feet of back room area to be used as retail floor space. This will result in a 54% increase in retail sales area in the store.

 Several of the building's characteristics have increased the costs of the building remodel. The building's roof contains asbestos in its outer four layers, which must be removed. The VCT flooring was found to contain asbestos along with some in the wallboards. The fire sprinkler system needs to be updated to meet the City of Seattle safety codes. The building's refrigeration system is inadequate, including both the compressor system and the product cases. The electrical, lighting and plumbing services of the building also requires complete modernization.

 The storefront requires a new, more modern famayade. This area will be changed to allow for greater street appeal and give the store a brighter look, making it a more inviting place to shop. The parking lot will be replaced addressing some safety issues and allowing a better flow to incoming and outgoing traffic.

 The interior of the store, with the additional retail space, will be able to offer an expanded line of grocery products including a large ethnic food line. A deli will operate in the new store with an on-site cafint for customers. A fresh seafood department will be added along with an upgraded meat department. Services will be provided in a new customer service center offering Moneygram, Travelers Express Money Orders, Metro bus passes and U.S. Postal stamps. Services such as a post office or payment center are also being investigated.

 The store presently has a staff of 25 people, 84 percent of whom are minority workers. The majority of these employees live within a five-mile radius of the store. The owners project the employment to increase by 60 workers once the store has been remodeled. They expect to maintain their current emphasis on diversity in employees.

Budget

 The estimated sources and uses of funds for the project are:

 Source of Funds

 Use of Funds

 Amount

 Amount

 City Float Loan

 $2,900,000

 Leasehold Improvements

 $2,000,000

 Acquisition of Equipment

 $575,000

 Acquisition of Inventory

 $325,000

 Total

 $2,900,000

 Total

 $2,900,000

Schedule

 Rose & Associates will start rehabilitation of the store no later than October 1, 2000 and will complete rehabilitation no later than July 1, 2001.

 A - 2

 Attachment A: Project Description, Budget and Schedule

 B. Union Street Red Apple Float Loan Promissory Note

 EXHIBIT A

 Union Street Red Apple Float Loan Agreement

 EXHIBIT B

 Union Street Red Apple Float Loan Promissory Note

 MCG/HRT

 June 2, 2000

 Ordinance2.doc

 (Version 2)

```
