

********

**Council Bill Number: 113205**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119937**
********

 AN ORDINANCE Related to transportation; authorizing execution of a Memorandum of Agreement related to the SR519 Intermodal Access Project with the Washington State Department of Transportation, King County, the Washington State Major League Baseball Stadium Public Facilities District, the Port of Seattle, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway Company, the Washington State Public Stadium Authority, the Baseball Club of Seattle, L.P., and First and Goal Incorporated, concerning the design, operation and phasing of construction of the project.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 22, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 23, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 23, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 8, 2000
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, FREEWAYS, I-90, ALASKAN-WAY, INDUSTRIAL-AREAS, ARENAS-AND-STADIUMS, RAILROADS, TRANSPORTATION-PLANNING, OVERPASSES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to transportation; authorizing execution of a Memorandum of Agreement related to the SR519 Intermodal Access Project with the Washington State Department of Transportation, King County, the Washington State Major League Baseball Stadium Public Facilities District, the Port of Seattle, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway Company, the Washington State Public Stadium Authority, the Baseball Club of Seattle, L.P., and First and Goal Incorporated, concerning the design, operation and phasing of construction of the project.

 WHEREAS, the purpose of the SR519 Intermodal Access Project (hereinafter the "Project") is to improve intermodal access for freight, ferry users, and pedestrians along State Route 519 between Interstate 90 ("I-90") and the Seattle waterfront by: reducing traffic delay, improving intersections, and separating freight and general purpose traffic; eliminating at-grade railroad crossings for vehicles; and providing grade separated connections between transit facilities and destinations for pedestrians; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle ("City"), Washington State Department of Transportation ("WSDOT"), King County ("County"), the Washington State Major League Baseball Stadium Public Facilities District ("PFD"), the Port of Seattle ("Port"), and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway Company ("BNSF"), entered into a Memorandum of Understanding dated March 26, 1997 (the "MOU"), relating to project design and financial contributions for final design work for the Project; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council authorized the City's participation in the Project in Ordinance 118160; and

 WHEREAS, the Project is included in the City's 2000-2005 Transportation Capital Improvement Program; and

 WHEREAS, principles for the design, operation and construction phasing of the project have evolved since the MOU, in part because voters approved a new Football Stadium/Exhibition Center project on the Kingdome site; and

 WHEREAS, the parties to the MOU have continued to meet regularly since the signing of the MOU, along with the Washington State Public Stadium Authority ("PSA"), the Baseball Club of Seattle, L.P., ("Mariners") and First and Goal Incorporated ("FGI"), to further refine the Project design and to resolve certain issues relating to Project implementation; and

 WHEREAS, the City, WSDOT, the County, the PFD, the Port, BNSF, the PSA, the Mariners, and FGI now wish to memorialize these changes through the attached Memorandum of Agreement so that the Project can obtain needed construction funding; and

 WHEREAS, WSDOT completed a NEPA and SEPA environmental study of the first phase of the Project, which was overseen by a Technical Steering Committee made up of representatives from the parties to the MOU; and

 WHEREAS, additional environmental review will need to be conducted before the parties can proceed with subsequent phases of the Project, and such environmental review may result in modifications to the Project or additional measures to mitigate Project impacts; and

 WHEREAS, the attached Memorandum of Agreement does not address all issues relating to the Project, including construction funding, operation and maintenance responsibilities, ownership, liability and other issues; and

 WHEREAS, elements of the project will require the approval of the Pioneer Square Preservation Board and the approval of the City Council by ordinance, and these approvals have not yet been obtained;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized to enter into a memorandum of agreement concerning the SR519 Intermodal Access Project with WSDOT, the County, the PFD, the Port, BNSF, the PSA, the Mariners, and FGI, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A to this ordinance.

 Section 2. Any acts done consistent with and prior to the effective date of this ordinance, are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _______ day of _______________, 2000. __________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of ________________, 2000. __________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ________________, 2000. __________________ City Clerk

 Exhibit A: Memorandum of Agreement regarding the SR 519 Intermodal Access Project Phases 1, 2 and 3 5/5/2000 version 1

 DRAFT EXHIBIT A MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT regarding the SR 519 Intermodal Access Project Phases 1, 2 and 3 Among the Washington State Department of Transportation a public agency of the State of Washington, City of Seattle a city of the first class of the State of Washington, King County a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, Washington State Major League Baseball Stadium Public Facilities District a municipal corporation and special purpose district of the State of Washington, Port of Seattle a municipal corporation/port district of the State of Washington, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway Company a corporation of the State of Delaware, Washington State Public Stadium Authority a municipal corporation and special purposes district of the State of Washington, The Baseball Club of Seattle, L.P. a Washington limited partnership, and First & Goal, Incorporated a Washington corporation.

 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

 regarding the SR 519 Intermodal Access Project Phases 1, 2 and 3

 This MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), dated this ___ day of May, 2000, is made by and among:

 The WASHINGTON STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, a public agency of the State of Washington (hereinafter "WSDOT");

 The CITY OF SEATTLE, a city of the first class of the State of Washington (hereinafter the "City");

 KING COUNTY, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington (hereinafter the "County");

 The WASHINGTON STATE MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL STADIUM PUBLIC FACILITIES DISTRICT, a municipal corporation and special purpose district of the State of Washington (hereinafter the "PFD");

 The PORT OF SEATTLE, a port district and municipal corporation of the State of Washington (hereinafter the "Port");

 The BURLINGTON NORTHERN AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY, a Delaware State corporation (hereinafter "BNSF");

 (collectively, the "Initial Parties"); and

 The WASHINGTON STATE PUBLIC STADIUM AUTHORITY, a municipal corporation and special purpose district of the State of Washington (hereinafter the "PSA");

 The BASEBALL CLUB OF SEATTLE, L.P., a Washington limited partnership (hereinafter the "Club"); and

 FIRST & GOAL, INCORPORATED, a Washington corporation (hereinafter "FGI");

 (collectively, the "Parties").

 RECITALS

 WHEREAS, WSDOT, the City, the County, the PFD, the Port, BNSF, the PSA, the Club, and FGI desire to improve intermodal access for freight, ferry users and pedestrians along State Route 519 between Interstate 90 ("I-90") and the Seattle waterfront by reducing traffic delay, improving intersections, and separating freight and general purpose traffic; eliminating at-grade railroad crossings for vehicles; and providing grade separated connections between transit facilities and destinations for pedestrians; and

 WHEREAS, in order to promote these goals the Initial Parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding dated March 26, 1997 (the "MOU"), establishing the Initial Parties' agreement relating to project design and financial contributions for final design work for the SR 519 Intermodal Access Project (hereinafter the "Project" or "SR 519"); and

 WHEREAS, some of the terms of the MOU have been implemented, such as the S. Weller St. pedestrian structure over the BNSF mainline tracks, and some of the Initial Parties have contributed funding for the final design process; and

 WHEREAS, WSDOT completed a NEPA and SEPA environmental study of the first phase for the Project, which was overseen by a Technical Steering Committee made up of representatives from the Initial Parties; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties recognize that additional environmental review will be conducted, as appropriate and as described herein, before the Parties can proceed with subsequent phases of the Project, and that such environmental review may result in modifications to the Project or additional measures to mitigate Project impacts; and

 WHEREAS, the Initial Parties have continued to meet regularly since the signing of the MOU, along with the PSA (following its formation) and representatives from the Club and FGI, to further refine the Project design and to resolve certain issues relating to Project implementation; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties wish to memorialize these refinements and agreements in a formal way so that the Project can continue to proceed; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties recognize that the current Agreement does not address all issues relating to the Project, including construction funding, operation and maintenance responsibilities, ownership, liability and other issues; and

 WHEREAS, certain elements of Project will require approvals from the Seattle City Council and from other governmental entities, and these approvals have not yet been obtained; and

 WHEREAS, the inability to obtain needed approvals from the Seattle City Council or from other governmental entities for certain elements of the Project may require revisions to those elements before the Project can proceed; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties' current Agreement modifies, in some respects, the agreements reflected in the MOU, and the Parties intend that the current Agreement supercede the prior MOU where the two are inconsistent; and

 WHEREAS, the Parties do not intend that this Agreement serve as precedent for other agreements that may be entered or have been entered among any of the Parties; and

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual and reciprocal benefits accruing to each of the Parties hereto, it is hereby agreed as follows:

 AGREEMENT

 A. Project Principles. The SR 519 Intermodal Access Project shall be built in phases, with the first phase constructed as soon as design is complete, right of way acquired and construction funding is secured. The second and third phase would be built as soon as the first phase is constructed, environmental review, design and right-of- way are complete, and funding becomes available. The Project phases and their key features are defined as follows:

 1. Phase 1, Stage 1: Geometry and Operations. Phase 1, stage 1 is a structure constructed in the S. Atlantic St. corridor from Occidental Avenue S. to 4th Avenue S. It includes an elevated urban interchange at 4th Avenue S. and 4 ramps connecting to 4th Avenue S. The roadway in this section will be composed of four 11' lanes without shoulders. There will be two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes, and a westbound left turn pocket into the easterly entrance at the north end of the PFD parking garage. The structure will include sidewalks on the north and south sides. A planting strip will not be constructed in this phase. The north sidewalk will be used as a trail for the Mountains to Sound Greenway.

 2. Phase 1, Stage 2: Geometry and Operations. Phase 1, stage 2 is a structure connected to the east end of stage 1, with two lanes eastbound and shoulders, connecting to the existing eastbound I-90 structure in the vicinity of 6th Avenue S. An acceleration lane will be included from the NE ramp to the structure.

 3. Phase 1, Alaskan Way Surface Street Improvements: Geometry and Operation. The Phase 1, Alaskan Way S. surface street improvements will provide northbound and southbound through movement on Alaskan Way S. in addition to providing adequate holding area for ferry users. Also, the improvements will provide freight access to the Port of Seattle terminals. Other components will provide bike and pedestrian elements, and allow for adequate local circulation. To facilitate the operations on Alaskan Way S. between S. Atlantic Street and S. King Street, the BNSF switching track will be relocated to the west.

 4. Phase 2: Geometry. The S. Royal Brougham Way structure will be 54 feet wide. The structure will include bridge barrier on the outside of the structure with a total width of 3', two 12' lanes, one 11' lane (the northernmost lane), a 4' left shoulder (the south side) and a 2' right shoulder, a 10' sidewalk on the south side and bridge rail on the sidewalk, adjacent to the shoulder. The sidewalk shall widen to at least 20 feet in width east of the point where a stair tower connects to the structure. The stair tower shall be built west of the railroad tracks, near the northeast corner of the ballpark, connecting the grade level sidewalk to the sidewalk on the structure. The stair tower stairs will be at least 10 feet wide. The sidewalk on the structure will be connected to the surface east of the railroad tracks in the vicinity of 4th Avenue S. and S. Royal Brougham Way. This connection will include facilities to accommodate disabled (ADA) and bicycle use.

 The S. Royal Brougham Way structure will be approximately 22' north of the SAFECO Field outmost projection of the famayade, and approximately 24' south of the Exhibition Hall outmost projection of the famayade.

 The design of the S. Royal Brougham Way structure will strive to reach the grade of existing Occidental Avenue South no farther west than the east margin of Occidental Avenue South. The design will also strive to locate the touchdown of the structure as far to the east as possible. In addition, the design of the S. Royal Brougham Way ramp will strive to allow, as closely as possible, a level connection from it to the second floor of the PSA parking garage and at the same time allow the largest semi-trucks and boats from the Seattle Boat show to pass underneath to get to the north side of S. Royal Brougham Way, and from there to Occidental Avenue S. and back again.

 A ramp will be constructed from 4th Avenue S. to the S. Royal Brougham Way structure, with an 18 foot driving lane, a 12 foot right shoulder, and a 4 foot left shoulder.

 The reconfigured S. Atlantic St. will have 3 lanes, 2 shoulders, 2 sidewalks and a planting strip north of the north shoulder.

 5. Phase 2: Operations. Traffic exiting I-90 on the S. Royal Brougham Way structure (SR 519) will not be allowed direct access from the S. Royal Brougham Way structure to the PSA Stadium Exhibition Center parking garage. Garage traffic will proceed via S. Royal Brougham Way to 1st Avenue S., then to a street connection between 1st Avenue S. and Occidental Avenue S., thence to the garage.

 The 4th Avenue S. ramp will be designed with a wide shoulder to allow PSA Stadium Exhibition Center parking garage patrons to use the shoulder as a lane prior to events, while the travel lane would be used by both through traffic and garage traffic. After major events, garage patrons would exit in a westbound direction on the S. Royal Brougham Way structure, and eastbound (reversible) on the 4th Avenue S. ramp. Major events include Major League Baseball and Professional Football, or are defined as events with a projected attendance of 25,000 or more, and being a time-specific event. Shoulder driving would be permitted two hours prior to an event, and the reversible operation on the 4th Avenue S. ramp would be permitted for up to one hour after the event. The reversible operation on the 4th Avenue S. ramp would not be allowed during the a.m. or p.m. traffic peak. One lane out of the garage will be allowed access to the S. Royal Brougham Way structure during event ingress, to allow for one-way operation into the garage on the surface street just south of the Exhibition Center.

 Northbound I-5 traffic will not be allowed to exit to the 4th Avenue S. ramp from I-90, but will have to continue on to S. Royal Brougham Way and 1st Avenue S.

 Occidental Avenue S. will be closed at S. Royal Brougham Way, and a street connection will be provided from 1st Avenue S. to Occidental Avenue S. For event ingress and egress, Occidental Avenue S., south of the connection with 1st Avenue S., shall be operated as a two-lane, one-way street (one-way in for ingress and one-way out for egress). North of the connection with 1st Avenue S., Occidental Avenue S. will operate as a two-way street.

 After Phase 2 is constructed, SR 519 will operate with 3 lanes westbound on S. Royal Brougham Way (widening to 4 lanes at the intersection of 1st Avenue S.) and 3 lanes on S. Atlantic St. The design on the S. Atlantic St. structure from Occidental Avenue S. to 4th Avenue S. will allow operation of the structure as either three lanes eastbound, or two lanes eastbound and one lane westbound. An operational review will be conducted by the Parties to determine the most effective channelization and operation of S. Atlantic St. prior to the completion of Phase 2.

 6. Additional Phase 2 Principles. The ramp to the PSA Stadium Exhibition Center parking garage, within the PSA property after the State acquisition, will be funded with non-gas tax dollars and it would be designed, owned, operated and maintained by others than WSDOT. Property and/or air rights owned by the PSA and needed for the 4th Avenue S. ramp, will be donated to WSDOT. The conveyance shall be fee simple.

 Right-of-way outside of the limited access on the S. Royal Brougham Way structure will be turned back to the City (between Occidental Avenue and the 4th Avenue ramp connection into the parking garage).

 Pedestrian plazas at S. Atlantic Street and S. Royal Brougham Way will be developed as an integral part of Phase 2 of the SR 519 project. The Parties will work together to fund the acquisition, design and development of the plazas as part of the Phase 2 funding package. The pedestrian plazas will be designed in conjunction with the relocation of the First Avenue S. access to Occidental Avenue S., with the City of Seattle taking the design lead. The City will also take the lead in the operations and maintenance of the pedestrian facilities.

 West of approximately 4th Avenue S., both the S. Atlantic St. and S. Royal Brougham Way roadways will be designed to fit in with the downtown urban character of the area.

 It is anticipated that additional environmental review will be required to address Phase 2. The Parties will work together to ensure appropriate and timely environmental review as required.

 The Parties continue to support the project, contribute funding and pursue additional funding, while seeking to keep the project costs reasonable. Phase 2 will be constructed after Phase 1, Stage 1 and Phase 1, Stage 2 are constructed, and after the funding is in place for Phase 2.

 Once Phase 2 is completed, the S. Royal Brougham Way at-grade railroad crossing shall be closed to general traffic. However, the crossing is anticipated to be open under special permit to the PSA for Exhibition Center event staging purposes, if the City of Seattle, King County, WSDOT, First and Goal and the Public Stadium Authority enter into a revised agreement relating to the ownership and development of the North Kingdome Parking Lot, the effect of which is to relocate Exhibition Center event staging activities to properties located east of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe mainline track. The crossing may also be open to certain other traffic under special permit from the City.

 A Phase 2 Steering Committee will be formed to review design progress, operational analysis and implementation of Phase 2 operations.

 If there are operational or safety conflicts within the project, they will be evaluated by WSDOT and the City of Seattle, and reviewed by the Parties prior to any modifications of the operations.

 WSDOT, the PFD and King County are developing a separate agreement to address certain financial issues raised by the "Fourth Amendment to the Financing Agreement between the PFD and King County, dated March 18, 1996 (the "Financing Agreement"). Under the Financing Agreement, the County may elect to receive payment or a credit for the value of certain property conveyed from the County to the PFD, if that property is acquired by WSDOT. The 3-party agreement between WSDOT, the PFD and King County addresses (among other things) whether the County will take a credit for the property being acquired by WSDOT, how such credit will be valued, and how the credit may be applied. If the County agrees to the credit approach, the PFD will not seek compensation from WSDOT for the property for which the County receives the credit.

 WSDOT agrees to pay fair market value to the PFD (or provide a credit to the County for the portion of the property previously owned by the County) for the real property being acquired by WSDOT, as well as for improvements, easements (temporary and permanent) and other property interests it acquires from the PFD as necessary for the project and associated costs and fees. The transfer of the property to WSDOT will include provisions regarding the long-term maintenance of and liability for the roadway improvements. After execution of this Agreement, agreement on valuation issues, and execution of the three- party agreement between WSDOT, the County and the PFD, the PFD will enter into a "use and possession" or other agreement with WSDOT, that conveys to the state the rights necessary for proceeding with Phase 1 of the project.

 London Plane trees in the sidewalk north of the SAFECO Field ballpark will either be protected during construction, relocated and replanted after construction, or replaced after the completion of Phase 2 construction.

 7. Phase 3. Phase 3 will be the construction of a southbound SR 99 on-ramp at S. Royal Brougham Way, west of 1st Ave. S.

 (Note: The foregoing description of Project phases and their key features supercedes the description of the Project provided in Attachment A to the MOU).

 B. General Provisions.

 1. Effective When Signed. This Agreement is effective when it is signed by two or more Parties, as to those Parties, after authorization by the Party's respective governing body. This Agreement will be fully effective only when signed by all the Parties.

 2. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including its Recitals, embodies the Parties' entire agreement on the issues covered by it, except as supplemented by subsequent written agreements that the Parties make. All prior negotiations and draft written agreements are merged into and superseded by this Agreement.

 3. Amendment and Modification. This Agreement may be amended by written agreement signed by all of the Parties, in the same manner and at the same level as for the signing of the original Agreement. Modifications to the project principles and design elements contained in Section A of this Agreement may be made according to the following procedure: Minor modifications to those principles and design elements may be made by written agreement among all of the members of the Executive Oversight Committee established under the MOU, the Executive Director of the PSA and a representative from the Club and from FGI. Major modifications to those principles and design elements will require an amendment to this Agreement. If the Parties cannot all agree whether a modification is minor or major, it will be deemed to be a major modification and will require an amendment to the Agreement.

 4. Successors & Assigns. All the terms, provisions and conditions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each Parties' respective successors and assigns.

 5. Waiver. No failure by any of the Parties to insist upon the strict performance of any term, condition, covenant, or duty, of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or any other covenant, agreement, term or condition.

 6. Notices and Communications. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals and communications that may be given by any party to any other party hereunder, and formal communications among the Parties, shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered, personally sent by fax, sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service, or if mailed or deposited in the United States mail and sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid to the following individuals or to their successors in these respective positions:

 WSDOT: Bruce Nebbitt Project Engineer Phone: 464-5374 Fax: 464-6084

 City: Steve Pearce Strategic Planning Office Phone: 684-8080 Fax: 233-0085

 County: Mike Wilkins Assistant Deputy County Executive Phone: 296-4163 Fax: 296-0194

 PFD: Ed Hunter Executive Director Phone: 664-3077 Fax: 664-3194

 Port: Dave Kalberer Manager Regional Transportation Phone: 431-4917 Fax: 431-4496

 BNSF: Mike Cowles Manager Public Projects Phone: 625-6146 Fax: 625-6115

 PSA: Bruce Rooney Project Manager Phone: 205-8600 Fax: 205-8604

 Club: Susan Ranf Director of Transportation Phone: 346-4000 Fax: 346-4350

 FGI: Jim Kelly Vice President Phone: 425-990-7000 Fax: 425-453-1985

 7. Dispute Resolution and Arbitration. The Parties shall use good faith efforts to resolve all claims, disputes and other matters in question between the Parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement, first through discussions of the Executive Oversight Committee (as established under the MOU and supplemented to include the Executive Director of the PSA and a representative from the Club and from FGI), and then through nonbinding arbitration or mediation. If the Parties cannot resolve their dispute pursuant to nonbinding arbitration or mediation, jurisdiction and venue for resolving any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be in the Superior Court of the State of Washington in King County.

 8. No Precedent. This Agreement is unique and the provisions herein are not intended to be used as, and shall not be construed as being a precedent for, an admission regarding, an interpretation or construction of any right or obligation of any party to any other agreement.

 9. Authority. The persons signing below represent and warrant that they have the requisite authority to bind the party on whose behalf they are signing.

 10. Governing Law. This Agreement and the rights of the Parties hereto shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington.

 11. Severability. If any provision contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions had never been contained herein.

 Signatures

 WASHINGTON STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION By: _________________ Signature Print or type name and title Date:

 CITY OF SEATTLE By: Signature Paul Schell, Mayor Print or type name and title Date:

 KING COUNTY By: Signature Ron Sims, County Executive Print or type name and title Date:

 PUBLIC FACILITIES DISTRICT By: Signature Ed Hunter, Executive Director Print or type name and title Date:

 PORT OF SEATTLE By: Signature Mic Dinsmore, Executive Director Print or type name and title Date:

 THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY By: Signature Assistant Vice-President Engineering Print or type name and title Date:

 WASHINGTON STATE PUBLIC Date:

 PUBLIC FACILITIES DISTRICT By: Signature Ed Hunter, Executive Director Print or type name and title Date:

 PORT OF SEATTLE By: Signature Mic Dinsmore, Executive Director Print or type name and title Date:

 THE BURLINGTON NORTHERN AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY By: Signature Assistant Vice-President Engineering Print or type name and title Date:

 WASHINGTON STATE PUBLIC

```
