

********

**Council Bill Number: 113235**
   
**Ordinance Number: 119988**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, declaring property known as Webster Substation located in Seattle, Washington, surplus to the City's needs and not required for providing continued public utility services, authorizing the sale to King County, a political subdivision of the State of Washington, establishing the fair market value therefor, and authorizing the Superintendent of the City Light Department to execute the sale documents. (P.M. #240428-4-301)

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 19, 2000
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Licata, McIver)
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 23, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 30, 2000
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** WILLS
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, CITY-LIGHT, KING-COUNTY, SUBSTATIONS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department, declaring property known as Webster Substation located in Seattle, Washington, surplus to the City's needs and not required for providing continued public utility services, authorizing the sale to King County, a political subdivision of the State of Washington, establishing the fair market value therefor,and authorizing the Superintendent of the City Light Department to execute the sale documents. (P.M.#240428-4-301)

 WHEREAS, King County requested the purchase of Webster Substation for a rectifier site; and

 WHEREAS, the fair market value of Webster Substation property has been determined by an independent appraiser and established to be $55,000.00; and

 WHEREAS, Webster Substation is now surplus to the City's needs and is not and will not be used or be useful for any City Light Department or other municipal purpose; and the Superintendent of City Light has recommended in the attachments hereto the sale and conveyance of Webster Substation to King County;

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to the provision of RCW 35.94.040 and after a public hearing, the following described real property in Seattle, Washington, located at 7204 Beacon Avenue South, formerly known as Webster Substation:

 That portion of Tract 48 and the south 62.00 feet of Tract 45, Somerville, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 63, in King County, Washington, lying northeasterly of the northeasterly margin of Beacon Avenue South, less any portion for street.

 is hereby found and declared to be no longer required for providing public utility service and to be surplus to the City's needs.

 Section 2. The appraised value of said property is hereby found and declared to be Fifty Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($55,000.00).

 Section 3. As requested by the Superintendent of City Light and recommended by the Mayor in the attachments hereto, said Superintendent is authorized to offer said surplus

 property to King County, for and in consideration of Fifty Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($55,000.00), in accordance with the terms of the Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "A", and to execute a Special Warranty Deed, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "B".

 Section 4. Proceeds from the sale of the property shall be deposited in the Light Fund.

 Section 5. Any act pursuant to the authority of this ordinance and prior to its effective date is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 PASSED by the City Council the ______ day of ______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this ______ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this __________ day of _________________, 2000.

 __________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Vers. 1

 DF:df

 May 8, 2000

 surplus EXHIBIT "A"

 REAL ESTATE PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 This Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement ("Agreement") is made and entered into by and between King County, a political subdivision of the State of Washington ("Buyer)", and the City of Seattle, a municipal corporation ("Seller"). Seller agrees to sell, convey, transfer, and assign to Buyer and Buyer agrees to purchase the real property located in Seattle, Washington legally described on Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein together with all improvements and rights appurtenant to the real property ("Property") subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement as follows:

 1. Purchase Price. The total purchase price for the Property is Fifty-Five

 Thousand Dollars (US$55,000) ("Purchase Price"). The Purchase Price will be paid in cash at closing.

 2. Conditions Precedent

 2.1 Conditions Precedent to Buyer's Obligations. The obligations of

 Buyer hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the Closing Date (as defined in Section 4.1, which conditions are for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived only in writing by Buyer, as follows:

 2.1.1 Certificate of Non-foreign Status. Seller shall have

 executed and delivered to Buyer prior to or on the Closing Date a Certificate of Non-foreign Status in form and in substance acceptable to Buyer.

 2.1.2 Compliance With Obligations. Seller shall have performed and

 complied in all material aspects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Seller.

 2.1.3 Title and Survey Matters.

 (a) Title Binder. The Seller authorizes Closing Agent to apply for,

 obtain and deliver to Buyer, within twenty (20) days after the execution and delivery of this Agreement, a preliminary commitment for a 1970-B ALTA owner's extended title insurance policy issued by a Title Company acceptable to Buyer describing the Property, showing all matters pertaining to the Property, listing Buyer as the prospective named insured and showing as the policy amount the total Purchase Price. At the same time, the Title Company shall also deliver to Buyer true, correct and legible copies of all documents (the "Title Documents") referred to in such title commitment as conditions or exceptions to title to the Property (such title insurance policy commitment and the Title Documents are collectively referred to herein as the "Title Binder").

 (b) Title Objections. Buyer shall have until ten (10) days after

 delivery to Buyer of the Title Binder, to approve or disapprove of the exceptions, in Buyer's sole and absolute disapproval of an exception set forth in the title Binder, Buyer shall be deemed to have waived such exception. If Buyer disapproves of an exception, then at any time thereafter Buyer may (I) provide the seller with such reasonable period of time within which to remove the exceptions, in which event the date of Closing shall be extended if necessary until said exceptions have been removed, (ii) attempt to remove the exceptions, in which event the date of closing shall be extended until the exceptions have been removed, (iii0 terminate this Agreement by delivery of a notice thereof to the Seller and Escrow Agent, in which event all of the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall terminate, or (iv) close the purchase of the Property subject to such uncured objections, in which event the uncured objections shall be deemed to be Permitted  Exceptions and shall be included as exceptions in the Title Policy to be delivered to Buyer at Closing.

 2.1.4 Property Inspection

. Buyer shall have inspected and approved, in its

 sole and absolute discretion, the physical condition of the Property (the "Property Inspection"), including, without limitation, structural studies, review of fire, safety, toxic and hazardous waste studies. If the Property Inspection indicates, in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion, that the Property is not suitable for Buyer's intended purposes, then Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by sending written notice to the Seller and Closing Agent, and neither Buyer nor Seller shall have any further liability to the other under this Agreement. Buyer shall complete the Property Inspection and make such determination within forty-five (45) days from the execution of this Agreement.

 2.2 Conditions Precedent to Seller's Obligations. The obligations of

 Seller hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment and satisfaction of the following conditions prior to or on the Closing Date, which conditions are the benefit of Seller and may be waived only in writing by Seller, as follows:

 2.2.1 Compliance with obligations. Buyer shall have performed and

 complied in all material respects, at the appropriate times for such performance and compliance, with the obligations, covenants, and agreements under this Agreement to be performed by Buyer.

 2.2.2 Approval. The Seattle City Council shall have approved this transaction

 by ordinance and the ordinance shall be in full force and effect.

 3. Representations, Warranties and Covenants

 3.1 Seller's Warranties. As additional consideration for this sale, Seller

 represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive Closing and shall not be merged in any deed delivered by Seller to Buyer at Closing.

 3.1.1 Brokerage Fees. Seller has incurred no finder's,

 broker's, or other commissions or fees payable to any person in connection with the sale of the Property. Seller shall indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any liability for such commissions or fees.

 3.2 Buyer's Warranties. As additional consideration for this purchase,

 Buyer represents, warrants, and covenants as follows, which representations, warranties, and covenants shall survive closing.

 3.2.1 Brokerage Fees

. Buyer represents, warrants, and covenants that Buyer

 has not employed any broker or finder in connection with the purchase of the Property.

 4. Closing

 4.1 Time for Closing. This sale will be closed in the office of the

 Closing Agent, Chicago Title and Escrow at 701 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1800, Seattle, Washington 98104, not later than (180) days after approval of this transaction as set forth in Section 2.2.2. Buyer and Seller will deposit in escrow with Closing Agent all instruments, documents and monies necessary to complete the sale in accordance with this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, "Closing" or "Date of Closing" means the date on which all appropriate documents are recorded and proceeds of sale are available for disbursement to Seller in accordance with this Agreement.

 4.2 Prorations; Closing Costs. Taxes and drainage service fees

 for the current year will be prorated as of the Date of Closing. Buyer will pay the premium for its owner's title insurance policy, the cost of recording the special warranty deed, and one half of the Closing Agent'' escrow fee. Seller shall pay for costs of clearing title (if any) and one-half of the Closing Agent's escrow fee.

 4.3 Closing Documents. At Closing, Seller will execute and deliver to Buyer (a) a special warranty deed conveying Seller's interest in the Property, (b) a real estate excise tax affidavit, and (c) a Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act ("FIRPTA") affidavit.

 4.4 Possession. Buyer shall be entitled to possession of the Property upon Closing.

 5.5 Default. If Seller's conditions precedent are satisfied or waived

 and Seller fails or refuses to close this transaction through no fault of Buyer, Buyer may seek specific performance of this Agreement or such other remedies as Buyer may elect. If title to the Property is insurable subject only to the Permitted Exceptions, Buyer's conditions precedent are satisfied or waived and if Buyer fails or refuses to close this transaction through no fault of Seller, then Seller may seek specific performance of this Agreement or such other remedies as Seller may elect.

 6. Notices. All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing

 and shall either be delivered in person or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed received on the earlier or actual receipt of two (2) days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, addressed to Seller or Buyer at the address set forth below:

 Buyer: King County Department of Transportation

 Real Estate Division

 201 S. Jackson Street, M/S KSC-TR-0431

 Seattle, Washington 98104-1598

 Attention: Johnnie A. Butler

 Seller: Seattle City Light

 Real Estate Services

 700 Fifth Avenue

 Suite 3300

 Seattle, Washington 98104-5031

 Attention: David Flores

 Notice of change of address shall be given by written notice in the manner detailed above.

 7. General Provisions. This is the entire agreement of Buyer and Seller

 with respect to the Property and supersedes all prior agreements between them, written or oral. This Agreement may be modified only in writing, signed by Buyer and Seller. Any waivers under this Agreement must be in writing. A waiver of any right or remedy in the event of a default will not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy in the event of any subsequent default. This Agreement is for the benefit of, and binding upon, Buyer and Seller and their heirs, personal representative, successors and assigns. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.

 8. Releases. Seller makes no representation or warranty as to the

 environmental condition of the property. Buyer hereby agrees to release Seller from all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs and expenses, including attorney, contractor and consultant fees, arising from the presence or suspected presence of hazardous substances on the Property or migrating off the Property. Seller hereby agrees to release Buyer from all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs and expenses, including attorney, contractor and consultant fees, arising from the presence or suspected presence of hazardous substances on the Property or migrating off the Property. "Hazardous substance" is defined as follows:

 Any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material defined

 As such in (or for purposes of) the Comprehensive Environmental

 Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, the Washington

 Model Toxics Control Act, as amended, any so-called Superfund or

 Superlien law, or any other federal, state or local statue, law, ordinance,

 code, rule, regulation, order or decree regulating, relating to or imposing

 liability or standards of conduct concerning any hazardous, toxic or

 dangerous waste, substance or material as now in effect, and any other

 chemical, material or substance, exposure to which is prohibited, limited

 or regulated by any federal, state or local government authority pursuant

 to any environmental health and safety or similar law, code, ordinance,

 rule, regulation, order or decree and which may or could pose a hazard

 to the health and safety of occupants or users of the Property or any

 part thereof.

 9. Disclaimer. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY SET FORTH

 IN THIS AGREEMENT: (A) BUYER ACCEPTS THE PROPERTY "AS IS" AND "WHERE IS;" (B) SELLER MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AND SHALL NOT IN ANY WAY BE LIABLE FOR OR WITH RESPECT TO THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY OR ANY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES OR IMPROVEMENTS THEREON FOR BUYER'S INTENDED USE OR ANY USE WHATSOEVER; AND (C) BUYER ASSUMES THE RESPONSIBILITY AND RISKS OF THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY. BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT BUYER WILL BE RELYING ON ITS OWN INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY, EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.1.4 .

 10. Binding Effect. The Agreement shall not be binding upon Buyer until

 executed by both Seller and Buyer.

 Signed in duplicate original.

 SELLER:

 Date: ______________ THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: Gary Zarker, Superintendant

 City Light Department

 BUYER:

 Date: ______________ KING COUNTY

 By: ______________________________

 Rick C. Walsh, General Manager

 King County Metro Transit

EXHIBITS

Exhibit A - Legal Description

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of ___________________, 2000, before me, the undersigned, a notary public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared

 Gary Zarker, to me known to be the Superintendant of the City Light Department of the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation that executed the foregoing Agreement, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she is authorized to execute the said instrument on behalf of said municipal corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 _________________________________

 Printed Name: David Flores

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 Of Washington, residing at Seattle

 My commission expires: 09/15/03

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of _________________, 2000, before me, the undersigned, a notary public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared

 Rick C. Walsh, to me known to be the General Manager of Metro Transit of King County, a political subdivision of the State of Washington that executed the foregoing Agreement, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said County, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she is authorized to execute the said instrument on behalf of said County.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 ________________________________ Printed Name: Johnnie A. Butler

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State

 Of Washington, residing at Seattle.

 My Commission expires: 06/08/03

 EXHIBIT A

 THAT PORTION OF TRACT 48 AND THE SOUTH 62 FEET OF TRACT 45, SOMERVILLE, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF, RECORDED IN VOLUME 2 OF PLATE, PAGE 63, IN KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, LYING NORTHEASTERLY OF THE NORTHEASTERLY MARGIN OF BEACON AVENUE SOUTH, LESS ANY PORTION FOR STREET.

 surplus EXHIBIT "B"

 SEATTLE CITY LIGHT

 Real Estate Services

 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 2808

 Seattle, WA 98104-5031

 SPECIAL WARRANTY DEED

 P.M.#240428-4-301

 King County Assessor's No. 785700-3150

 THE GRANTOR, THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, for and in consideration of Fifty Five Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($55,000.00) and other good and valuable consideration, in hand paid, grants, bargains and conveys to KING COUNTY, a political subdivision of the State of Washington, the following described real property, situated in the County of King, State of Washington, together with all after acquired title of the grantor therein:

 That portion of Tract 48 and the south 62.00 feet of Tract 45, Somerville, according to the plat thereof, recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 63, in King County, Washington, lying northeasterly of the northeasterly margin of Beacon Avenue South, less any portion for street.

 PURSUANT TO the provisions of Ordinance No. ____________ of the City of Seattle, said City has caused this instrument to be executed by its Superintendent of City Light, thereunto duly authorized this _____day of _______________, 20____.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE,

 a municipal corporation

 By:______________________________

 Gary Zarker, Superintendent

 City Light Department

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that GARY ZARKER signed this instrument, on oath stated that he was authorized to execute this instrument and acknowledged it as Superintendent of City Light of The City of Seattle to be the free and voluntary act of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Date________________________

 _____________________________

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the

 State of Washington,

 residing at ____________________

 Commission Expires:__________

 surplus

```
