

********

**Council Bill Number: 113274**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120035**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a Lease Agreement with Tilden Investments LLC for the City to lease certain real property adjacent to Seattle Center.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** July 17, 2000
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** July 24, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** July 24, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 19, 2000
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, LEASES, QUEEN-ANNE, MAINTENANCE, FACILITIES

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a Lease Agreement with Tilden Investments LLC for the City to lease certain real property adjacent to Seattle Center.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a lease agreement with Tilden Investments LLC substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN TILDEN INVESTMENTS LLC ANDTHE CITY OF SEATTLE" under which the City of Seattle agrees to lease certain real property commonly known as 621 Second Avenue North adjacent to Seattle Center.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachments

 LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN TILDEN INVESTMENTS LLC ANDTHE CITY OF SEATTLE

 nd

 F:

 6/13/00

 V #1 LEASE (TRIPLE NET)

 THIS LEASE AGREEMENT (the "Lease") is made and entered into this _____ day of July, 2000, by and between TILDEN INVESTMENTS LLC, a Washington limited liability company ("Landlord") and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a first-class city of the State of Washington ("Tenant").

 1. PREMISES.

 1.1 Lease to Tenant. In consideration of the rents to be paid and the covenants and agreements hereinafter provided which Landlord and Tenant hereby agrees to keep and perform, Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby leases from Landlord certain real property situated in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, commonly known as 621 Second Avenue North and more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein (the "Land") together with the two-story building and other improvements now or hereafter constructed on the Land (the "Building"). The Land and the Building are hereinafter referred to collectively as the Premises.

 1.2 Condition of Premises. Tenant has had an opportunity to and has conducted an investigation of the Premises and is generally knowledgeable and familiar with the present condition and state of repair of the Premises. Tenant acknowledges that the Building was built in 1948 and many of the Building systems are original. Tenant acknowledges that, except to the extent expressly set forth in this Lease, neither Landlord nor any agent of Landlord has made any representation or warranty with respect to the Premises or with respect to the suitability or fitness of the Premises for the conduct of Tenant's business or any other purposes. Prior to the Commencement Date of this Lease, Landlord shall ensure that the Building roll-up doors and the existing mechanical and electrical systems in the Building are in good operating condition and state of repair. Landlord shall install a new roof membrane on the Building at Landlord's cost within sixty (60) days following the date of this Lease. Landlord expressly disclaims any representation regarding the floor load capacity of the Building, and makes no representation or warranty regarding the adequacy of the floor load capacity of the Building for Tenant's intended purposes, or any other purposes. Except as set forth above, Tenant shall take possession of the Premises in their current "AS IS" condition and state of repair. The parties agree that Landlord shall not be responsible for performing any alterations or improvements to the Premises which may be required as a result of Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises, including, but not limited to, any alterations or improvements to the Premises required to comply with The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, nor shall Landlord be required to make any other alterations, repairs or improvements to the Premises. The taking of possession or use of the Premises by Tenant for the conduct of its business shall conclusively establish that the Premises were at such time in satisfactory condition and state of repair, and without any representation or warranty by Landlord, express or implied, and expressly without recourse to Landlord as to the physical condition or suitability of the Premises for Tenant's intended purposes.

 2. TERM.

 2.1 Term. This Lease shall be for a term of ten (10) years ("Term") commencing on the 17th day of July, 2000 ("Commencement Date") and shall terminate on the last day of July, 2010, unless sooner terminated as provided in this Lease, subject to Tenant's right to extend the Term in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.2 and 22 of this Lease.

 2.2 Options to Extend. Provided Tenant is not in default, and there is no event that with the giving of notice, the passage of time or both would constitute an Event of Default under this Lease, Tenant shall have three (3) options to renew the Term of this Lease for additional terms of five (5) years each (each, an "Option Period"), subject to the provisions of Section 22 of this Lease.

 3. RENT.

 Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant shall pay to Landlord without deduction, offset, prior notice or demand, in advance on the first day of each month during the term hereof, Fixed Rent and Additional Rent each as defined below, in lawful money of the United States at Landlord's address as set forth in Section 19.15 of this Lease or as Landlord may from time to time otherwise designate in writing. Fixed Rent and Additional Rent for any partial month shall be prorated on a daily basis at the rate of 1/30 of the Fixed Rent or any Rent then due. "Rent" shall mean Fixed Rent, Additional Rent and any other monetary sum required to be paid by Tenant to Landlord under this Lease.

 3.1 Fixed Rent. Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant shall pay Landlord without deduction, offset, prior notice or demand, in advance on the first day of each month during the Term of this Lease, Fixed Rent for the Premises according to the following schedule:

 Lease Period Total Fixed Rent Per Month Months 1-12 $ 18,500.00

 Commencing on the first day of July, 2001 and on the first day of each July thereafter until the expiration of the Term of this Lease, Fixed Rent shall be increased each year by the percentage change, if any, in the monthly Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, United States Average for All Items (1982-84=100) published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor ("CPI") from the CPI last published for the preceding Lease Year, but not to exceed five percent (5%) for any Lease Year. Lease Year shall mean the first twelve (12) full calendar months of the Term and each succeeding twelve (12) month period thereafter. The base period for each annual adjustment shall be the monthly CPI most recently published prior to the beginning of the preceding Lease Year commencing with the monthly CPI most recently published prior to July 1, 2000. If, during any Lease Year for which CPI increases apply, there is a decline in the CPI Index, then the Fixed Rent during the succeeding Lease Year shall equal the Fixed Rent payable during the immediately preceding Lease Year. In the event of any change in the index base (1982-84=100) or other modification of the CPI index, or in the event the CPI is discontinued, the parties shall mutually agree on a substitute index of comparable statistics on the cost of living for the county in which the Premises is located as shall be computed by an agency of the United States or by a responsible financial periodical or other recognized authority.

 3.2 Additional Rent. All amounts which Tenant is required to pay to Landlord pursuant to this Lease (other than Fixed Rent) shall constitute additional rent ("Additional Rent") whether or not the same be designated as Additional Rent. Tenant shall perform all its obligations under this Lease at its sole cost and expense, and shall promptly pay to Landlord all Additional Rent. Tenant shall also promptly pay to all third parties any other sums required to be paid by Tenant under this Lease, when the same shall be due and payable and in all events prior to delinquency, without notice or demand, deduction or offset, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Lease.

 3.3 Triple Net Lease. This Lease is of the type commonly known as a "triple net lease", it being understood that Landlord shall receive the Rent set forth in Section 3 hereof free and clear of any and all impositions, Taxes, liens, charges or expenses of any nature whatsoever in connection with the ownership, operation, use, maintenance and repair of the Premises except those which are Landlord's responsibility under Section 8.1 hereof. In addition to the Rent specified in Section 3 hereof, Tenant shall pay to the parties respectively entitled thereto all impositions, insurance premiums, Utilities, Taxes, Operating Expenses, maintenance charges, repair costs, and any other charges, costs and expenses which arise or may be contemplated under any provisions of this Lease during the Term hereof; provided, however, that where this Lease provides payment shall be in the form of reimbursement to Landlord, that procedure shall apply. To the extent they are undisputed by Tenant, all of such charges, costs and expenses shall constitute Additional Rent and upon the failure of Tenant to pay any of such costs, charges or expenses, Landlord shall have the same rights and remedies as otherwise provided in this Lease for the failure of Tenant to pay Rent.

 4. SECURITY DEPOSIT.

 As partial consideration for the execution of this Lease, Tenant has paid Landlord the sum of $18,500.00 (the "Security Deposit"), the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged. Said sum shall be held by Landlord as a security deposit for the faithful performance by Tenant of all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease to be kept and performed by Tenant during the Term hereof. If Tenant defaults with respect to any provision of this Lease, including, but not limited to, the provisions relating to the payment of Rent, Landlord may (but shall not be required to) use, apply or retain all or any part of this Security Deposit for the payment of any other amount which Landlord may spend by reason of Tenant's default or to compensate Landlord for any other loss or damage which Landlord may suffer by reason of Tenant's default. If any portion of said Security Deposit is so used or applied, Tenant shall, within ten (10) days after written demand therefore, deposit cash with Landlord in an amount sufficient to restore the Security Deposit to its original amount; Tenant's failure to do so shall constitute an event of default under this Lease. Landlord shall deposit the Security Deposit in an interest bearing savings or checking account at a financial institution located in the State of Washington. Interest on the Security Deposit shall inure to the benefit of the party entitled to the Security Deposit. If Tenant shall fully and faithfully perform every provision of this Lease to be performed by it, the Security Deposit or any balance thereof, including all interest accrued thereon, shall be returned to Tenant (or, at Landlord's option, to the last permitted assignee of Tenant's interests hereunder) at the expiration of the Lease Term and after Tenant has vacated the Premises. In the event of any sale, transfer or assignment of Landlord's interest under this Lease, Landlord shall transfer said Security Deposit to Landlord's successor in interest whereupon Tenant agrees to release Landlord from liability for the return of such Security Deposit or any accounting therefor.

 5. TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS.

 5.1 Payment by Tenant. Tenant shall pay Landlord for all ad valorem real property taxes during the Term of this Lease within thirty (30) days following receipt by Tenant of a property tax bill; provided, however, that in the event Landlord is entitled to pay real property taxes in semi-annual installments, Tenant shall be entitled to pay Landlord real property taxes in semi-annual installments so long as Tenant pays Landlord the first installment no later than April 1 of each year and pays Landlord the second installment no later than October 1 of each year. In the event Tenant fails to pay Landlord any installment of real property taxes on or before the dates set forth above, Tenant shall pay Landlord the entire amount shown in Landlord's real property tax statement, including any interest or penalties resulting from Tenant's failure to make timely payment of real property taxes or any installment thereof, within thirty (30) days following receipt. With the exception of ad valorem real property taxes, Tenant shall pay all Taxes directly to the applicable governmental agency at least thirty (30) days prior to delinquency and shall provide proof of such payment to Landlord promptly upon request.

 5.2 Definition. "Taxes" means all real and personal property taxes and assessments (including assessments for public improvements), license and permit fees, charges for public utilities, leasehold excise taxes, other excise taxes, levies, sales, use and occupancy taxes, business and occupation taxes, all gross receipts or similar taxes (i.e., taxes based upon gross income which fail to take into account deductions with respect to depreciation, interest, taxes or ordinary and necessary business expenses relating to the Premises), any tax or charge assessed against the Rent or fair market value of the Premises and any taxes levied or assessed in addition to or in lieu of, in whole or in part, such taxes, assessments or other charges and all other governmental impositions and charges of every kind and nature, general and special, ordinary and extraordinary, foreseen and unforeseen of every character (including interest and penalties thereon) which at any time during or in respect of the Term may be imposed, levied upon or assessed against or which arise with respect to or constitute a lien upon the Building, the Premises (or any part thereof), the leasehold estate created by this Lease or any part thereof, or any estate, right or interest therein, or any occupancy, use or possession of or activity conducted on the Premises or any part thereof. To the extent Taxes, assessments or other charges can be paid in installments, Tenant may pay such Taxes in installments and shall only be liable for Taxes from and after the Commencement Date of this Lease. With respect to any general or special assessments which may be levied against or upon the Premises, or which under the Laws then in force may be evidenced by improvement or other bonds or may be paid in annual installments, only the amount of such annual installment, and interest due thereon, shall be included within the computation of Taxes. Tenant's obligation to pay such Taxes shall  survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

 5.3 Personal Property Taxes. Tenant shall pay prior to delinquency all personal property taxes assessed against and levied upon Tenant's furnishings, equipment and all other of Tenant's personal property contained in the Premises. If possible, Tenant shall cause Tenant's furnishings, equipment and all other of Tenant's personal property to be assessed and billed separately from the Premises. If any Taxes on Tenant's personal property or trade fixtures are levied against Landlord or, if the assessed valuation of the Premises are increased by the inclusion therein of a value attributable to Tenant's personal property or trade fixtures, and if Landlord, after written notice to Tenant, pays the Taxes based upon such increase in the assessed value, then Tenant shall upon demand repay to Landlord the Taxes so levied against Landlord.

 5.4 Further Improvements. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 5 to the contrary, Tenant shall pay any increase in Taxes resulting from any and all improvements of any kind whatsoever placed on or in the Premises at the request of Tenant regardless of whether said improvements were installed or constructed by Landlord or Tenant.

 5.5 Changes in Taxes. The Rent provided for in this Lease is exclusive of any sales or other tax or charge upon, based upon or measured by rents payable to Landlord hereunder, or any tax or other charge based upon or measured by the numbers of employees of Tenant, or any other tax that is not currently in effect. If at any time during the Term of this Lease there is levied or assessed against Landlord a federal, state or local tax or excise tax on rent, or any other tax however described on account of rent or gross receipts received by Landlord from Tenant's use or occupation of the Premises, Tenant shall, to the extent permitted by law, pay all of such tax or excise tax. Taxes shall also include any increase in taxes resulting from Tenant's use of, or any change in Tenant's use of, the Premises or any reassessment or increase in valuation of the Premises, including, but not limited to, any reassessment as a result of tenant improvements made to the Premises by Tenant.

 6. USE OF THE PREMISES.

 6.1 Use. Tenant may use and occupy the Premises solely for carpentry and maintenance shops, storage and related administrative uses (collectively, the "Permitted Use") and for no other purpose without the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Tenant agrees that it has determined to its satisfaction that the Premises can be used for the Permitted Use. Tenant waives any right to terminate this Lease if the Premises cannot be used for the Permitted Use during the Term.

 6.2 Compliance with Laws. Tenant, at its expense, shall promptly comply with (a) all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations and other governmental rules, orders and determinations now or hereafter in effect, whether or not presently contemplated, applicable to the Premises, or its ownership, operation, use or possession (collectively, "Legal Requirements"), including, without limitation, all those relating to building codes, zoning or other land use matters, The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, life safety requirements, environmental compliance with respect to the handling, treatment, storage, disposal, discharge, use and transportation of Hazardous Substances, and (b) all insurance policies, to the extent necessary to prevent cancellation and to ensure full payment of all claims made under such policies, covenants, conditions and restrictions and all other agreements applicable to the Premises and its ownership, operation, use or possession (collectively, "Agreements"), which compliance includes the making of any and all required physical alterations or structural changes to the Premises, except for those items, if any, that are the responsibility of Landlord under Section 8.1 or Section 13 hereof. If any governmental license or permit shall be required for the proper and lawful use of the Premises, Tenant shall at its expense obtain and thereafter maintain such license or permit in full force and effect and in compliance with all conditions or requirements set forth therein.

 6.3 Uses Prohibited.

 (a) Tenant shall not knowingly do or permit anything to be done in or about the Premises nor bring or keep anything therein which will in any way increase the existing rate or affect any fire or other insurance upon the Premises or the Building or any of its contents (unless Tenant shall pay any increased premium as a result of such use or acts), or cause a cancellation of any insurance policy covering said Premises or said Building or any part thereof or any of its contents, nor shall Tenant sell or permit to be kept, used or sold in or about said Premises any articles which may be prohibited by a standard form policy of fire insurance.

 (b) Tenant shall not allow the Premises to be used for any unlawful purpose, nor shall Tenant cause, maintain or permit any public or private nuisance in, on or about the Premises. Tenant shall not commit or suffer to be committed any waste in or upon the Premises. Tenant shall not, without the prior written consent of Landlord which may be withheld in Landlord's sole discretion, use, operate or maintain any apparatus, machinery, equipment or device in or about the Premises that will cause any noise beyond the levels permitted by law, increase electrical loads or usage, or cause vibration of or structural damage to the Building, or device and in the event of any such use or operation, then Tenant shall cease operating such apparatus, machinery, equipment or device until it has provided adequate insulation or taken such other action as Landlord shall reasonably require to eliminate or minimize the disturbance.

 (c) Tenant shall not use the Premises or permit anything to be done in or about the Premises which will in any way conflict with any law, statute, ordinance or governmental rule or regulation or requirement of duly constituted public authorities now in force or which may hereafter be enacted or promulgated.

 (d) Tenant shall not, without the prior written consent of Landlord, use any device in the Premises, including, without limitation, computer equipment, data processing machines or telecommunications equipment which will in any way increase the amount of ventilation, air exchange, gas, steam, electricity or water beyond the existing capacity of the Building or the Premises.

 6.4 Exterior Fixtures. Tenant shall not install exterior lighting fixtures, shades or awnings or do any exterior decoration or paint, or make any structural alterations to the Building or the Premises without the prior written consent of Landlord.

 6.5 Advertising and Signs. Tenant may install directional and identification signage to identify entrances and exits on the exterior of the Building with the prior written consent of Landlord which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Tenant shall not place any other signage on the exterior of the Building or the Premises or on any exterior door or wall or the exterior or interior of any window thereof, or on any part of the interior of the Premises visible from the exterior thereof, (except as required by law) or any advertising matter, and shall not place any decoration, letter or other thing of any kind on the glass of any window or door to the Premises visible from the exterior thereof (except as required by law) without the prior written consent of Landlord. Landlord hereby reserves the exclusive right to use for any purpose whatsoever the roof of the Building; provided, however, Landlord shall not install any advertising materials or billboards on the roof of the Building. Upon the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease, Tenant at Landlord's request shall remove all signs, advertising matters or decorations at Tenant's sole cost and expense and repair any resulting damage to the Premises and the Building.

 6.6 Building Rules. Tenant shall observe such reasonable rules related to the Premises as may be adopted from time to time by Landlord and delivered to Tenant provided such rules do not conflict with the express terms of this Lease.

 7. UTILITIES AND SERVICES.

 7.1 Building Utilities. Building access, electricity, the cooling, heating and ventilating system (HVAC), water and sewer shall be available at the Premises at all times. Tenant shall pay when due and directly to the appropriate utility company all bills for separately metered Utilities to the Premises, and shall reimburse Landlord for the cost of all other Utilities provided to the Premises. Tenant shall provide its own janitorial service using a company reasonably approved by Landlord.

 7.2 Additional Utility Capacity. If Tenant has mechanical, cooling, heating, ventilation, electrical or other requirements for utility services in excess of the existing electrical, HVAC, mechanical, plumbing or other building systems presently installed in the Premises or in the event that any existing building or utility systems presently installed on the Premises, including, but not limited to, the fire sprinkler system, needs to be relocated or modified to accommodate any improvement Tenant elects to make to the Building in accordance with Section 8.3 of this Lease, then the cost of furnishing, installing, relocating, upgrading, renovating, operating and maintaining the equipment and appurtenances thereto shall be borne by Tenant. Before installing lights or equipment or making use of the Premises in excess of the capacity or design of existing Building systems, Tenant shall obtain the prior written permission of Landlord. Landlord may refuse to grant such permission unless Tenant shall agree to pay all costs to install supplementary air conditioning capacity or electrical systems or other upgrades, relocation, renovation or revisions to Building systems as necessitated by such equipment or lights or if the equipment or lights requested by Tenant will, in Landlord's reasonable judgment, overburden the Building's structure or mechanical, HVAC, plumbing or electrical system(s), even if supplemented at Tenant's expense.

 7.3 Telephone and Data Transmission. Tenant shall have the right to install telephone and data communication systems in the Premises. Tenant shall pay for such services directly to the appropriate telephone or data processing company or other service provider.

 7.4 No Parking. Parking is not provided at the Premises and the Rent payable under this Lease does not include any right to parking spaces either at the Premises or elsewhere. Tenant acknowledges that the only on-site parking available at the Premises is in the four loading bays on the first floor of the Building and one loading bay serving the second floor of the Building.

 7.5 No Landlord Liability. Landlord shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused by or resulting from any variation, interruption or failure of any utility services due to any cause whatsoever except for loss or damage directly caused by the willful misconduct of Landlord, its agents or employees, and no temporary interruption or failure of such services incident to the making of repairs, alterations or improvements or due to accident or strike conditions shall be deemed an eviction of Tenant or relieve Tenant from any of Tenant's obligations hereunder. In the event of such failure not directly caused by the willful misconduct of Landlord, its agents or employees, Tenant shall not be entitled to any abatement or reduction of Rent. Tenant shall have the right to take all steps Tenant reasonably deems necessary at Tenant's sole cost to obtain the resumption of interrupted utility services or to obtain alternative sources of utility services.

 8. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS.

 8.1 Landlord's Obligations. Except for damage caused in whole or in part by any negligent or intentional act or omission of Tenant, Tenant's agents, employees or invitees, Landlord, at Landlord's expense, shall keep in good order, condition and repair the foundations, exterior walls (but not windows) and the structural components of roof (excluding gutters and downspouts, which Tenant shall keep clear of leaves and other debris). Landlord shall not be obligated to paint the exterior, nor shall Landlord be required to maintain any windows, doors or plate glass nor the interior surface of exterior walls. Landlord shall have no obligation to make repairs under this Section 8.1 until a reasonable time (not to exceed sixty (60) days) after receipt of written notice of the need for such repairs.

 8.2 Tenant's Obligations. Subject to the provisions of Section 8.1 above, Tenant, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, shall keep in good order, condition and repair the Premises and every part thereof, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all plumbing, heating, air conditioning and ventilating, electrical and lighting facilities and equipment within the Premises, fixtures, interior walls, ceilings, windows, doors, plate glass and skylights located within the Premises, the nonstructural components of the roof and all sidewalks, landscaping, driveways, loading docks, parking lots, fences, signs and other such items located in the areas which are included within the Premises. If mechanical, electrical or other building systems as may be specified by Landlord from time to time require attention or repair, Tenant shall (except in case of emergency) first notify Landlord in writing prior to such attention or repair. Although maintenance of such systems shall still be the obligation of Tenant, Landlord may, if Tenant fails to do so, repair such systems and charge Tenant for same.

 In the event Tenant fails to maintain the Premises in good order, condition and repair, Landlord shall give Tenant notice to do such acts as are reasonably required to so maintain the Premises. In the event Tenant fails to commence such work within ten (10) days following written notice and/or fails to diligently prosecute such work to completion, then Landlord shall have the right to do such acts and expend such funds at the expense of Tenant as are reasonably required to perform such work. Any amount so expended by Landlord shall be paid by Tenant promptly after demand as Additional Rent together with interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date incurred until paid in full. Landlord shall have no liability to Tenant for any damage, inconvenience or interference with the use of the Premises by Tenant as a result of performing any such work. Nothing in this Lease shall imply any duty or obligation upon the part of Landlord to do any such work or to make any such alterations and repairs and the performance thereof by Landlord shall not constitute a waiver of Tenant's default in failing to perform the same.

 Subject to the terms of Section 13 relating to damage and destruction, upon expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Lease, whether by lapse of time or otherwise (including any holdover period), Tenant at its expense shall: (a) remove all of Tenant's moveable personal property, goods and effects and those of all persons claiming under Tenant from the Premises; (b) remove all telecommunications and computer network wiring and cabling, to the extent required by Landlord, and (c) promptly and peacefully surrender the Premises (including surrender of all tenant improvements and other attached equipment and/or other alterations, additions or improvements installed in the Premises by Landlord or Tenant). Provided Landlord so informed Tenant at the time the improvements were made, Tenant shall repair and restore the Premises or any applicable portion thereof, to the same condition as received by Tenant from Landlord, reasonable wear and tear excepted. Any property left on the Premises more than thirty (30) days after the expiration or termination of the Lease Term shall be deemed to have been abandoned and to have become the property of Landlord to dispose of as Landlord deems expedient and Tenant shall be liable for all costs associated with the disposal of such property. Tenant hereby waives all claims for damages that may be caused by Landlord re-entering and taking possession of the Premises or removing and storing Tenant's property as herein provided, and Tenant shall indemnify and hold Landlord harmless therefrom. No such reentry shall be considered or construed to be a forcible entry.

 Tenant agrees to repair any damage to the Premises caused by or in connection with the removal of any articles of personal property, business or trade fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture or movable partitions including, without limitation thereto, repairing the floor and patching and painting the walls where required by Landlord to Landlord's reasonable satisfaction all at Tenant's sole cost and expense. Tenant shall indemnify the Landlord against any loss or liability resulting from delay by Tenant in so surrendering the Premises, including, without limitation, any claims made by any succeeding tenant based on such delay.

 8.3 Modifications, Alterations and Additions.

 (a) Tenant shall make no modifications, alterations, additions or improvements to the Premises or any part thereof without first obtaining the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld (provided, however, that in the event any proposed alteration, addition or improvement affects (a) any structural portions of the Building including exterior walls, roof, foundation and core of the Building then Landlord may withhold its consent in the reasonable exercise of its discretion); (b) the exterior of the Building or which are visible from outside the Building or which are likely to increase taxes or insurance costs (unless Tenant agrees to pay such increased taxes or insurance costs) then Landlord may withhold its consent thereto in its sole and absolute discretion; or (c) any of the Building systems, including elevator, plumbing, air conditioning, heating, electrical, security, life safety and power, then Landlord may withhold its consent with respect thereto in the reasonable exercise of its discretion. In seeking Landlord's approval, Tenant shall provide Landlord at least thirty (30) days in advance of any proposed construction with plans, specifications, bid proposals, work contracts, the identity of architects, contractors, subcontractors and suppliers and such other information concerning the nature and cost of the alterations as may be reasonably requested by Landlord. At the conclusion of said thirty (30) day period, Landlord shall indicate its consent to the proposed construction or, if Landlord shall refuse consent, specify the reasons therefore, in writing. If the Landlord fails to respond at the end of the thirty (30) day period, Landlord shall be deemed to have consented to the proposed construction as set forth in Tenant's proposed construction plans and specifications. Tenant shall pay Landlord a reasonable fee to cover Landlord's costs incurred in reviewing Tenant's plans and specifications. As a condition to giving such consent, Landlord may require Tenant to remove any such modification, alteration, improvement or addition at the expiration of the Lease Term and to restore the Premises to their prior condition. All such modifications, alterations, additions and/or improvements shall be constructed at Tenant's sole cost and expense and shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with Landlord approved plans and specifications and by a contractor and under a construction contract, the terms and conditions of which have been approved by Landlord (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld). If Landlord consents to any proposed modification, alteration, addition or improvement to the Premises, the same shall not be a warranty as to the adequacy of the design, workmanship or quality of materials and Landlord hereby expressly disclaims any responsibility or liability for the same. Landlord shall under no circumstances have any obligation to repair, maintain or replace all or any portion of such modifications, alterations, additions or improvements.

 (b) Before commencing any work relative to the modifications, alterations, improvements or additions affecting the Premises Tenant, regardless of whether Landlord consent is required or not, shall notify Landlord in writing of the expected date of commencement thereof and shall, if required by Landlord, require its contractor to, secure at no cost or expense to Landlord, a payment and performance bond satisfactory to Landlord for such work naming Landlord and Tenant as joint obligees. Landlord shall then have the right at any time and from time to time to post and maintain on the Premises such notices as Landlord reasonably deems necessary to protect the Premises and Landlord from mechanics' liens, materialmen's liens or any other liens. Any such modification, alteration, improvement or addition shall not decrease the value of the Premises, shall be expeditiously completed in a good and workmanlike manner and in compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements and the requirements of all insurance policies applicable to the Premises. Tenant shall provide Landlord with "as-built" plans showing any change in the Premises. Tenant shall maintain a safe working environment at all times, including the continuation of all fire and security protection devices, including fire sprinkler systems and availability and operation of fire water supply lines during any such construction. All damage or injury done to the Premises or the Building during the construction of such work by Tenant or by any persons who may be in or upon the Premises or the Building with the express or implied consent of Tenant or which is caused by acts or omissions or Tenant or Tenant's officers, contractors, subcontractors, agents, invitees, licensees, employees, successors or assigns shall be paid by Tenant. Tenant shall pay, when due, all claims for labor or materials furnished to or for Tenant at or for use in the Premises. Tenant shall not permit any mechanics or materialmen's liens to be levied against the Premises for any labor or materials furnished to Tenant or claimed to have been furnished to Tenant or to Tenant's agents or contractors in connection with the work. Without waiving any of Landlord's remedies, in the event any such lien is filed against the Premises, Tenant shall forthwith cause such lien to be discharged by payment, bonding or otherwise and if Tenant fails to cause such lien to be discharged within ten (10) days after notice of the existence of such lien to Tenant, then Landlord may cause such lien to be discharged by payment, bonding or otherwise, without investigation as to the validity thereof or of any offsets or defense thereto, and shall have the right to collect from Tenant, as Additional Rent, all amounts so paid, and all costs and expenses paid or incurred in connection therewith, including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements, together with interest thereon at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date such cost or expense was incurred until paid in full.

 (c) All such modifications, alterations, additions or improvements shall at the expiration or earlier termination of the Lease become the property of Landlord and remain upon and be surrendered with the Premises unless specified to be removed pursuant to Section 8.3(a) above.

 (d) All articles of personal property, furniture and movable partitions owned by Tenant or installed by Tenant at its expense in the Premises shall be and remain the property of Tenant and may be removed by Tenant at any time during the Term of this Lease provided that Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense, repair any damage to the Premises caused by such removal.

 9. ENTRY BY LANDLORD. Landlord reserves and shall at all reasonable times during Tenant's business hours after twenty-four (24) hours notice (except in the case of emergencies), have the right to enter the Premises to inspect the same, to show said Premises to prospective purchasers or tenants, to post notices of non- responsibility and, during the last twelve (12) months of the Lease Term, "for lease" signs. For each of the aforesaid purposes, Landlord shall at all times have and retain a key with which to unlock all of the doors in, upon and about the Premises, excluding Tenant's files, vaults and safes.

 10. LIENS. Tenant shall keep the Premises and the Building of which the Premises are a part, free from any liens out of work performed, materials furnished, or obligations incurred by Tenant and shall protect, indemnify, hold harmless and defend Landlord from and against any and all liabilities, losses, damages, expenses and costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) incurred in connection with any such any liens and encumbrances arising out of any work performed or services, materials or equipment furnished by or at the direction of Tenant. Tenant's obligations pursuant to this Section 10 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. In the event that Tenant shall not, within ten (10) days following the imposition of any such lien, cause such lien to be released of record by payment or posting of a proper bond, Landlord shall have, in addition to all other remedies provided herein and by law, the right, but not the obligation, to cause the same to be released by such means as it shall deem proper, including payment of the claim giving rise to such lien. All such sums paid by Landlord and all expenses incurred by it in connection therewith including attorneys' fees and costs shall be payable to Landlord by Tenant on demand with interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date incurred until paid in full. Nothing contained in this Lease shall be construed as the consent or request of Landlord, express or implied, for the performance of any labor or services or for the furnishing of any materials or equipment for any construction, alteration, addition, repair or demolition of or to the Premises (or any part thereof). NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT LANDLORD WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY LABOR, SERVICES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT FURNISHED OR TO BE FURNISHED TO TENANT, OR ANYONE HOLDING AN INTEREST IN THE PREMISES (OR ANY PART THEREOF) THROUGH OR UNDER TENANT, AND THAT NO MECHANICS' OR OTHER LIENS FOR ANY SUCH LABOR, SERVICES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT SHALL ATTACH TO OR AFFECT THE INTEREST OF LANDLORD IN THE PREMISES.

 11. INDEMNITY.

 11.1 Tenant's Indemnity. Except as caused by the act or neglect of Landlord or Landlord's contractors, agents or employees, Tenant shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims (including, but not limited to employee claims) arising from Tenant's use of the Premises or the conduct of its business or from any activity, work or thing done, permitted or suffered by Tenant in or about the Premises and shall further protect, defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims arising from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation on Tenant's part to be performed under the terms of this Lease, or arising from any act or negligence of Tenant, or any of its agents, contractors and employees, and from and against any and all costs, attorneys' fees, expenses and liabilities incurred in connection with such claim or any action or proceeding brought against Landlord by reason of any such claim. Tenant upon notice from Landlord shall defend the same at Tenant's expense. For purposes of this Section 11.1 and Sections 11.2 and 11.3, Landlord shall not be deemed negligent if the matter in question arises from conditions of those portions or items of the Premises the maintenance of which are not the Landlord's responsibility under this Lease.

 11.2 Landlord's Indemnity. Landlord shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold Tenant and its agents harmless from and against any and all losses and liability for bodily injury to persons, loss of life and damage to property occurring on the Premises and caused by the negligence of Landlord, its contractors, agents or employees, or the negligent performance by Landlord of any of Landlord's obligations under this Lease.

 11.3 Joint or Concurrent Negligence. In the event of any concurrent negligence of Tenant, its managers, members, agents, employees or contractors on the one hand, and that of Landlord, its managers, members, agents, employees or contractors on the other hand, which concurrent negligence results in injury or damage to persons or property, then Tenant's and Landlord's obligation to indemnify the other as set forth in this Section 11 shall be limited to the extent of the indemnifying party's negligence, and that of their respective managers, members, agents, employees or contractors, including the indemnifying party's proportional share of costs, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred in connection with any claim, action or proceeding brought with respect to such injury or damage.

 11.4 Exculpation of Landlord from Liability. Except to the extent set forth in Section 11.2 and 11.3 above, Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant and Tenant hereby waives all claims against Landlord for injury, illness or death to any person or for damage to any property in or about the Premises by or from any cause whatsoever and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, whether caused by or resulting from fire, steam, electricity, gas, water or rain which may leak or flow from or into any part of the Premises or from breakage, leakage, obstruction or other defects of the pipes, sprinklers, wires, appliances, plumbing, air conditioning or lighting fixtures of the same, whether the said damage or injury results from conditions arising upon the Premises or from other sources.

 12. INSURANCE.

 12.1 Liability Insurance. Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, but for the mutual benefit of Landlord and Tenant, obtain and keep in force throughout the Term of this Lease, comprehensive general liability insurance (full form personal injury and broad form property damage) with respect to the Building and the Premises, insuring against claims for personal injury (including, without limitation, bodily injury or death) and property damage liability with a combined single limit of not less than $5,000,000 per occurrence, automobile liability (with limits of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence) and workers' compensation insurance (as required by law). The amount of such insurance coverage shall not be less than commercially reasonable insurance carried by owners of properties of similar nature and occupancies as the Premises. Such insurance shall be in form and with deductibles satisfactory to Landlord. Landlord shall be an additional insured and Tenant's policy shall be primary and non-contributory to any coverage maintained by Landlord. The limits of such insurance shall not, however, limit the liability of Tenant hereunder.

 12.2 Property Insurance-Premises. At all times during the term of this Lease, Landlord shall maintain in force at Tenant's expense property insurance in the amount of not less than 100% of the full replacement cost, which cost shall be reasonably determined by the Landlord, of the Building and other improvements, fixtures and equipment which are a part of the Premises (exclusive of the cost of excavations, foundations and footings) and without deduction for physical deprecation and 18 months loss of rents insurance, together with such other insurance coverage as is customarily carried on comparable buildings in the City of Seattle or as Landlord may reasonably determine, with insurance companies which are authorized to do business in the State of Washington. Such insurance shall cover loss or damage from all perils included within the policy classification now known as "all risk" or "special cause of loss" including, without limitation, fire and extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief, sprinkler leakage, earthquake, flood, boiler and machinery insurance and special extended peril (all-risk). Such property insurance shall be in builder's risk form during construction of any modifications, alterations or additions to the Building or the Premises and during any restoration accomplished in connection with damage or destruction to the Premises or in connection with any condemnation of the Premises. Tenant is responsible for the payment of any deductibles under said insurance policies and any costs or restoration resulting from any uninsured or underinsured losses. The insurance policies shall be issued in the name of Landlord and Tenant as their interests may appear, and shall provide that any proceeds be payable solely to Landlord, or to Landlord's lenders, if any, holding any first mortgage or deed of trust on the Premises.

 12.3 Coverage for Tenant's Personal Property. Landlord shall have no obligation to insure any of Tenant's personal property or trade fixtures or repair, replace or restore same when damaged or destroyed from any cause whatsoever.

 12.4 Insurance Policies. All insurance required under this Lease shall: (i) be issued by insurance companies authorized to do business in the State of Washington with a rating reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, (ii) be issued as a primary policy, and (iii) contain an endorsement requiring forty-five (45) days' prior written notice from the insurance company to Landlord, Tenant and Landlord's lenders, if any, before cancellation or change in the coverage, scope or amount of any policy. Landlord and Landlord's lenders, if any, shall be named as additional insureds on Tenant's liability policies. Each policy or certificate of the policy shall be deposited with Landlord on or before the Commencement Date and as reasonably available upon replacement or renewal of each policy.

 12.5 Indemnification and Waivers. The parties agree to mutually waive all right of recovery against the other for any loss or damage covered by their respective first party commercial insurance policies for all perils insured thereunder and in the event of any commercially insured loss, neither party's insurance carrier shall have a subrogation claim against the other party; provided, however, that this waiver of subrogation shall not apply if the effect is to void such insurance coverage.

 13. DAMAGE TO PREMISES.

 13.1 Damage; Extent of Obligation to Restore. If during the term of this Lease more than 50% of the Premises are damaged or destroyed, then either party shall have the option, upon written notice to the other which option shall be exercised within thirty (30) days of the date of such damage or destruction, to terminate the Lease. If neither party elects to terminate the Lease or if less than 50% of the Premises are damaged or destroyed, this Lease shall continue in full force and effect and Landlord shall proceed as promptly as is practicable to restore the Premises to an architectural unit as nearly comparable as is reasonable to the unit existing just prior to such damage to the extent that such restoration and/or repair can be accomplished with the available insurance proceeds and completed within eighteen (18) months following the date of such casualty. If either party elects to terminate this Lease, such notice of termination shall specify the date for termination of this Lease, which date shall not be more than thirty (30) days after the giving of such notice, and upon the date so specified the Term of this Lease shall expire as fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinabove set forth for the end of the Term of this Lease and Tenant shall thereupon vacate the Premises, without prejudice to any rights and remedies accrued to Landlord under this Lease prior to such termination and any Rent paid or payable by Tenant shall be adjusted as of the date of such termination. If Landlord elects or is required to rebuild and is delayed or prevented from completing the repairs or restoration of the damage to the Premises after the occurrence of such damage or destruction by reason of force majeure, the time for Landlord to commence or complete repairs shall be extended for the period of force majeure. In the event of repair, reconstruction and restoration as herein provided, the Fixed Rent provided to be paid under this Lease shall be abated proportionately based upon the extent to which Tenant's use of the Premises is impaired during the period for such repair, reconstruction or restoration.

 13.2 Extent of Landlord's Obligation to Restore. If Landlord is required or elects to restore the Premises or such portion thereof which has been destroyed as provided in this Section 13, Landlord shall not be required to restore Tenant's personal property, machinery, furniture or equipment, such excluded items being the sole responsibility of Tenant to restore. Tenant shall not be entitled to any compensation or damages from Landlord for the loss of the use of the whole or any part of the Premises, its tenant improvements, alterations, modifications or additions made to the Premises or Tenant's personal property, or any inconvenience or annoyance occasioned by such damage, repair, reconstruction or restoration, except as may be otherwise provided in Section 13.1 above.

 13.3 Damage Near End of Term. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 13, Landlord shall not have any obligation whatsoever to repair, reconstruct or restore the Premises (a) when the damage occurs during the last twenty-four (24) months of the Term, (b) to the extent that insurance proceeds are not available therefore, or (c) to the extent Landlord is unable to obtain necessary permits for the construction thereof.

 14. EMINENT DOMAIN.

 14.1 Total Taking. In the event of a Total Taking, this Lease shall terminate as of the date of the taking of physical possession of the Premises. A "Total Taking" shall be defined as when (i) the entire Premises are taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain (other than by The City of Seattle), or (ii) when less than the entire Premises are taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain (other than by The City of Seattle), but where the Tenant's use of the Premises is materially interfered with. Upon the date of such taking or transfer, the Term of this Lease shall expire as fully and completely as if such date were the date hereinabove set forth for the end of the Term of this Lease and Tenant shall thereupon vacate the Premises, without prejudice to any rights and remedies accrued to Landlord under this Lease prior to such termination and any Rent paid or payable by Tenant shall be adjusted as of the date of such termination.

 14.2 Partial Taking. In the event there is a "Partial Taking," defined as a taking or appropriation under the power of eminent domain (other than by The City of Seattle) other than a Total Taking, then, unless Tenant notifies Landlord within thirty (30) days of the date of such taking or transfer that Tenant has reasonably determined that the portion of the Premises remaining is not adequate to enable Tenant to carry on the Permitted Use, the Lease shall continue in full force and effect as to the portion of the Premises remaining; provided, however, that Landlord shall proceed as promptly as is practicable to restore the Premises to an architectural unit as nearly comparable as is reasonable to the unit existing just prior to such taking or transfer to the extent that such restoration can be accomplished with the available condemnation proceeds, and the Fixed Rent shall be abated in the ratio which the part of the floor area of the Premises so taken or transferred bears to the entire floor area of Premises immediately prior to such taking or transfer.

 14.3 Condemnation Award. The entire award for the taking under any right of condemnation or eminent domain or any transfer in lieu thereof shall belong to Landlord, and Tenant shall not be entitled to any part thereof or entitled to recover damages for the loss of its leasehold estate or other interest in the Premises and hereby assigns to Landlord all of its right, title and interest in and to any such award. Tenant shall have the right, however, to independently claim and recover from the condemning authority compensation for any loss to which Tenant may be put for Tenant's moving expenses or taking of Tenant's personal property (not including Tenant's leasehold interest) provided that such damages may be claimed only if they are awarded separately in the eminent domain proceedings and not out of or as part of the damages recoverable by Landlord.

 14.4 Repairs. In the event that there is a partial taking, Landlord shall, to the extent of available condemnation proceeds, make all repairs to the Premises necessitated by such taking in order to restore the same to a complete architectural unit (to the extent possible, taking into consideration the amount of land remaining after the taking). All repair and restoration of the Premises shall be made in accordance with plans and specifications approved by Landlord and Tenant, Tenant's approval not to be unreasonably withheld.

 14.5 Waiver by Tenant. As part of the consideration for Landlord's agreement to enter into this Lease and grant Tenant the options to extend the Term of this Lease, Tenant hereby agrees that it will not exercise its power of eminent domain to acquire the Premises, in whole or in part, during the Term of this Lease. In the event Tenant breaches this provision, the parties agree that Landlord shall be damaged thereby and shall be entitled to recover as agreed liquidated damages in any condemnation proceedings, the amount of Rent payable over the remainder of the Term of this Lease in addition to the fair market value of the Premises so acquired.

 15. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.

 15.1 Landlord's Consent Required. Tenant shall not either voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law, directly or indirectly, (1) sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or encumber this Lease or any interest in this Lease, (2) sell, assign, transfer or convey the Seattle Center so that it is no longer a division of Tenant, (3) permit the use of the Premises by any person other than the Tenant, nor (4) sublet said Premises or any part thereof, without the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Any request by Tenant for such consent shall be in writing, which shall set forth the details as to the proposed assignment, sublease, transfer or use and shall have annexed thereto a copy of the proposed assignment, sublease, use or license agreement, or sale or other transfer document if there is a transfer of the Seattle Center so that it is no longer a division of Tenant, together with financial information regarding the proposed transferee, any ownership or other commercial relationship between Tenant and the proposed transferee, the consideration to be paid by the proposed transferee for such assignment, sublease, transfer or use, duration of any sublease or license term and such other information as Landlord may reasonably require. Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for its costs and expenses in reviewing Tenant's request for such assignment, sublease or transfer. Any attempted sale, assignment, transfer, use, mortgage, encumbrance or sublease without such consent shall be void and shall constitute a breach of this Lease.

 15.2 Standard of Review. Landlord in making its determination as to whether consent should be given to a proposed assignment, sublease, transfer of the Seattle Center so that it is no longer a division of Tenant or other transfer or use, may give consideration to the financial strength of the proposed assignee, sublessee or transferee, any change in use which such successor proposes to make in use of the Premises and the relevant business experience of the proposed transferee. In no event shall Landlord be deemed to be unreasonable for declining to consent to a transfer in which (i) the proposed transferee's financial condition is not satisfactory in Landlord's reasonable opinion, (ii) the proposed transferee's business is not permitted by the terms of this Lease or applicable zoning or is not suitable for the Building, (ii) any portion of the Building or Premises would become subject to additional or different governmental laws or regulations that would, in Landlord's opinion, have an adverse impact on the Building, or (iv) the proposed transferee would pose an unreasonable security or public relations risk. Tenant acknowledges that the foregoing is not intended to be an exclusive list of the reasons for which Landlord may reasonably withheld its consent to a proposed assignment, sublease, use, transfer of an ownership interest in Tenant or other transfer of Tenant's interest under this Lease.

 15.3 Recapture; Transfer Profits. Landlord shall have thirty (30) days following its receipt of all of the information required to be delivered by Tenant pursuant to Section 15.1 above to elect to (i) exercise its right to disapprove of the proposed assignment, sublease, use or license agreement, transfer of the Seattle Center so that it is no longer a division of Tenant or other transfer, or (ii) to terminate this Lease as it related to such space proposed to be transferred by Tenant. In the event Landlord chooses not to exercise its rights to recapture the space proposed to be transferred by Tenant, then Tenant may proceed to enter into such assignment, sublease, use or license agreement, transfer of ownership in Tenant or other transfer and fifty percent (50%) of all consideration received by Tenant in connection with such transfer (or in the case of a sublease or use/license agreement consideration to be paid over the term of such proposed sublease or use/license agreement) which is in excess of the Fixed Rent then payable by Tenant under this Lease shall be paid promptly to Landlord as Rent hereunder. If Landlord exercises its right to recapture the space proposed to be transferred by Tenant, then the Fixed Rent shall be abated in the ratio which the portion of the floor area of the Premises so recaptured bears to the floor area of the Premises immediately prior to such recapture.

 15.4 No Waiver of Consent. No consent by Landlord to any assignment, sublease, use, transfer of an ownership interest in Tenant or other transfer shall release Tenant from liability under this Lease or of any obligation to be performed by Tenant under this Lease, whether occurring before or after such consent, assignment, sublease, use, transfer of an ownership interest in Tenant or other transfer. The consent by Landlord to any assignment, sublease, use, transfer of an ownership interest in Tenant or other transfer shall not relieve Tenant from its obligation to obtain Landlord's express written consent to any other assignment, sublease, use, transfer of an ownership interest in Tenant or other transfer. The acceptance of Fixed Rent or Additional Rent by Landlord from any other person shall not be deemed to be a waiver by Landlord of any provision of this Lease or be construed or constitute a consent to any such assignment, sublease, use, transfer of an ownership interest in Tenant or other transfer. Consent to one assignment, sublease, transfer of an ownership interest in Tenant or any entity which holds an ownership interest in Tenant, or other transfer shall not be deemed to constitute consent to any subsequent assignment, sublease, use, transfer of an ownership interest in Tenant or other transfer.

 16. SUBORDINATION.

 16.1 Subordination. This Lease at the option of the Landlord shall be subject and subordinate to the lien of any mortgages or deeds of trust in any amount or amounts whatsoever now or hereafter placed on or against the Land or improvements or either thereof, of which the Premises are a part, or on or against Landlord's interest or estate therein ("Landlord's Mortgage") without the necessity of the execution and delivery of any further instruments on the part of Tenant to effectuate such subordination and Tenant shall attorn to the holder of any Landlord's Mortgage or any person or persons purchasing or otherwise acquiring the Building or the Premises at any sale or other proceeding under any Landlord's Mortgage; provided, however, that so long as Tenant is not in default hereunder beyond any applicable notice and cure periods provided in this Lease, Tenant's possession of the Premises shall not be disturbed and provided, further, that Tenant's attornment shall be deemed to have occurred automatically without execution of any further or other instruments. Tenant covenants and agrees to execute and deliver upon demand, without charge therefor, such further instruments evidencing such subordination of this Lease to the lien of any mortgages or deeds of trust as may be reasonably required by Landlord.

 16.2 Quiet Enjoyment. Landlord covenants and agrees with Tenant that upon Tenant paying Rent and other monetary sums due under this Lease, performing its covenants and conditions under this Lease, Tenant shall and may peaceably and quietly have, hold and enjoy the Premises for the term, subject, however, to the terms of this Lease.

 17. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS.

 17.1 Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations. Tenant hereby represents, warrants, covenants and agrees to and with Landlord that all operations or activities upon, or any use or occupancy of the Premises, or any portion thereof, by Tenant or any occupant of the Premises shall throughout the Term of this Lease be in compliance in all material respects with all state, federal and local Environmental Laws and regulations governing or in any way relating to the generation, handling, storage, use, transportation, discharge or disposal (whether legal or illegal, accidental or intentional) of any Hazardous Substances (as hereinafter defined).

 17.2 Asbestos Removal or Abatement. Landlord has advised Tenant that the Premises may be constructed of asbestos-containing materials. Tenant shall conduct an asbestos survey of the Premises prior to commencement of any demolition or construction of tenant improvements or any other alterations, modifications or additions to the Premises by Tenant. If Tenant discovers any asbestos or asbestos-containing materials during such a project and such materials are damaged as a result of Tenant's demolition or construction of tenant improvements or Tenant elects to remove such materials, such materials shall be removed by Tenant at its cost by a properly certified asbestos contractor and removed and disposed of in compliance with all Environmental Laws.

 17.3 Indemnification; Remedial Work. Tenant shall not cause or permit any Hazardous Substances to be brought upon, kept or used in or about the Premises by Tenant, its agents, employees, contractors, sublessees or invitees, except in compliance with all Environmental Laws. If Tenant breaches its obligations set forth above or if the presence of Hazardous Substances on or about the Premises caused or permitted by Tenant results in contamination of the Premises or if contamination of the Premises or surrounding area by Hazardous Substances otherwise occurs during the term of this Lease (except for contamination of the Premises caused by the actions of Landlord, its agents or employees during the term of this Lease) then Tenant shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims, judgments, damages, penalties, fines, costs, liabilities or losses (including, without limitation, diminution in value of the Premises), damages for the loss or restrictions on use of any space in the Premises, damages arising from any adverse impact on marketability of the Premises, and sums paid in settlement of claims, attorneys' fees, consultant fees and expert fees) which arise during or after the Term of this Lease to the extent caused by such contamination. This indemnification of Landlord by Tenant includes, without limitation, costs incurred in connection with any investigation of site conditions or any cleanup, remedial, removal or restoration work required by any federal, state or local governmental agency or political subdivision because of Hazardous Substances present in the soil or ground water on, under or about the Premises. If the presence of any Hazardous Substance on or about the Premises caused or permitted by Tenant results in any contamination of the Premises or surrounding area, or causes the Premises or surrounding area to be in violation of any Environmental Laws, Tenant shall promptly take at its sole cost and expense all actions necessary to return the Premises and surrounding area to the condition existing prior to the introduction of such Hazardous Substance; provided that Landlord's approval shall first be had and obtained, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld so long as such actions would not potentially have any material adverse long-term or short-term effect on the Premises or surrounding area.

 17.4 Breach as Material Default. Tenant hereby specifically acknowledges and agrees that (a) each of Tenant's covenants, obligations, agreements, representations and warranties set forth in this Section 17 is a material inducement to Landlord to enter into this Lease, and (b) breach by Tenant of any of Tenant's covenants, obligations, agreements, representations and warranties set forth in this Section 17 shall constitute a material breach of this Lease by Tenant entitling Landlord to all of the rights and remedies provided to Landlord under this Lease or under applicable law.

 17.5 Survival. Each of the covenants, agreements, obligations, representations and warranties of Tenant set forth in this Section 17 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

 18. DEFAULT; REMEDIES.

 18.1 Default. The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute a material default and breach of this Lease by Tenant:

 (a) Any failure by Tenant to pay Rent, Additional Rent or any other monetary sums required to be paid hereunder within ten (10) days of the date when due;

 (b) The abandonment or vacation of the Premises by Tenant for a period of thirty (30) days;

 (c) A failure by Tenant to observe or perform any material covenant, condition or provision of this Lease not already specifically mentioned in this Section 18, where such failure continues for thirty (30) days after written notice thereof by Landlord to Tenant; provided, however, that if the nature of the default is such that the same cannot reasonably be cured within said thirty (30) day period, Tenant shall not be deemed to be in default if Tenant shall within such period commence such cure and thereafter diligently prosecute the same to completion within ninety (90) days thereafter and further provided that such period of time shall not be so extended as to subject Landlord to criminal liability;

 (d) Tenant (or any person qualifying as Tenant) shall file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or shall be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent or shall file any petition or answer seeking any reorganization arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or similar relief under the present or any future federal bankruptcy code or any other present or future applicable federal, state or other statute or law, or shall seek or consent to or acquiesce in the appointment of any trustee, receiver or liquidator of such Tenant or of all or any substantial part of its properties or of the Premises; or

 (e) Within 60 days after the commencement of any proceeding against Tenant (or any person qualifying as Tenant) seeking any reorganization, arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution or similar relief under the present or any future federal bankruptcy act or any other present or future applicable federal, state or other statute or law, such proceeding shall not have been dismissed or if, within 60 days after the appointment, without the consent or acquiescence of such Tenant, of any trustee, receiver or liquidator of such Tenant or of all or any substantial part of its properties or of the Premises, such appointment shall not have been vacated or stayed on appeal or otherwise, or if, within 60 days, after the expiration of any such stay, such appointment shall not have been vacated.

 18.2 Remedies. In the event of any such default or breach by Tenant, Landlord may, at any time thereafter without limiting Landlord in the exercise of any right or remedy at law or in equity which Landlord may have by reason of such default or breach:

 (a) Maintain this Lease in full force and effect and recover the Rent, Additional Rent and other monetary charges as they become due, without terminating Tenant's right to possession irrespective of whether Tenant shall have abandoned the Premises. In the event Landlord elects not to terminate this Lease, Landlord shall have the right to attempt to relet the Premises at such rent and upon such conditions and for such a term, and to do all acts necessary to maintain or preserve the Premises as Landlord deems reasonable and necessary without being deemed to have elected to terminate this Lease, including removal of all persons and property from the Premises. Such property may be removed and stored in a public warehouse or elsewhere at the cost of and for the account of Tenant.

 (b) Terminate Tenant's right to possession by any lawful means, in which case this Lease shall terminate and Tenant shall immediately surrender possession of the Premises to Landlord. In such event Landlord shall be entitled to recover from Tenant all damages incurred by Landlord by reason of Tenant's default, including without limitation thereto, the following: (i) the worth at the time of award of any unpaid rent which had been earned at the time of such termination, plus (ii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rent which would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that is proved could have been reasonably avoided, plus (iii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rent for the balance of the term after the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that is proved could be reasonably avoided, plus (iv) any other amount not duplicative of the amounts described in (i), (ii) and (iii) necessary to compensate Landlord for all the damages proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease or which in the ordinary course of events would be likely to result therefrom, including, without limitation, costs of reletting, tenant improvements and leasing commissions, plus (v) at Landlord's election, such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by applicable state law. Upon any such re-entry Landlord shall have the right to make any reasonable repairs, alterations or modifications to the Premises, which Landlord in its sole discretion deems reasonable and necessary. As used in (i) above, the "worth at the time of award" is computed by allowing interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date of default.

 18.3 Late Charges. Tenant hereby acknowledges that late payment by Tenant to Landlord of Rent, Additional Rent and other sums due hereunder will cause Landlord to incur costs not contemplated by this Lease, the exact amount of which will be extremely difficult to ascertain. Such costs include, but are not limited to, processing and accounting charges, and late charges which may be imposed on Landlord under any mortgage or deed of trust covering the Premises. Accordingly, if any installment of Rent or any other sum due from Tenant shall not be received by Landlord within ten (10) days after the due date, Tenant shall pay to Landlord a late charge equal to five percent (5%) of such overdue amount. The parties hereby agree that such late charge represents a fair and reasonable estimate of the costs Landlord will incur by reason of late payment by Tenant. Acceptance of such late charge by Landlord shall in no event constitute a waiver of Tenant's default with respect to such overdue amount, nor prevent Landlord from exercising any of the other rights and remedies granted hereunder. In addition to late charges, Tenant shall pay Landlord interest on the amount of any overdue Rent at an interest rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date due until paid in full.

 19. MISCELLANEOUS.

 19.1 Estoppel Certificate.

 (a) Tenant shall at any time upon not less than ten (10) days prior written notice from Landlord execute, acknowledge and deliver to Landlord a statement in writing (i) certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect (or, if modified, stating the nature of such modification and certifying that this Lease, as so modified, is in full force and effect) and the date to which the Rent and other charges are paid in advance, if any, and (ii) acknowledging that there are not, to Tenant's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of Landlord hereunder, or specifying such defaults if any are claimed. Any such statement may be relied upon by any prospective purchaser or encumbrancer of the Premises.

 (b) Tenant's failure to deliver such statement within such time shall be conclusive upon Tenant (i) that this Lease is in full force and effect, without modification except as may be represented by Landlord, (ii) that there are no uncured defaults in Landlord's performance, and (iii) that not more than one month's rent has been paid in advance.

 19.2 Transfer of Landlord's Interest. In the event of a sale or conveyance by Landlord of Landlord's interest in the Premises, or in any building of which the Premises may be a part other than a transfer for security purposes only, this Lease shall not be affected by any such sale and Tenant agrees to attorn to the purchaser of assignee provided all Landlord's obligations hereunder are assumed in writing by the transferee.

 19.3 Limitation on Landlord's Liability. Notwithstanding any provision in this Lease to the contrary, Tenant agrees that it shall look solely to the estate and property of Landlord in the land and buildings constituting the Premises for the collection of any judgment requiring the payment of money by Landlord or for the enforcement of any other judgment or remedy against Landlord and no other assets of Landlord shall be subject to levy, execution or other procedure for the satisfaction of Tenant's remedies.

 19.4 Captions; Attachments.

 (a) The captions of the paragraphs of this Lease are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to be relevant in resolving any question of interpretation or construction of any section of this Lease.

 (b) Exhibits attached hereto, and addenda and schedules initialed by the parties, are deemed by attachment to constitute part of this Lease and are incorporated herein.

 (c) The words "Landlord" and "Tenant," as used herein shall include the plural as well as the singular. Words used in neuter gender include the masculine and feminine and words in the masculine or feminine gender include the neuter. If there is more than one Landlord or Tenant, the obligations hereunder imposed upon Landlord or Tenant shall be joint and several.

 19.5 Entire Agreement. This instrument along with any exhibits and attachments hereto constitutes the entire agreement between Landlord and Tenant relative to the Premises and this Lease and the exhibits and attachments may be altered, amended, or revoked only by an instrument in writing signed by both Landlord and Tenant. Landlord and Tenant agree hereby that all prior or contemporaneous oral agreements between and among themselves and their agents or representatives relative to the leasing of the Premises are merged in or revoked by this Lease.

 19.6 Severability. If any term or provision of this Lease shall, to any extent, be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease shall not be affected thereby, and each term and provision of this Lease shall be valid and be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

 19.7 Costs of Suit.

 (a) If Tenant or Landlord shall bring any action for any relief against the other, declaratory or otherwise, arising out of this Lease, including any suit by Landlord for the recovery of rent or possession of the Premises, the losing party shall pay the prevailing party a reasonable sum for attorneys' fees which shall be deemed to have accrued on the commencement of such action and shall be paid whether or not such action is prosecuted to judgment.

 (b) Should Landlord, without fault on Landlord's part, be made a party to any litigation instituted by Tenant or by any third party against Tenant, or by or against any person holding under or using the Premises by license of Tenant, or for the foreclosure of any lien for labor or material furnished to or for Tenant or any such other person or otherwise arising out of or resulting from any act or transaction of Tenant or of any such person, Tenant covenants to save and hold Landlord harmless from any judgment rendered against Landlord or the Premises or any part thereof, and all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by Landlord in or in connection with such litigation. Should Tenant, without fault on Tenant's part, be made a party to any litigation instituted by Landlord or by any third party against Landlord, or for the foreclosure of any lien for labor or material furnished to or for Landlord or otherwise arising out of or resulting from any act or transaction of Landlord, Landlord covenants to save and hold Tenant harmless from any judgment rendered against Tenant, and all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by Tenant in or in connection with such litigation.

 19.8 Time; Joint and Several Liability. Time is of the essence of this Lease and each and every provision hereof, except as to the conditions relating to the delivery of possession of the Premises to Tenant. All the terms, covenants and conditions contained in this Lease to be performed by either party, if such party shall consist of more than one person or organization shall be deemed to be joint and several, and all rights and remedies of the parties shall be cumulative and nonexclusive of any other remedy at law or in equity.

 19.9 Binding Effect; Choice of Law. The parties hereto agree that all provisions hereof are to be construed as both covenants and conditions as though the words importing such covenants and conditions were used in each separate paragraph hereof. Subject to any provisions hereof restricting assignment or subletting by Tenant and subject to Section 19.2, all of the provisions hereof shall bind and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, legal representatives, permitted successors and assigns. This Lease shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington.

 19.10 Waiver. No covenant, term or condition or the breach thereof shall be deemed waived, except by written consent of the party against whom the waiver is claimed, and any waiver of the breach of any covenant, term or condition shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other covenant, term or condition. Acceptance by Landlord of any performance by Tenant after the time the same shall have become due shall not constitute a waiver by Landlord of the breach or default of any covenant, term or condition unless otherwise expressly agreed to by Landlord in writing.

 19.11 Surrender of Premises. The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease by Tenant, or a mutual cancellation thereof, shall not work as a merger, and shall, at the option of the Landlord, terminate all or any existing subleases or subtenancies, or may, at the option of Landlord, operate as an assignment to it of any or all such subleases or subtenancies, or may, at the option of Landlord, operate as an assignment to it of any or all such subleases or subtenancies.

 19.12 Holding Over. If Tenant remains in possession of all or any part of the Premises after the expiration of the term hereof, with or without the express or implied consent of Landlord, such tenancy shall be from month to month only, and not a renewal hereof or an extension for any further term, and in such case. Tenant shall pay Landlord rent in an amount equal to One Hundred Fifty Percent (150%) of the then current Fixed Rent for the entire time Tenant thus remains in possession and Tenant shall hold Landlord harmless from all damages resulting from Tenant's failure to surrender the Premises or any portion thereof, including, without limitation, claims made by a succeeding tenant resulting from Tenant's failure to surrender the Premises or any portion thereof. All provisions of this Lease, except those pertaining to the amount of Fixed Rent payable and Term, shall apply to such month-to-month tenancy.

 19.13 Amendments; Waiver. No modification or amendment of this Lease may be made except by written agreement signed by Landlord and Tenant, or as may be otherwise provided in this Lease.

 19.14 Interest on Past Due Obligations. Except as expressly herein provided, any amount due to Landlord not paid when due shall bear interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum, from the date due until paid. Payment of such interest shall not excuse or cure any default by Tenant under this Lease.

 19.15 Notices. All notices or requests required or permitted under this Lease shall be in writing, shall be personally delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or by facsimile transmission and shall be deemed to have been given when so delivered mailed or faxed (provided that the fax machine has issued a printed confirmation of receipt) irrespective of whether such notice or request is actually received by the addressee. All notices or requests shall be send as follows:

 If to Landlord: Tilden Investments LLC 9219 SE Shoreland Drive Bellevue, Washington 98004 Attn: Ray Tilden, Manager Fax: (425) 453-5726

 with a copy to Preston Gates & Ellis LLP 5000 Bank of America Tower 701 Fifth Avenue Seattle, Washington 98104-7078 Attn: Alan Kane Fax: (206) 623-7022

 If to Tenant: The City of Seattle Attn: Fax: ( )

 Either party may change the address to which notices shall be sent by notice to the other party.

 19.16 Fair Construction. The provisions of this Lease shall be construed as a whole according to their common meaning not strictly for or against any party and consistent with the provisions contained herein in order to achieve the objectives and purposes of this Lease. Each party hereto and its counsel has reviewed and revised this Lease and agrees that the normal roles of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation of this Lease.

 19.17 Authority. Each party represents to the other that the person signing this Lease on its behalf is properly authorized to do so

 20. DEFINITIONS. As used in this Lease, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:

 "Additional Rent" means all amounts which Tenant is required to pay Landlord pursuant to this Lease (other than Fixed Rent).

 "Building" means a two-story building in which the Premises are located consisting of approximately 30,720 square feet of office and warehouse space. The real estate and improvements including the Building are located in Seattle, King County, Washington. The legal description is set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein. The Building has a street address of 621 - 2nd Avenue North, Seattle, Washington 98109.

 "Commencement Date" means July 1, 2000, the day the Lease Term commences as set forth in Section 2.1.

 "Environmental Law" means, as amended from time to time, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq., Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. Section 9601 et seq., Federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Control Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. Section 1801 et seq., Federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 7401 et seq., Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Federal Water Act of 1977, 93 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq., Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, Federal Pesticide Act of 1978, 7 U.S.C. Section 136 et seq., Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 2601 et seq., Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 300f et seq., Washington Water Pollution Control Act, RCW Chapter 90.48, Washington Clean Air Act, RCW Chapter 70.94, Washington Solid Waste Management Recovery and Recycling Act, RCW Chapter 70.95, Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act, RCW Chapter 70.105, Washington Hazardous Waste Fees Act, RCW Chapter 70.95E, Washington Model Toxics Control Act, RCW Chapter 70.105D, Washington Nuclear Energy and Radiation Act, RCW Chapter 70.98, Washington Radioactive Waste Storage and Transportation Act, RCW Chapter 70.99, Washington Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks Act, RCW Chapter 70.148, and any regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time.

 "Hazardous Substance" means any matter including petroleum products and by-products, asbestos, infectious waste and any other materials, which is now or hereafter designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to Section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq., or that is now or hereafter regulated by applicable Environmental Laws.

 "Law" means any constitution, statute, ordinance, regulation, rule, resolution, judicial decision, administrative order or other requirement of federal, state, county, municipal or other governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the parties or the Premises, or both, in effect either at the time of execution of this Lease or at any time during the Term, including without limitation, any regulation or order of a quasi-official entity or body (e.g., board of fire examiners or public utilities); all rules, laws and regulations arising under The Americans with Disabilities Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the United States Department of Justice.

 "Lease Year" means each succeeding year of the Term, commencing with the Commencement Date and ending with the date which is one (1) day less than one (1) year later.

 "Legal Requirements" means all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations and other governmental rules, orders and determinations now or hereafter in effect, whether or not presently contemplated, applicable to the Premises, or its ownership, operation, use or possession, including (without limitation), all those relating to building codes, zoning or other land use matters, The Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, life safety requirements and environmental compliance with respect to the handling, treatment, storage, disposal, discharge, use and transportation of Hazardous Substances.

 "Operating Expenses" means any and all costs and expenses paid or incurred in connection with the repair, operation, use and maintenance of the Building and the Premises including, but not limited to:

 (a) The repair, replacement, operation and maintenance of the Premises and related improvements adjacent to the Building, including, without limitation, common areas, parking areas, if any, lighting, signage, sidewalks, terraces, loading or delivery areas and personal property used in connection with the Building, including, without limitation, interior and exterior maintenance, all exterior doors and windows, elevators, stairways, sidewalks, driveways, interior perimeter and interior partition walls and finishes (including periodic painting thereof), exterior wall finishes (including periodic painting thereof), broken glass in exterior and interior doors and windows, nonstructural components of roof, floors, floor coverings, window frames, gutters and downspouts, elevators, HVAC, mechanical, electrical, plumbing and other building systems, equipment and machinery and landscaping;

 (b) All costs of utilities furnished to the Premises, including, without limitation, refuse collection, water, sewer, electricity, gas and other public utilities to service the Premises, fire protection, security services, janitorial and cleaning services (including trash collection, cleaning and window washing), landscape maintenance, and costs of supplies, materials, equipment and tools used in connection with the operation, maintenance and repair of the Building and the Premises;

 (c) All costs of service contracts, market rate services of independent contractors, compensation (including employment taxes and fringe benefits) of all persons who perform duties in connection with the operation, maintenance, renovation, improvement and repair of the Premises and all costs to supervise, manage and administer the maintenance of the Premises (generally known as "property management fees") which may be paid to a third party, Landlord or Landlord's designees;

 (d) All insurance premiums required under the terms of this Lease and such insurance as Landlord reasonably elects or is required to carry by Landlord's lenders from time to time including, but not limited to, comprehensive general liability, property damage, plate glass and rental interruption insurance;

 (e) All license, permit and inspection fees, and any applicable sales, use and excise taxes on goods and services purchased by Landlord or Tenant in connection with the operation, maintenance or repair of the Premises;

 (f) Any damage caused by breaking and entering;

 (g) All costs of complying with governmental laws or the board of fire underwriters (or similar organization) now or hereafter constituted applicable to the Building (including Environmental Laws), and any applicable hazardous waste remediation rules or regulations resulting from Tenant use, occupancy or contamination of the Premises;

 (h) Taxes (as defined below);

 (i) All costs of leasing, operation, maintenance and repair of any parking now or hereafter provided for tenants of the Premises and their employees, guests and invitees;

 (j) Any other costs required to maintain the Premises in a safe, sound and attractive condition and state of repair; and

 (k) Improvements to the Premises, or in repair or replacement of building systems or equipment or which are required by Laws enacted after the date of this Lease, and any other expense or charge whether or not hereinabove described, which would be considered an expense of maintaining, operating or repairing the Building or the Premises.

 "Premises" means the real property legally described in Exhibit A together with all improvements now or hereafter located thereon, including, but not limited to, the Building.

 "Rent" means the sum of Fixed Rent and Additional Rent, each as defined herein.

 "Taxes" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2 of this Lease.

 "Term" means the period beginning on the Commencement Date and terminating on July 31, 2010.

 "Utilities" means all utilities and services furnished to the Premises, including, without limitation, gas, electricity, water, sewer, garbage collection, janitorial and telephone service.

 21. BROKERS; AGENCY DISCLOSURE.

 21.1 Brokers. Landlord and Tenant each represent to the other that neither is represented by any broker, agent or finder with respect to this Lease in any manner other than Jeff Loftus and Russ Segner of Kidder Mathews & Segner Inc. ("KMS") who represented Landlord and Craig Kinzer of Craig Kinzer & Company ("Kinzer") who represented Tenant. Landlord shall pay a real estate commission equal to five percent (5%) of the base rent called for under years 1-5 of the Lease and two and one-half percent (2.5%) of the base rent for years 6-10 of the Lease. One half of the commission shall be paid upon execution of this Lease and the other one-half of the commission shall be paid one year later. If Tenant defaults under this Lease prior to payment of the commission in full, no commission is payable from and after the occurrence of an event of default by Tenant. The total commission shall be shared equally between Kidder Mathews & Segner, Inc. and Craig Kinzer & Company. Each party agrees to indemnify and hold the other party harmless from and against any and all liability, costs, damages, causes of action or other proceedings instituted by any broker, agent or finder, licensed or otherwise, and not identified in this Section 21.1, claiming through, under or by reason of the conduct of the indemnifying party in any manner whatsoever in connection with this Lease.

 21.2 Agency Disclosure. At the signing of this Lease Agreement, KMS represented Landlord and Kinzer represented Tenant. Each party signing this document confirms that prior oral and/or written disclosure of agency was provided to it in this transaction as required by WAC 308-124D-040.12.

 22. OPTIONS TO EXTEND TERM.

 22.1 Options to Extend. Provided Tenant is not in default, and there is no event that with the giving of notice, the passage of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default under this Lease, Tenant shall have three (3) options (each, an "Option") to renew the Term of this Lease for additional terms of five (5) years each (each an "Option Period") on the same terms and conditions as this Lease except for Fixed Rent which shall be determined as hereinafter set forth. Tenant may extend the Lease Term by giving Landlord written notice of its intent to extend the Term of this Lease at least one (1) year before the expiration of the then Term of this Lease. Tenant shall also give Landlord at least one (1) year's notice if Tenant has elected not to extend the Term of this Lease. Option rights are personal to Tenant and are not assignable or transferable separate and apart from this Lease.

 22.2 Determination of Fixed Rent during Option Period(s). Fixed Rent during each Option Period shall be the then fair market value rent for the Premises and any improvements thereon, as agreed upon by Landlord and Tenant in the exercise of their good faith negotiations, within the first ninety (90) days after delivery of Tenant's notice exercising its Option. Landlord and Tenant acknowledge and agree that negotiations with respect to fair market value rent shall be based upon that rent which is then applicable to leases of space of similar size and use to the Premises within the City of Seattle during the applicable Option Period. If Landlord and Tenant shall not have agreed upon the fair market Fixed Rent for each year of the applicable Option Period within said 90-day period (or mutually acceptable extension thereof), Landlord shall, at Landlord's cost and expense, undertake and complete an appraisal of the fair market monthly rent then appropriate to be charged for the Premises for the first year of the applicable Option Period (the "Appraisal"), which Appraisal shall be prepared by a qualified independent appraiser with an M.A.I. designation and at least five years of experience and who is generally familiar with leased premises comparable to the Premises ("Appraiser"), selected by Landlord. Such Appraisal shall be completed as soon as possible and no later than sixty (60) days after it is requested by Landlord. Upon completion of the Appraisal undertaken by Landlord, Tenant may either agree to the fair market Fixed Rent as set forth in the Appraisal which shall then become the Fixed Rent for the first year of the applicable Option Period, or Tenant may, at Tenant's expense, undertake a second Appraisal prepared by an Appraiser of Tenant's selection. Such Appraisal shall be completed as soon as possible and no later than sixty (60) days after it is requested by Tenant. Following completion of the Appraisal undertaken by Tenant, Landlord may agree to the Fixed Rent as set forth in the Appraisal, which shall then become the Fixed Rent for the first year of the applicable Option Period. If Landlord does not agree, then each of the first two Appraisers shall select a third Appraiser. Such third Appraiser shall then complete a third Appraisal, and, if the third Appraisal differs from the first two Appraisals, then the Fixed Rent for the first year of the applicable Option Period shall be the average of the three Appraisals; provided, however that if the low fair market monthly Fixed Rent designation and/or the high fair market monthly Fixed Rent designation deviates from the middle fair market monthly Fixed Rent designation by more than ten percent (10%), such designation or designations deviating by more than 10% shall be disregarded and the average of the remaining fair market monthly Fixed Rent set forth in the Appraisals (or the single remaining Appraisal) shall be the monthly Fixed Rent for the first year of the applicable Option Period. The costs of such third Appraiser shall be shared equally by Landlord and Tenant.

 Under no circumstances shall Fixed Rent payable during any Option Period be less than the Fixed Rent that was payable under this Lease for the Lease Year ending May 31, 2010, or the Fixed Rent that was payable under this Lease during the last year of the then Term of this Lease. Once Fixed Rent has been determined for any Option Period, Fixed Rent shall thereafter be increased on the first day of each July thereafter during the Option Period in accordance with Section 3.1 of this Lease by an amount equal to the percentage change in the CPI from the CPI last published for the preceding Lease Year, but not to exceed five percent (5%) for any Lease Year, as provided in Section 3.1 of this Lease.

 23. RIGHT OF FIRST OPPORTUNITY. In the event Landlord elects to sell the Premises during the Term of this Lease or any extension thereof, Landlord shall offer Tenant the right to purchase the Premises for such price as Landlord shall deem acceptable in its sole discretion, and on such other terms and conditions as Landlord may determine, with any sale to close within sixty (60) days thereafter. Provided Tenant is not in default, and there is no event that with the giving of notice, the passage of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default under this Lease, Tenant shall have thirty (30) days following receipt of such offer, to purchase the Premises for the price and on the other terms and conditions set forth in Landlord's notice. In the event Tenant fails to respond within such thirty (30) day period, Tenant's right of first opportunity shall automatically terminate and Landlord shall have the right to sell the Premises for a price not less than ninety percent (90%) of the purchase price set forth in Landlord's offer.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Lease the date and year first above written.

 LANDLORD TILDEN INVESTMENTS LLC, a Washington limited liability company By: Ray A. Tilden Co-Manager By: Margaret V. Tilden Co-Manager

 TENANT THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a first-class city of the State of Washington By: Name: Title:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING ) I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that RAY A. TILDEN and MARGARET V. TILDEN are the persons who appeared before me, and said persons acknowledged that they signed this instrument, on oath stated that they was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Co-Managers of TILDEN INVESTMENTS LLC, a Washington limited liability company, to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: Notary Public [Seal or Stamp] [Printed Name] My appointment expires

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss. COUNTY OF KING ) I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that _____________________ is the person who appeared before me, and said person acknowledged that (he/she) signed this instrument, on oath stated that (he/she) was authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the _______________________________ of THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a first-class city of the State of Washington to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.

 Dated: Notary Public [Seal or Stamp] [Printed Name] My appointment expires

 EXHIBIT A

 Certain real property situated in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and more particularly described as follows:

 LOTS 3 AND 4 IN BLOCK 13 OF MERCER'S ADDITION TO NORTH SEATTLE AS PER PLAT RECORDED IN VOLUME 1 OF PLATS ON PAGE 171, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON.

 FINAL DRAFT OF LEASE by and between TILDEN INVESTMENTS LLC, a Washington limited liability company as Landlord and THE CITY OF SEATTLE as Tenant

 Premises: 621 Second Avenue North Seattle, Washington

 A-1 P:\DRS\DRS1Y9 00/6/24 -iii- P:\DRS\DRS1Y9 00/6/24

```
