

********

**Council Bill Number: 113369**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120094**
********

 AN ORDINANCE Relating to Strategic Planning Office; authorizing the execution of an agreement with Seattle School District No. 1 concerning implementation of the Families and Education Levy.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 18, 2000
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 22, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 21, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 11, 2000
   
**Committee:** Housing, Human Services, Education and Civil Rights
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** INTERLOCAL-AGREEMENTS, SCHOOL-DISTRICT-1

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to Strategic Planning Office; authorizing the execution of an agreement with Seattle School District No. 1 concerning implementation of the Families and Education Levy.

 WHEREAS, the Families and Education Levy authorized by Seattle voters in September 1997 has enabled the City to provide funding for a number of programs to meet various needs of the children of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle School District No. 1 and the City of Seattle intend to work cooperatively to plan, administer and operate several such programs; and

 WHEREAS, the City and District have negotiated the terms of an agreement that governs issues and understandings of a broad scope related to Levy-funded services, activities, and programs to be planned and implemented through the District; and

 WHEREAS, the City and the District intend to negotiate and execute separate, supplementary agency services or agreements to deal with more specific aspects and phases of Levy implementation and Levy-related programs administered through or by the District, which agreements will be subject and subordinate to the agreement attached hereto;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Mayor is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle an agreement with Seattle School District No. I regarding implementation of the Families and Education Levy of The City of Seattle (Ordinance 118557), substantially in the form of an agreement attached to this ordinance.

 Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000__, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000__. _____________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000__. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000__. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 Attachment: Exhibit A-1997 Families and Education Levy Interlocal Agreement September 7, 2000 1997 FAMILIES AND EDUCATION LEVY INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT

 THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this First (1st) day of September, 1998, between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, hereinafter referred to as "City" and SEATTLE SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1, hereinafter referred to as "District," pursuant to and consistent with the Interlocal Cooperation Act, RCW Chapter 39.34.

 Whereas, the City and District are each committed to improving educational outcomes by increasing efforts to address the needs of children, youth and families that negatively impact student learning; and

 Whereas, the voters of Seattle have shown their commitment to improving educational outcomes by helping all children be safe, healthy and ready to learn, by approving a seven year Families and Education Levy (Ordinance 118557; see Attachment A) in September 1997, to fund programs and services that include:

 A. Early Childhood Development to promote the healthy development of children aged 0 - 5, and ensure that preschool children and parents are ready and able to make a successful transition to school;

 B. School Based Student/Family Services to build strong teams at elementary and middle schools to assist students and families with problems that interfere with learning.

 C. Comprehensive Student Health Services to improve access to comprehensive health care for middle and high school students and expand health education for all students;

 D. Out of School Activities to provide safe, supervised, healthy options for youth, grades K-12, before and after school hours and during summer vacation; and

 E. Academic Improvement to improve student outcomes at the Seattle Public Schools which most need extra assistance to be successful with students; and

 Whereas, the successful implementation of the programs and services identified above can only be established through a partnership involving the City, District, and the community;

 Now, Therefore, in response to these commitments and considerations, the parties agree as follows:

 I. DEFINITIONS

 The following words and terms have the following meanings for purposes of this Agreement:

 A. "Project Service Agreement" means a specific program contract that the City and District will enter into following the guidelines set forth in the Agreement;

 B. "Agreement" refers to this Families and Education Levy Interlocal Agreement between the City and the District;

 C. "City" means The City of Seattle;

 D. "District" means Seattle School District No. 1;

 E. "FY 1998" refers to the City's fiscal year, which runs from January 1 through December 31 of each calendar year;

 F. "FY 1998-99" refers to the District's fiscal year, which runs from September 1 through August 31 of the succeeding calendar year;

 G. "Levy" means the 1997 Families and Education Levy (Ordinance 118557; see Attachment A) adopted by the voters of Seattle in September, 1997;

 H. "Levy Oversight Committee" means the Families and Education Levy Oversight Committee as authorized by the 1997 Families and Education Levy Ordinance;

 I. "OFE" means the Office for Education, which is an office within the City's Strategic Planning Office (SPO) that is responsible for the City's administration of the Levy and for coordinating all education-related City activities;

 J. "Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development", means the office within the District that is responsible for the District's administration of the Levy.

 II. PURPOSE OF THE AGREEMENT

 In establishing this Agreement, the City and the District agree to and adopt the following principles:

 A. A cooperative partnership shall be established between the City and the District in all aspects of planning, implementing and evaluating Levy components that involve and affect both the City and the District. Overall communications regarding Levy and other joint City-District areas of concern shall be established and maintained through ongoing mechanisms.

 B. The City and District commit to the following shared goals:

 1. To build an increased sense of trust and community renewal among the various participants in the public educational system, including the City, District, parents, students, community members and organizations and the private sector;

 2. To assure the opportunity for the community to be heard by the City and District; and

 3. To assure that involvement of the community shall be inclusive -- seeking out those who may not normally participate, and assuring that no one group or small number of groups shall dominate in decision making regarding the funding, design and implementation of services and programs.

 C. The following principles, shared by the City and District, shall remain at the heart of Levy implementation, planning and programming:

 1. Involve parents and community members in school management decision making, which shall be school-based whenever possible;

 2. Make schools focal points of their respective communities, and foster partnerships between schools and other community entities including businesses, non-profits and government;

 3. Ensure that all students are given the support they need to be successful in school;

 4. Coordinate comprehensive student health services to support educational goals;

 5. Enhance the learning environment by ensuring that schools are safe, caring and encouraging, and are meeting the developmental as well as academic needs of all students;

 6. Enhance State level basic education funding by supporting increased appropriations and changes in State law.

 D. The City and District are committed to meaningful community involvement in Levy program planning, project development, and evaluation.

 E. All cooperative undertakings within the scope of the Agreement will appropriately recognize and be sensitive to the diverse multi-cultural, multi-lingual aspects of the Seattle community.

 F. Programmatic accountability shall be established and maintained, with clear delineation of roles and responsibilities in each Project Service Agreement between the City and District.

 G. Both parties recognize and respect the City's and District's budget and administrative processes that must be used in implementing programs and services. Further, both parties agree to inform one another of any pending budget decision that may impact any Levy funded program serving Seattle School District students.

 H. Both parties recognize and respect each other's collective bargaining agreements and the constraints related to those agreements.

 I. Both parties also recognize the role of the Levy Oversight Committee as set forth in the Levy Ordinance. (See Attachment A)

 J. A process for collecting and sharing information that is consistent with State and federal government regulations shall be developed and maintained by both parties.

 K. The City will review Levy allocations annually. As stated in the Levy (See Attachment A, Section 5), the City, through the budget process or by separate ordinance, can add or delete service components, program elements within a service component or change the scope of Levy funded activities. The City will include the District in this annual evaluation of programs that are targeted to serving District students.

 III. GENERAL PROVISION OF THE AGREEMENT

 A. This Agreement shall be for the period commencing on September 1, 1998 and ending on August 31, 2005 (the end of the District's fiscal year in the seventh year of the Levy).

 B. The City and District shall each act in good faith and shall carry out the terms of the Agreement as expeditiously as possible.

 C. The execution of this Agreement must be formally authorized by both the City's legislative authority and the District's School Board. Additions, deletions and amendments to this Agreement may be recommended by the Levy Oversight Committee, but must be formally authorized by both the City's legislative authority and the District's School Board

 D. The City and District acknowledge that:

 1. The purpose of the Levy is to help families, schools and community resources address the needs of Seattle's children and youth, foster learning, and improve educational outcomes for students in the District's schools;

 2. The provision of the educational and developmental services authorized by the Levy is both a municipal purpose and an educational purpose;

 3. The activities and services to be funded with Levy dollars are intended to be supplemental to the basic education funding by the State of Washington and are not intended to displace or serve as a basis for the reduction of State funding for the District's schools and educational programs;

 4. This Agreement is intended to address and relates to those programs and activities that are Levy-funded and involve the City and School District as partners in providing services - either by themselves or through subcontractors. This Agreement recognizes that some Levy-funded activities will not be governed by this Agreement, but will be governed by other agreements between the City and other parties;

 5. This Agreement governs issues and understandings of broad scope related to Levy-funded services, activities, and programs to be planned and implemented through the District. The District and City intend to execute one Master Service Agreement and several supplementary Project Service Agreements that will provide program specific agreements regarding implementation, evaluation and administration. These supplementary agreements are subject and subordinate to this Agreement; and

 6. The Levy, Ch. 35.32A RCW (the budget Law for First Class Cities)

 and the City's ordinances, rules, and policies govern decision- making with respect to Levy fund appropriations and allocations.

 E. The City and District acknowledge that various agreements and understandings currently exist between them and that, at some time in the future, it may be beneficial for both parties to have such agreements and understandings set forth in a consolidated document, but that until such time, those other agreements and understandings shall remain in full force and effect. The parties hereto further acknowledge that either or both of them may have reserved the right to amend one or more of such agreements and understandings, and that particular processes may have been agreed upon for such purposes. This Agreement is not to be treated as an amendment of any of those other agreements or understandings unless such intention is clearly expressed herein.

 IV. LEVY ADMINISTRATION

 A. The City's Office for Education (OFE), located in the Strategic Planning Office, and the District's Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development will provide leadership direction, policy development, as well as interdepartmental and interagency communication and coordination regarding the implementation of Levy programs and services and this Agreement. Each such administrative unit shall provide the other with a single and consistent administrative focus by which to implement this Agreement. OFE shall provide the recognized administrative interface and coordination among the various agencies, divisions, departments, and offices of the City. The Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development shall provide the same function within the District's administrative structure. All official business between the City and District related to Levy programs and initiatives, including the development of specific project service contracts, will be coordinated through the OFE and the Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development.

 B. Under the provisions of the Levy, central administrative support costs charged to and paid by the Levy shall not in any budget year exceed a total of 5% of that year's total Levy expenditure authority.

 C. In order to determine the amount of District administrative costs to be funded through the Levy each year, the Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development, shall submit a proposed Administrative Plan and budget for Levy funding to OFE by April 1 of each year for the following District fiscal year. Administrative costs to be funded by the Levy shall include only direct personnel costs, identified by function and percent of time dedicated to Levy administration and associated operating costs directly related to those personnel. OFE will then prepare a single Levy Administrative Plan for review by the Levy Oversight Committee for consideration and appropriation by the City through its regular budget process. No other costs for administration shall be allowed. The City and the District understand that requests for administrative costs are submitted for funding through the City's budget process. Final decision on allocation of these funds shall be made through the City's legislative process.

 D. The District shall be responsible for budgeting Levy funds appropriated for administrative costs within the Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development. The budgeting, expenditure, and accounting of these funds will be subject to all applicable State laws and regulations related to District finances.

 V. ROLE OF THE PARTIES' RESPECTIVE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITIES AND EXECUTIVES, AND VARIOUS ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES FOR PLANNING, COORDINATION, AND IMPLEMENTATION

 A. ROLE OF THE MAYOR AND SUPERINTENDENT

 1. In addition to his role as a member of the Levy Oversight Committee, the Mayor is responsible for providing overall policy guidance for the City in the implementation of the Levy. The Mayor shares responsibility with the City Council in authorizing execution of this and any further agreement with the District.

 2. In addition to his role as member of the Levy Oversight Committee, the Superintendent is responsible for the executive management of all District programs conducted under this Agreement. All supplemental project service agreements implementing this Agreement can be implemented only after review by both the Districts' Chief Academic Officer and Chief Financial Officer and approval by the Superintendent. All supplemental project service agreements will be signed by the Chief Financial Officer.

 B. ROLE OF THE CITY COUNCIL AND SCHOOL BOARD

 1. The City Council has joint responsibility with the Executive for approving and allocating funds for Levy-funded programs and services and for authorizing execution of implementing agreements, including this Agreement.

 2. The School Board has primary responsibility for approving cooperative agreements including this Agreement. Approval of this Agreement by the Seattle School Board will grant the Superintendent the authority to enter into supplementary agreements to implement the Levy program components based on the guidelines addressed in this Agreement. No portion of this Agreement shall infringe upon the roles and policies governing decision making with respect to School District budgets set forth in Chapter 28A.505 RCW and Chapter 392 - 123 WAC.

 C. ROLE OF CITY AND DISTRICT DEPARTMENTS, DIVISIONS, AND OFFICES

 1. The City's OFE is an office within the Strategic Planning Office. It is responsible for overall leadership, direction, policy development, interdepartmental and interagency communication and coordination for the Levy, ongoing City education programs and policies, and the City's education activities. The OFE shall establish and staff an Interdepartmental Team to assure coordination within the City in planning and implementation of all components of the Levy. Specific contracts implementing Levy programs will be carried out by relevant City departments and the District, but coordinated through the OFE.

 2. The Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development is responsible for overall leadership, direction, policy development, and coordination for all District programs that fall under this Agreement, subject to approval of the Superintendent. The Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development shall serve as the District's clearinghouse for all District activities related to this Agreement and shall review and monitor the District's departmental efforts to implement this Agreement. A District Levy Implementation Committee shall be established and maintained to coordinate District implementation of all activities under this Agreement.

 3. The City and School District agree that their various departments, divisions, and offices must work together to implement this Agreement and its supplemental agreements. Such collaboration, in order to achieve consistent policy direction, must be coordinated through the City's OFE and the District's Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development.

 VI. LEVY OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

 A. The overall role of the Levy Oversight Committee (LOC) as identified in the Levy (See Attachment A) is to:

 1. Review and advise upon expenditures and allocations for all Levy funds.

 2. Make recommendations on the implementation of particular programs and on any reallocation of funds during a budget year; and

 B. As part of its oversight role, the LOC shall provide guidance to the OFE and the Division of Curriculum Instruction and Professional Development regarding Levy policy issues and directions. It shall also provide a forum for resolving conflicts between the District and City when other courses of action have failed to produce resolution. (See "Dispute Resolution" Section)

 VII. EVALUATION OF LEVY PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

 A. Both the City and District are committed to the rigorous evaluation of programs and services provided by the Families and Education Levy in which they are jointly involved, but recognize that, because the Levy is a City effort, the City has the ultimate responsibility for determining the extent of any evaluation activity. Where the City desires to evaluate the effectiveness of a Levy-funded program or service in which there is joint involvement, the City and District will collaborate in designing and implementing performance measures, evaluation criteria and in conducting the evaluation.

 B. Where performance evaluation is to be undertaken, the appropriate project service agreement shall specifically budget funds for this purpose and shall identify whether the City or District will take lead responsibility for the implementation of evaluation activities. Both parties agree that evaluation is a key operational cost and should not be construed as part of administration of Levy programs.

 C. Should a performance evaluation of a program in which there is joint involvement show there to be serious problems, the City and District will work together in developing a program improvement plan or develop other recommendations to address the issues. If a contracting agency is involved, it will also be involved in this process.

 VIII. USE OF DISTRICT AND CITY FACILITIES

 Under this Agreement, many joint use situations can be expected. The City and District confirm that "An Agreement for the Joint Use of Facilities Between Seattle School District No. 1, and The City of Seattle's Department of Parks and Recreation", will continue to serve as the recognized policy and procedure document guiding joint use situations until such time as another agreement is executed by the parties. The City and District agree to negotiate such agreement in good faith.

 IX. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT

 Community involvement in the five programmatic Levy components funded directly by the Levy -- Early Childhood Development, School-Based Student/Family Services, Comprehensive Student Health Services, Out-of-School Activities and Academic Improvement -- shall be guided by a community involvement plan developed and adopted by the Levy Oversight Committee. This plan will provide a framework and process for coordinated involvement of the community in the overall Levy implementation, as well as in separate components, thus assuring a consistent approach to such involvement. The community involvement plan will have two basic components:

 1. Information/communication to specific interest groups and stakeholders and the general public; and

 2. Opportunities for participation in program and services planning, implementation, and, where applicable, program and services evaluation.

 X. AGENCY SERVICE AGREEMENT/CONTRACTING STANDARDS

 A. The City and District agree that the separate project service agreements to implement Levy programs and services shall include the following:

 * Scope of Services * Definitions (when necessary) * A Statement of Goals/Objectives/Measurable Outcomes * Performance Standards * Performance Evaluation Procedures and Timelines * Reporting Requirements as well as sections that address: * Budget (including transfer and restriction provisions) * Payment Schedule * Reallocation of Unexpended Funds * Documentation of Costs * Required Record and Fiscal Control Systems * Access to Records * Reports and Information * Required Notice Affecting Performance * Expected Quality of Performance * Prohibited Interlinkings * Grievance Processes * Liability and Insurance * Safeguarding of Client Information * Copyrights and Patents * Agreement Termination * Future Support Reservation of Rights * Severability

 B. In order to promote financial accountability, the City and the District agree that all financial and other records concerning cooperative undertakings under this Agreement will adequately meet generally accepted audit requirements subject to State and City laws and regulations.

 C. Each project service agreement will address reimbursement for appropriate direct and indirect costs associated with the services provided through the supplementary contract. The District's Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development will be responsible for determining those appropriate direct and indirect costs. Each project service agreement must flow through the District's Office of Grant Services in order to ensure adequate administrative oversight.

 D. Reimbursement to the District for services provided under a project service agreement is contingent upon the District submitting to the City all program and fiscal reports as outlined in each project service agreement. Repeated failure to submit programmatic or fiscal reports by the due dates outlined in any project service agreement could lead to the termination of that project service agreement.

 XI. SITE SELECTION

 Site selection for the provision of programs and services to be delivered in schools is a joint responsibility. Site selection shall be jointly coordinated by the OFE and

 the Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development, subject to the approval of the Chief Academic Officer and the Superintendent. Both parties agree to open up the site selection process to the community and other stakeholders, whenever possible, including principals as well as building professionals and support staff, to the greatest extent possible within funding and other constraints. Site selection shall be based on objective criteria jointly developed by the OFE and the Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development and shall closely involve implementing departments/units of both the City and the District where applicable.

 XII. STAFF SELECTION AND POSITION DESCRIPTION

 A. The responsibility for developing job descriptions for those District employment positions that are funded by the Levy shall be held by the appropriate District department, division, or office, which shall provide sufficient opportunity for City input before the job descriptions are finalized. Job descriptions for employees of other agencies that are delivering services in District schools, or to District students during the school day, will be developed by the City and contracted agency with sufficient opportunity for input from the District.

 B. Conducting interviews for positions funded through the separate project service agreements shall be the responsibility of the appropriate City or District department, division, or office. Where appropriate, the City and District agree to seek input from the other related to the selection process including resume rating procedures and joint interview/selection committees.

 C. Direction for these responsibilities will be provided jointly by the OFE and the Division of Curriculum, Instruction and Professional Development. The appropriate City, District or other agency administrator shall select final candidates for any position. Within the constraints of the parties' collective bargaining agreements, District school building administrators will be involved in selecting the final candidate in positions that are building-based, working in partnership with the appropriate City, District, or other agency administrator in charge of the program or service. Individuals hired under these provisions will be subject to applicable State laws along with applicable bargaining unit provisions and standard personnel policies and practices of the employer.

 XIII. ANNUAL REPORT

 A. The City's OFE shall prepare an annual report for publication by the Levy Oversight committee that shall include a summary of how Levy funds have been used, with program performance reports for all Levy programs. The District shall collaborate in preparing such reports.

 B. This annual report shall be submitted to the LOC and be made available to members of the City Council, School Board, and other organizations involved in Levy implementation. Copies of this report shall also be made available to the general public through distribution in the District's Parent Information Centers and school libraries and in the City's neighborhood services centers, public libraries, community centers and at Levy-funded program sites.

 XIV. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 Where disputes arise between the District and the City over issues related to this Agreement, the OFE Director and the Chief Academic Officer shall meet with the affected City and District representatives to resolve their differences. Should this process not yield resolution, the Superintendent and the SPO Director shall seek to resolve the dispute. In cases where, after a good faith effort, the dispute remains unresolved, the Levy Oversight Committee shall be asked to act as court of last resort for resolving the dispute in accordance with the Law. Its decision shall be final in resolving the dispute and the parties agree to act according to that decision.

```
