

********

**Council Bill Number: 113378**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Chapters 23.49 and 23.84 of the Seattle Municipal Code, modifying development regulations for downtown zones and responding to certain recommendations from the Downtown Urban Center Planning Group (DUCPG).

**Status:** Failed 07/16/01
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: McIver)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 18, 2000
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Sustainability and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, ZONING, URBAN-DESIGN

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE ___________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending Chapters 23.49 and 23.84 of the Seattle Municipal Code, modifying development regulations for downtown zones and responding to certain recommendations from the Downtown Urban Center Planning Group (DUCPG).

 WHEREAS, on May 24, 1999, the City Council adopted Resolution 29900, recognizing the Downtown Urban Center Planning Group (DUCPG) Neighborhood Plan, approving the City's work program in response to the DUCPG Neighborhood Plan and repealing the Land Use and Transportation Plan for Downtown Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, on June 19, 2000, the City Council adopted Resolution 30192, accepting the TDR/Bonus Program Review Advisory Committee Report and establishing a schedule for policy and code changes necessary to revise and update the TDR/Bonus Programs; and

 WHEREAS, on ________, the City Council enacted Ordinance ________, amending the Comprehensive Plan to include policies for Downtown Seattle;

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The City Council finds that:

 A. Adoption of this ordinance will implement the policies contained in the Comprehensive Plan as amended and will promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public.

 B. Housing.

 1. Large-scale office and hotel developments in downtown Seattle have attracted and continue to attract additional employees to the City, and create the need for additional housing in the downtown area, particularly housing affordable to households of lower and moderate income. Office and hotel uses in the City are benefited by the availability of affordable housing for persons employed in such offices and hotels close to their place of employment.

 2. There is a low vacancy rate for housing affordable to persons of lower and moderate income. This low vacancy rate is due in part to large office and hotel developments that have attracted and will continue to attract additional employees and residents to downtown Seattle. Consequently, some of the employees attracted to these large office and hotel developments are competing with present residents for scarce, vacant affordable housing units in downtown Seattle. Competition for housing generates the greatest pressure on the supply of housing affordable to households of lower and moderate income. In downtown Seattle, office or hotel uses of land generally yield higher income to the owner than housing. Because of these market forces, the supply of non-publicly-subsidized affordable housing units will not be expanded. Furthermore, federal, state and local subsidy programs are not sufficient by themselves to satisfy lower and moderate income housing requirements of downtown, as they will be expanded by higher- density office and hotel development.

 3. To allow total downtown office and hotel development at substantially higher densities than the base floor area ratios established in this ordinance, without provision for a significant portion of the additional affordable housing needed to support such development, would result in adverse effects including, without limitation, excessive demands on transportation networks from additional downtown workers; upward pressure on rents for modest housing in and near downtown; displacement of existing occupants of such housing; households paying large percentages of income on housing and unable to provide for other necessities, causing further strains on public and private resources available for social services and other support of lower income households.

 4. The State Growth Management Act calls for jurisdictions planning under it to utilize innovative management techniques including, but not limited to, density bonuses and transfer of development rights to achieve the planning goals established under that Act, which include making provision for housing needs of all economic segments of the community.

 5. The City of Seattle's Comprehensive Plan calls for the provision of additional housing to accommodate the demands of new residents attracted here by expanding employment opportunity made available by growth of office and hotel use in downtown Seattle. Land Use Policy L123 calls for the use of bonuses and TDRs downtown to increase development potential where it is desirable to accommodate growth, while providing for mitigation of impacts associated with higher densities.

 6. The City should provide floor area bonuses conditioned on voluntary agreements by developers to mitigate the adverse effects of the expanded employment facilitated by such projects.

 7. The amounts of additional affordable housing downtown for households at different income levels that are necessary to accommodate higher density office and hotel development are approximately as set forth in the Housing Nexus Analysis, prepared by Keyser Marston Associates, dated May 2000. The Nexus Analysis describes the nexus between new office and hotel development and the increased demand for housing in the City, and provides the numerical relationship between new office and hotel development and the formulas for provision of housing set forth in this ordinance. The housing to be produced to qualify for bonus floor area under this ordinance therefore represents less than the full impact of the additional floor area.

 8. In order for development of housing affordable to households with incomes below 80 of median family income to be feasible downtown, capital subsidies are required in approximately the amounts set forth in the Housing Nexus Analysis, according to the income levels to be served. Therefore, the amounts of the voluntary cash contribution to the City's downtown housing fund that would be equivalent to providing floor area of affordable housing units as a condition of bonus floor area are as set forth in the Nexus Analysis. These dollar amounts may be expected to increase roughly in accordance with the cost of living.

 9. Because the additional demand for affordable housing created by office development in the City can be expected to continue for many years, it is necessary to maintain the affordability of the housing units constructed by office developers under this program. In order to maintain the long-term affordability of such housing, mechanisms such as recorded covenants are necessary.

 C. Child Care.

 1. Large scale office and hotel developments in downtown Seattle add thousands of employees to the downtown workforce and thus result in an increased demand for licensed child care space for children of employees working in the downtown. Office and hotel uses benefit from the availability of child care accessible to workers.

 2. There is currently a scarcity of child care in the downtown for all income groups. Because child care costs in the downtown exceed costs elsewhere, low and moderate income workers are especially impacted. The supply of child care in the downtown has not kept pace with the demand for child care created by increased development in the downtown. As densities continue to increase, the supply of child care in the downtown is expected to become increasingly scarce.

 3. The Child Care Nexus Analysis prepared by Keyser Marston Associates, dated August 2000, describes the relationship between large scale office and hotel development and the increased demand for child care in the downtown. Based on this analysis, the City finds that at least 39 additional child care spaces are needed in the downtown for each addition of 1,000 employees, and that the private market will not provide for this need in the absence of conditions on bonuses for high-density development. The analysis includes a formula for calculating the amount of additional child care space needed, costs associated with construction of child care space, and subsidy needs to ensure affordability for low and moderate income workers. Based on that analysis, the City finds that the amount of child care space per square foot of bonus floor area of commercial development established in this ordinance, if provided on terms that ensure a sufficient portion of that space will be used to provide child care affordable to low-income families, will mitigate a substantial portion, though not all, of the increased child care needs from that floor area, and that in the alternative the payment to the City of the cash option amount for child care set forth in this ordinance will allow the City to provide for mitigation of a similar portion of those increased needs.

 Section 2. Subsection A of Section 23.49.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119837, is amended as follows:

 23.49.008 Structure height.

 The following provisions regulating structure height apply to all property in downtown zones except the DH1, PSM, IDM, and IDR zones.

 A. Maximum structure heights for downtown zones are ~~forty- five (45) feet,~~~~fifty-five (55) feet,~~ sixty-five (65) feet, ~~seventy-five (75) feet,~~ eighty-five (85) feet, one hundred (100) feet, ~~one hundred twenty (120) feet~~, one hundred twenty-five (125) feet, one hundred fifty (150) feet, one hundred sixty (160) feet, two hundred forty (240) feet, three hundred (300) feet and four hundred fifty (450) feet, as designated on the Official Land Use Map, Chapter 23.32, except that:

~~1. The Council shall determine the maximum permitted height when a major retail store or performing arts theater bonus is approved in Downtown Retail Core zones pursuant to Section 23.49.096; provided, that such height shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) feet.~~

~~2.~~1. Any ~~property~~lot in the Pike Market Mixed zone that is subject to an urban renewal covenant may be built no higher than the height permitted by the covenant for the life of the covenant.

2. Any development in a DOC 1 zone, or in a DOC 2 zone, except for a development that includes only nonresidential use in the Denny Triangle Urban Village, as shown on Map 23.49.041A, may gain additional structure height of ten (10) percent of the designated height limit, when the enclosed area of each story wholly or partly above the designated height limit is no greater than 80 percent of the area of the highest floor below the designated height limit. For structures with separate towers, the limit on enclosed area applies to each tower individually. Rooftop features, as provided in subsection C, are allowed in addition to the extra height permitted under this subsection.  3. Any lot in the DRC zone has a height limit of eighty-five (85) feet, except that a maximum height of one hundred fifty (150) feet is permitted in each of the following cases, subject to the restrictions in subsections 3e and 3f of this section:

 a. When all portions of a structure above 85 feet contain only residential use; or

 b. When at least twenty five (25) percent of the gross floor area of all structures on a lot is in residential use; or

 c. When a minimum of 1.5 FAR of retail sales and service or entertainment uses, or any combination thereof, is provided on the lot; or

 d. When residential floor area is created by infill of a light well on a City-designated Landmark structure. For the purpose of this subsection a light well is defined as an inward modulation on a non-street facing facade that is enclosed on at least three sides by walls of the same structure, and infill is defined as an addition to that structure within the light well. The maximum height limit for any infill allowed under this subsection A4 shall be the highest level at which the light well is enclosed by the full length of walls of the structure on at least three sides.

 e. Restrictions on Demolition and Alteration of Existing Structures. Any project that would exceed the eighty-five (85) foot base height limit shall incorporate the existing exterior street front facade(s) of each of the structures listed below located on the lot of that project. The City Council finds that these structures are significant to the architecture, history and character of downtown. The Director may permit changes to the exterior facade(s) to the extent that significant features are preserved and the visual integrity of the design is maintained. The degree of exterior preservation required will vary, depending upon the nature of the project and the characteristics of the affected structure(s).

 f. The Director shall evaluate whether the manner in which the facade is proposed to be preserved meets the intent to preserve the architecture, character and history of the Retail Core. If a structure on the lot is a Landmark structure, approval by the Landmarks Preservation Board for any proposed modifications to controlled features is required prior to a decision by the Director to allow or condition additional height for the project. The Landmarks Preservation Board's decision shall be incorporated into the Director's decision. Inclusion of a structure on the list below is solely for the purpose of conditioning additional height under this subsection, and shall not be interpreted in any way to prejudge the structure's merit as a Landmark.

 Sixth and Pine Building

523 Pine Street  Decatur

1513 - 6th Avenue  Coliseum Theater

5th and Pike  Seaboard Building

1506 Westlake Avenue  Fourth and Pike Building

1424 - 4th Avenue  Pacific First Federal Savings

1400 - 4th Avenue  Joshua Green Building

1425 - 4th Avenue  Equitable Building

1415 - 4th Avenue  1411 Fourth Avenue Building

1411 - 4th Avenue  Mann Building

1411 - 3rd Avenue  Olympic Savings Tower

217 Pine Street  Fischer Studio Building

1519 - 3rd Avenue  Bon Marche

3rd and Pine  Melbourne House

1511 - 3rd Avenue  Former Woolworth's Building

1512 - 3rd Avenue  4.

~~In the Downtown Retail Core zone, residential floor area created by infill of a light well on a City-designated Landmark structure shall be permitted above eighty-five (85) feet. For the purpose of this subsection a light well is defined as an inward modulation on a non-street facing facade that is enclosed on at least three sides by walls of the same structure, and infill is defined as an addition to that structure within the light well. The maximum height limit for any infill allowed under this subsection A4 shall be the highest level at which the light well is enclosed by the full length of walls of the structure on at least three sides.))~~ Any structure on a lot on either of the two half blocks abutting the east side of 2nd Avenue, between Pine and Union Streets, that qualifies for the one hundred fifty (150) foot height limit, is allowed a height limit of 195 feet if all portions of the structure above eighty five (85) feet in height contain only residential use.

~~3.~~5. Any lot in the Denny Triangle Urban Village, as shown on Map 23.49A.041A, may gain up to an additional thirty (30) percent in height if credit floor area is allowed pursuant to Section 23.49A.041, City/ County Transfer of Development Credits Program.

 Section 3. Subsections C and D and of 23.49.009 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 117430, are amended and remaining Sections relettered accordingly as follows:

 23.49.009 Open space.

 C. Standards for Open Space. To satisfy this requirement, open space may be provided on-site or off-site, as follows:

 1. Private Open Space. Private open space on the project site or on an adjacent lot directly accessible from the project site may satisfy the requirement of this section. Such space shall not be eligible for public benefit feature bonuses. Private open space shall be open to the sky and shall be consistent with the general conditions contained in the Public Benefit Features Rule related to landscaping, seating and furnishings. Private open space satisfying this requirement must be accessible to all tenants of the building and their employees.

 2. On-site Public Open Space.

 a. Open space provided on the project site under this requirement shall be eligible for public benefit feature bonuses, as allowed for each zone, provided the open space is open to the public without charge and meets the standards of ~~the zone in which the feature is located~~SMC 23.49.013 and the Public Benefit Features Rule for one (1) or more of the following:

 Parcel park;

 Green street on an abutting right-of-way;

~~Rooftop garden -- street accessible;~~

 Hillside terrace;

 Harborfront open space; or

 Urban plaza.

 b. On-site open space satisfying the requirement of subsection C2a of this section may achieve a bonus as a public benefit feature not to exceed ~~one (1) FAR~~any limits pursuant to 23.49.012 , which bonus shall be counted against, and not increase the total FAR bonus available from the provision of Public Benefit Features.

 3. Off-site Public Open Space.

 a. Open space satisfying the requirement of this section may be on a site other than the project site, provided that it is within a Downtown zone, within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the project site, open to the public without charge, and at least five thousand (5,000) square feet in contiguous area.

 b. Public open space on a site other than the project site shall be a bonusable feature if the open space meets the standards of ~~the zone in which the open space is located and is one (1) of the~~23.49.013 and is one of the open space features cited in subsection C2a of this section. Bonus ratios for off-site open space shall be ~~determined by the zone of the project receiving the bonus,~~ as set forth in ~~the Tables for Sections 23.49.050B~~Section 23.49.013. Projects that provide off-site open space satisfying this requirement may achieve a public benefit feature bonus not to exceed ~~one (1) FAR~~any limits pursuant to 23.49.013 for such open space, which shall be counted against, and not increase the total FAR bonus available from the provision of Public Benefit Features.

 4. Easement for Off-site Open Space. The owner of any lot on which off-site open space is provided to meet the requirements of this section shall execute and record an easement in a form acceptable to the Director assuring compliance with the requirements of this section, including applicable conditions of the Public Benefit Features Rule.

~~D. Payment in Lieu. In lieu of providing open space under this requirement, an owner may make a payment to the City's Open Space Fund if the Director determines that the payment will contribute to the purchase and/or development of an identified open space that is consistent with City policy and priorities, that the open space will mitigate the impacts of the project, and that acquisition of the open space (if applicable) is assured. The payment and use thereof shall be consistent with RCW 82.02.020~~.

~~1. An in-lieu-of payment shall equal the assessed value of the land at the project site which would otherwise have been required to provide open space plus the estimated cost to develop such open space on the project site.~~2. An in-lieu-of payment that includes the cost to develop bonusable open space shall be eligible for up to one (1) FAR bonus as a public benefit feature at the same ratios described in subsection C3b above.

 3. Funds received in lieu of providing open space within Downtown shall be applied to acquisition or development of new open space in a Downtown zone, within one-quarter () mile of the contributing sites, except that when a contributor or contributors agree with the City that a new open space within a Downtown zone but more than one-quarter () mile from the project site(s) would be an appropriate mitigation to the project impacts, the in-lieu-of payments from those projects may be used for that open space.

D. Cash option payment for green street improvements may be provided pursuant to SMC 23.49.013.

 Section 4. Section 23.49.011 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was added by the Initiative 31, is hereby repealed.

 Section 5. A new Section 23.49.011 is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code, as follows:

 23.49.011 Floor area ratio.

 A. General Standards.

 1. The base and maximum floor area ratio (FAR) for each zone is provided in Chart A as follows:

 23.49.011 - Chart A

 Base and Maximum Floor Area Ratios (FARs)

 Zone Designation

 Base FAR

 Maximum FAR

 Downtown Office Core 1 (DOC1)

 6, except 7 for a small lot*

 14

 Downtown Office Core 2 (DOC 2)

 5, except 5.5 for a small lot*

 10

 Downtown Retail Core (DRC)

 3

 5

 Downtown Mixed Commercial (DMC)

 4 in 65' height district

 4.5 in 85' height district

 5 in height districts above 85'

 4 in 65' height district

 6 in 85' height district

 7 in height districts above 85'

 Downtown Mixed Residential/Residential (DMR/R)

 1 in 85/65' height district

 1 in 125/65' height district

 1 in 240/65' height district

 1 in 85/65' height district

 2 in 125/65' height district

 2 in 240/65' height district

 Downtown Mixed Residential/Commercial

 (DMR/C)

 1 in 85/65' height district

 1 in 125/65' height district

 2 in 240/125 height district

 4 in 85/65' height district

 4 in 125/65' height district

 5 in 240/125 height district

 Pioneer Square Mixed (PSM)

 N.A.

 N.A.

 International District Mixed (IDM)

 3, except hotels.

 6 for hotels.

 3, except hotels.

 6 for hotels.

 International District Residential (IDR)

 1

 2 when 50% or more of the total gross floor area of the project is in residential use.

 Downtown Harborfront 1 (DH1)

 N.A.

 N.A.

 Downtown Harborfront 2 (DH2)

 2.5

 Development standards regulate maximum FAR.

 Pike Market Mixed (PMM)

 7

 7

 *A small lot is a lot no larger than 15, 000 square feet in area, not including a lot from which TDRs have been or are proposed to be transferred.

 N.A. = Not Applicable.

 2. Chargeable floor area shall not exceed the applicable base FAR except as expressly authorized pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. Additional chargeable floor area above the base FAR, up to the maximum as set forth in subsection A, may be achieved by qualifying for bonuses pursuant to Sections 23.49.012 or 23.49.013, or by the transfer of development rights pursuant to Section 23.49.039, or both, subject to the limits in this Chapter and to any other applicable conditions and limitations.

 B. Exemptions and Deductions from FAR Calculations.

 1. The following are not included in chargeable floor area, except as specified below in this section:

 a. Retail sales and service and entertainment use in the DRC zone up to a maximum FAR of 2;

 b. Street level uses meeting the requirements of Section 23.49.018, Street-level use requirements, whether or not street- level use is required pursuant to Map 1H, if the uses and structure also satisfy the following standards:

 (1) The street level of the structure containing the exempt space must have a minimum floor to floor height of thirteen (13) feet;

 (2) The street level of the structure containing the exempt space must have a minimum depth of fifteen (15) feet;

 (3) Overhead weather protection is provided satisfying the provisions of 23.49.025B5.

 c. In the DRC zone on sites shown on Map 1J, shopping corridors and retail atriums;

 d. Child care;

 e. Human service use;

 f. Residential use, except in the PMM and DH2 zones;

 g. Museums;

 h. Performing arts theaters;

 i. Floor area below grade;

 j. Floor area that is used only for short-term parking or parking accessory to residential uses, or both; and

 k. Floor area of public benefit features. The exemption applies regardless of whether a floor area bonus is obtained, and regardless of maximum bonusable area limitations.

 2. As an allowance for mechanical equipment, three and one-half (3-1/2) percent of the gross floor area of a structure shall be deducted in computing chargeable gross floor area. The allowance shall be calculated on the gross floor area after all exempt space permitted under subsection B1 has been deducted. Mechanical equipment located on the roof of a structure, whether enclosed or not, shall be calculated as part of the total gross floor area of the structure, except that for structures existing prior to June 1, 1989, new or replacement mechanical equipment may be placed on the roof and will not be counted in gross floor area calculations.

 Section 6. Section 23.49.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code is hereby recodified as Section 23.49.019.

 Section 7. A new Section 23.49.012 of the Seattle Municipal Code is hereby added, as follows:

 23.49.012 Bonus floor area for Voluntary Agreements for Housing and Child Care.

 A. General Provisions.

 1. The purpose of this Section is to allow chargeable floor area above the base FAR when the applicant, by voluntary agreement, provides or helps to fund public benefit features or capital projects that mitigate a portion of the impacts of higher-density development. The City has determined that a major impact of such development is the increased need for low-income and low-moderate income housing downtown to serve workers in lower-paid jobs and their families attracted by the development. The general intent of this section is that voluntary agreements for bonus floor area shall mitigate impacts, with primary emphasis on housing.

 2. Additional chargeable gross floor area may be permitted up to the maximum limits set forth in Section 23.49.011 when the applicant enters into a voluntary agreement to earn floor area above the base in accordance with this Section. The agreement commits the applicant to provide eligible bonus features ("performance option"), or to make payments to the City to fund such features ("cash option"), or a combination of both the cash option and the performance option, in amounts sufficient to qualify for the amount of floor area desired.

 3. No floor area beyond the base FAR shall be granted for any project that causes significant alteration to any designated feature of a Landmark structure, unless a Certificate of Approval is granted by the Landmarks Preservation Board.

 B. Voluntary Agreements for Housing and Child Care. For each square foot of chargeable floor area above the base FAR to be earned under this Section, the voluntary agreement shall commit the developer to provide or contribute to the following facilities in the following amounts:

 1. Housing.

 a. For each square foot of bonus floor area, housing units serving specified income levels, or an equivalent cash contribution, must be provided according to Chart A:

 23.49.012 Chart A

 Income Level

 Units of Housing

 Cash Equivalent*

 Up to 30% of median income

 0.00003320

 $3.17

 Up to 50% of median income

 0.00011620

 $9.24

 Up to 80% of median income

 0.00018260

 $6.34

 Total

 0.00033200

 $18.75

 * The cash equivalent amounts are subject to adjustment by the Director according to a rule promulgated by the Director of the Office of Housing as he or she shall determine to be consistent with the goals of this Chapter and to respond to changing circumstances such as market factors.

 b. For purposes of this subsection, a housing unit serves households up to an income level only if all of the following are satisfied:

 (1) the housing unit is committed by recorded covenant to use as rental housing solely for households with incomes, at the time of each household's initial occupancy, not exceeding that level;

 (2) the rent that may be charged for the housing unit is restricted by recorded covenant, to a monthly amount that, together with a reasonable allowance for any basic utilities that are not included in the rent, does not exceed one-twelfth of 30% of that income level as adjusted for the estimated size of household corresponding to the size of unit, in such manner as the Housing Director shall determine;

 (3) the covenant restricting rents on such housing unit does not permit any charges for occupancy other than rent; and

 (4) such covenant has a term of at least twenty (20) years beginning when the certificate of occupancy is granted and is enforceable by the City; and

 (5) the housing unit and the structure in which it is located are approved by the Director of Housing as adequate to provide decent housing with an expected useful life of at least twenty (20) years, and as including adequate basic appliances

 (6) if public subsidies are proposed for the housing project [will need to be defined-subsidy review needs to look at project as a whole, not just those units provided in return for bonus], a subsidy review shall be conducted to ensure that the amount of private subsidy equals at least $18.75 per square foot of bonus floor area.

 (7) The Director of Housing shall review the design and proposed management plan for any housing proposed under the performance option to determine whether it will comply with the terms of this Section.

 (8) The Director of Housing is authorized to accept a voluntary agreement for the provision of housing and related agreements and instruments consistent with this Section.

 2. Child Care.

 a. For each square foot of bonus floor area, in addition to providing housing or an equivalent cash contribution pursuant to subsection 1, 0.000127 square feet of qualifying child care space or a cash contribution of $3.25 is required.

 b. Child care space shall be provided on the same lot as the project using the bonus floor area or on another lot and shall be contained in a facility satisfying the following standards:

 (1) The Director of the Human Services Department shall review the design and proposed management plan for any child care facility proposed to qualify for bonus floor area to determine whether it will comply with the terms of this Section.

 (2) The Director of the Human Services Department is authorized to accept a voluntary agreement for the provision of bonused child care and related agreements and instruments consistent with this Section.

 C. Use of Cash Option Payments. Cash payments under voluntary agreements for bonuses shall be deposited in special accounts established solely to fund capital expenditures for the public benefit features for which the payments are made as set forth in this section.

 D. No Subsidies for Bonused Housing; Exception.

 1. Intent. Housing provided through the bonus system is intended to mitigate a portion of the additional housing needs resulting from increased density, beyond those needs that would otherwise exist, and that the City and other governmental and charitable entities attempt to meet through various subsidy and incentive programs. Allowing bonus floor area under the performance option for housing that uses such programs therefore could undermine the intent of this Section.

 2. Agreement Concerning Subsidies. The Director of Housing may require, as a condition of any bonus floor area for housing under the performance option, that the owner of the lot upon which the housing is located agree not to seek or accept any subsidies, including without limitation those items referred to in subsection D3 of this Section, related to the housing, except for any subsidies that may be allowed by the Housing Director under that subsection. The Housing Director may require that such agreement provide for the payment to the City, for deposit in the Downtown Housing Bonus Account, of the value of any subsidies received in excess of any amounts allowed by such agreement.

 3. No Bonus for Subsidized or Restricted Housing. In general, no bonus may be earned by providing housing if

 a. any person is receiving or will receive with respect to the housing any public subsidies for housing development or operation, including, but not limited to, tax exempt bond financing, tax credits, federal loans or grants, City of Seattle housing loans or grants, County housing funds, State of Washington housing funds, or property tax exemptions or other special tax treatment; or

 b. the housing is or would be, independent of the requirements for the bonus, subject to any restrictions on the use, occupancy or rents.

 4. Exception. If the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Housing Director that, without the financial contribution being made by the applicant to housing that would be ineligible for a bonus under clause (a) or (b) in this subsection, such housing would not be developed or preserved according to the applicable standards for the housing bonus, then the Housing Director may allow a voluntary agreement to provide such housing to qualify for the housing portion of the conditions for bonus floor area under this section, according to the following provisions:

 a. The Housing Director shall increase the amount of housing floor area per bonus square foot, as set forth in subsection B1 of this Section, to an amount that allows credit for only the Director's estimate of the incremental effect, in meeting the City's housing needs for the next twenty (20) years, of the net financial contribution that is being made by the applicant pursuant to the voluntary agreement and not funded or reimbursed, directly or indirectly, from public subsidies or charitable contributions.

 b. The applicant shall provide full and timely disclosure to the Housing Director of all of the following with respect to any housing for which an exception is requested under this section: all projected and actual costs, all sources of financing, all subsidies received and applied for, all expected tax benefits, financial proformas, and such other information as the Housing Director shall require to determine whether an exception should be allowed and any appropriate reductions in the amount of bonus square feet for which the housing portion of the bonus conditions will be satisfied by the housing.

 c. The Housing Director may grant an exception subject to conditions, which may include re-evaluation of the amount of square footage for which the housing to be provided will satisfy the housing portion of the bonus conditions in this Section, based on updated information concerning project costs and financing, and may require security, in an amount sufficient so that if the amount of such square footage is reduced upon such re-evaluation, the deficit in meeting the housing portion of the bonus conditions would be made up by a cash contribution.

 Section 8. A new Section 23.49.013 of the Seattle Municipal Code is hereby added, as follows:

 23.49.013 Bonus Floor Area for Amenity Features.

 A. An applicant may achieve a portion of the chargeable floor area to be built over base FAR through bonuses for amenities, subject to the limits in this Chapter. Amenities for which bonuses may be allowed are limited to:

 1. Public open space amenity, including hillside terrace, urban plaza, parcel park, public atrium, green street improvement, green street setback and any combination of these or the amenities in subsection 2;

 2. Hillclimb assist, shopping corridor, or transit tunnel station access may be provided on sites shown as eligible for these respective bonuses on Map 1J or any combination of these and the amenities in subsection 1.

 3. Human Services.

 B. Standards for Amenity Features.

 1. Location of Amenity Features. Amenity features may be provided on- or off-site, consistent with locations identified by Map 1J. In addition, open space amenities must be located on-site, except as follows:

 a. Green street improvements may be located off-site within an abutting right-of-way subject to applicable Directors Rules;

 b. Open space features, other than green street improvements, satisfying the requirement of this section may be on a site other than the project site, provided that it is within a Downtown zone, within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the project site, open to the public without charge, and at least 20,000 thousand (20,000) square feet in contiguous area. Off-site open space must meet the following:

 (1) It must be open to the public without charge, meet the standards of the Public Benefit Features Rule and is one of the open space features cited in subsection A1 of this section.

 (2) Easement for Off-site Open Space. The owner of any lot on which off-site open space is provided to meet the requirements of this section shall execute and record an easement in a form acceptable to the Director assuring compliance with the requirements of this section, including applicable conditions of the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 2. Options for Provision of Amenity Features. Amenity features may be provided by performance or cash contribution, except that open space amenities, other than green street improvements, must be provided by performance only. The cash option payment for green street improvements is allowed subject to the provisions of this Section, the Public Benefit Features Rule and The Green Street Director's Rule.

 3. Ratios and limits. Except in the DMR zone where no limit applies, the total amount of bonused chargeable floor area that may be gained though bonuses under this Section is limited to twenty- five (25) percent of the total chargeable floor area above the base FAR. Use of individual public benefit features may be used to gain floor area according to any applicable ratio or may be further limited by the provisions of this Section.

 a. Bonuses for open space amenities, including hillside terrace, urban plaza, parcel park, green street improvement, public atrium or any combination of these, may be allowed at a ratio of five (5) square feet of floor area granted per one (1) square foot (5:1) of open space feature. Green street setback may be allowed at a ratio of one (1) square feet of floor area granted per one (1) square foot (1:1) of open space feature. Such bonuses shall not exceed on (1) FAR or 15% of the total chargeable floor area, whichever is less, to be added above the base FAR, whichever is less, except as allowed in subsection b.

 b. Bonuses for open space amenities meeting the provisions of this Chapter and the Public Benefit Features Rule and having an area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or greater may gain up to twenty-five (25) percent of the total chargeable floor area to be added above the base FAR.

 c. Bonuses for hillclimb assist, shopping corridor and transit tunnel station access may be provided on sites shown on Map 1J to gain an additional 0.5 FAR for each amenity.

 d. Bonuses for human service use may be allowed at a ratio of seven (7) square feet of floor area granted per one (1) square foot (7:1) of human service feature up to a maximum bonusable human service amenity of ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area.

 4. Standards for Amenity Features. Amenity features must satisfy the applicable provisions of the Public Benefit Features Rule in order to generate a bonus, except that the Director may allow departures from the provisions of the Public Benefit Features Rule if the applicant can demonstrate that the feature provides at least an equivalent public benefit and better achieves the intent of the feature as described in the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 5. Declaration. When amenity features are to be provided on-site for purposes of obtaining bonus floor area, the owner shall execute and record a declaration in a form acceptable to the Director identifying the features and the fact that the right to develop and occupy a portion of the gross floor area on the site is based upon the long-term provision and maintenance of those features.

 Section 9. Subsection A of Section 23.49.016 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113279, is amended as follows:

 23.49.016 Parking quantity requirements.

 The regulations in this section shall not apply to Pike Market Mixed zones.

 A. General Standards.

 1. Long-term parking requirements shall be established for all new uses, except as provided in subsection A2. The long-term requirement shall be determined by the accessibility of the area to transit, according to Map ~~IA~~1F. Short-term parking shall also be required for offices and retail sales and service uses in all areas, except as provided in subsection A2.

 2. Exceptions to the parking requirement shall be permitted as follows:

 a. No parking shall be required for new uses to be located in existing structures, or when existing structures are remodeled.

 b. No parking shall be required for residential uses.

 c. No parking, either long-term or short-term, shall be required for the first thirty thousand (30,000) square feet of retail sales and service use on lots in areas with high transit access, as identified on Map ~~IA~~1F. No parking, either long- term or short-term, shall be required for the first seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet of retail sales and service use on lots in other areas.

 d. No parking shall be required for the first two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of any nonresidential use ~~which is~~that not a retail sales and service use.

 e. No parking shall be required when an existing structure is expanded by up to two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet or less, provided that this exemption may be used only once by any individual structure.

 f. No parking shall be required for any gross floor area in human service or day care use.

 g. In Pioneer Square Mixed zones, the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods, upon recommendation by the Pioneer Square Preservation Board, may waive or reduce required parking according to the provisions of Section 23.66.170, Parking and access.

 h. In International District Mixed and International District Residential zones, Director of the Department of Neighborhoods, upon recommendation by the International District Special Review District Board may waive or reduce required parking according to the provisions of Section 23.66.342, Parking and access.

 In these zones, the parking requirements for restaurants, motion picture theaters, and other entertainment uses and places of public assembly shall be established pursuant to the requirements of Section 23.66.342, rather than the provisions of this section.

 3. Location of Required Parking.

 a. Required parking may be provided on the lot, and/or within eight hundred (800) feet of the lot on which the use is located, and/or within sixteen hundred (1,600) feet of the lot for lots in DH1 zones, provided that:

 (1) The parking is located in a downtown zone in conformance with the accessory parking regulations for that zone; and

 (2) When parking is provided on a lot other than the lot of the use for which it is required, the owner of the parking spaces shall be responsible for notifying the Director should the use of the lot for the required parking cease. In this event, the principal use must be discontinued, other parking meeting the requirements of this code must be provided within thirty (30) days, or a variance must be applied for within fourteen (14)days, and subsequently granted. A covenant between the owner of the parking spaces, the owner or operator of the principal use, and The City of Seattle stating the responsibilities of the parties shall be executed. This covenant and accompanying legal descriptions of the principal use lot and the lot upon which the spaces are to be located shall be recorded with the King County Department of Records and Elections and a copy with the recording number and parking layouts shall be submitted as part of any permit application for development requiring parking.

 b. In lieu of providing required long-term parking, payment may be made to the Downtown Parking Fund, according to the provisions of subsection B4.

 4. For the purposes of determining parking requirements, institutions shall be considered "other nonresidential" uses on Chart 23.49.016 A. The parking requirements for nonresidential public projects and City facilities shall be determined on a case- by-case basis.

 Section 10. A new Section 23.49.025 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section is added as follows:

 23.49.025 Street-level use requirements.

 One or more of the uses listed in subsection A are required at street level on all lots abutting streets designated on Map 1H. Required street-level uses shall meet the standards of this section.

 A. Types of Uses. The following uses qualify as required street- level uses:

 1. Retail sales and services, except lodging;

 2. Human service uses and child care centers;

 3. Customer service offices;

 4. Entertainment uses, including cinemas and theaters;

 5. Museums and libraries; and

 6. Public atriums.

 B. General Standards.

 1. A minimum of seventy-five (75) percent of each street frontage at street-level where street-level uses are required must be occupied by uses listed in subsection A. The remaining twenty-five (25) percent of the street frontage at street-level may contain other permitted uses and/or pedestrian or vehicular entrances. The frontage of any exterior public open space that qualifies for a floor area bonus, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be counted in street frontage.

 2. In the DRC zone, no more than twenty (20) percent of the total street frontage of the lot may be occupied by human service uses, child care centers, customer service offices, entertainment uses, or museums.

 3. Required street-level uses shall be located within ten (10) feet of the street property line or shall abut a bonused public open space. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49A.022, the ten (10) feet shall be measured from the line established by the new sidewalk width.

 4. Except for child care centers, pedestrian access to required street- level uses shall be provided directly from the street or a bonused public open space. Pedestrian entrances shall be located no more than three (3) feet above or below sidewalk grade or shall be at the same elevation as the abutting public open space.

 5. Overhead weather protection. The entire length of facade where street-level uses are required must include overhead weather protection at street level meeting the following standards:

 a. Overhead weather protection must have a minimum dimension of six (6) feet measured horizontally from the building wall or must extend to a line two (2) feet from the curb line, whichever is less;

 b. A minimum of one half (1/2) of the overhead weather protection, for the entire length of facade where protection is required, must be over the public right-of-way or a widened sidewalk on private property;

 c. The applicant will not install any obstructions in the sidewalk area as part of the structure of the overhead weather protection;

 d. The lower edge of the overhead weather protection must be a minimum of eight (8) feet and a maximum of twelve (12) feet above the sidewalk for projections of up to six (6) feet measured horizontally from the facade and a minimum of ten (10) feet and a maximum of fifteen (15) feet for projections greater than six (6) feet measured horizontally from the famayade;

 e. Overhead weather protection must be continuous where feasible.

 Section 11. Subsection A of Section 23.49.026 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119728, is amended as follows, and remaining subsections shall be relettered accordingly:

 23.49.026 General requirements for residential uses.

~~A. Inclusion of Affordable Units. At least ten (10) percent of the units in new structures containing more than twenty (20) dwelling units shall be provided and maintained as affordable housing, according to the Public Benefit Features Rule.~~

 Section 12. Section 23.49.032 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by 112303, is amended as follows:

 23.49.032 Additions of gross floor area to lots with existing structures;nonconformity due to changes in bonuses or exemptions.

 A. ~~Existing structures may be expanded to the maximum permitted FAR. If the gross floor area is greater than that permitted by the base FAR, the expansion shall be achieved by providing public benefit features or by transferring development rights pursuant to the provisions of the zone in which the structure is located. Existing FAR shall be calculated under the rules for exempt and nonexempt space of the zone in which the structure is located.~~When development is proposed on a lot that will retain existing structures containing chargeable floor area in excess of the applicable base FAR, additional chargeable floor area may be added to the lot up to the maximum permitted FAR, by qualifying for bonuses or using TDR, or both, subject to the general rules for FAR and use of bonuses and TDR, SMC Sections 23.49.012, 23.49.013 and 23.49.039. Solely for the purpose of determining the amounts and types of bonus and TDRs that may be used to achieve the proposed increase in chargeable floor area, the legally established continuing chargeable floor area of the existing structures on the lot shall be considered as the base FAR.

 B. When mechanical equipment or ~~above-grade~~ parking  that~~which~~was exempted from floor area calculation under the provisions of Title 24 is proposed to be changed to uses that~~which~~ are not exempt from floor area calculations under this Chapter, and ~~the structure is over~~the chargeable floor area on the lot exceeds the base FAR for the zone in which it is located, the gross floor area ~~in an amount equivalent to the gross floor area~~ proposed to be changed shall be achieved through qualifying for bonuses ~~provision of public benefit features~~ or transfer of development rights, according to the provisions of Sections 23.49.012. 23.49.013 and 23.49.039 as applicable to the zone in which the structure is located. ~~This provision shall apply whether or not the structure is conforming.~~

 C. When subsection A or B applies, any existing public benefit features for which increased floor area was granted under Title 24 shall, to the extent possible in the opinion of the Director, be modified to satisfy the requirements of Section 23.49.034, Modification of plazas and other features bonused under Title 24.

D.Any lot for which a bonus or exemption was allowed under prior provisions of this Chapter shall not be considered in violation of this Title as the result of the amendment of this Chapter to reduce, condition or eliminate such bonus or exemption. Rather, such lot shall be considered nonconforming as to development standards at any time to the extent that chargeable floor area exceeds the sum of the base FAR applicable in the zone, any bonuses for which the lot would qualify under this Chapter if all chargeable floor area above the base FAR were then being added, and any TDRs validly transferred to the lot for which additional floor area was permitted. Any increase in base FAR shall apply first to reduce any such nonconformity, and only any excess of such increase, after elimination of the nonconformity, shall result in additional permitted chargeable floor area.

Section 13. Section 23.49.033 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 112522, is hereby repealed.

 Section 14. Subsection C of Section 23.49.037 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 C. Vested Projects. A holder of a permit for a project ~~which~~that is vested to an earlier code on the effective date of ~~the ordinance codified in this section,~~Ordinance 115657 may apply for approval of a PCD as provided in this section. The proposed PCD constitutes a new project and, except as provided in this section, is subject to requirements applicable to such projects.

 1. Floor Area. If the holder of a permit for such a vested project applies for PCD approval, the proposed PCD is entitled to the floor area which was vested, provided that if the floor area was attributable in part to the provision of housing or human services public benefit features, then those features must be included as part of the approval of the proposed PCD. If those features are not included, the floor area shall be reduced accordingly.

 2. Credit for Impact Mitigation. To the extent a vested project has provided mitigation for an impact which also would have been attributable to the proposed PCD, the provided mitigation shall be credited against mitigation for the corresponding impact of the PCD.

 3. ~~Annual Limits on Downtown Office Development. If a project which is vested for purposes of this subsection is thereby not subject to the annual limits on downtown office development prescribed by SMC Section 23.49.011 the proposed PCD which replaces the vested project is not subject to those limits~~.

~~4.~~ Tolling and Expiration of Vested Permit.

 a. If the holder of a vested permit wishes to apply for approval of a PCD under this section, the running of the expiration period for the vested permit shall be tolled from the date the notice of intent to apply for PCD approval is received by the Director, until the date the City Council makes a final decision to approve or deny the PCD application, or until the earlier date of PCD withdrawal or cancellation as described below. Tolling shall also terminate if the holder fails to submit an application for PCD approval within sixty (60) days of the date the parks report prescribed by subsection B3 of this section is provided to the holder.

 b. Within thirty (30) days of the date the Director establishes guidelines pursuant to subsection B4 of this section, the applicant shall elect to proceed with the PCD application or withdraw the application. If the applicant fails to elect within thirty (30) days, the vested right shall expire on the thirty-first day and the PCD application shall be cancelled. The applicant may withdraw the PCD application any time prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period. If the application is withdrawn, the running of the expiration period for the vested permit shall resume at the time of withdrawal.

 c. If the PCD applicant elects to proceed with the PCD application, the permit for the vested project may not be used unless:

 (1) The PCD is denied by the City Council; or

 (2) The PCD is approved with conditions additional to those recommended in the Director's guidelines under subsection B4 of this section, which significantly increase the cost of the park to the applicant relative to the cost estimate contained in the Director's guidelines, or which significantly change the location or footprint of buildings from those contained in the guidelines;

 (3) The PCD is denied as a result of a lawsuit. If the vested project is resumed as a result of the denial or conditioning under paragraphs (1) through (3), the running of the expiration period for the vested permit shall resume at the date of the Council decision or final decision by a court, including an appellate court, whichever occurs later.

 d. The PCD approval shall expire as provided in SMC Section 23.76.060. If the holder proceeds under the vested permit, that permit shall expire as provided in the applicable code, subject to the tolling authorized by this section.

 Section 15. A new Section 23.49.039 of the Seattle Municipal Code is added as follows:

 23.49.039 Transfer of Development Rights (TDRs).

 A. General standards.

 1. The following types of TDR may be transferred to the extent permitted in Chart A, subject to the limits and conditions in this Chapter:

 a. Housing TDR.

 b. Landmark TDR.

 c. Open space TDR.

 2. TDR may be transferred from any lot to another lot on the same block, to the extent permitted in Chart A, subject to the limits and conditions in this Chapter.

 3. Location of Sending and Receiving Sites. A lot's eligibility to be either a sending or receiving lot is regulated by 23.49.039 Chart A.

 23.49.039 Chart A.

 TDR transferable within-block.

 Types of TDR transferable between blocks.

 Zones*

 Transfer from any structure within the same Downtown Block.

 Housing TDR Site.

 Landmark TDR Site.

 Open Space TDR Site.

 DOC 1 and 2

 S, R

 S, R

 S, R

 S, R

 DRC

 S, R**

 S, R**

 S, R**

 S, R**

 DMC zones with a height limit of 85' or greater.

 X

 S, R

 S, R

 S, R

 DMC 65'

 X

 S

 S

 S

 DMR

 X

 S, R***

 S, R***

 S, R***

 IDM, IDR and PSM.

 X

 S

 X

 X

 S = Eligible sending site.

 R = Eligible receiving site.

 X = Not permitted.

 *Development rights may not be transferred to or from lots in the following zones: PMM; DH1 or DH2.

 **Transfers to lots in the DRC zone are only permitted from lots which are also zoned DRC.

 ***Transfers to lots in the DMR zone are only permitted from lots which are also zoned DMR.

 4. Except as expressly permitted pursuant to this Section, development rights or potential floor area may not be transferred from one lot to another.

 C. Standards for Sending Lots.

 1. The maximum amount of floor area that may be transferred from an eligible sending lot, except a sending lot in the PSM or IDM zones, is the product of the eligible lot area times the base FAR of the sending lot, as provided in 23.49.011, minus any existing chargeable gross floor area on the sending lot, and further reduced by any TDRs previously transferred from the sending lot. The eligible lot area is the total area of the sending lot, reduced by the excess, if any, of the total of accessory surface parking over one-quarter (1/4) of the total area of the footprints of all structures on the sending lot.

 2. When the sending lot is located in the PSM or IDM zones, the gross floor area that may be transferred is 6 FAR, less non-exempt floor area including residential use.

 3. When TDRs are transferred from a sending lot in a zone with a base FAR limit, the amount of chargeable gross floor area that may then be built on the sending lot shall be equal to the area of the lot multiplied by the applicable FAR limit set in Section 23.49.011, minus the total of:

 a. The existing chargeable floor area on the lot; plus

 b. The amount of gross floor area that was transferred from the lot.

 4. When TDRs are sent from a sending lot in a PSM zone, the combined maximum chargeable floor area and residential floor area that may then be built on the sending lot shall be equal to the total gross floor area that could have been built on the sending lot consistent with applicable development standards as determined by the Director, had no TDRs been transferred, less the sum of:

 a. The existing chargeable floor area on the lot; plus

 b. The amount of gross floor area that was transferred from the lot.

 5. Gross floor area allowed above base FAR under any bonus provisions of this Title or the former Title 24, or allowed under any exceptions or waivers of development standards, may not be transferred. TDRs may be transferred from a lot that contains chargeable floor area exceeding the base FAR only to the extent, if any, that:

 a. TDRs were previously transferred to such lot in compliance with the Land Use Code provisions and applicable rules then in effect;

 b. Those TDRs, together with the base FAR under Section 23.49.011, exceed the chargeable floor area on the lot and any additional chargeable floor area for which any permit has been issued or for which any permit application is pending; and

 c. The excess amount of TDRs previously transferred to such lot would have been eligible for transfer from the original sending lot under the provisions of this section at the time of their original transfer from that lot.

 6. Landmark structures on sending lots from which Landmark TDR are transferred shall be restored and maintained as required by the Landmarks Preservation Board, according to the procedures in the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 7. Housing on lots from which Housing TDR are transferred shall be restored to the extent required to provide decent, sanitary, and habitable conditions, in compliance with applicable codes, and so as to have an estimated minimum useful life of at least 20 years from the time of the TDR transfer, all as approved by the Housing Director.

 D. Standards for Receiving Lots.

 1. Chargeable floor area gained from TDR other than Housing TDR is limited to twenty-five (25) percent of the chargeable floor area achieved above the base FAR, except as provided in subsection 4.

 2. Chargeable floor area gained from Housing TDR is limited to seventy-five (75) percent of the chargeable floor area achieved above the base FAR, except as provided in subsection 4.

 3. Variable Scale of Development TDR. Any receiving lot is limited to a gain of one (1) FAR or fifteen (15) percent of the floor area above the base FAR, whichever is less, from TDR from sending lots that are eligible to send TDR solely because they are on the same block as the receiving site.

 4. In the DMR zone, any type of allowed TDR may be used to gain one hundred (100) percent of the chargeable floor area above the base FAR, subject to the provisions of this Chapter.

 E. Transfer of Development Rights Deeds and Agreements.

 1. The fee owners of the sending lot shall execute a deed with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless (in the case of TDR from a housing TDR site) such consent is waived by the Director of Housing for good cause, which deed shall be recorded in the King County real property records. When TDRs are conveyed to the owner of a receiving lot described in the deed, then unless otherwise expressly stated in the deed or any subsequent instrument conveying such lot or the TDRs, the TDRs shall pass with the receiving lot whether or not a structure using such TDRs shall have been permitted or built prior to any conveyance of the receiving lot. Any subsequent conveyance of TDRs previously conveyed to a receiving lot shall require the written consent of all parties holding any interest in or lien on the receiving lot from which the conveyance is made. If the TDRs are transferred other than directly from the sending lot to the receiving lot using the TDRs, then after the initial transfer, all subsequent transfers also shall be by deed, duly executed, acknowledged and recorded, each referring by King County recording number to the prior deed.

 2. Any person may purchase any TDRs that are eligible for transfer from the owner of the sending lot by complying with the applicable provisions of this Section, whether or not the purchaser is then an applicant for a permit to develop downtown real property, provided that the purchaser is the owner of an eligible receiving lot for such TDRs and the deed provides that the TDRs are attached to that eligible receiving lot. Any purchaser of such TDRs (including any successor or assignee) may use such TDRs to obtain FAR above the applicable base on that receiving lot, or another eligible receiving lot to which the TDRs shall have been transferred consistent with subsections C5 and E1 of this section, to the extent such use of TDRs is permitted under the Land Use Code provisions in effect on the date of vesting, under applicable law, of such person's rights with respect to the issuance of permits for development of the project intended to use such TDRs. The Director may require, as a condition of processing any permit application using TDRs or for the release of any security posted in lieu of a deed for TDRs to the receiving lot, that the owner of the receiving lot demonstrate that the TDRs have been validly transferred of record to the receiving lot, and that such owner has recorded in the real estate records a notice of the filing of such permit application, stating that such TDRs are not available for retransfer.

 3. For transfers of housing TDR, the owner of the sending lot shall execute and record an agreement, with the written consent of all holders of encumbrances on the sending lot, unless such consent is waived by the Director of Housing for good cause, to provide for the maintenance of the required housing on the sending lot for a minimum of twenty (20) years. Such agreement shall commit to limits on rent and occupancy, consistent with the definition of housing TDR site and acceptable to the Director of Housing.

 4. For transfers of Landmark TDR, the owner of the sending lot shall execute and record an agreement in form and content acceptable to the Landmarks Preservation Board providing for the restoration and maintenance of the historically significant features of the structure or structures on the lot.

 5. A deed conveying TDRs may require or permit the return of the TDRs to the sending lot under specified conditions, but notwithstanding any such provisions:

 a. The transfer of TDRs to a receiving lot shall remain effective so long as any portion of any structure for which a permit was issued based upon such transfer remains on the receiving lot; and

 b. The City shall not be required to recognize any return of TDRs unless it is demonstrated that all parties in the chain of title have executed, acknowledged and recorded instruments conveying any interest in the TDRs back to the sending lot and any lienholders have released any liens thereon.

 6. Any agreement governing the use or development of the sending lot shall provide that its covenants or conditions shall run with the land and shall be specifically enforceable by The City of Seattle.

 F. TDR Sales Before Base FAR Increases and Changes in Exemptions. TDRs shall not be transferred from any lot from which a TDR transfer was made prior to the effective date of this ordinance, in any amount exceeding the amount of TDRs available from such lot immediately prior to such date.

 G. Projects Developed Under Prior Code Provisions. Projects that are developed pursuant to Master Use Permits issued under the provisions of this Title as in effect prior to the effective date of this ordinance, which permits provide for the use of TDRs, may use TDRs that were transferred from the sending lot consistent with such prior provisions prior to such effective date, subject to the conditions and limitations then applicable to such TDRs.

 H. TDRs Approved for Transfer Under Prior Code. If the conditions to transfer of Landmark TDR, Housing TDR or TDR from Major Performing Arts Facilities, were satisfied prior to the effective date of this ordinance under the provisions of this Title in effect, such TDR may be transferred in the amounts then eligible for transfer, but only for use by projects developed pursuant to permits issued under the provisions of this Title in effect prior to the effective date of this ordinance. The use of such TDR on the receiving site shall not be subject to limits that were not in effect for purposes of the Master Use Permit decision for the project using the TDR.

 Section 16. Subsection E of Section 23.49.041 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119728, is amended as follows:

 23.49.041 Transfer of Development Credits (TDCs).

 E. King County Certification and Security. No permit after the first building permit, and in any event no permit for any construction activity other than excavation and shoring, will be issued for development that includes credit floor area until (1) the applicant's possession of necessary rural development credits is certified by King County; and (2) either security is provided for the provision of amenities or an optional cash contribution is made, sufficient to generate the amount of amenity credits necessary under the terms of this section and any rules promulgated by the Director to implement this Section.

 Section 17. Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.045 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 112303, are amended as follows:

 23.49.045 Downtown Office Core 1, principal and accessory parking.

 A. Principal Use Parking.

 1. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking in areas shown on Map ~~IIa~~1I may be permitted as conditional uses, pursuant to Section 23.49.046. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking ~~shall be~~are prohibited in other locations.

 2. Principal use parking garages for short-term parking ~~shall either be:~~a. Permitted outright when the garage contains short-term parking spaces for which additional floor area is granted pursuant to Section 23.49.050; or

 b. Conditional uses in all other cases, pursuant to Section 23.49.046.

 may be permitted as conditional uses, pursuant to Section 23.49.046.

 3. Principal use surface parking areas shall be prohibited, except that temporary principal use surface parking areas may be permitted as conditional uses pursuant to Section 23.49.046.

 B. Accessory Parking.

 1. Accessory parking garages for both long-term and short-term parking shall be permitted outright, up to the maximum parking limit established by Section 23.49.016, Parking quantity requirements.

 2. Accessory surface parking areas shall not be permitted, except that temporary accessory surface-parking areas may be permitted as conditional uses pursuant to Section 23.49.046.

 Section 18. Subsection B of Section 23.49.046 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is amended as follows:

 23.49.046 Downtown Office Core 1, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 B. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking in areas designated on Map ~~IIA~~1I, and for short-term parking at any location ~~, except those permitted outright by Section 23.49.045B2,~~ may be permitted as conditional uses, if the Director finds that:

 1. Traffic from the garage will not have substantial adverse effects on peak hour traffic flow to and from Interstate 5, or on traffic circulation in the area around the garage; and

 2. The vehicular entrances to the garage are located so that they will not disrupt traffic or transit routes; and

 3. The traffic generated by the garage will not have substantial adverse effects on pedestrian circulation.

 Section 19. Section 23.49.048 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 20. Section 23.49.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 21. Section 23.49.052 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 22. Section 23.49.054 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is hereby repealed.

 Section 23. The introduction and Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.056 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118409, are amended as follows:

 23.49.056 Downtown Office Core 1, street facade requirements.

 Standards for the street facades of structures are established for the following elements:

 Minimum facade heights;

 Setback limits;

 Facade transparency;

 Blank facade limits;

 Screening of parking;

 Street trees.

 These standards shall apply to each lot line of a lot which abuts a street designated on Map ~~IID~~1G as having a pedestrian classification. The standards for each street frontage shall vary according to the pedestrian classification of the street on Map ~~IID~~1G, and whether property line facades are required by Map ~~IIC~~1K.

 A. Minimum Facade Height.

 1. Minimum facade height shall be as described in the chart below, and Exhibit 23.49.056 A, but minimum facade heights shall not apply when all portions of the structure are lower than the elevation of the required minimum facade height listed below.

 Class I Pedestrian Streets

 and All Streets Where

 Property Line Facades are

 Required Minimum Class II Pedestrian Streets

 Facade Height* Minimum Facade Height*

 35 feet 25 feet

 * Except as modified by view corridor requirements.

 2. On designated view corridors specified in Section 23.49.024, the minimum facade height shall be the required elevation of the setback, when it is less than the minimum facade height required in subsection A1 of this section.

 B. Facade Setback Limits.

 1. Setback Limits for Property Line Facades. The following setback limits shall apply to all streets designated on Map ~~IIC~~1K as requiring property line facades.

 a. The facades of structures fifteen (15) feet or less in height shall be located within two (2) feet of the street property line.

 b. Structures greater than fifteen (15) feet in height shall be governed by the following criteria:

 (1) No setback limits shall apply up to an elevation of fifteen (15)feet above sidewalk grade.

 (2) Between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty-five (35) feet above sidewalk grade, the facade shall be located within two (2) feet o the street property line, except that:

 i. Any exterior public open space which satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be considered part of the setback.

 ii. Setbacks between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty- five(35) feet above sidewalk grade at the property line shall be permitted according to the following standards, as depicted in Exhibit 23.49.056 B:

 -- The maximum setback shall be ten (10) feet.

 -- The total area of a facade which is set back more than two (2) feet from the street property line shall not exceed forty (40) percent of the total facade area between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty-five (35) feet.

 -- No setback deeper than two (2) feet shall be wider than twenty(20) feet, measured parallel to the street property line.

 -- The facade of the structure shall return to within two (2) feet of the street property line between each setback area for a minimum of ten (10) feet. Balcony railings and other nonstructural features or walls shall not be considered the facade of the structure.

 c. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49.022, setback standards shall be measured to the line established by the new sidewalk width rather than the street property line.

 2. General Setback Limits. The following setback limits shall apply on streets not requiring property line facades, as shown on Map ~~IIC~~1K. Except when the entire structure is fifteen (15) feet or less in height, the setback limits shall apply to the facade between an elevation of fifteen (15) feet above sidewalk grade and the minimum facade height established in subsection A of this section and Exhibit 23.49.056 C. When the structure is fifteen (15) feet or less in height, the setback limits shall apply to the entire street facade.

 a. The maximum area of all setbacks between the lot line and facade along each street frontage of a lot shall not exceed the area derived by multiplying the averaging factor by the width of the street frontage of the structure along that street (see Exhibit 23.49.056 D). The averaging factor shall be five (5) on Class I pedestrian streets and ten (10) on Class II Pedestrian streets.

 b. The maximum width, measured along the street property line, of any setback area exceeding a depth of fifteen (15) feet from the street property line shall not exceed eighty (80) feet, or thirty (30) percent of the lot frontage on that street, whichever is less. (See Exhibit 23.49.056 D.)

 c. The maximum setback of the facade from the street property lines at intersections shall be ten (10) feet. The minimum distance the facade must conform to this limit shall be twenty (20) feet along each street. (See Exhibit 23.49.056 E.)

 d. Any exterior public open space which satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be considered part of a setback. (See Exhibit 23.49.056 C.)

 e. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49.022, setback standards shall be measured to the line established by the new sidewalk width rather than the street property line.

 Section 24. The introduction and Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.058 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119728, are amended as follows:

 23.49.058 Downtown Office Core 1, upper-level development standards.

 A. Coverage Limits. On streets designated on Map ~~IID~~ 1G as having a pedestrian classification, coverage limit areas are established at two (2) elevations:

 1. Between an elevation of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet and two hundred forty (240) feet above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within twenty (20) feet of each street property line and sixty (60) feet of intersecting street property lines (see Exhibit 23.49.058 A), is established as the coverage limit area.

 2. Above an elevation of two hundred forty (240) feet above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within forty (40) feet of each street property line and sixty (60) feet of intersecting street property lines (see Exhibit 23.49.058 A), is established as the coverage limit area.

 3. The percentage of the coverage limit area that may be covered by a portion of a structure is as follows:

 Lots With Two or More

 Street Frontages

 Lots With Lots 40,000 Lots Greater

 One Street Sq. Ft. or Than 40,000

 Elevation Frontage Less in Size Sq. Ft. in Size

 126' to 240' 60% 40% 20%

 Above 240' 50% 40% 20%

 4. To qualify as uncovered area, at least half the area required to be uncovered shall be contiguous and shall have a minimum depth of fifteen (15) feet.

 5. To meet the coverage limits, a lot may be combined with one or more abutting lots, whether occupied by existing structures or not, provided that:

 a. The coverage of all structures on the lots meets the limits set in this subsection A; and

 b. The fee owners of the abutting lot(s) execute a deed or other agreement, that is recorded with the title to the lots, that restricts future development so that in combination with the other lots, the coverage limits shall not be exceeded.

 B. Maximum Facade Lengths. Maximum facade lengths shall be established for facades above an elevation of one hundred twenty- five (125) feet above the adjacent sidewalk. This maximum length shall be measured parallel to each street property line of streets designated on Map ~~IID~~1G as having a pedestrian classification and shall apply to any portion of a facade, including projections such as balconies, which is located within fifteen (15) feet of street property lines.

 1. The maximum length of facades above an elevation of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall be as follows:

 Lots With Two or More

 Street Frontages

 Lots With Lots 40,000 Lots Greater

 One Street Sq. Ft. or Than 40,000

 Elevation Frontage Less in Size Sq. Ft. in Size

 126' to 240' 120' 120' 120'

 Above 240' 90'* 120' 90'

 * Above a height of two hundred forty (240) feet, for each half percent (1/2%) reduction of coverage in the coverage limit area from the requirements established in subsection A of this section, the maximum facade length may be increased by one (1) foot up to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) feet.

 2. To be considered a separate facade for the purposes of determining the maximum facade length established in subsection B1, any portion of a facade above an elevation of one hundred twenty- five (125) feet which is less than fifteen (15) feet from a street property line, shall be separated from any similar portion of the facade by at least sixty (60) feet of facade which is set back at least fifteen (15) feet from a street property line. (See Exhibit 23.49.058 B.).

 Section 25. Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.064 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 112303, are amended as follows:

 23.49.064 Downtown Office Core 2, principal and accessory parking.

 A. Principal Use Parking.

 1. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking in areas shown on Map ~~IIIA~~1I may be permitted as conditional uses, pursuant to Section 23.49.066. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking shall be prohibited in other locations.

 2. Principal use parking garages for short-term parking ~~shall either be:~~a. Permitted outright when the garage contains short-term parking spaces for which additional floor area is granted pursuant to Section 23.49.070;or

 b. Conditional uses in all other cases,

may be permitted by conditional use pursuant to Section 23.49.066.

 3. Principal use surface parking areas shall be conditional uses in areas shown on Map ~~IIIA~~1I, and shall be prohibited in other locations, except that temporary principal use surface parking areas may be permitted as conditional uses pursuant to Section 23.49.066.

 B. Accessory Parking.

 1. Accessory parking garages for either long-term or short-term parking shall be permitted outright, up to the maximum parking limit established by Section 23.49.016, Parking quantity requirements.

 2. Accessory surface parking areas shall be:

 a. Permitted outright when located in areas shown on Map ~~IIIA~~1I and containing twenty (20) or fewer parking spaces; or

 b. Permitted as a conditional use when located in areas shown on Map ~~IIIA~~1I and containing more than twenty (20) spaces; or

 c. Prohibited in areas not shown on Map ~~IIIA~~1I, except that temporary accessory surface parking areas may be permitted as conditional uses pursuant to Section 23.49.066.

 Section 26. Subsection B of Section 23.49.066 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is amended as follows:

 23.49.066 Downtown Office Core 2, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 B. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking in areas designated on Map ~~IIIA~~1I, and for short-term parking at any location~~, except those permitted outright by Section 23.49.064B2~~,)) may be permitted as conditional uses, if the Director finds that:

 1. Traffic from the garage will not have substantial adverse effects on peak hour traffic flow to and from Interstate 5, or on traffic circulation in the area around the lot; and

 2. The vehicular entrances to garage are located so that they will not disrupt traffic or transit routes; and

 3. The traffic generated by the garage will not have substantial adverse effects on pedestrian circulation.

 Section 27. Section 23.49.068 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119728, is hereby repealed.

 Section 28. Section 23.49.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 29. Section 23.49.072 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 30. Section 23.49.074 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is hereby repealed.

 Section 31. The introductory subsection and subsections A and B of Section 23.49.076 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119728, are amended as follows:

 23.49.076 Downtown Office Core 2, street facade requirements.

 Standards for the street facades of structures are established for the following elements:

 Minimum facade heights;

 Setback limits;

 Facade transparency;

 Blank facade limits;

 Screening of parking;

 Street trees.

 These standards shall apply to each lot line of a lot which abuts a street designated on Map ~~IIID~~1G as having a pedestrian classification. The standards for each street frontage shall vary according to the pedestrian classification of the street on Map ~~IIID~~1G, and whether property line facades are required by Map ~~IIIC~~1K.

 A. Minimum Facade Height.

 1. Minimum facade height shall be as described in the chart below, and Exhibit 23.49.076 A, but minimum facade heights shall not apply when all portions of the structure are lower than the elevation of the required minimum facade height listed below.

 Class I Pedestrian Streets

 and All Streets Where

 Property Line Facades are

 Required Minimum Class II Pedestrian Streets

 Facade Height* Minimum Facade Height*

 35 feet 25 feet

 * Except as modified by view corridor requirements.

 2. On designated view corridors specified in Section 23.49.024, the minimum facade height shall be the required elevation of the setback, when it is less than the minimum facade height required in subsection A1 of this section.

 B. Facade Setback Limits.

 1. Setback Limits for Property Line Facades. The following setback limits shall apply to all streets designated on Map ~~IIIC~~1K as requiring property line facades.

 a. The facades of structures fifteen (15) feet or less in height shall be located within two (2) feet of the street property line.

 b. Structures greater than fifteen (15) feet in height shall be governed by the following criteria:

 (1) No setback limits shall apply up to an elevation of fifteen (15)feet above sidewalk grade.

 (2) Between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty-five (35) feet above sidewalk grade, the facade shall be located within two (2) feet o the street property line, except that:

 i. Any exterior public open space which satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be considered part of the setback.

 ii. Setbacks between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty- five(35) feet above sidewalk grade at the property line shall be permitted according to the following standards, as depicted in Exhibit 23.49.056 B:

 -- The maximum setback shall be ten (10) feet.

 -- The total area of a facade which is set back more than two (2) feet from the street property line shall not exceed forty (40) percent of the total facade area between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty-five (35) feet.

 -- No setback deeper than two (2) feet shall be wider than twenty(20) feet, measured parallel to the street property line.

 -- The facade of the structure shall return to within two (2) feet of the street property line between each setback area for a minimum of ten (10) feet. Balcony railings and other nonstructural features or walls shall not be considered the facade of the structure.

 c. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49.022, setback standards shall be measured to the line established by the new sidewalk width rather than the street property line.

 2. General Setback Limits. The following setback limits shall apply on streets not requiring property line facades, as shown on Map ~~IIIC~~1K. Except when the entire structure is fifteen (15) feet or less in height, the setback limits shall apply to the facade between an elevation of fifteen (15) feet above sidewalk grade and the minimum facade height established in subsection A of this section and Exhibit 23.49.076 C. When the structure is fifteen (15) feet or less in height, the setback limits shall apply to the entire street facade.

 a. The maximum area of all setbacks between the lot line and facade along each street frontage of a lot shall not exceed the area derived by multiplying the averaging factor by the width of the street frontage of the structure along that street (see Exhibit 23.49.076 D). The averaging factor shall be five (5) on Class I pedestrian streets and ten (10) on Class II Pedestrian streets.

 b. The maximum width, measured along the street property line, of any setback area exceeding a depth of fifteen (15) feet from the street property line shall not exceed eighty (80) feet, or thirty (30) percent of the lot frontage on that street, whichever is less. (See Exhibit 23.49.076 D.)

 c. The maximum setback of the facade from the street property lines at intersections shall be ten (10) feet. The minimum distance the facade must conform to this limit shall be twenty (20) feet along each street. (See Exhibit 23.49.076 E.)

 d. Any exterior public open space which satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be considered part of a setback. (See Exhibit 23.49.076 C.)

 e. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49.022, setback standards shall be measured to the line established by the new sidewalk width rather than the street property line.

 Section 32. Subsection A and B of Section 23.49.078 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119728, are amended as follows:

 23.49.078 Downtown Office Core 2, upper-level development standards.

 A. Coverage Limits. On streets designated on Map ~~IIID~~ 1G as having a pedestrian classification, coverage limit areas are established at two (2) elevations:

 1. Between an elevation of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet and two hundred forty (240) feet above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within twenty (20) feet of each street property line and sixty (60) feet of intersecting street property lines (see Exhibit 23.49.078 A), is established as the coverage limit area.

 2. Above an elevation of two hundred forty (240) feet above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within forty (40) feet of each street property line and sixty (60) feet of intersecting street property lines (see Exhibit 23.49.078 A), is established as the coverage limit area, except as stated in subsection A3 below.

 3. For projects participating in the TDC Program pursuant to SMC Section 23.49.041, the coverage limit areas above an elevation of two hundred forty (240) feet for structures three hundred (300) feet in height or less are the same as the coverage limit areas under subsection A1 above for the entire height of the structure above one hundred twenty-five (125) feet above the adjacent sidewalk.

 4. The percentage of the coverage limit area that may be covered by a portion of a structure shall be as follows:

 a. Projects, except those described in subsection A4b below:

 Lots With Two or More

 Street Frontages

 Lots With Lots 45,000 Lots Greater

 One Street Sq. Ft. or Than 45,000

 Elevation Frontage Less in Size Sq. Ft. in Size

 126' to 240' 60% 40% 20%

 Above 240' 50% 40% 20%

 b. Certain Projects Participating in the TDC Program. For projects participating in the TDC Program pursuant to SMC 23.49.041, on lots that either (i) have at least 25% of the lot area at street level in open space use or occupied by structures, or portions of structures, no greater than 35' in height, or any combination thereof; or (ii) have at least 50% of the lot area at street level in open space use or occupied by structures, or portions of structures, no greater than 65' in height, or any combination thereof:

 Lots With Two or More

 Street Frontages

 Lots With Lots 45,000 Lots Greater

 One Street Sq. Ft. or Than 45,000

 Elevation Frontage Less in Size Sq. Ft. in Size

 126' to 240' 60% 50% 25%

 Above 240' 50% 50% 25%

 5. To qualify as uncovered area, at least half the area required to be uncovered shall be contiguous and shall have a minimum depth of fifteen (15) feet.

 6. To meet the coverage limits, a lot may be combined with one or more abutting lots, whether occupied by existing structures or not, provided that:

 a. The coverage of all structures on the lots meets the limits set in this subsection A; and

 b. The fee owners of the abutting lot(s) execute a deed or other agreement, that is recorded with the title to the lots, that restricts future development so that in combination with the other lots, the coverage limits shall not be exceeded.

 B. Maximum Facade Lengths. Maximum facade lengths shall be established for facades above an elevation of one hundred twenty- five (125) feet above the adjacent sidewalk. This maximum length shall be measured parallel to each street property line of streets designated on Map ~~IIID~~1G as having a pedestrian classification and shall apply to any portion of a facade, including projections such as balconies, which is located within fifteen (15) feet of street property lines.

 1. The maximum length of facades above an elevation of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall be as follows:

 Lots With Two or More

 Street Frontages

 Lots With Lots 45,000 Lots Greater

 One Street Sq. Ft. or Than 45,000

 Elevation Frontage Less in Size Sq. Ft. in Size

 126' to 240' 120' 120' 120'

 Above 240' 90'* 120' 90'

 * Above a height of two hundred forty (240) feet, for each half percent (1/2%) reduction of coverage in the coverage limit area from the requirements established in subsection A of this section, the maximum facade length may be increased by one (1) foot up to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) feet.

 2. To be considered a separate facade for the purposes of determining the maximum facade length established in subsection B1, any portion of a facade above an elevation of one hundred twenty- five (125) feet which is less than fifteen (15) feet from a street property line, shall be separated from any similar portion of the facade by at least sixty (60) feet of facade which is set back at least fifteen (15) feet from a street property line. (See Exhibit 23.49.078 B.).

 Section 33. Subsection C of Section 23.49.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118672, is amended as follows:

 23.49.090 Downtown Retail Core, permitted uses.

 C. Public Facilities.

 1. Except as provided in Section 23.49.096~~E2~~, uses in public facilities that are most similar to uses permitted outright under this chapter shall also be permitted outright subject to the same use regulations and development standards that govern the similar uses.

 2. Essential Public Facilities. Permitted essential public facilities shall also be reviewed according to the provisions of Chapter 23.80, Essential Public Facilities.

 Section 34. Subsection B and 23.49.096 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is amended and subsequent Sections are renumbered as follows:

 23.49.096 Downtown Retail Core, conditional uses and Council decisions.

~~B. Major retail stores and performing arts theaters may be granted a public benefit feature bonus through an administrative conditional use process, Chapter 23.76, Procedures for Master Use Permits and Council Land Use Decisions. Through the bonus, increases in permitted height and floor area ratios, and changes in development standards may be granted if the desired quality of the public environment can be maintained, according to the following standards:~~1. Standards for Major Retail Store.

 a. Type of Store. Major retail stores shall be operated by an established concern with a reputation for quality and service, which is not located in the Downtown Retail Core when the conditional use is sought and shall provide a range of merchandise and services.

 b. Size Standards and Bonus Ratio.

 (1) Minimum lot size shall be twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet.

 (2) The minimum size of a major retail store shall be eighty thousand (80,000) square feet. Major retail stores shall be under the management of a single retail firm and shall function as a single business establishment. Storage area, store offices, and other support space necessary for the operation of the retail sales area shall also be bonused.

 (3) For each square foot of major retail store, two and one-half (2-1/2) square feet of additional floor area shall be granted, up to the maximum set in subsection B1b(4).

 (4) Up to two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet of the store shall be eligible for a floor area bonus.

 c. Access. The store should be oriented to activity on the street and should, wherever possible, provide opportunities for through block circulation.

 (1) At least one (1) major pedestrian entrance shall be provided directly from the sidewalk of each street frontage of the store. All entrances shall be at the same elevation as the sidewalk.

 (2) Bonused major retail store space may be provided above and below street level as long as all areas are connected and function as a single retail establishment.

 d. Hours of Operation. Major retail stores shall be open to the general public during established shopping hours for a minimum of eight (8) hours a day, six (6) days per week.

 2. Standards for Performing Arts Theater.

 a. Type of Theater. Theaters shall provide a place for live performances of drama, dance and music. The auditorium area should be specifically de-signed for the presentation of live performances under optimum viewing and acoustical conditions. Theaters principally intended for nightclub or cabaret type entertainment or adult entertainment will not qualify for conditional use approval. The developer shall commit to manage the theater or shall secure a lease for at least ten (10) years from a theater operator or resident theater group with acceptable credentials.

 b. Area, Dimensions and Bonus Ratio. Theaters eligible for conditional use approval may include a wide variety of theater sizes and types to encourage a broad range of live entertainment offerings downtown.

 (1) The minimum theater size eligible for a bonus shall have a seating area of at least two hundred (200) seats and the necessary support areas.

 (2) For each square foot of performing arts theater, twelve (12) square feet of additional floor area shall be granted.

 (3) The maximum area eligible for a bonus shall be established as part of the review process. The process shall include an assessment of existing theaters and the sizes of future theaters needed to provide a range of performing arts facilities in the downtown.

 (4) The arrangement of seating and stage areas of the theater shall be expressly designated for the presentation of performing arts. The size of the stage area, floor slopes, ceiling heights and acoustical and lighting systems shall be adequate to meet the viewing requirements of the audience relative to the size of the auditorium.

 c. Access and Street Orientation. The theater shall be designed to promote activity on the street and add visual interest. It shall be highly accessible and visible from a street or public open space.

 (1) A lighted marquee, display signs, and/or banners related to the theater operation shall be located above the main street entrance. Lobby areas with transparent walls located on the street front are desirable.

 (2) To avoid creating large expanses of street frontage with limited visual interest or activity, theater street frontage shall be limited. Theater frontage shall be limited to sixty (60) feet; any street-level area of the theater exceeding this limit must be separated from the street by another use. Departure from these standards may be permitted to address special conditions of the lot which may affect the theater's street orientation or to accommodate specific needs related to the theater's operation.

 (3) A covered queuing area shall be provided; interior lobby space may satisfy this requirement.

 (4) Direct access shall be provided to the theater lobby from the street or a bonused public open space. The theater itself, however, may be above or below street level.

 (5) Truck loading/unloading space shall be provided off-street, preferably off an alley.

 3. Restrictions on Demolition and Alteration of Existing Structures.

 a. The design of projects including a major retail store or performing arts theater shall incorporate the existing exterior street front facade(s)of the structures listed below which are significant to the architecture, history and character of downtown. Changes may be permitted to the exterior facade(s) to the extent that significant features are preserved and the visual integrity of the design is maintained. The degree of exterior preservation required will vary, depending upon the nature of the project and the characteristics of the affected structure(s).

 b. The Director shall evaluate whether the manner in which the facade is proposed to be preserved meets the intent to preserve the architecture, character and history of the Retail Core. If the listed structures are also Landmark structures, approval by the Landmarks Board shall be required prior to consideration of the project by the Director. The Landmarks Board's recommendation shall be incorporated into the Director's decision. Inclusion of a structure on the list below is solely for the purpose of approving additional height and FAR under Section 23.49.096 B, and shall not be interpreted in any way to prejudge the structure's merit as a Landmark.

 Sixth and Pine Building

~~523 Pine Street~~Decatur Building

~~1513 - 6th Avenue~~Coliseum Theater

~~5th and Pike~~Seaboard Building

~~1506 Westlake Avenue~~Fourth and Pike Building

~~1424 - 4th Avenue~~Pacific First Federal Savings

~~1400 - 4th Avenue~~Joshua Green Building

~~1425 - 4th Avenue~~Equitable Building

~~1415 - 4th Avenue~~1411 Fourth Avenue Building

~~1411 - 4th Avenue~~Mann Building

~~1411 - 3rd Avenue~~Olympic Savings Tower

~~217 Pine Street~~Fischer Studio Building

~~1519 - 3rd Avenue~~Bon Marche

~~3rd and Pine~~Melbourne House

~~1511 - 3rd Avenue~~Former Woolworth's Building

~~1512 - 3rd Avenue~~4. Height and Scale. In determining the amount of change permitted in development standards for height and setbacks, the primary objective shall be the preservation of the existing sense of openness and the human scale environment in the Downtown Retail Core. The acceptability of negative impacts associated with departure from the base regulations shall depend on the priority of the streets adjacent to the proposed project, according to Map IVB.(Note 1)

 a. An increase in the height up to one hundred fifty (150) feet may be permitted when the primary objective described above will be furthered and:

 (1) The additional height and bulk will not result in substantial wind impacts on public open spaces and sidewalks; and

 (2) The shadows cast on the Westlake Park south of Pine Street, and all Priority 1 Streets shown on Map IVB,(Note 1) from eleven a.m. to two p.m. on March 21st and September 21st will not be increased beyond those cast by existing structures.

 b. When an increase in the height limit is permitted, upper-level setbacks shall be provided. The applicant may choose to provide the upper-level setbacks pursuant to the provisions of subsection B of Section 23.49.106, or as follows:

 (1) Coverage limit areas shall be established at two (2) elevations:

 i. Between an elevation of sixty-five (65) feet and two hundred forty (240) feet above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within twenty (20) feet of each street property line and sixty (60) feet of intersecting street property lines shall be the coverage limit area. (See Exhibit 23.49.096 A.)

 ii. Above an elevation of two hundred forty (240) feet above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within forty (40) feet of each street property line and sixty (60) feet of intersecting street property lines shall be the coverage limit area. (See Exhibit 23.49.096 A.)

 iii. Within the coverage limit area, coverage and maximum facade lengths shall be as follows:

 Structure Elevation

 Less than 65' 65' and Above

 Priority 1 streets shown on Map IVB

 Maximum coverage in coverage

 limit area

~~100%~~~~20%~~Maximum facade length

~~no limit~~~~90'~~Priority 2 streets shown on Map IVB

 Maximum coverage in coverage

 limit area

~~100%~~~~30%~~Maximum facade length

~~no limit~~~~90'~~Priority 3 streets shown on Map IVB

 Maximum coverage in coverage

 limit area

~~Upper-level development~~standards of abutting zones shall

 apply

 Maximum facade length. Facade length limited only within fifteen (15) feet of street property line. The minimum distance between facades within fifteen (15) feet of street property lines shall be sixty (60) feet.

 (2) All existing structures retained as part of the proposed project shall be calculated together with the new structure to determine permitted coverage.

 c. To contribute to a sense of openness and increase opportunities for light and air to streets, portions of facades of new structures which exceed an elevation of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall be separated from all other portions of facades on the same block front which exceed that elevation, both on the project lot and abutting lots, by a minimum distance of sixty (60) feet above an elevation of one hundred (100) feet.(See Exhibit 23.49.096 B.) The depth of the separation shall be at least sixty (60) feet, measured from the street property line.

 5. Design Treatment. The materials, scale and details of new development using the major retail store or performing arts theater bonus shall harmonize with existing development in the area and contribute to the visual interest of the pedestrian environment.

 a. In addition to the street facade requirements of Section 23.49.106, large expanses of blank walls above street level which are visible from any street or public open space are prohibited. Below an elevation of sixty-five (65) feet, all street facades shall be articulated and contain architectural design features such as windows, columns or other structural features, belt courses, cornices, setbacks, ornamentation, awnings or canopies, that reflect the character of nearby structures.

 b. Building materials shall be compatible with those of existing structures in the Downtown Retail Core. Large areas of dark or reflective materials are prohibited.

 c. Overhead weather protection is required on all street frontages of the project. Coverings that are transparent and allow sunlight to reach the sidewalk are preferred.

 6. Scale of Surrounding Development. Project proposals using the major retail store or performing arts theater bonus shall be considered with respect to similar scale developments in the Downtown Retail Core. The bonus shall not be granted if it would result in additional large-scale development which, considered together with other projects of similar scale, would create traffic and pedestrian circulation problems and would conflict with the desired scale and pedestrian character of the area.

 7. Combined Lot Option.

 a. Two (2) lots located in the DRC zone may be combined for the purpose of calculating the density for a total project incorporating a major retail store or a performing arts theater. The lots may be located on the same block or on different blocks. The administrative conditional use process shall apply to both lots.

 b. The density for all development shall be calculated as if both lots were a single lot and shall conform to the permitted FAR set forth in Section 23.49.098 B. In no circumstance shall the FAR for the two (2) lots taken together exceed the permitted density.

 c. The height limits and development standards of subsection B4 of this section shall apply to each lot.

 d. The fee owners of each of the combined lots shall execute a deed or other agreement which shall be recorded with the titles to both lots. In the agreement or deed, the owners shall acknowledge that development on the combined lots shall not exceed the combined FAR limits for both lots and, should development on one (1) lot exceed the FAR limit for that lot, then development on the other lot shall be restricted by the amount of excess FAR used on the more developed lot, for the life of the improvement on the more developed lot. The deed or agreement shall also provide that its covenants and conditions shall run with the land and shall be specifically enforceable by the parties and by The City of Seattle.

 * * *

 Section 35. A new Section 23.49.097 of the Seattle Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

 23.49.097 Downtown Retail Core, upper-level development standards.

 A. Structure setbacks of fifteen (15) feet from the street property line are required for all portions of a building at or above a height of eighty-five (85) feet above the adjacent sidewalk, except when subsection B applies. (See Exhibit 23.49.097A.)

 Exhibit 23.49.097A

 B. Structures on either of the two half blocks abutting the east side of 2nd Avenue, between Pine and Union Streets, that exceed 150 feet in height pursuant to 23.49.008A, are subject to the following:

 1. Maximum Coverage Limit. A maximum coverage limit of seventy (70) percent of the area of the lot applies to all portions of structures above a height of eighty-five (85) feet above the adjacent sidewalk.

 2. Structure Setbacks. Structure setbacks of fifteen (15) feet from the street property line are required for all portions of a building at or above a height of eighty-five (85) feet above the adjacent sidewalk on east/west streets only.

 3. Maximum Facade Length. Along 2nd Avenue all portions of the structure facade within fifteen (15) feet of the street property line and above eighty-five (85) feet in height above the adjacent sidewalk are subject to maximum facade length provisions as follows:

 a. The maximum length of a facade is ninety (90) feet.

 b. To be considered a separate facade for the purposes of determining the maximum facade length established in this subsection, any portion of an applicable facade must be separated by at least sixty (60) feet of famayade, measured parallel to the Second Avenue street property line, that is set back at least fifteen (15) feet from the Second Avenue street property line (See Exhibit 23.49.097B.)

 Exhibit 23.49.097B.

 Section 36. Section 23.49.098 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 37. Section 23.49.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 38. Section 23.49.102 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 39. Section 23.49.104 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118409, is hereby repealed.

 Section 40. Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 112303, are amended as follows:

 23.49.120 Downtown Mixed Commercial, principal and accessory parking.

 A. Principal Use Parking.

 1. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking in areas shown on Map ~~VA~~1I may be permitted conditional uses, pursuant to Section 23.49.122. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking shall be prohibited in other locations.

 2. Principal use parking garages for short-term parking ~~shall either be:~~a. Permitted outright when the garage contains short-term parking spaces for which additional floor area is granted pursuant to Section 23.49.126; or

 b. Conditional uses in all other cases,

may be permitted as conditional uses pursuant to Section 23.49.122.

 3. Principal use surface parking areas shall be conditional uses in areas shown on Map ~~VA~~1I, and shall be prohibited in other locations, except that temporary principal use parking areas may be permitted as conditional uses pursuant to Section 23.49.122.

 B. Accessory Parking.

 1. Accessory parking garages for both long-term and short-term parking shall be permitted outright, up to the maximum parking limit established by Section 23.49.016, Parking quantity requirements.

 2. Accessory surface parking areas shall either be:

 a. Permitted outright when located in areas shown on Map VA and containing twenty (20) or fewer parking spaces; or

 b. Permitted as a conditional use when located in areas shown on Map VA and containing more than twenty (20) spaces; or

 c. Prohibited in areas not shown on Map ~~VA~~1I, except that temporary accessory surface parking areas may be permitted as a conditional use pursuant to Section 23.49.122.

 Section 41. Subsection B of Section 23.49.122 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is amended as follows:

 23.49.122 Downtown Mixed Commercial, conditional uses and Council decisions.

 B. Principal use parking garages for long-term parking in areas designated on Map ~~VA~~1I, and for short-term parking at any location ~~, except those permitted outright by Section 23.49.120B2~~,)) may be permitted as conditional uses, if the Director finds that:

 1. Traffic from the garage will not have substantial adverse effects on peak hour traffic flow to and from Interstate 5, or on traffic circulation in the area around the garage; and

 2. The vehicular entrances to the garage are located so that they will not disrupt traffic or transit routes; and

 3. The traffic generated by the garage will not have substantial adverse effects on pedestrian circulation.

 Section 42. Section 23.49.124 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 43. Section 23.49.126 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 44. Section 23.49.128 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 45. Section 23.49.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 112303, is hereby repealed.

 Section 46. Section 23.49.132 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is hereby repealed.

 Section 47. The introduction and Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.134 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119728, are amended as follows:

 23.49.134 Downtown Mixed Commercial, street facade requirements.

 Standards for the street facades of structures are established for the following elements:

 Minimum facade heights;

 Setback limits;

 Facade transparency;

 Blank facade limits;

 Screening of parking;

 Street trees.

 These standards shall apply to each lot line of a lot which abuts a street designated on Map ~~VD~~1G as having a pedestrian classification. The standards for each street frontage shall vary according to the pedestrian classification of the street on Map ~~VD~~1G, and whether property line facades are required by Map ~~VC~~1K.

 A. Minimum Facade Height.

 1. Minimum facade height shall be as described in the chart below, and Exhibit 23.49.134A, but minimum facade heights shall not apply when all portions of the structure are lower than the elevation of the required minimum facade height listed below.

 All Streets Class I

 Where Property Pedestrian Class II

 Line Facades Streets and Pedestrian

 Are Required Green Streets Streets

 Minimum Minimum Minimum

 Facade* Facade* Facade*

 Height Height Height

 35 feet 25 feet 15 feet

 * Except as modified by view corridor requirements.

 2. On designated view corridors specified in Section 23.49.024, the minimum facade height shall be the required elevation of the setback, when it is less than the minimum facade height required in subsection A1 of this section.

 B. Facade Setback Limits.

 1. Setback Limits for Property Line Facades. The following setback limits shall apply to all streets designated on Map ~~VC~~ 1K as requiring property line facades.

 a. The facades of structures fifteen (15) feet or less in height shall be located within two (2) feet of the street property line.

 b. Structures greater than fifteen (15) feet in height shall be governed by the following criteria:

 (1) No setback limits shall apply up to an elevation of fifteen (15)feet above sidewalk grade.

 (2) Between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty-five (35) feet above sidewalk grade, the facade shall be located within two (2) feet o the street property line, except that:

 i. Any exterior public open space which satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be considered part of the setback.

 ii. Setbacks between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty- five(35) feet above sidewalk grade at the property line shall be permitted according to the following standards, as depicted in Exhibit 23.49.134B:

 -- The maximum setback shall be ten (10) feet.

 -- The total area of a facade which is set back more than two (2) feet from the street property line shall not exceed forty (40) percent of the total facade area between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty-five (35) feet.

 -- No setback deeper than two (2) feet shall be wider than twenty(20) feet, measured parallel to the street property line.

 -- The facade of the structure shall return to within two (2) feet of the street property line between each setback area for a minimum of ten (10) feet. Balcony railings and other nonstructural features or walls shall not be considered the facade of the structure.

 c. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49.022, setback standards shall be measured to the line established by the new sidewalk width rather than the street property line.

 2. General Setback Limits. The following setback limits shall apply on streets not requiring property line facades, as shown on Map ~~VC~~1K. Except when the entire structure is fifteen (15) feet or less in height or when the minimum facade height established in subsection A of this section is fifteen (15) feet, the setback limits shall apply to the facade between an elevation of fifteen (15) feet above sidewalk grade and the minimum facade height established in subsection A of this section. (See Exhibit 23.49.134C.) When the structure is fifteen (15) feet or less in height, the setback limits shall apply to the entire street facade. When the minimum facade height is fifteen (15) feet, the setback limits shall apply to the portion of the street facade which is fifteen (15) feet or less in height.

 a. The maximum area of all setbacks between the lot line and facade along each street frontage of a lot shall not exceed the area derived by multiplying the averaging factor by the width of the street frontage of the structure along that street (see Exhibit 23.49.134D). The averaging factor shall be five (5) on Class I pedestrian streets and ten (10) on Class II Pedestrian streets. Parking shall not be located between the facade and the street lot line.

 b. The maximum width, measured along the street property line, of any setback area exceeding a depth of fifteen (15) feet from the street property line shall not exceed eighty (80) feet, or thirty (30) percent of the lot frontage on that street, whichever is less. (See Exhibit 23.49.134D.)

 c. The maximum setback of the facade from the street property lines at intersections shall be ten (10) feet. The minimum distance the facade must conform to this limit shall be twenty (20) feet along each street. (See Exhibit 23.49.134E.)

 d. Any exterior public open space which satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be considered part of a setback. (See Exhibit 23.49.134C.)

 e. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49.022, setback standards shall be measured to the line established by the new sidewalk width rather than the street property line.

 Section 48. Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.136 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119728, are amended as follows:

 23.49.136 Downtown Mixed Commercial, upper-level development standards.

 A. Coverage Limits. On streets designated on Map ~~VD~~ 1G as having a pedestrian classification, a coverage limit area is established as follows:

 1. Above an elevation of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet above the adjacent sidewalk, the area within twenty (20) feet of each street property line and sixty (60) feet of intersecting street property lines (see Exhibit 23.49.136A), is established as the coverage limit area.

 2. The percentage of the coverage limit area that may be covered by a portion of a structure is as follows:

 a. Certain Projects Participating in the TDC Program. For projects participating in the TDC Program pursuant to SMC Section 23.49.041, on lots that either (i) have at least twenty-five (25) percent of the lot area at street level in open space use or occupied by structures, or portions of structures, no greater than thirty-five (35) feet in height, or any combination thereof; or (ii) have at least fifty (50) percent of the lot area at street level in open space use or occupied by structures, or portions of structures, no greater than sixty-five (65) feet in height, or any combination thereof:

 Lots With Two or More

 Street Frontages

 Lots With Lots 45,000 Lots Greater

 One Street Sq. Ft. or Than 45,000

 Elevation Frontage Less in Size Sq. Ft. in Size

 Above 125' 60% 50% 25%

 b. All other projects:

 Lots With Two or More

 Street Frontages

 Lots With Lots 45,000 Lots Greater

 One Street Sq. Ft. or Than 45,000

 Elevation Frontage Less in Size Sq. Ft. in Size

 Above 125' 60% 40% 20%

 3. To qualify as uncovered area, at least half the area required to be uncovered shall be contiguous and shall have a minimum depth of fifteen (15) feet.

 4. To meet the coverage limits, a lot may be combined with one or more abutting lots, whether occupied by existing structures or not, provided that:

 a. The coverage of all structures on the lots meets the limits set in this subsection A; and

 b. The fee owners of the abutting lot(s) execute a deed or other agreement, that is recorded with the title to the lots, that restricts future development so that in combination with the other lots, the coverage limits shall not be exceeded.

 B. Maximum Facade Lengths. Maximum facade lengths shall be established for facades above an elevation of one hundred twenty- five (125) feet above the adjacent sidewalk. This maximum length shall be measured parallel to each street property line of streets designated on Map ~~VD~~1G as having a pedestrian classification and shall apply to any portion of a facade, including projections such as balconies, which is located within fifteen (15) feet of street property lines.

 1. The maximum length of facades above an elevation of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall be as follows:

 Lots With Two or More

 Street Frontages

 Lots With Lots 40,000 Lots Greater

 One Street Sq. Ft. or Than 40,000

 Elevation Frontage Less in Size Sq. Ft. in Size

 126' to 240' 120' 120' 120'

 Above 240' 90'* 120' 90'

 * Above a height of two hundred forty (240) feet, for each half percent (1/2%) reduction of coverage in the coverage limit area from the requirements established in subsection A of this section, the maximum facade length may be increased by one (1) foot up to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) feet.

 2. To be considered a separate facade for the purposes of determining the maximum facade length established in subsection B1, any portion of a facade above an elevation of one hundred twenty- five (125) feet which is less than fifteen (15) feet from a street property line, shall be separated from any similar portion of the facade by at least sixty (60) feet of facade which is set back at least fifteen (15) feet from a street property line. (See Exhibit 23.49.136B.).

 C. When a lot in a DMC zone is across a street from the Pike Market Historic District, Map ~~VE~~1M, a continuous upper-level setback of fifteen (15) feet shall be provided on all street frontages across from the Historic District at a maximum height of eighty-five (85) feet. The fifteen (15) feet setback line shall be considered the street property line for the application of the provisions of subsections A and B.

 Section 49. Section 23.49.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 50. Section 23.49.152 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 51. Section 23.49.154 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 52. Section 23.49.160 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is hereby repealed.

 Section 53. The introduction and Subsection B of Section 23.49.162 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118409, are amended as follows:

 23.49.162 Downtown Mixed Residential, street facade requirements.

 Standards for the facades of structures are established for the following elements:

 Minimum facade heights;

 Setback limits;

 Facade transparency;

 Blank facade limits;

 Screening of parking;

 Landscaping.

 These standards shall apply to each lot line of a lot which abuts a street designated on Map VID as having a pedestrian classification. The standards on each street frontage shall vary according to the pedestrian classification of the street on Map ~~VID~~1G , and whether property line facades are required by Map ~~VIC~~1K.

 B. Facade Setback Limits.

 1. Setback Limits for Property Line Facades. The following setback limits shall apply to all streets designated on Map ~~VIC~~1K as requiring property line facades:

 a. The facades of structures fifteen (15) feet or less in height shall be located within two (2) feet of the street property line.

 b. Structures greater than fifteen (15) feet in height shall be governed by the following criteria:

 (1) No setback limits shall apply up to an elevation of fifteen (15)feet above sidewalk grade.

 (2) Between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty-five (35) feet above sidewalk grade, the facade shall be located within two (2) feet of the street property line, except that:

 i. Any exterior public open space which satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be considered part of a setback.

 ii. Setbacks between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty- five(35) feet above sidewalk grade at the property line shall be permitted according to the following standards. (See Exhibit 23.49.162 B.)

 -- The maximum setback shall be ten (10) feet.

 -- The total area of a facade which is set back more than two (2)feet from the street property line shall not exceed forty (40) percent of the total facade area between the elevations of fifteen (15) and thirty-five (35) feet.

 -- No setback deeper than two (2) feet shall be wider than twenty(20) feet, measured parallel to the street property line.

 -- The facade of the structure shall return to within two (2) feet of the street property line between each setback area for a minimum of ten feet (10'). Balcony railings and other nonstructural features or walls shall not be considered the facade of the structure.

 c. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49.022, setback standards shall be measured to the line established by the new sidewalk width rather than the street property line.

 2. General Setback Limits. The following setback limits shall apply on streets not requiring property line facades as shown on Map ~~VIC~~1K. Except when the entire structure is fifteen feet(15') or less in height, or when the minimum facade height established in subsection A is fifteen feet (15'), the setback limits shall apply to the facade between an elevation of fifteen feet (15') above sidewalk grade and the minimum facade height established in subsection A (see Exhibit 23.49.162 C). When the structure is fifteen feet (15') or less in height, the setback limits shall apply to the entire street facade. When the mini-mum facade height is fifteen feet (15'), the setback limits shall apply to the portion of the street facade which is fifteen feet (15') or less in height.

 a. The maximum area of all setbacks between the lot line and facade shall be limited according to an averaging technique. The maximum area of all setbacks along each street frontage of a lot shall not exceed the area determined by multiplying the averaging factor by the width of the street frontage of the structure along the street. (See Exhibit 23.49.162 D.) The averaging factor shall be five (5) on Class I pedestrian streets, twenty(20) on Class II pedestrian streets, and thirty (30) on green streets. Parking shall not be located between the facade and the street lot line.

 b. The maximum width, measured along the street property line, of any setback area exceeding a depth of fifteen feet (15') from the street property line shall not exceed eighty feet (80'), or thirty percent (30%)of the lot frontage on that street, whichever is less. (See Exhibit 23.49.162 D.)

 c. The maximum setback of the facade from the street property line at intersections shall be ten feet (10'). The minimum distance the facade must conform to under this limit shall be twenty feet (20') along each street.(See Exhibit 23.49.162 E.)

 d. Any exterior public open space which satisfies the Public Benefit Features Rule, whether it receives a bonus or not, and any outdoor common recreation area required for residential uses, shall not be considered part of a setback. (See Exhibit 23.49.162 C.)

 e. When sidewalk widening is required by Section 23.49.022 , setback standards shall be measured to the line established by the new sidewalk width rather than the street property line.

 Section 54. Subsection B of Section 23.49.166 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117263, is amended as follows:

 23.49.166 Downtown Mixed Residential, side setback and green street setback requirements.

 B. Green Street Setbacks. Except on lots located in DMR/R eighty- five (85) foot height districts, a setback from the street property line shall be required on green streets designated on Map ~~VID~~1G at an elevation of sixty-five (65) feet. The setback shall be as follows:

 Elevation of

 Portion of

 Structure Required Setback

 65' to 85' 10'

 86' to 240' (H - 85') x .2 + 10'

 where H equals the highest point of the portion of the structure located within one

 hundred twenty (120) feet of the green street lot line, in feet.

 Section 55. Section 23.49.180 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 56. Section 23.49.210 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is hereby repealed.

 Section 57. Section 23.49.212 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119618, is hereby repealed.

 Section 58. Section 23.49.214 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119273, is hereby repealed.

 Section 59. Section 23.49.238 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 113279, is hereby repealed.

 Section 60. Section 23.49.240 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119484, is hereby repealed.

 Section 61. Subsection B of Section 23.49.248 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117263, is amended as follows:

 23.49.248 International District Residential, side setback and green street setback requirements.

 B. Green Street Setbacks. A setback from the street property line shall be required on green streets, Map ~~IXA~~1G, at an elevation of forty (40) feet. The setback shall be as follows:

 Elevation of

 Portion of

 Structure Required Setback

 40' to 85' 10'

 86' to 240' (H - 85') x .2 + 10'

 where H = Total structure height in feet

 Section 62. Section 23.49.304 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 112303, is hereby repealed.

 Section 63. Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.322 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 112303, are amended as follows:

 23.49.322 Downtown Harborfront 2, principal and accessory parking.

 A. Principal Use Parking.

 1. Principal use parking garages for both long-term and short-term parking shall be conditional uses, according to Section 23.49.324.

 2. Principal use surface parking areas shall be conditional uses in areas shown on Map ~~XIA~~1I, and shall be prohibited in other locations, except that temporary principal use surface parking areas may be permitted as conditional uses pursuant to Section 23.49.324.

 B. Accessory Parking.

 1. Accessory parking garages for both long-term and short-term parking shall be permitted outright.

 2. Accessory surface parking areas shall either be:

 a. Permitted outright when located in areas shown on Map ~~XIA~~1I and containing twenty (20) or fewer parking spaces; or

 b. Permitted as a conditional use when located in areas shown on Map ~~XIA~~1I and containing more than twenty (20) spaces; or

 c. Prohibited in areas not shown on Map ~~XIA~~1I, except that temporary accessory surface parking areas may be permitted as a conditional use pursuant to Section 23.49.324.

 Section 64. Section 23.49.328 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is hereby repealed.

 Section 65. Section 23.49.330 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 117130, is hereby repealed.

 Section 66. Section 23.49.331 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 112303, is hereby repealed.

 Section 67. The introduction of Section 23.49.332 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118409, is amended as follows:

 23.49.332 Downtown Harborfront 2, street facade requirements.

 Standards for the facades of structures at street level are established for the following elements:

 Minimum facade heights;

 Setback limits;

 Facade transparency;

 Blank facade limits;

 Screening of parking;

 Street trees.

 These standards shall apply to each lot line of a lot which abuts a street designated on Map ~~XIA~~1G as having a pedestrian classification. The standards for each street frontage shall vary according to the pedestrian classification of the street on Map ~~XIA~~1G.

 Section 68. Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.336 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118672, are amended as follows:

 23.49.336 Pike Market Mixed, permitted uses.

 A. Permitted uses within the Pike Market Historic District, shown on Map ~~XIIA~~1M, shall be determined by the Pike Place Market Historical Commission pursuant to the Pike Place Market Historical District Ordinance, Chapter 25.24, Seattle Municipal Code.

 B. In areas outside of the Pike Market Historic District in the Pike Market Mixed (PMM) zone, as shown on Map ~~XIIA~~1M , all uses are permitted outright except those specifically prohibited by Section 23.49.338.

 Section 69. Subsections A and B of Section 23.49.338 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 116295, are amended as follows:

 A. The following uses are prohibited as both principal and accessory uses in areas outside of the Pike Market Historic District, Map ~~XIIA~~1M.

 1. Drive-in businesses, except gas stations located in parking garages;

 2. Outdoor storage;

 3. Adult motion picture theaters and adult panorams;

 4. Transportation facilities;

 5. Communication utilities;

 6. All general manufacturing uses;

 7. All salvage and recycling uses, except recycling collection stations;

 8. All industrial uses;

 9. Jails; and

 10. Work-release centers.

 B. Within the Pike Market Historical District, Map ~~XIIA~~1M, uses may be prohibited by the Pike Market Historical Commission pursuant to the Pike Place Market Historical District Ordinance.

 Section 70. Section 23.49.342 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119370, is hereby repealed.

 Section 71. Section 23.49.344 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was adopted by Ordinance 112303, is hereby repealed.

 Section 72. Section 23.84.006 "C" of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118720, is amended to add new subsections as follows:

 "Chargeable floor area" means gross floor area of all structures on any lot in a downtown zone, except portions of structures or uses that are expressly exempt from floor area limits under the provisions of this Title, and after reduction by any applicable adjustment for mechanical equipment. Chargeable floor area is computed using the exemptions and adjustments in effect at the time the computation is made. Chargeable floor area includes any floor area, not otherwise exempt, that is in a structure in a downtown zone where floor area limits do not apply or that is permitted to be occupied by reason of the Landmark status of the structure in which it is located.

 Section 73. Section 23.84.016 "H" of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is amended to add a new definition as follows:

"Housing TDR site" means a lot meeting the following requirements:  1. The lot is located in any Downtown zone except PMM, DH-1 and DH-2 zones;

 2. Each structure on the lot has a minimum of fifty (50) percent of total gross floor area committed to low-income housing or low and low-moderate income housing use for a minimum of twenty (20) years, except that a lot in an IDM zone may meet the following alternative standards:

 a. At least forty (40) percent of the combined gross floor area in all structures on the lot is committed to low-income housing for twenty (20) years, and

 b. A total of at least one thousand (1,000) square feet of combined gross floor area in all structures on the lot is committed to use for social services providing necessary support to a special population served by the low-income housing on the sending lot, on terms approved by the Director of the City Human Services Department (such services may also serve other persons);

 3. The lot has gross floor area equivalent to at least one (1) FAR committed to low-income housing use for a minimum of twenty (20) years;

 4. The gross floor area on the lot committed to satisfy the conditions in subsections 2 and 3 of this definition is contained in one or more structures existing as of {date of adoption of this ordinance} and such area was in residential use or was vacant as of such date, as demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Housing Director; and

 5. The low-income housing or low and low-moderate income housing commitments on the lot satisfy the standards in Section 23.49.012B1b and are accepted by the Housing Director.

 Section 74. Section 23.84.024 "L" of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119618, is amended by repealing and amending certain subsections, as follows:

~~(("Landmark TDR" means~~~~development rights eligible for transfer from one lot to another based on the landmark status of the improvements on the sending lot, under Sections 23.49.052, 23.49.072 , 23.49.102, or 23.49.128, but does not include development rights that would be eligible for transfer based upon the status of the sending lot as a low-income housing TDR site or Pioneer Square infill site.~~

~~"Landmark theater/housing TDR site" means any lot meeting the requirements of paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 below:~~1. There is located on the lot a landmark performing arts theater as defined in this section; and

 2. The owner of the lot satisfies all requirements for the transfer of landmark TDR; and

 3. One (1) of the following conditions (a) or (b) is met, as applicable:

 a. If one (1) or more housing units on the lot were occupied or habitable on January 1, 1990, then either:

 (i) The equivalent of all floor area on such lot that was in use as housing or habitable at any time since January 1, 1990 is committed to low-income housing use on the terms required for the transfer of development rights from low-income housing TDR sites by Chapter 23.49 and the Public Benefit Features Rule; or

 (ii) The owner of such lot enters into a voluntary agreement satis-factory to the Director of Housing and Human Services that guarantees the provision of low-income housing in an amount equivalent to the difference between (A) all floor area on such lot in use as housing or habitable at anytime since January 1, 1990 and (B) the floor area on the lot that is committed to low-income housing use as described in subsection 3a(i) above. The provision of low-income housing may include new construction, substantial rehabilitation, or preservation of housing that the Director determines would otherwise be converted to uses other than low- income housing. In each case there shall be recorded covenants limiting the rents and occupancy of the housing for a period of at least twenty (20) years. The housing shall be provided in a Downtown zone, except that the Director may approve housing elsewhere in the downtown Special Objectives Area (SOA) in the City's Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (CHAS), consistent with the goals and policies of the CHAS (or successor document).

 b. If no housing units were occupied or habitable on the lot on January 1,1990, then at least one (1) FAR of the sending site shall be committed to low-income housing use on the terms required for transfer of development rights from low-income housing TDR sites by Chapter 23.49 and the Public Benefit Features Rules.

 "Lot" means, except for the purposes of a TDR sending lot for Landmark TDR or Housing TDR, a platted or unplatted parcel or parcels of land abutting upon and accessible from a private or public street sufficiently improved for vehicle travel or abutting upon and accessible from an exclusive, unobstructed permanent access easement. A lot may not be divided by a street or alley (Exhibit 23.84.024A). For purposes of a TDR sending lot for Landmark TDR, "lot" means the parcel described in the ordinance approving controls for the sending lot. For purposes of a sending lot for Housing TDR, "lot" means the smallest parcel or combination of contiguous parcels, as described in the County real property records at any time after {date of adoption of this ordinance}, that contain the structure or structures that make the TDR eligible for transfer.

~~"Low income housing or low and low-moderate income housing TDR site" means a lot meeting the following requirements:~~ 1. The lot is located in any Downtown zone except PMM, DH-1 and DH-2 zones;

 2. Each structure on the lot shall have a minimum of fifty (50) percent of total gross floor area committed to low income housing or low and low-moderate income housing use for a minimum of twenty (20) years in accordance with the Public Benefit Features Rule, except that a lot in an IDM zone may meet the following alternative standards;

 a. At least forty (40) percent of the combined gross floor area in all structures on the lot is committed to low income housing for twenty (20)years, and

 b. A total of at least one thousand (1,000) square feet of combined gross floor area in all structures on the lot is committed to use for social services providing necessary support to a special population served by the low income housing on the sending lot, on terms approved by the Director of the City Human Services Department (such services also may serve other persons);

 3. The lot has gross floor area equivalent to at least one (1) FAR committed to low-income housing use for a minimum of twenty (20) years in accordance with the Public Benefit Features Rule; and

 4. The low income housing or low and low-moderate income housing commitment on the lot has been certified by the Director of the Office of Housing as satisfying the Public Benefit Features Rule.

 Section 75. Section 23.84.030 "P" of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119273, is amended to add a new subsection as follows:

 "Public Benefit Features Rule" means the DCLU Director's Rule 20- 93, subject heading Public Benefit Features: Guidelines for Evaluating Bonus and TDR Projects, Administrative Procedures and Submittal Requirements in Downtown Zones, to the extent the provisions thereof have not been superseded by amendments to, or repeal of, provisions of this Title. References to the "Public Benefit Features Rule" for provisions on a particular subject also shall include, where applicable, any successor rule or rules issued by the Director to incorporate provisions on that subject formerly included in Rule 20-93, with any appropriate revisions to implement amendments to this Title since the date of such Rule.

 Section 76. Section 23.84.038 "T" of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is amended to add new subsections as follows:

 "Transferable development rights" or "TDRs," means development potential, measured in square feet of gross floor area, that may be transferred from a lot pursuant to provisions of this Title authorizing such transfer. Such terms do not include development credits transferable from rural King County. Such terms do not denote or imply that the owner of TDRs has a legal or vested right to construct or develop any project or to establish any use.

 "TDR, Housing" means TDRs that are eligible for transfer based on the status of the sending site as a Housing TDR Site and, if they would be eligible for transfer on any other basis, are designated by the applicant seeking to use such TDR on a receiving lot as Housing TDR.

 "TDR, Landmark" means TDRs that are eligible for transfer based on the landmark status of the sending lot or a structure on such lot, except Housing TDR.

 "TDR, Open Space" means development rights that may be transferred from a lot based on the provision of public open space on that lot.

 Section 77. 23 codified maps, IIA, IIB, IIC, IID, IIIA, IIIB, IIIC, IIID, IVA, IVB, IVC, VA, VB, VC, VD, VE, VIA, VIB, VIC, VID, VID, IXA, XIA and XIIA, located at the end of Chapter 23.49 of the Seattle Municipal Code, are repealed.

 Section 78. Ten codified maps, 1A Downtown Zones, 1B Street Classifications, 1F Transit Access, 1G Pedestrian Street Classifications, 1H Street Level Use Required, 1I Parking Uses Permitted, 1J Public Amenity Features, 1K Property Line Facades, 1L Downtown Retail Core and 1M Pike Market Mixed, as depicted in the Attachment to this ordinance are added to Chapter 23.49 of the Seattle Municipal Code, to be codified at the end of such chapter.

 Section 79. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision. To the extent that sections of this ordinance recodify or incorporate into new or different sections provisions of the Seattle Municipal Code as previously in effect, this ordinance shall be construed to continue such provisions in effect. The repeal of various sections of Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code by this ordinance shall not relieve any person of the obligation to comply with the terms and conditions of any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of such Title as in effect prior to such repeal, nor shall it relieve any person or property of any obligations, conditions or restrictions in any agreement or instrument made or granted pursuant to, or with reference to, the provisions of such Title as in effect prior to such repeal.

 Section 80. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ___ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ___ day of _____________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachment 1

 Table of Contents:

 1. [Map 1A, Downtown Zones](/~ordpics/113378a.gif);

 2. [Map 1B, Street Classifications](/~ordpics/113378b.gif);

 (Maps 1C through 1E are existing and are not amended.);

 3. [Map 1F, Transit Access](/~ordpics/113378f.gif);

 4. [Map 1G, Pedestrian Street Classifications](/~ordpics/113378g.gif);

 5. [Map 1H, Street Level Use Required](/~ordpics/113378h.gif);

 6. [Map 1I, Parking Uses Permitted](/~ordpics/113378i.gif);

 7. [Map 1J, Public Amenity Features](/~ordpics/113378j.gif);

 8. [Map 1K, Property Line Facades](/~ordpics/113378k.gif);

 9. [Map 1L, Downtown Retail Core](/~ordpics/113378l.gif);

 10. [Map 1M, Pike Market Mixed](/~ordpics/113378m.gif).

 MLP/HRT

 Amendments to SMC Chapter 23.49

 9/12/00

 v.7

```
