

********

**Council Bill Number: 113333**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120073**
********

 AN ORDINANCE adopting a new Major Institution Master Plan for Harborview Medical Center under the major institutions provisions of the Land Use Code; and amending the Official Land Use Map, Seattle Municipal Code 23.32.016, Plats 40W and 40E, pages 110, 111, 116 and 117, to modify the Harborview Medical Center Major Institution Overlay District boundary, and modify height limits and rezone property within the boundary, all generally located between James Street, Alder Street, Interstate 5 and Boren Avenue. (C.F. 303574)

**Status:** Pass as amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** August 21, 2000
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Absent: Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** August 25, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** August 24, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 14, 2000
   
**Committee:** Landlord/Tenant and Land Use
   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, LAND-USE-PERMITS, HOSPITALS, FIRST-HILL

**References/Related Documents:** Superseding: Ord 113894. Related: CF 303574

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE adopting a new Major Institution Master Plan for Harborview Medical Center under the major institutions provisions of the Land Use Code; and amending the Official Land Use Map, Seattle Municipal Code 23.32.016, Plats 40W and 40E, pages 110, 111, 116 and 117, to modify the Harborview Medical Center Major Institution Overlay District boundary, and modify height limits and rezone property within the boundary, all generally located between James Street, Alder Street, Interstate 5 and Boren Avenue. (C.F. 303574)

 WHEREAS, Harborview Medical Center (Harborview) has an existing Major Institution Master Plan (MIMP) which was adopted by the City Council in April 1988 by Ordinance 113894; and

 WHEREAS, the preparation and review of the proposed new Harborview MIMP included the following principal steps:

 1. Harborview notification to the City's Department of Design, Construction and Land Use (DCLU) of its intent to prepare a new MIMP on April 23, 1998;

 2. Harborview application for its new MIMP on June 26, 1998;

 3. Appointment by the City Council of a Citizens Advisory Committee to review and comment on the proposed MIMP on September 3, 1998;

 4. Publication of notices of the MIMP application on October 1, 1998;

 5. Scoping on an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) during October, 1998, with a scoping meeting on October 15, 1998;

 6. Publication of the draft MIMP and Draft EIS (DEIS) on April 30, 1999, with a public hearing on May 24, 1999;

 7. Publication of the final MIMP and Final EIS (FEIS) on November 12, 1999;

 8. Issuance of the Final Report and Recommendations of the Citizen's Advisory Committee in February 16, 2000;

 9. Review of the proposed MIMP by DCLU and issuance of the DCLU Director's Final Report, Analysis and Recommendation for approval subject to a number of conditions on February 24, 2000;

 10. Review of the proposed MIMP by the City's Hearing Examiner with a public hearing conducted on April 3 and 4, 2000 and a report issued on May 15, 2000 with Findings and Recommendations for approval; and

 11. Review of the proposed MIMP, including the record in the matter by the City Council's Landlord/Tenant and Land Use Committee in July and August of 2000; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council has considered the proposed MIMP, the record assembled by the Hearing Examiner including the reports of the Director of DCLU and the Citizen's Advisory Committee, and the Hearing Examiner's Recommendations; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council intends to adopt the MIMP as recommended by the Hearing Examiner and amended by the City Council; NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. After due consideration of the evidence in the Hearing Examiner's record and the Hearing Examiner's Findings, Conclusions and Recommendations, the City Council adopts its Findings, Conclusions, and Decision, as contained in Attachment 1.

 Section 2. The Harborview Medical Center Final Major Institution Master Plan, dated November 12, 1999 and filed in C.F. 303574, is hereby adopted by the City Council, subject to the modifications and SEPA conditions contained in the Council's Findings, Conclusions and Decision. The existing Harborview Major Institution Master Plan adopted by Ordinance 113894 on April 1988 is hereby superceded. The property located within the Harborview Major Institution Overlay District may be developed in accordance with the new adopted Major Institution Master Plan. Upon DCLU review and approval of the final Major Institution Master Plan, with the conditions and amendments adopted by the City Council incorporated, pursuant to the provisions of SMC 23.69.032.K, DCLU shall submit a final copy of the Harborview Major Institution Master Plan to the City Clerk to be placed on file in C.F. 303574.

 Section 3. The Official Land Use Map, Seattle Municipal Code 23.32.016, Plats 21W and 21E, pages 73 and 74, is amended to modify the Harborview Major Institution Overlay District boundary, modify height limits and rezone property within the boundary, as shown in Attachment 2.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2000, and signed by

 me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of ____________, 2000.

 __________________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachments: 1. Findings, Conclusions and Decision

 2. Harborview Major Institution Overlay District Boundary, Height Limits and Rezones

 GB

 Harborview Ordinance_.doc

 8/15/00 V #2

 FINDINGS, CONCLUSIONS AND DECISION

 OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 In the Matter of the Petition of ) C.F. 303574

 ) Project # 9804983

 HARBORVIEW MEDICAL CENTER )

 )

 to establish a new Major Institution Master ) FINDINGS, CONCLUSIONS

 Plan for Harborview Medical Center, ) AND DECISION

 located at 325 9th Avenue. )

Introduction

 This matter involves a petition by Harborview Medical Center ("Harborview") to establish a new Major Institution Master Plan ("MIMP") for Harborview Medical Center, located at 325 9th Avenue. The proposed MIMP includes modifications to the Harborview Major Institution Overlay District boundary and modifications to height limit and rezones within the boundary.

 The Seattle Municipal Code, SMC Chapter 23.69, governs major medical and educational institutions. Such institutions are required to have a MIMP in order to balance the needs of the major institution to develop facilities for the provision of health care or educational services with the need to minimize the impact of such development on surrounding neighborhoods.

 Harborview Medical Center has an existing MIMP which was adopted by the City Council in April 1988 by Ordinance 113894. In April 1998, Harborview began the process to establish a new MIMP.

 In February 2000, the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use ("DCLU") issued Director's Final Report, Analysis and Recommendation, recommending that the MIMP be approved, subject to modifications and conditions. Also in February 2000, the Citizen's Advisory Committee ("CAC") issued its Final Report and Recommendations, recommending that the MIMP be approved, subject to modifications and conditions. In May 2000, the Hearing Examiner issued her Findings and Recommendation for approval of the MIMP, subject to modifications and conditions.

 The City Council's Landlord/Tenant and Land Use Committee considered the matter at meetings on July 18, August 1 and August 15, 2000. For the Clerk File, C.F. 303574, the Committee recommended 2-1 that the MIMP be adopted, subject to modifications and conditions. For the Council Bill, C.B. 113333, the Committee recommended 2-0 that the MIMP be adopted, subject to modifications and conditions. After considering the record and the divided recommendation of the Committee, the full Council voted to adopt the MIMP, with the following findings and conclusions, and subject to modifications and conditions.

Findings of Fact

 The City Council hereby adopts the Hearing Examiner's Findings of Fact Nos. 1-96 as stated in the Findings and Recommendation of the Hearing Examiner dated May 15, 2000. The Council does not adopt Hearing Examiner's Finding of Fact No. 97. The Council adopts the following additional findings:

 1. The Hearing Examiner's Findings and Recommendation for approval of the MIMP, subject to modifications and conditions, was issued on May 15, 2000.

 2. The Major Institutions Code has time limits for various phases of Master Plan consideration. The Hearing Examiner must submit a recommendation to the City Council within thirty days of the hearing on the MIMP. SMC 23.69.032(H)(3). The Council does not have specific time limits, but has the goal of taking final action within twenty-four months of the application for a new master plan and within three months of the Hearing Examiner's recommendation. SMC 23.69.032(C)(3) and (I)(1). Both the Hearing Examiner and the Council have the authority to request further information or analysis to ensure that significant master plan elements are addressed. SMC 23.69.032(H)(2) and (I)(2). The Council has the authority to approve, condition, remand or deny the MIMP. SMC 23.76.056(A).

 3. Decisions regarding the landmarks status of buildings are subject to the process and requirements of the Landmarks Preservation Ordinance. SMC 25.12.670-.835. Decisions regarding the nomination, designation, alteration and/or demolition of potential landmark buildings are made by the Landmarks Preservation Board.

 4. The proposed MIMP includes the proposed the demolition of Harborview Hall and significant alteration or demolition of the East Hospital (Center Wing). (Final MIMP.) (Demolition of Harborview Hall is also included in the existing Harborview MIMP, which was approved by the City in 1988.) Harborview's proposal is based on its review of the seismic issues and the feasibility of alternatives. (Final MIMP and Exhibit 4A.)

 5. Both buildings have been identified as potential landmarks. Harborview has recently submitted applications for landmark nomination to the Department of Neighborhoods ("DON") and DON is waiting for Harborview to submit additional materials to complete the applications so that the Landmarks Preservation Board can begin its review.

 6. The Council has the authority to grant street vacations, but street vacations are subject to a separate process. SMC Chapter 15.62. Petitions are subject to review and recommendations by SEATRAN (based, in part, on recommendations from the Seattle Design Commission and other reviewers), with the Council approving or denying the petitions.

 7. The City of Seattle has adopted Street Vacation Policies that govern the review and evaluation of street vacation petitions. Resolution 28605. Street Vacation Policy Guideline 4.5(A) states that:

 [a]pplications for Council land use decisions may not be filed prior to any vacation petitions which are indispensable elements of the land use proposal. ... Proposals such as major institution master plans may be filed prior to associated vacation petitions only if the development involving the vacation is not imminent and the vacations are not necessary to the land use proposal.

 In addition, Street Vacation Policy Guideline 4.6(F)(3) states that:

 If, at the time a vacation petition is considered by the City Council, a master plan involving the vacation right-of-way has been submitted for approval, but not yet approved, the Council's review of the proposed master plan and vacation request shall be conducted concurrently according to Guideline 4.5 of these policies. Major institutions will be encouraged to submit petitions for any vacations called for in a proposed master plan at the same time as the master plan is proposed.

 8. The Final EIS and the MIMP both indicate that Harborview originally intended to submit the street vacation petitions for 9th Avenue concurrent with the MIMP so that the review of both could be coordinated. (Final MIMP, p. 33, and Final EIS, pp. 83 and 89.) Harborview discussed the street vacation options with DCLU, SEATRAN, the CAC, the Seattle Design Commission, and the community (Hearing Examiner testimony of Elise Chayet and Tom Walsh), but has not yet submitted street vacation petitions to SEATRAN, for a variety of reasons.

 9. The Land Use Code permits the development standards of the underlying zoning to be changed through a MIMP, subject to a number of conditions. The development standards in a MIMP must be defined for setbacks, height, lot coverage, landscaping, the percentage of the MIO district to remain in open space, etc. SMC 23.69.030(C)(3). The development program is also required to show the location of the areas of the MIO district to be designated open space (open space that is significant and serves as a focal point). SMC 23.69.030(E)(4)(b). Changes to the size or location of designated open space requires a MIMP amendment pursuant to SMC 23.69.035.

 10. Harborview's MIMP provides new development standards that meet most of these requirements. (Final MIMP, p. 49.) Development standards for setbacks, height and landscaping are defined, as well as parking screening and street tree standards. Lot coverage limits are not defined in the MIMP, but Harborview proposes to limit lot coverage through setbacks, height, and landscaped open space. This approach has been used by the City in a number of zones where lot coverage is adequately limited through the other standards.

 11. The MIMP does not define the percentage of open space, but states that open space on the Harborview campus includes three elements: 1) the "Westside" (Viewpoint garage top) landscaped open space on top of the existing west garage with both landscape and hardscape and a viewpoint; 2) the "Eastside Campus Heart" landscaped open space proposed at the location of Harborview Hall, which will establish a new focus for the overall campus; and 3) the required setback areas, which will be landscaped with street trees and pedestrian amenities. The size and location of the proposed open space plaza is somewhat uncertain, due to the historic preservation issues surrounding Harborview Hall and the potential future development of up to six stories above the parking on the site of the open space plaza.

 12. In order to meet the requirement that the MIMP define the percentage of open space to be maintained within the MIO boundary, Harborview proposes to calculate the percentage based on two of the three open space elements: the "Westside" landscaped space and the setback areas. These two elements comprise approximately 20% of the MIO area. Harborview proposes to provide other open space, including the "Eastside Campus Heart," but those areas would not be included in the percentage required to remain as open space. Under this approach, the percentage of open space that would be required to remain as open space is 20%.

 13. The Land Use Code provides that new or expanded MIO boundaries shall not be permitted where they would result in the demolition of structures with residential uses unless comparable replacement is proposed to maintain the housing stock of the City. SMC 23.34.124(B)(7). The Tenant Relocation Assistance Ordinance requires developers to provide relocation assistance in certain circumstances, including demolition of housing. SMC Ch. 22.210. Various City programs and regulations require that replacement housing not result in a net loss of housing (through requirements that the housing be provided through new construction, rehabilitation of vacant buildings, or conversion of buildings losing federal funding) and that the replacement housing be provided for a minimum of ten years. See, e.g., Tax Abatement Program, SMC Chapter 5.72.

 14. Under the Planned Projects, a total of 64 housing units are proposed to be demolished. The units are included in four buildings and include a mix of affordable and market-rate housing. (Final EIS, p. 97.) The MIMP states that Harborview/King County guarantees to replace the housing units, with a strong commitment to replace the units within the Harborview vicinity, either through contributions to existing programs or through participation in new partnerships for housing development.

 15. The First Hill Neighborhood Plan includes goals for preserving existing housing and encouraging the development of new housing (Exhibit 35), but the First Hill housing targets were adopted as part of the First Hill/Capital Hill Urban Center targets (a larger geographic area).

 16. Harborview indicated it will provide relocation assistance as required by City regulations, but if tenant relocation costs exceed the amount provided under the City's Tenant Relocation Assistance Ordinance, Harborview will provide relocation assistance of up to 50% above the private contribution required through the Tenant Relocation Assistance Ordinance.

Conclusions

 The City Council has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to SMC Chapters 23.79 and 23.76. The Council hereby adopts the Hearing Examiner's Conclusions Nos. 1-3, 5, 12-13, 16-18, 20-24, and 28-30 as stated in the Findings and Recommendation of the Hearing Examiner dated May 15, 2000. The Council adopts the following additional conclusions based on the Findings of Fact and the Council's review of the record:

 1. The major issues reviewed by the Council in its consideration of the proposed MIMP were: a) demolition of Harborview Hall and alteration of the East Hospital (Center Wing); b) vacation of 9th Avenue (full, subterranean and/or aerial vacations) for the Inpatient Expansion Building across 9th Avenue and the building buttressing the East Hospital; c) replacement housing; and d) open space. These are the subjects which have generated discussion and/or which require additional mitigation.

 2. The Council acknowledges that the proposed demolition of Harborview Hall and the alteration of the East Hospital (Center Wing), both potential landmarks buildings, have been reviewed by DCLU, the CAC and the Hearing Examiner as part of the proposed MIMP. However, landmarks decisions are made by the Landmarks Preservation Board ("Board") and the Council will postpone conceptual approval of these significant elements of the MIMP until the Board has issued decision(s) on the landmark status of the buildings. Rather than delay the approval of the entire MIMP to wait for decision(s) by the Board, the Council will approve the MIMP with modified conditions to clarify that the approval of the MIMP is not an approval of the proposed demolition of Harborview Hall or alteration or demolition of the East Hospital (Center Wing). If the Board's decision(s) are consistent with the proposed MIMP, the Council will file a copy of the Board's decision in Clerk File 303574, and will adopt an amendment to the MIMP to reflect the Board's decision(s) and any conditions imposed by the Board. An amendment to the Master Plan that meets the conditions described in this section will be deemed to have met the requirements of SMC 23.69.035 and will not require further review and analysis. If the Board's decision(s) are not consistent with the proposed Master Plan and would require major changes to the Master Plan, such changes may be subject to further review and analysis subject to SMC 23.69.035.

 3. The Council acknowledges that the vacation of 9th Avenue, including full, subterranean and/or aerial vacations, the location of the proposed Inpatient Expansion Building across 9th, and the possible use of a portion of 9th Avenue for the building buttressing the East Hospital (Center Wing) have been reviewed by DCLU, the CAC and the Hearing Examiner as part of the proposed MIMP. However, street vacation decisions are made by the City Council through a separate process and the street vacation policies support review of street vacations and MIMPs concurrently. The Council will postpone conceptual approval of these significant elements of the MIMP until the street vacation process is complete. Rather than delay the approval of the entire MIMP to wait for street vacation decision(s), the Council will approve the MIMP with modified conditions to clarify that the approval of the MIMP is not an approval of the street vacation(s) or the location of the building across 9th Avenue. If the street vacation decision(s) are consistent with the proposed MIMP, the Council will file a copy of the such decision(s) in Clerk File 303574, and will adopt an amendment to the MIMP to reflect the street vacation decision(s) and any conditions imposed through the street vacation. An amendment to the Master Plan that meets the conditions described in this section will be deemed to have met the requirements of SMC 23.69.035 and will not require further review and analysis. If the street vacation decision(s) are not consistent with the proposed Master Plan and would require major changes to the Master Plan, such changes may be subject to further review and analysis subject to SMC 23.69.035.

 4. The Major Institutions regulations require that comparable replacement housing be provided in the vicinity. The CAC recommends that all replacement housing be located within 1/4 mile of the MIO boundary and the First Hill Neighborhood Plan includes goals to preserve affordable housing in the First Hill Urban Village boundary. However, these limitations could prove to be too restrictive given the highly developed character of the immediate neighborhood and economic realities of providing affordable housing. A larger, but more appropriate "vicinity" for replacement housing is the First Hill/Capitol Hill Urban Center, as defined in the Comprehensive Plan. (See Land Use Figure 3, page 12, in the Seattle Comprehensive Plan.) This Urban Center includes the First Hill, South Capitol Hill, Pike-Pine, and Capitol Hill neighborhoods. Even with this larger geographic area, the preference will be to locate replacement housing within the First Hill Urban Village boundary.

 5. Harborview had already committed to replacing all 64 housing units and to do so prior to demolition. Harborview will develop the replacement units without City funds, with the possible exception of short-term temporary financing. In order to comply with the Major Institutions regulations that the replacement housing be comparable, Harborview should replace the units with the same sizes of units and affordability levels, as measured at the time of MIMP approval. In order to ensure no net loss of the replacement units, Harborview should provide the replacement units through rehabilitation of a vacant building, construction of a new building, or preservation of existing federally-assisted units that are losing federal funding, but not through any other means of displacement of existing housing units; and should ensure that the replacement units are available for a period of ten years.

 6. Harborview shall provide relocation assistance as required by City regulations, but if tenant relocation costs exceed the amount provided under the City's Tenant Relocation Assistance Ordinance, Harborview will provide relocation assistance of up to 50% above the private contribution required by the City through the Tenant Relocation Assistance Ordinance.

 7. The Master Plan should be modified to indicate that 20% of the area within the MIO boundary will be retained as open space. In addition, if the proposed "Eastside Campus Heart," is developed as landscaped open space as proposed in the proposed Master Plan, it will not increase the minimum percentage of open space that must remain within the MIO boundary, but it will be considered "designated open space," subject to the provisions of SMC 23.69.030.E.4.b. The development of this proposed open space is subject to the modifications related to Harborview Hall included elsewhere in this document.

 8. The proposed Major Institution Master Plan is a reasonable program to guide Harborview's development over the next 20 years. However, that approval of the elements of the MIMP related to the vacation of 9th Avenue and the potential landmarks buildings are subject to separate processes and approvals, as discussed above. The proposed MIMP, as modified and conditioned (see the modifications and SEPA conditions attached to this Decision), will appropriately mitigate potential impacts of the proposal.

Decision

 The Harborview Medical Center Major Institution Master Plan is hereby adopted, subject to the modifications and SEPA conditions contained on pages A-1 through A-12 attached.

 Dated this _____ date of ________________, 2000.

 City Council President

 303574 Findings_.doc

 Attachment 1

 C.F. 303574 Page 4

 Harborview Medical Center MIMP

 Findings, Conclusions and Decision

 CITY COUNCIL

 MODIFICATIONS TO MASTER PLAN AND SEPA CONDITIONS

 HARBORVIEW MEDICAL CENTER MAJOR INSTITUTION MASTER PLAN

 C.F. 303574

 MODIFICATIONS TO PROPOSED MASTER PLAN

 1. The maximum campus development density standard for the Harborview MIO should be increased from the FAR 3.4 proposed by Harborview to 3.6 in order to allow greater flexibility for future in-fill development and greater utilization of the allowable height in the MIO. The total campus site area is 594,480 sq. ft., so the FAR of 3.6 would result in a total building area of 2,140,128 sq. ft.

 2. Harborview is encouraged to explore possible structural methods and funding options for increasing the load bearing capacity of underground garage structures to accommodate possible future development above the garage structures, recognizing that there are significant uncertainties in predicting future Harborview development and City code requirements.

 3. The proposed development shall be phased as identified in the proposed Master Plan. However, the possible implementation of the Master Plan alternatives considered in the EIS may require further analysis and will not be processed as exempt changes to the Master Plan. All changes to the Master Plan are subject to the requirements of SMC 23.69.035.

 4. Approval of the Master Plan does not constitute approval of any proposed street vacation, including subterranean or aerial vacation for 9th Avenue or of the location of the proposed building across 9th Avenue. The City's decision on the vacation(s) and building location will be made in the context of a street vacation petition(s) to be initiated by Harborview. If the Council approves the vacation(s) and building location as proposed in the Master Plan through the street vacation process, such approval will constitute Council approval of an amendment to the Master Plan. The Council shall file a copy of any street vacation decisions in Clerk File 303574, and shall pass an ordinance amending the Master Plan to reflect the street vacation decision and any conditions imposed through the street vacation process. An amendment to the Master Plan that meets the conditions described in this section will be deemed to have met the requirements of SMC 23.69.035 and will not require further review and analysis. If the street vacation decisions are not consistent with the proposed Master Plan and would require major changes to the Master Plan, such changes may be subject to further review and analysis subject to SMC 23.69.035.

 5. Approval of the Master Plan is not approval of the proposed demolition or any alteration to Harborview Hall or the East Hospital (Center Wing). If either of those buildings is nominated and designated as landmarks by the Landmarks Preservation Board ("Board"), the decision to alter or demolish the features and/or characteristics proposed for nomination and/or designation will be made by the Board based on the Landmarks Preservation Ordinance, SMC 25.12.670-.835. The Board shall notify the City Council of any decisions regarding the nomination, designation and/or action on Certificate(s) of Approval for either building. If the Board does not approve the nomination or designation of either building, the Council shall file a copy of the Board's decision(s) in Clerk File 303574 and shall pass an ordinance amending the Master Plan to reflect the Board's decision(s). If the Board nominates and designates either building and subsequently approves the alteration or demolition of either building as proposed in the proposed Master Plan, the Council shall file a copy the Board's decision(s) in Clerk File 303574, and shall pass an ordinance amending the Master Plan to reflect the Board's decision(s) and any conditions imposed by the Board after the completion of the appeals process as described in SMC 25.12.740-.835. An amendment to the Master Plan that meets the conditions described in this section will be deemed to have met the requirements of SMC 23.69.035 and will not require further review and analysis. If the Board's decision(s) are not consistent with the proposed Master Plan and would require major changes to the Master Plan, such changes may be subject to further review and analysis subject to SMC 23.69.035.

 6. Construction of the Buttress Building for the East Hospital/Center Wing upgrade (Structure "G" in Figure 12, page 41, MIMP, Exhibit 3A), if approved through the Landmarks and street vacation processes, shall be subject to the conditions required through those processes.

 7. Construction of the Inpatient Expansion Building (Structure "F" in Figure 8, page 29, MIMP, Exhibit 3A), buttressing East Hospital and bridging over 9th Avenue, if approved through the Landmarks and street vacation processes, shall be subject to the conditions required through those processes.

 8. The Clinical Services Building (Structure "A1" in Figure 8, page 29, MIMP, Exhibit 3A) shall be subject to the following conditions regarding the street profile along that portion of James Street: that the width of the existing travel lanes on James Street be maintained; that at least 10 feet of free clearance be maintained between any tree pits and utility poles which might still exist, and the building facades for the sidewalk development; and 3) that the area from the curb be designed to accommodate tree-pits and utility poles.

 9. The Seattle Design Commission shall be given a full opportunity to review and make recommendations on any proposed street vacations associated with Master Plan projects as part of the street vacation process. Nothing in Master Plan approval shall be construed as prejudging or superceding the street vacation process or diminishing the Commission's role in that process.

 10. The Landmarks Preservation Board shall review and decide on any application(s) for landmark nominations and designations for potential landmarks and subsequent Certificate(s) of Approval on any Master Plan project affecting a nominated or designated landmark. Nothing in this Master Plan approval shall be construed as prejudging or superceding the Landmarks Preservation Ordinance processes or diminishing the Board's role in those processes.

 11. The garage entry scheme included in the final Harborview Master Plan is approved subject to the following conditions: 1) that any access to the garage system from Terrace Avenue shall be limited to permit holder entry only and intended exclusively for staff parking, and 2) that traffic calming features be installed on both Terry Avenue and Terrace Street including curb-bulb extensions at the intersection of Terry Avenue and Terrace Street and possible speed bumps on Terrace Street. Consideration should be given to prohibiting or limiting a garage entrance on James Street in order to be consistent with the street's classification as a principal arterial. Consideration should also be given to providing only limited garage access on Terry Avenue south of Jefferson Street due to Terry Avenue's narrow travel lanes and its designation as a Key Pedestrian Street.

 12. Subject to the availability of sufficient funding and no significant interference with underground utilities, Harborview shall explore the possibility of underground connections between the three proposed underground garages on the northeast, northwest and southeast corners of 9th Avenue and Jefferson Street in order to facilitate underground vehicle circulation and maximum parking efficiency. Harborview shall develop and implement a parking management program (to the satisfaction of DCLU) for the design and operation of the garages in a manner that minimizes traffic impacts on local streets.

 13. Development shall be limited to the MIO zoning, height, setbacks and other development standards established in the Master Plan.

 14. Demolition of the 64 housing units for the Planned Projects is subject to the following conditions. Harborview shall:

 a. Provide one-for-one replacement housing of all units prior to demolition of the existing units;

 b. Provide the replacement housing units within the First Hill/Capitol Hill Urban Center boundary, with a preference for locations within the First Hill Urban Center Village boundary;

 c. Replace the units with substantially the same sizes of units and affordability levels, as measured at the time of MIMP approval;

 d. Ensure that the replacement units are available for a period of ten years;

 e. Develop the replacement housing units without City funds, with the exception of possible short-term City financing which must be reimbursed by Harborview/King County;

 f. Provide the replacement units through rehabilitation of a vacant building, construction of a new building, or preservation of existing federally-assisted units that are losing federal funding, but not through any other means of displacement of existing housing units; and

 g. Provide relocation assistance as required by City regulations, but if tenant relocation costs exceed the amount provided under the City's Tenant Relocation Assistance Ordinance, Harborview will provide relocation assistance of up to 50% above the private contribution required by the City through the Tenant Relocation Assistance Ordinance.

 15. In its examination of potential sites for replacement housing, Harborview shall investigate and evaluate the potential to locate some of this housing on the site of the surface parking lot between Terry Terrace and the Broadmore Apartments. The maximum number of units allowed by zoning shall be calculated and economic feasibility considered.

 16. The minimum percentage of the MIO District to remain in open space is 20%. (This calculation is based on the amount of open space provided by 1) the "Westside" landscaped open space on top of the existing west garage with both landscape and hardscape and a viewpoint; and 2) the required setback areas, which will be landscaped or hardscaped and pedestrian amenities.)

 The proposed "Eastside Campus Heart," if developed as landscaped open space as proposed in the Proposed Master Plan, will be considered "designated open space," subject to the provisions of SMC 23.69.030.E.4.b. The development of this proposed open space is subject to the modifications related to Harborview Hall included in this document.

 SEPA CONDITIONS

 Energy:

 SEPA 1. The Planned and Potential Projects shall be designed to incorporate requirements of the Seattle Energy Code.

 SEPA 2. In new construction, mechanical systems shall be braced to comply with standards for critical facilities in active seismic zones. The existing mechanical systems should also be braced throughout the facilities as part of proposed renovations.

 Environmental Health:

 SEPA 3. Harborview shall continue to implement, monitor and update the Harborview Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Plan and specific programs to minimize hazard risks and comply with all applicable laws, regulations, standards and policies related to hazardous materials. Harborview shall maintain an environmentally responsible waste management stream that protects the public interest in the collection, transportation, processing and disposal of hazardous/medical wastes. Harborview shall continue annual effectiveness evaluations and modify the waste management plan as appropriate.

 SEPA 4. Harborview shall comply with the requirements of the Seattle Noise Ordinance (SMC 25.08).

 SEPA 5. Harborview shall ensure that building-related noise sources such as heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment and emergency generators are designed and operated within the noise levels permitted by the Seattle Noise Ordinance.

 SEPA 6. Harborview shall orient parking facilities, loading areas, material transfer and waste facilities away from noise sensitive residential uses where feasible, and provide adequate acoustical buffers to reduce noise exposure, where feasible.

 SEPA 7. Harborview shall install acoustic baffles for sound control on HVAC equipment and fans.

 SEPA 8. Harborview shall continue to implement policy of "shutting- down" emergency vehicle sirens within two blocks of the hospital (for both arriving and departing emergency vehicles), except when prevented by safety/traffic conditions.

 Land Use:

 SEPA 9. Harborview shall locate the most intensive and people- generating functions away from residential buildings.

 SEPA 10. Harborview shall improve the quality of landscaped open space in the proposed open spaces.

 SEPA 11. Harborview shall buffer and screen potentially objectionable views of support and service uses by landscaping, walls, and fences.

 SEPA 12. Harborview shall provide opportunity for street-level retail space in the Clinical Care Services Building along James Street between 9th Avenue and Terry Avenue.

 SEPA 13. Harborview shall increase street level setbacks to widen sidewalks that encourage pedestrian activity/uses along James Street.

 Housing:

 SEPA 14. Harborview shall replace all 64 affordable housing units lost under the Proposed Action. (See Recommended Modifications 14 and 15 above.)

 SEPA 15. Harborview shall provide tenant relocation assistance to eligible tenants per applicable local requirements.

 SEPA 16. Harborview shall allow access by neighborhood residents to the open space plaza.

 SEPA 17. Harborview shall continue to work with First Hill institutions, churches, social service providers and governmental agencies in the development of additional housing opportunities.

 Light, Glare and Shadows:

 SEPA 18. Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shielded or directed away from adjacent residential uses.

 SEPA 19. Lighting poles shall be located away from and/or at heights compatible with residential development, to the extent feasible.

 SEPA 20. Screening and shading devices shall be installed to reduce or eliminate spillover lighting, particularly across from sensitive residential receivers, to the extent feasible.

 SEPA 21. Glass and building materials shall be used that are not highly reflective to avoid creating glare.

 SEPA 22. Building facades shall be designed with wall and glazing articulation and recesses to avoid large expanses of uniform surfaces. Spandrels, mullions and architectural detailing could lessen the effect of reflective glare from both artificial and natural light.

 SEPA 23. Landscaping shall be included to diffuse and obscure light and glare impacts.

 SEPA 24. To avoid having buildings shade landscaped open spaces, solar exposure and potential adjacent building sun blockage shall be considered in the design of all the proposed campus open spaces.

 Aesthetics:

 SEPA 25. Techniques to reduce the apparent scale of new buildings (e.g., architectural detailing, modulation, stepbacks, materials, etc.) shall be incorporated into building designs. Building design shall seek to soften the appearance of structures. Pedestrian scaled improvements shall be included at street level.

 SEPA 26. Retail and pedestrian oriented functions shall be included on James Street pedestrian corridors and blank facades/massive structures in the neighborhood context shall be avoided.

 SEPA 27. Lighting and graphics that reduces the appearance of building bulk and scale shall be incorporated into new structures.

 SEPA 28. To break-up building groupings and collective massing, pedestrian connections shall be maintained through the campus and with the neighborhood (such as at the "campus heart").

 SEPA 29. Landscaping shall be included to soften building scale and to create amenities.

 SEPA 30. The design of each building approved under this Master Plan shall be stylistically consistent with the design of the existing structures on the Harborview campus and shall be reviewed and approved by the standing CAC.

 Historic/Cultural:

 Harborview Hall Demolition Mitigation

 SEPA 31. Compliance with the Landmarks Preservation Ordinance (SMC 25.12) will constitute compliance with the SEPA Landmarks Policy. Nothing in this Master Plan approval shall be construed as prejudging or superceding the landmark review process as specified in the Landmarks Preservation Ordinance or diminishing the Landmarks Board's role in that process.

 SEPA 32. If, following the procedures of the Landmarks Preservation Ordinance, Harborview proceeds with demolition of Harborview Hall and/or the East Hospital Center Wing, Harborview shall abide by all conditions or requirements imposed by that decision.

 East Hospital Mitigation

 SEPA 33. If this building is retained, the buttress expansion structure shall be designed to have similar vertical emphasis and cladding, as the existing building and efforts shall be made to retain the exterior appearance (including the entry and ornament).

 Transportation and Parking:

 SEPA 34. Harborview shall comply with terms of the TMP to reduce the number of Harborview commuter trips in employee single occupancy vehicles to forty-five percent (45%) of the total number of weekday, day shift commuter trips. Enhancements shall be proposed to Harborview's TMP that would likely result in additional reductions in the employees' use of single-occupant vehicles for commuting. The TMP identifies strategies and actions that are intended to reduce parking and traffic demands associated with projected growth at the Harborview campus. The proposed TMP is described in the Major Institution Master Plan document with the following elements: a building transportation coordinator, periodic promotional events, commuter information centers, ride-matching service coordination, parking fees, carpool/vanpool subsidy, carpool/vanpool preferential parking, transit pass subsidy, University of Washington Health Sciences Shuttle Services, First Hill Express, bicycle racks and lockers, motorcycle parking spaces, residential parking zones, guaranteed ride home, telecommuting, pedestrian access, evaluation criteria, and annual reporting.

 SEPA 35. Harborview shall submit the required annual TMP reports to SEATRAN by March 1st every year.

 SEPA 36. Additional analysis of access and traffic operations at the garage entrances shall be conducted as the specific designs for the garage elements of the Planned Projects are refined and finalized.

 SEPA 37. The garages shall be managed to minimize the need for movement between the garages.

 SEPA 38. The signal timing pattern shall be reviewed as warranted for the James Street corridor as traffic from the hospital and other sites is added to the street system intersecting James Street.

 SEPA 39. A project-level environmental review of transportation, if not already contained in the FEIS, shall be conducted for the Potential Projects elements and phases as the design and schedule for each are finalized. Impacts to be addressed should include those resulting from increased traffic, parking generation and access to/from garages that would be generated by the proposed new facilities.

 SEPA 40. To the extent feasible, traffic shall be diverted from Terry Avenue to other arterial streets including Boren Avenue. Measures to accomplish this diversion could include: curb bulbs and chokers; traffic circles; maintain on-street parking (to reduce effective street width); speed bumps; "Do not enter - Local access only" signs; and, restrictive speed zones.

 Public Services and Utilities:

 SEPA 41. The Seattle Police Department's Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) techniques shall be employed when projects are designed, to the extent it is feasible.

 SEPA 42. Adequate lighting shall be provided and clear sight lines to reduce hiding places for criminal activity.

 SEPA 43. Pedestrian scaled street illumination shall be provided so that sidewalks are well lit, particularly where street light pole lighting is blocked by vegetation/mature street trees.

 SEPA 44. Street trees shall be pruned and vegetation cleared to improve visibility of pedestrian walkways and spaces.

 SEPA 45. Extended hour activities at street level shall be increased and visual access shall be designed from buildings to exterior locations.

 SEPA 46. Facilities and outdoor spaces shall be designed to allow natural surveillance, controlled access, defensible space.

 SEPA 47. Harborview security services shall be continued, including employee escorting.

 SEPA 48. All new construction shall comply with applicable Seattle Fire Code and Uniform Building Code requirements.

 SEPA 49. The Seattle Fire Department shall be notified of any extended street and construction of Master Plan projects.

 SEPA 50. Construction material storage and waste materials/debris shall not be accumulated for long periods of time to avoid possible fire hazards.

 SEPA 51. Harborview shall coordinate mitigation of utility impacts with the responsible agencies.

 Short Term Construction Conditions

 Prior to Commencement of any Demolition or Construction

 SEPA 52. The excavation contractor shall provide a truck management plan to the SEATRAN Permit office for approval and identify demolition and excavation disposal sites.

 SEPA 53. In order to ensure that construction workers do not park on the street and do not usurp existing off-street parking on parking lots within Harborview's primary impact area, Harborview shall prepare and distribute to all construction workers, a flyer that includes: a map of the available parking lots, rates; the restrictions for lots located outside the primary impact area identified in the Draft Environmental Impact Statement for Harborview's Major Institution Master Plan; and, an explanation that construction workers must park outside the primary impact area, that no on-street parking by construction workers is allowed. Harborview shall require contractors to secure parking for their construction workers outside the primary impact area.

 During Construction

 The following condition(s), to be enforced during construction, shall be posted at the site in a location visible and accessible to the public and to construction personnel from the street right-of- way. If more than one street abuts the site, conditions shall be posted at each street. The conditions shall be printed legibly on placards available from DCLU, shall be laminated with clear plastic or other weatherproofing material, and shall remain in place for the duration of the construction.

 SEPA 54. The flyer described in condition number #53 shall be distributed to all current construction workers and any future workers hired.

 SEPA 55. The following low noise impact work will be permitted on Saturdays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Requests to do work described below in the weekday evenings (6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.) will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. DCLU approval is required prior to any such occurrence.

 All work on-site shall be fully supervised by Harborview or King County on-site construction personnel who will ensure that Saturday construction is of a non-noisy nature and report back to the Land Use Planner with written confirmation of agreement to the construction hours by the subcontractors. Periodic monitoring of work activity and noise levels will be conducted by DCLU Construction Inspections.

 Surveying and layout

 - This requires no noise generating equipment and requires two or three people walking around the project.

Stocking with crane - The crane is electric and requires four people to work with the crane.

Other ancillary tasks - This includes: site security; surveillance; and monitoring and maintenance of weather protection, water dams, and heating equipment.

 Concrete work

 - This includes finishing and setting.

 SEPA 56. Critical quiet construction activities, which are of an emergency nature that are related to issues of safety, or which could substantially shorten the total construction time-frame if done after the regular construction crew has left, will be allowed. In order to accommodate the needs of the Hospital and ensure that the construction activities will not have adverse impacts on the nearby residential uses, requests to extend the hours of construction on weekdays from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and approved by DCLU prior to each occurrence. Periodic monitoring of work activity and noise levels will be conducted by DCLU Construction Inspections.

 SEPA 57. Quiet non-construction activities that can be done at any time such as, but not limited to, site security, surveillance, monitoring for weather protection, checking tarps, surveying, and walking on and around the site and structure will not be limited by the conditions imposed above or below.

 SEPA 58. In addition to the Noise Ordinance requirements to reduce the noise impact of construction on nearby properties, all demolition, grading, and construction activities shall be limited to non-holiday weekdays between 7:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. After each floor of the building is enclosed with exterior walls and windows, interior construction on individual enclosed floors can be done at other times with the written approval of the Land Use Planner and the Director of Construction Inspections of DCLU.

 SEPA 59. Equipment shall be employed on-site that is as quiet as feasible for the work to be performed.

 SEPA 60. Nearby residents shall be advised of the construction schedule, the construction process, and Harborview must provide a contact person to address construction-related problems, such as noise impacts.

 SEPA 61. Construction schedules shall be coordinated with nearby on-campus research activities, allowing the opportunity to reschedule research or construction activities if conflicts arise.

 SEPA 62. Whenever practical, rubber-tire equipment shall be used instead of equipment with metal tracks. Mufflers shall be provided and maintained for stationary engines. Construction personnel shall limit the extent of unnecessary equipment idling. Air compressors shall be utilized with silencing packages. Preference shall be given to electrically-driven and hydraulically-driven equipment in place of diesel or pneumatic equipment.

 For the life of the Project:

 SEPA 63. Harborview shall consider the input of the standing committee on future projects once those projects are detailed.

 Additional SEPA review, whether through addenda, checklists, or supplemental EISs may be required for individual projects as determined appropriate by the DCLU Director, depending on whether the scope of anticipated environmental impacts exceeds those described in the FEIS, and whether adopted mitigation is deemed adequate. Proposed developments not reviewed at the project level in the FEIS shall require additional environmental review at the time of application for Master Use and/or building permits. Additional environmental review may also be required for those proposed developments which were reviewed at the project level in the FEIS if there are changes to the preferred or alternative building sites, programs or designs, which in the judgment of the Director of DCLU would result in substantially different environmental impacts than are described in the FEIS. This information may be provided as addendum(s) to the FEIS, unless the DCLU Director determines that supplemental EIS(s) are necessary.

 Council Modifications and SEPA Conditions_.doc

 Attachment to City Council Findings,

 Conclusions and Decision

 C.F. 303475 Page A12 of A1

 Harborview Medical Center MIMP

 City Council Modifications

 and SEPA Conditions

```
