

********

**Council Bill Number: 113391**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120114**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Finance Division of the Executive Services Department; authorizing the payment of claims and other obligations by check or warrant, and amending the Seattle Municipal Code in connection therewith.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 9, 2000
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Compton)
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 16, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 25, 2000
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** FINANCE

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Finance Division of the Executive Services Department; authorizing the payment of claims and other obligations by check or warrant, and amending the Seattle Municipal Code in connection therewith.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As authorized by RCW 35A.40.020 and RCW 35.22.195, the City of Seattle adopts a policy that allows for the payment of claims or other obligations of the City by check or warrant.

 Section 2. Chapter 3.38 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended by adding a new section as follows:

 3.38.030 Payment by check or warrant.

 The Finance Director is authorized to elect to pay claims against, or other obligations of, the City out of solvent funds by either check or warrant. No check shall be issued when the applicable fund is not solvent at the time payment is ordered, but a warrant shall be issued therefor.

 Section 3. Section 3.38.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.38.040 Authority to draw and pay warrants or make payment by check.

 Unless the ordinance indicates otherwise, the making of an appropriation is sufficient authority for the Finance Director to draw and pay the necessary warrants and make the necessary transfers upon properly executed vouchers drawn by the appropriate department head or an authorized assistant. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

Section 4. Section 3.30.110 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.30.110 Refund of permit fee.

 Whenever any permit is issued by the Public Health Department and a fee paid therefor, and no rights are exercised pursuant thereto and application is made for refund, the Director of Public Health shall certify the facts including the amount of the permit fee and the fund into which the same was paid and his or her approval of the refund, and upon presentation of such certificate to the City Finance Director such officer is authorized to draw and to pay a warrant in the amount of such refund drawn upon the proper fund and the necessary appropriations are hereby made~~;~~. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check. ~~p~~Provided, that no such refund is authorized when the amount of the permit fee is Four Dollars ($4.00) or less, and all refunds shall be made in the amount paid for the permit less the sum of Three Dollars ($3.00); and provided further, that before any such refund is made, the permit shall be surrendered to the Director of Public Health and by him or her canceled.

 Section 5. Section 3.30.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.30.120 Duplicate Medicare payments.

 Whenever in the performance of services in connection with the Medicare Program the Public Health Department receives duplicate payments for the performance of such services and application is made for a refund, the Director of Public Health shall certify the facts including the amount of such duplicate payment and the fund into which the same was paid and his or her approval of the refund, and upon presentation of such certificate to the City Finance Director such officer is authorized to draw and to pay a warrant in the amount of such refund drawn upon the proper fund and the necessary appropriations are hereby made. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 6. Section 3.106.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.106.010 Blueprint or photography work.

 Whenever the fee paid to the City for any blueprint or photography work shall be erroneous for any reason, and application is made for refund, the Director of Engineering shall certify the facts justifying such refund, the amount thereof, and his or her approval of such refund, and upon presentation of such certificate, the Finance Director is authorized to draw to pay a warrant on the General Fund in the amount of such refund and the necessary appropriations are hereby made from any surplus in said Fund. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 7. Subsection 4.14.150 B of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.14.150 Moving expenses defined.

 * * *

 B. Payment for such reimbursement, when authorized, shall be made from unexpended and unencumbered balances accumulating in the budgets of the employing units which eligible persons head or in which such persons serve, and the City Finance Director is authorized to pay the necessary warrants. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 8. Subsection 4.20.110 A of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.20.110 Biweekly pay periods.

 Biweekly pay periods for all officers and employees of all Departments of the City including the Library are authorized on the following basis:

 A. Each biweekly pay period shall end on a Tuesday and except for such advances on earned salary from "Contingent Fund A" as may be specifically authorized by ordinance, warrants or checks shall be delivered to those concerned after three p.m. (3:00 p.m.) on the day before the payday, which payday shall be one (1) week from the Friday following said Tuesday; provided, that such payday may be advanced to Thursday if Friday is a legal holiday or to Tuesday or Wednesday if Christmas or New Year's Day falls on a Wednesday or Thursday. When payday is advanced, the Finance Director is authorized to distribute the warrant or check, on that advanced payday or the day before payday. Furthermore, the Finance Director is authorized to designate the employees to be paid each week so as to distribute the warrants or checks payable as near equally as possible on the day before each payday.

 Section 9. Section 4.20.700 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.20.700 Pay warrants or checks under one dollar .

 It is City policy and a condition of City employment to draw pay warrants or checks only when the net pay is One Dollar ($1.00) or more. Whenever payment is authorized to a City employee and the net pay amount is less than One Dollar ($1.00), the amount shall be added to the employee's next pay warrant or check or severance pay warrant or check. If no further pay warrants or checks are contemplated, payment shall only be made to an employee who makes demand and appears in person for payment.

 Section 10. Subsection 4.36.130 H of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.36.130 Retirement System Board of Administration.

 * * *

 H. The Finance Director shall be the custodian of the retirement fund. All payments from said fund shall be made upon warrant duly executed by the Finance Director or, if the fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, by check. As custodian, the City Finance Director with the approval of the Board of Administration, may cause securities of the retirement system to be registered in the name of a nominee and authorize the safekeeping of retirement system securities in the physical custody of the Federal Reserve System, a depository trust company, or a bank as contemplated by RCW 35.39.070.

 Section 11. Subsection 4.36.295 F of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.36.295 Qualified domestic relations orders -- Orders of State Department of Social and Health Services to withhold and deliver.

 * * *

 F. Alternate Payee's Responsibility. An alternate payee has the responsibility of supplying and maintaining with the Director a current mailing address for making payments; if payments are to commence upon occurrence of an event, informing the Director when the event occurs; and in the event of an erroneous overpayment, returning to the City the warrant or check for issuance of another in the correct amount. Warrants or checks returned on account of an incorrect address may be held as unclaimed property.

 Section 12. Section 4.72.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.72.050 Advance cash allowances -- When allowed.

 All officers and employees of the City may receive advance cash allowances covering anticipated, reimbursable expenses to be incurred in the course of conducting City business involving travel outside the City. Such advance allowances shall be made upon the prior request of such officers and employees approved by the City Finance Director where the nature and duration of travel justifies such advance or failure to make such advance would result in economic inconvenience to such officer or employee. Requests for advances shall be made on such form as shall be prescribed by the City Finance Director who shall issue warrants therefor not more than five (5) days prior to commencement of the authorized travel ~~;~~.If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.~~p~~Provided, that advances to officers and employees of the Lighting and Water Departments may be made by the respective heads of such departments from the appropriate revolving funds.

 Section 13. Section 5.20.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.20.050 Payments under one dollar.

 It shall be a term or condition of contracting with the City that payment warrants are drawn only for, and checks shall be issued only for, sums of One Dollar ($1) or more. If the sum due or owing to anyone providing services or materials to the City is less than One Dollar ($1), payment shall be made from petty cash to those who present themselves in person. Payment shall be deemed waived if more than ninety (90) days passes from the time payment is due without demand in person therefor.

 Section 14. Section 5.24.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.24.020 Payment of judgments.

 Upon the presentation to the City Finance Director of a certified copy of the docket entry of any judgment against the City, entered in an appropriate court, showing the entry of judgment on the docket, and having attached thereto a certificate in writing, signed by the City Attorney, to the effect that the right of appeal from such judgment has been expressly waived, or that the time for an appeal has expired, the City Finance Director shall issue a warrant upon the Judgment/Claims Subfund for the amount of such judgment, and costs if awarded to the claimant by the court. If the Judgment/Claims Subfund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 15. Section 5.24.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.24.030 Payment of claims.

 The City Attorney may authorize payment of any claim against the City in an amount of not more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) and, upon presentation of proper releases, and of vouchers approved by the City Attorney, the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants on the Judgment/Claims Subfund for the settlement and full satisfaction of any such claim, and to make any necessary, authorized transfers of other funds in such connection. If the Judgment/Claims Subfund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 16. Subsection 5.44.030 D of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.44.030 Tax and fees on business with the City -- Payment of City contracts.

 * * *

 D. All persons are required to pay in full all taxes or fees due under this chapter on account of such contract, or otherwise, before accepting any warrant or check as payment for performing any contract for the City. The Finance Director may withhold payment due a City contractor pending satisfactory resolution of unpaid taxes and fees due the City under this title.

 Section 17. Section 5.78.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.020 Expenditures -- Seattle Center programs.

 The Director of the Seattle Center is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to the Seattle Center programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw to pay warrants against the designated program account or subaccount on vouchers approved by The Seattle Center Director as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 18. Section 5.78.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.030 Expenditures -- Seattle Arts Commission.

 The Seattle Arts Commission is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to the Seattle Arts Commission programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by said Commission as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 19. Section 5.78.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.040 Expenditures -- Seattle Transportation programs.

 The Director of Transportation is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to Seattle Transportation programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Director of Transportation as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 20. Section 5.78.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.060 Expenditures -- Office of Housing.

 The Director of Housing is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to that Office's programs in the City's Gift Catalogue or for other housing activities as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Director of Housing as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 21. Section 5.78.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.070 Expenditures -- Seattle-King County Department of Public Health.

 The Director of Public Health is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Director of Public Health as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 22. Section 5.78.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.080 Expenditures -- Seattle Public Utilities.

 The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to the Seattle Public Utilities programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 23. Section 5.78.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.090 Expenditures -- Police Department.

 The Chief of Police is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to the Police Department programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Chief as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 24. Section 5.78.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.100 Expenditures -- Fire Department.

 The Chief of the Fire Department is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to the Fire Department programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Chief as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 25. Section 5.78.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.120 Expenditures -- Department of Parks and Recreation.

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to the Department of Parks and Recreation programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Superintendent as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 26. Section 5.78.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.130 Expenditures -- Personnel Director.

 The Director of Personnel is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to programs of the former Personnel Department or to programs of the Personnel Division in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Director of Personnel as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 27. Section 5.78.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.150 Expenditures -- Finance Director.

 The City Finance Director is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations to programs of the former Finance Department and to programs of the former Department of Licenses and Consumer Affairs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or sub- accounts on vouchers. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 28. Section 5.78.160 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.160 Expenditures -- Department of Design, Construction and Land Use.

 The Director of Design, Construction and Land Use is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations to the Design, Construction and Land Use Department programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Director of Design, Construction and Land Use as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 29. Section 5.78.170 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.170 Expenditures -- City Clerk's Office.

 The City Council is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations to the City Clerk's Office programs in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against such program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the City Clerk as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 30. Section 5.78.180 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.180 Expenditures -- Department of Neighborhoods.

 The Director of the Department of Neighborhoods is authorized to direct expenditures from the donations made to that Department's programs that are in the City's Gift Catalogue, as amended from time to time, or for which an account or subaccount for deposit of donations is established by ordinance. Such expenditures shall be consistent with the designation by the donor. The City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said accounts or subaccounts for such programs, or make appropriate transfers from such accounts or subaccounts, based on vouchers approved by the Director of Neighborhoods as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 31. Section 5.78.190 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.190 Expenditures -- Human Services Department.

 The Director of the Human Services Department is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to that Department's programs in the City's Gift Catalogue or for other human services activities as designated by the donor; and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the Human Services Director as to payee and purpose. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 32. Subsection 10.02.030 B of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 10.02.030 Authority of Mayor to enter into contracts and incur obligations.

 * * *

 B. The City Finance Director shall be authorized to draw and to pay the necessary warrants for expenditures made pursuant to order and authorized by the City Council. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 33. Section 11.23.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 11.23.140 Refunds for unused permits.

 Whenever an overweight or overload permit has been issued and a fee paid therefor and either no rights are exercised pursuant thereto and such permit is surrendered or the fee charged is erroneous for any reason and application is made for refund, the Traffic Engineer shall certify the facts justifying such refund, the amount thereof, and his or her approval of such refund, and upon presentation of such certificate the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay a warrant on the General Fund in the amount of such refund, and the necessary appropriations are made from any surplus in the Fund. If the appropriate fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 34. Section 11.30.280 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 11.30.280 Contractor to file monthly claim for services.

 The contractor shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, file his or her claim with the Executive Services Department for towing and storage charges accruing to him or her upon vehicles redeemed as provided in this chapter during the preceding month, in accordance with this chapter and with the specifications for the contract authorized in Section 11.30.220, and such claim shall be sworn to by him or her under oath. The Finance Director shall audit such claim and any payment thereof at least once annually. A warrant or warrants for payment of such claim shall be drawn and paid by the Finance Director from such expenditure allowances as may be provided therefor in the annual budget or from such moneys as may otherwise be appropriated for such purpose. If the appropriate fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 35. Section 15.04.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 15.04.090 Refund of permit fee.

 Whenever the fee paid for any use or occupation permit shall be erroneous for any reason, and application is made for refund, the authorizing official shall certify the facts justifying such refund, the amount thereof, and his or her approval of such refund, and upon presentation of such certificate to the City Finance Director, a warrant shall be drawn and paid in the amount of such refund. The necessary appropriations are hereby made and authorized. If the appropriate fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 36. Section 20.04.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.04.150 Special fund for each district.

 The ordinance creating any local improvement district shall also create a special fund to be called "Local Improvement Fund, District No. ," into which shall be placed all sums from any source intended for use in the prosecution of the work contemplated by such ordinance and, when the assessment roll has been confirmed, all sums paid on account of such assessment, including all interest and penalty thereon, and in the event of sale of bonds by the City, all proceeds of sale and all premiums and accrued interest on bonds issued for such improvement. The moneys in such local improvement district fund derived from assessments shall be used for no other purpose than the redemption of warrants drawn upon and bonds issued against the fund to provide payment for the cost and expense of the improvement. Provided, that if the fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment for the cost and expense of the improvement by check.

 Section 37. Section 20.08.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.08.030 Issuance and payment of warrants or checks.

 In order to effectuate the purposes of this chapter, the City Finance Director is authorized to from time to time draw and pay warrants drawing interest at a rate not to exceed six percent (6%) on the Local Improvement Guaranty Fund for the purposes contemplated in Section 20.08.010; provided, that such warrants shall at no time exceed five percent (5%) of the outstanding bond obligations guaranteed by the fund. Warrants on the Local Improvement Guaranty Fund shall be numbered serially in the order of their issuance. If the Local Improvement Guaranty fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 38. Subsection 20.12.080 C of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.12.080 Administration by City officials.

 * * *

 C. The City Finance Director shall draw such warrants upon the Local Improvement Guaranty Fund as necessary and appropriate to make payments to the local improvement district fund for assessments, the collection of which has been deferred, and shall report annually to the City Council and the Budget Director about the amount of payments made from the Local Improvement Guaranty Fund for assessments or installments deferred pursuant to this chapter and RCW 35.43.250, 35.50.050, and 35.50.100, as now existing or hereafter amended; the current balance in such fund and outstanding obligations guaranteed by such fund. If the Local Improvement Guaranty fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 39. Subsection 20.76.080 E of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.76.080 Special fund.

 * * *

 E. The City Council shall, by ordinance, create a special fund for each such improvement district to be called "Local Improvement Fund, Condemnation Award, District No. ," into which shall be placed the proceeds of the sale of bonds for such improvement, all sums paid on account of assessments levied for such improvement including all interest and penalty thereon, and all sums received from rents, profits and income from the property condemned by such proceeding, and from which shall be paid all warrants issued upon transcripts of judgments on awards and all bonds issued for such improvement. Provided, that if the fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Finance Director may elect to make payment for the cost and expense of the improvement by check.

 Section 40. Section 20.76.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.76.120 Warrants or checks -- When issued.

 The City Finance Director shall issue no warrants or checks  for any condemnation awards, interest or costs prior to the acceptance of such awards by the City Council as provided for in Section 20.76.020, but such warrants or checks may be issued at any time thereafter.

 Section 41. Section 20.76.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.76.130 Payment of awards, interest and costs.

 The proceeds of the sale of bonds issued therefor, together with the proceeds of the collection of special assessments therefor, made during the thirty (30) day period following the date of the first publication of the Finance Director's notice of collection, shall be applied by the City Finance Director in payment of awards, interest and costs of any judgment in any eminent domain proceedings, and the redemption of any warrants issued in payment of any portion of such judgment. No priority of payment shall exist as between any such warrants and any portion of such judgment, but warrants shall be paid in the order of their issuance; provided, that warrants payable to the General Fund may be held until warrants issued for the payment of awards have been paid. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 42. Section 20.76.200 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.76.200 Payment of local improvement assessments against condemned property.

 For the purpose of making payment of all local improvement assessments that may exist against any lot, tract or parcel of land which has been condemned for street or other purposes, the City Finance Director, previous to the issuance of any warrant in payment for property condemned in any condemnation proceeding, shall determine the amount of all unpaid local improvement assessments that may exist against the property, and thereupon two (2) warrants in favor of the respondents shall be issued on the condemnation fund, one (1) warrant in the amount of the unpaid assessments which shall be endorsed to the General Fund by the respondent, and one (1) warrant for the amount of the award less the unpaid assessments. The City Finance Director shall draw a warrant on the General Fund in favor of the local improvement district or districts entitled thereto for the amount of the unpaid assessments, the General Fund to be reimbursed for the amounts so paid out when sufficient moneys have been paid into the Condemnation Fund to meet the warrant thereon drawn in favor of the General Fund in payment of the assessments as set forth in this section. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 43. Section 21.24.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.24.090 Refund of sewer permit fees.

 Whenever a sewer permit has been issued and a fee paid therefor and either no rights are exercised pursuant thereto and such permit is surrendered or the fee charged is erroneous for any reason and application is made for refund, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities shall certify the facts justifying such refund, the amount thereof, and his or her approval of such refund, and upon presentation of such certificate, the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay a warrant on the General Fund in the amount of such refund and the necessary appropriations are hereby made from any surplus in the fund. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Director may elect to make payment by check..

 Section 44. Section 21.28.350 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.28.350 Refunds of wastewater charges.

 The Director of Seattle Public Utilities is authorized to make refunds where any amount paid for wastewater services is found to be erroneous, or where adjustments have been made by him or her as authorized by this chapter, and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay the necessary warrants on the Drainage and Wastewater Fund upon certification by the Director of Seattle Public Utilities that the refund is authorized.  If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 45. Subsection 22.220.100 C of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.220.100 Downtown Housing Maintenance Account.

 * * *

 C. The moneys in the Account are hereby appropriated for the purposes described above and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and to pay the necessary warrants upon vouchers approved by the Director of Housing from the appropriated Account. If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 46. Section 12A.62.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 SMC 12A.62.020 Payment authority.

 Reimbursements made in accordance with Section 12A.62.010 shall be paid on vouchers approved by the City Attorney on the basis of facts as certified by the Chief of Police consistent with this chapter together with such other evidence as the City Attorney may require to substantiate such medical expenses, and for such purpose the sum of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) or so much thereof as may be necessary is appropriated from the Emergency Fund and the City Finance Director is authorized to draw and pay the necessary warrants.  If the applicable fund is solvent at the time payment is ordered, the Director may elect to make payment by check.

 Section 47. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 48. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event another ordinance has heretofore been enacted that amended any section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code amended or recodified herein, that earlier amendment should be effectuated with equal dignity to this ordinance if at all possible in the codification of the Seattle Municipal Code and the by the courts, notwithstanding the use in this ordinance of an obsolete version of that part of the Seattle Municipal Code on which to show intended amendments.

 Section 48. In the event any section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code purported to be amended or recodified herein has heretofore been repealed, that earlier repeal shall be given full effect and nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to re- enact or preserve that section or subsection.

 Section 49. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event a subsequent ordinance refers to or amends a section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code amended or recodified herein, but the later ordinance fails to account of the change made by this ordinance, the two sets of amendments should be given effect together if at all possible.

 Section 51. The City Clerk shall publish in the City's legal newspaper the title and first two (2) sections of this ordinance, a numerical tabulation by Seattle Municipal Code number of the sections or subsections that are amended by sections 3 through 46 of this ordinance as the summary of this ordinance, and shall state as part of that publication that the entire text may be examined electronically at http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us on the Internet, or in paper form at the office of the City Clerk, First Floor, Seattle Municipal Building, 600 Fourth Avenue, Seattle Washington 98104.

 Section 52. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 TA:slg

 September 15, 2000

 Legislation-checks ord.doc

 (Ver. 1 )

```
