

********

**Council Bill Number: 113379**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120133**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Steam Engineers and Boiler Firemen License Law, Chapter 6.230 of the Seattle Municipal Code; amending Sections 6.230.030; 6.230.040; 6.230.045; 6.230.050; 6.230.060; 6.230.070, 6.230.100; and 6.230.180.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 23, 2000
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Pageler)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 31, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 30, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** Related to Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** September 18, 2000
   
**Committee:** Landlord/Tenant and Land Use
   
**Sponsor:** NOLAND
   
   
**Index Terms:** LICENSES, PUBLIC-REGULATIONS, DEPARTMENT-OF-DESIGN-CONSTRUCTION-AND-LAND-USE

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 118659, 117864, 117169

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _______________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Steam Engineers and Boiler Firemen License Law, Chapter 6.230 of the Seattle Municipal Code; amending Sections 6.230.030; 6.230.040; 6.230.045; 6.230.050; 6.230.060; 6.230.070, 6.230.100; and 6.230.180.

 Section 1. Seattle Municipal Code Section 6.230.030, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118659, is further amended as follows:

 6.230.030 Definitions.

 Words and phrases used in this chapter relating to the regulation and licensing of steam engineers and boiler firemen shall have the following meanings:

 "Automatic boiler" means a boiler equipped with certain controls and limit devices as required by the Boiler Code, and for which an automatic certification permit has been finalized.

 "Boiler" means a closed vessel ~~used for heating water or other liquid or for generating steam or vapor by direct application of heat from combustible fuels or electricity~~in which water is heated, steam is generated, steam is superheated, or any combination thereof, under pressure or vacuum by the direct application of heat. The term boiler shall also include fired units for heating or vaporizing liquids other than water where these systems are complete within themselves.

 "Boiler Code" is the Seattle Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (Title 22 Subtitle IV.A of the Seattle Municipal Code) as now or hereafter amended.

 "Boiler plant" means one (1) or more boilers and connecting piping and vessels within the same premises.

 "Boiler supervisor" means a steam engineer Grade I, II or III who has passed additional examinations as required by the Department pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

 "BHP" means brake horsepower.

 "City Boiler Inspector" means a City of Seattle Boiler/Pressure Systems Inspector employed by the Department.

 "Department" means the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use.

 "Director" means the Director of the Department of Design, Construction and Land Use and authorized representatives.

 "Hoist and portable boiler" means a boiler used to provide steam for the operation of various types of equipment such as floating cranes, piledrivers and other similar types of equipment used in the construction industry.

 "Hot-water supply boiler" is a boiler having a volume exceeding one hundred twenty (120) gallons, or a heat input exceeding two hundred thousand (200,000) BTU per hour, or ~~an operating~~a water temperature exceeding two hundred ten (210) degrees F but not exceeding a temperature ~~not exceeding~~of two hundred fifty (250) degrees F, or a pressure not exceeding one hundred sixty (160) psi, that provides hot water to be used externally to itself.

 "kBtuh" means thousand BTU per hour.

 "Low-pressure hot-water heating boiler" ~~means~~is a boiler ~~in~~from which hot water is ~~heated~~circulated for heating purposes at pressures not exceeding one hundred sixty (160) psi and temperatures not exceeding two hundred fifty (250) degrees F, that provides hot water to be used externally to itself.

 "Low-pressure steam-heating boiler" ~~means~~is a boiler ~~operated~~furnishing steam at pressures not exceeding fifteen (15) psi ~~for steam~~.

 "Monitored boiler" is an automatic boiler that meets the requirements of Section 330 of the Boiler Code and is so certified by the Department.

"Non-regenerative system" is a system in which the heat rejected by an engine is lost to the atmosphere.

 "Out of Service." A boiler shall be "out of service" if it is manually shut down for inspection, maintenance, or repair, except for limited repairs and adjustments as set forth in Section 6.230.150~~F~~D.

 "Power hot-water boiler" (high-temperature water boiler) ~~means~~is a boiler used for heating water or liquid to a pressure exceeding one hundred sixty (160) psi or to a temperature exceeding two hundred fifty (250) degrees F.

 "Power steam boiler" ~~means~~is a boiler in which steam or other vapor is generated at pressures exceeding fifteen (15) psi. For purposes of this chapter the term shall not include a small power boiler.

 "psi" means pounds per square inch.

"Regenerative system" is a system in which the heat rejected by an engine is used in a boiler.

 "Small power boiler" ~~means~~is a power steam boiler with pressures ~~exceeding fifteen (15) psi but~~ not exceeding one hundred fifty (150) psi and not exceeding eight hundred thousand (800,000) BTU per hour heat input.

 "Steam engine" means all prime movers using vapors from a boiler for motive power, steam-driven compressors, and steam pumps except steam pumps and similar auxiliaries used only as appurtenances for the operation of a boiler.

 "Potable~~W~~water heater" ~~means a~~ (fired, electric, solar, and indirect) is a closed vessel ~~used for heating water by direct application of heat from combustible fuels or electricity with~~in which water is heated by the combustion of fuels, electricity, or any other source, and withdrawn for use external to the system. Potable water heaters do not exceed any of the following criteria or capacities: a nominal water-containing capacity of one hundred twenty (120) gallons ~~or less having~~, a heat input ~~not exceeding~~of two hundred thousand (200,000) BTU per hour ~~and~~, an operating temperature ~~not exceeding~~of two hundred ten (210) degrees F, and a pressure of 160 psi.

 Section 2. Seattle Municipal Code Section 6.230.040, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118659, is further amended as follows:

 6.230.040 License required -- Renewal and expiration.

 It is unlawful to have charge of, or operate or permit anyone to have charge of, or operate, any boiler or steam engine without a license to do so issued by the Director ~~or his or her functional predecessor~~ under this chapter. All licenses shall expire at midnight on the thirtieth day of September of each year, and shall not be transferred or assigned. All renewals shall specify the same grade and be subject to such conditions or limitations as may be provided under the license to be renewed. Licensed persons desiring a renewal must also meet the requirements of Section 6.230.045.

 Renewal of a license which has been expired for more than one (1) year requires the holder to attend an approved refresher course as described in Section 6.230.045.

 Section 3. Seattle Municipal Code Section 6.230.045, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118659, is amended as follows:

 6.230.045 Periodic refresher training required.

~~Beginning January 1, 1998, a~~All persons licensed by the department must attend an approved refresher course every five years. A document indicating proof of completion of the approved refresher course shall be provided to the Department.

 Section 4. Seattle Municipal Code Section 6.230.050, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117864, is further amended as follows:

 6.230.050 Exemptions from license requirements.

 A steam engineer's or boiler fireman's license shall not be required of any person in charge of, or operating, the following:

 A. Any boiler or steam engine subject to federal regulations;

 B. Any boiler not subject to reinspection by the Boiler Code;

 C. Low-pressure hot water, low-pressure steam and hot-water supply boiler plants having inputs of less than two million five hundred thousand (2,500,000) BTU per hour;

 D. Any boiler having an input of less than one hundred thousand (100,000) BTU per hour and a maximum pressure of one hundred (100) pounds per square inch or less;

 E. Potable~~W~~water heaters.

 Section 5. Seattle Municipal Code Section 6.230.060, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118659, is further amended as follows:

 6.230.060 Grades of licenses.

 A. The grades of steam engineers' and boiler firemen's licenses shall be as follows:

 Grade I Boiler Supervisor

 Grade II Boiler Supervisor

 Grade III Boiler Supervisor

 Grade I Steam Engineer

 Grade II Steam Engineer

 Grade III Steam Engineer

 Grade IV Boiler Fireman

 Small Power Boiler Fireman

 Grade V Boiler Fireman

 B. The minimum requirements for operation of each type and capacity of equipment are as set forth in the following table.

 TABLE A (POWER BOILERS / STEAM ENGINES)

 TABLE A (POWER BOILERS / STEAM ENGINES)

 Category Type / Limitations4 Minimum License Required Notes

 All Boilers ((Less than)) Not exceeding 100 psi and None less than 100 kBtuh input

 Electric Boilers ((Less than)) Not exceeding 1.5 cubic ft None and 80 psi

 Electric Boilers ((Less than)) Not exceeding 100 psi and Grade V Boiler Fireman on premises 1 200 kw

 All Boilers Each less than 1,000 kBtuh input, Two hour checks by a Grade IV Boiler Fireman 2 (except Small equipped per Table 320-A of the Boiler Power Boilers) Code but not certified as Automatic. Steam boilers on same header: 2 maximum

 Small Power Maximum 800 kBtuh input, equipped per Semiannual check by a Boiler Supervisor and twice 3 Boilers Table 320-A of the Boiler Code but not daily checks by a Small Power Boiler Fireman or a certified as Automatic. Steam boilers on Small Power Boiler Fireman on premises same header: 2 maximum

 All other Small Maximum 800 kBtuh input. Steam boilers Small Power Boiler Fireman on premises 3 Power Boilers on same header: 2 maximum

 Boilers certified Maximum 20,000 kBtuh input((, s)). Steam Two hour checks by a Grade IV Boiler Fireman 2 as Automatic boilers on same header: 2 maximum

 Boilers certified Maximum 50,000 kBtuh input((, n)). No Two hour checks by a Grade III Steam Engineer as Automatic limitation on number of boilers on same header

 Boilers certified Maximum 300,000 kBtuh input((, n)). No Two hour checks by a Grade II Steam Engineer as Automatic limitation on number of boilers on same header

 Boilers certified Unlimited input Two hour checks by a Grade I Steam Engineer as Automatic

 Boilers certified Maximum 20,000 kBtuh input((, s)). Steam Monthly checks by a Boiler Supervisor and twice 2 as Monitored boilers on same header: 2 maximum daily checks by a Grade IV Boiler Fireman

 Boilers certified Maximum 50,000 kBtuh input((, n)). No Monthly checks by a Boiler Supervisor and twice as Monitored limitations for boilers on same header daily checks by a Grade III Steam Engineer

 Boilers certified Maximum 300,000 kBtuh input((, n)). No Monthly checks by a Grade II Boiler Supervisor and 6 as Monitored limitations for boilers on same header twice daily checks by a Grade II Steam Engineer

 Boilers certified Unlimited input Monthly checks by a Grade I Boiler Supervisor and 6 as Monitored twice daily checks by a Grade I Steam Engineer

 All other boilers Maximum 20,000 kBtuh input((, s)). Steam Constant attendance by a Grade IV Boiler Fireman 2 boilers on same header: 2 maximum

 All other boilers Maximum 50,000 kBtuh input((, n)). No Constant attendance by a Grade III Steam Engineer limitations for boilers on same header

 All other boilers Maximum 300,000 kBtuh input((, n)). No Constant attendance by a Grade II Steam Engineer limitations for boilers on same header

 All other boilers Unlimited input Constant attendance by a Grade I Steam Engineer

 Steam engines Maximum 250 bhp Constant attendance by a Grade III Steam Engineer

 Steam engines Maximum 1,500 bhp Constant attendance by a Grade II Steam Engineer

 Steam engines Unlimited Constant attendance by a Grade I Steam Engineer

 TABLE B (LOW PRESSURE BOILERS)

 Category Type / Limitations4 Minimum License Required Notes

 All boilers ((Maximum input)) Less than 2,500 kBtuh No license required input

 Boilers certified Maximum input 5,000 kBtuh Monthly checks by a Boiler Supervisor, or quarterly 1 as Automatic checks by a Boiler Supervisor and twice daily checks by a Grade V Boiler Fireman, or a Grade V Boiler Fireman on premises

 Boilers certified Maximum input exceeds 5,000 kBtuh but Quarterly checks by a Boiler Supervisor and twice 2 as Automatic does not exceed 20,000 kBtuh. Steam daily checks by a Grade IV Boiler Fireman boilers on same header: 2 maximum

 Boilers certified Maximum input exceeds 20,000 kBtuh but Quarterly checks by a Boiler Supervisor and twice as Automatic does not exceed 50,000 kBtuh. No daily checks by a Grade III Steam Engineer limitation on boilers on same header

 Boilers certified Maximum input exceeds 50,000 kBtuh but Quarterly checks by a Grade II Boiler Supervisor and as Automatic does not exceed 300,000 kBtuh. No twice daily checks by a Grade II Boiler Supervisor limitation on boilers on same header

 Boilers certified Maximum input exceeds 300,000 kBtuh. No Quarterly checks by a Grade I Boiler Supervisor and as Automatic limitation on boilers on same header twice daily checks by a Grade I Steam Engineer

 Boilers certified Maximum input exceeds 5,000 kBtuh but Semiannual checks by a Boiler Supervisor and twice 2 as Monitored does not exceed 20,000 kBtuh. Steam daily checks by a Grade IV Boiler Fireman boilers on same header: 2 maximum

 Boilers certified Maximum input exceeds 20,000 kBtuh but Semiannual checks by a Boiler Supervisor and twice as Monitored does not exceed 50,000 kBtuh. No daily checks by a Grade III Steam Engineer limitation on boilers on same header

 Boilers certified Maximum input exceeds 50,000 kBtuh but Semiannual checks by a Grade II Boiler Supervisor 6 as Monitored does not exceed 300,000 kBtuh. No and twice daily checks by a Grade II Steam Engineer limitation on boilers on same header

 Boilers certified Maximum input exceeds 300,000 kBtuh. No Semiannual checks by a Grade I Boiler Supervisor and 6 as Monitored limitation on boilers on same header twice daily checks by a Grade I Steam Engineer

 All other boilers Maximum input ((exceeds)) 2,500 kBtuh or Grade V Boiler Fireman on premises 5 more, but does not exceed 5,000 kBtuh

 All other boilers Maximum input exceeds 5,000 kBtuh but Constant attendance by a Grade IV Boiler Fireman 2 does not exceed 20,000 kBtuh. Steam boilers on same header: 2 maximum

 All other boilers Maximum input exceeds 20,000 kBtuh but Constant attendance by a Grade III Steam Engineer does not exceed 50,000 kBtuh. No limitation on boilers on same header

 All other boilers Maximum input exceeds 50,000 kBtuh but Constant attendance by a Grade II Steam Engineer does not exceed 300,000 kBtuh. No limitation on boilers on same header

 All other boilers Maximum input exceeds 300,000 kBtuh. No Constant attendance by a Grade I Steam Engineer limitation on boilers on same header

 Footnotes to Tables A and B:

 1. A Grade V Boiler Fireman can also operate a low-pressure boiler up to 5,000 kBtuh. A Grade V Boiler Fireman cannot operate steam boilers in battery.

 2. A Grade IV Boiler Fireman may operate a battery of not more than two steam or vapor boilers with a combined capacity no greater than 20,000 kBtuh total input; except when he/she is the head fireman on duty and under the direct (on site) supervision of a licensed steam engineer hereunder, he/she may operate a greater number of boilers, or boilers with greater capacity, for the purpose of training but not to exceed the capacity permitted by the license of such supervising engineer.

 3. A Small Power Boiler Fireman license shall permit the licensee to operate no more than two small power boilers subject to the limitation in Table A.

 4. For license determination purposes, kBtuh, bhp, or KW input ratings of a boiler shall be computed as follows:

 a. ~~As~~Equal to burner input as rated and labeled by the burner manufacturer for gas, propane, and similar burners. Where actual fuel flow during burner operation at the maximum firing rate can be reliably measured, the burner input may be computed by such method;

 b. ~~As~~Equal to the gallons-per-hour rating of the fuel nozzle or nozzles for oil burners;

 c. ~~As~~Equal to the electrical input in KW as rated and labeled by the boiler manufacturer for electric boilers;

 d. ~~As~~The greater of all computed inputs in the case of multiple fuel burners;

 e. ~~As~~The cumulative input, as measured in a, b, c, or d above, for boilers in battery (connected to a common header). For boilers in battery so wired electrically such that only a single boiler can operate at a given time, the license requirement for such battery shall be determined by the most restrictive individual license requirement for any boiler in the battery.

f. The bhp of the prime mover (gas turbine, engine, etc.) in a regenerative system will determine the grade for downstream recovery boilers and steam turbines. Non-regenerative gas turbines are not covered by this ordinance.

 5. A Grade V Boiler Fireman can also operate an electric boiler less than 100 psi and 200 kw. A Grade V Boiler Fireman cannot operate steam boilers in battery.

 6. A Grade III Steam Engineer can attend to Grade II monitored boilers and a Grade II Steam Engineer can attend to Grade I boilers when such boilers are checked weekly by a Boiler Supervisor.

 Section 6. Seattle Municipal Code Section 6.230.070, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118659 is further amended as follows:

 SMC 6.230.070 Issuance of licenses.

 Persons desiring a license described in Section 6.230.060 shall make written application to the Department on the forms provided by the Department. Such application shall include the applicant's full name and address. Applications shall be accompanied by a receipt showing payment of the required examination fee as provided under Chapter 22.901J.

 A. Applicants for a steam engineer's license, Grade I, II, or III shall show to the satisfaction of the Director one (1) of the following:

 1. That ~~he/she~~the applicant has been employed at least three (3) years in a position directly responsible for the ~~care and~~ operation of boilers ~~or steam engines, or in the design or supervision of boilers, boiler systems, boiler firing and automatic control and safety systems~~, or under the direct supervision of a licensed steam engineer, Grade I, II or III~~;~~. Applicants wishing to obtain a license without a "BOILER ONLY" limitation must prove that at least one year of that experience was in the operation of steam engines. Or

 2. ~~That he/she has at least three (3) years of practical experience as a machinist apprentice in a steam engine works together with one (1) year of employment in the direct care and operation of boilers and steam engines; or~~3.

 That ~~he/she~~the applicant has graduated from a recognized school of technology with a curriculum approved by the Steam Licensing Advisory Board, and has ~~had~~been employed at least one (1) year ~~of employment in the direct care and~~in a position directly responsible for the operation of boilers ~~and steam engines~~, or under the direct supervision of a licensed steam engineer, Grade I, II, or III. Candidates wishing to obtain a license without a "BOILER ONLY" limitation must, in addition, prove at least one year of experience in the operation of steam engines.

 Completion of a course as described in subsection C2 of this section below~~, approved by the Department or its functional predecessor~~ shall be the equivalent of one (1) year of ~~practical~~boiler operating experience under subsections A1 ~~or~~and A2 above~~,~~.However, each applicant will be entitled to only one (1) such credit.

 B. Any licensed Grade I, II, or III steam engineer with at least three years experience in his or her category may apply for an upgrade to Boiler Supervisor, Grade I, II, or III. ~~Such applicant shall show to the satisfaction of the Director that he/she has been employed at least three (3) years in one (1) of the following:~~1. In a position directly responsible for the care or operation of boilers, or steam engines;

 2. In the design or supervision of boilers, boiler systems, boiler firing, and automatic control and safety systems;

 3. In the direct supervision of a licensed Grade I, II or III steam engineer.

 C. Applicants for a Grade IV boiler fireman license shall show to the satisfaction of the Director one (1) of the following:

 1. One (1) year of practical experience in the care and operation of a boiler; or

 2. Completion of an in-service training course in the fundamentals of boiler operation as approved by the Department ~~or its functional predecessor~~, which shall include at least forty (40) hours of classroom work together with:

 a. Eighty (80) hours of on-site training relating to the care and operation of boilers under the direct supervision of a steam engineer with a license of Grade I, II or III, or

 b. Forty (40) hours of lab work at a facility approved by the Department.

 D. Applicants for a Grade III Steam Engineer License limited to hoist and portable boilers, shall show to the satisfaction of the Director, one (1) of the following:

 1. Three (3) years of practical experience in the care and operation of boilers and steam engines; or

 2. Completion of an in-service training course on the fundamentals of boiler operation, as approved by the Department ~~or its functional predecessor~~, which shall include fifty-five (55) hours of classroom work, together with one hundred twenty (120) hours of work relating to the care and operation of a minimum of two (2) separately located hoist and portable boilers, under the direct supervision of a steam engineer with a license of Grade I, II or III.

 E. All persons applying for a license under this chapter shall be examined by the Department according to the provisions of Section 6.230.100. Upon determination by the Department that the applicant has passed the applicable examination and is otherwise qualified under this chapter, including payment by the applicant of the license fee, the Director shall issue the license. In lieu of a qualifying technical examination, the Director may accept as evidence of meeting the applicable requirements of Section 6.230.100, a valid and current license issued by the City of Tacoma which maintains a licensing and testing program that, in the judgment of the Director, meets or exceeds City of Seattle requirements.

 Section 7. Seattle Municipal Code Section 6.230.100, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117864, is further amended as follows:

 6.230.100 Departmental authority.

 A. In connection with the regulation and licensing of steam engineers and boiler firemen, the Department is authorized to perform the following:

 1. Provide qualifying examinations for persons applying for steam engineer or boiler fireman licenses under this chapter. Such examinations shall be practical in their character and shall relate to those matters ~~which~~that will fairly test the  minimum capacity, skill, experience, and ~~habits of sobriety~~competence of each person examined to safely operate and properly care for a boiler and/or steam engine, within the scope of the license sought;

 2. Provide additional qualifying examinations for persons applying for a Boiler Supervisor Grade I, II, or III license. Such examination shall be practical in character and shall relate to those matters ~~which~~that will fairly test the applicant's minimum capacity, skill, experience, and ~~habits of sobriety~~competence to safely use, operate, and maintain boilers and automatic or monitored boilers under applicable City and state regulations;

 3. When approving any license under this chapter, the Director may impose stated conditions or limitations to such license restricting the licensee to the operation and maintenance of particular equipment at a stated location, or to the operation and maintenance of a certain class of boilers or steam engines, or to specified permitted services in connection with the operation and maintenance of boilers and steam engines. Such restrictions shall be based upon the applicant's qualifications under this chapter and be reasonably related to the protection of the public in the safe operation and maintenance of boilers and steam engines.

 B. The Department may require affidavits regarding an applicant's character, training, experience and record, and such other supporting credentials as may be necessary to determine his/her fitness.

 C. The Department shall refuse to certify the applicant for a steam engineer's or boiler fireman's license if the result of the examination is such that the Department determines he/she has not sufficient knowledge of, and experience in, the care or operation of boilers or steam engines, or if the applicant is found to be mentally or otherwise unfit to safely operate boilers or steam engines. The action of the Department shall be final.

 D. It shall be sufficient cause to refuse an original steam engineer's or boiler fireman's license, or any renewal thereof, if the applicant, through neglect or incompetency while in charge of a boiler or steam engine, has caused serious damage to property or has endangered the lives of others.

 Section 8. Seattle Municipal Code Section 6.230.180, which section was last amended by Ordinance 117169, is further amended as follows:

 6.230.180 Enforcement -- Filing of charges.

 A. The Director ~~of the Department of Construction and Land Use~~ shall enforce this chapter and in such connection is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary to provide the means for ensuring safe and proper installation, repair, use and operation of boilers and steam engines.

 B. All charges against any person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall be filed in writing with the Department.

 Section 9. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Seattle Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Section 10. Severability. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section subsection, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2000

 ___________________________________

 President ___________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this ____ day of _____________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this ______ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 MAK/GR

 license law ordinance.doc

 August 15, 2000

 v.1

```
