

********

**Council Bill Number: 113452**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120157**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; historic preservation, fire and life safety hazards, and building and construction, amending Sections 22.600.025, 23.66.030, 23.66.115, 23.66.318, 23.76.005, 23.76.015, 23.76.016, 23.76.052, 25.12.375, 25.12.740, 25.12.740, 25.12.835, 25.16.110, 25.16.115, 25.20.110, 25.20.115, 25.22.130, 25.22.135, 25.24.080, 25.24.085, and Section 106.6 of the Seattle Building Code, Chapter 22.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code, to delete obsolete references to Chapter 36.70B, RCW and RCW 36.70B.090 and to establish time periods for decisions on project permit applications as required by RCW 36.70B.080.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 13, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 21, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 20, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 23, 2000
   
**Committee:** Landlord/Tenant and Land Use
   
**Sponsor:** NICASTRO
   
   
**Index Terms:** BUILDING-CODES, LAND-USE-CODE, PERMITS, ADMINISTRATIVE-PROCEDURES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 119124, 119121, 118012, 118181, 119239, 119096, 119079

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning; historic preservation, fire and life safety hazards, and building and construction, amending Sections 22.600.025, 23.66.030, 23.66.115, 23.66.318, 23.76.005, 23.76.015, 23.76.016, 23.76.052, 25.12.375, 25.12.740, 25.12.740, 25.12.835, 25.16.110, 25.16.115, 25.20.110, 25.20.115, 25.22.130, 25.22.135, 25.24.080, 25.24.085, and Section 106.6 of the Seattle Building Code, Chapter 22.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code, to delete obsolete references to Chapter36.70B, RCW and RCW 36.70B.090 and to establish time periods for decisions on project permit applications as required by RCW 36.70B.080.

 Section 1. Section 22.600.025 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 1191124, is amended as follows:

 22.600.25 Exclusion pursuant to RCW 36.70B.140(2)

 The special circumstances presented by the fire and life safety hazards regulated by this code warrant a review process different from that provided in Section 23.76.005 of the Seattle Municipal Code, RCW 36.70B.060 through ~~36.70B.090~~ 36.70B.080  and 36.70B.110 through 36.70B.130, and therefore the processing and review of any applications for permits required pursuant to the provisions of this chapter are excluded from the requirements of  Section 23.76.005 of the Seattle Municipal Code, RCW 36.70B.060 through ~~36.70B.090~~36.70B.080 and 36.70B.110 through 36.70B.130. Applications for permits required pursuant to this chapter will be processed and reviewed according to the provisions of this code and applicable Fire Department regulations.

 Section 2. Subsection E of Section 23.66.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119121, is further amended as follows:

 23.66.030 Certificates of Approval - Application, review, and appeals.

 E. Appeal to Hearing Examiner.

 1. Any interested person may appeal the decision of the Department of Neighborhoods Director to the Hearing Examiner by filing a notice of appeal within fourteen (14) days of the Department of Neighborhoods Director's decision. When the proposed action that is the subject of the certificate of approval is also the subject of one (1) or more related permit applications under review by the Department of Construction and Land Use, then the appellant must also file notice of the appeal with the Director of the Department of Construction and Land Use, and the appeal of the certificate of approval shall not be heard until all of the time periods for filing administrative appeals on the other permits or any environmental determinations have expired, except that an appeal of a certificate of approval for the preliminary design or for subsequent design phases may proceed immediately without being consolidated. The appeal of the certificate of approval shall be consolidated with the predecision hearing required for any Type IV Council land use decision, or if one (1) or more appeals are filed regarding the other permits or environmental determinations, the appeal of the certificate of approval shall be consolidated with them and shall be heard according to the same timelines established for the other appeals or predecision hearing, except that appeals to the State Shoreline Hearings Board shall proceed independently according to the timelines set by the state for such appeals, and except that an appeal of a certificate of approval for a preliminary design or for a subsequent design phase may proceed without being consolidated.

 2. If the related permit decisions would not be appealable, and no predecision hearing is required, then the appeal of the certificate of approval decision shall proceed immediately after it is filed.

 3. The applicant for the certificate of approval, not involving approval of preliminary and subsequent design phases also may elect to have the appeal proceed immediately rather than be postponed for consolidation with appeals of related permit applications or with a predecision hearing, if the applicant agrees in writing that the time period for review of those permits or approvals shall be suspended until the Hearing Examiner issues a decision on the appeal of the certificate of approval.

 4. The Hearing Examiner shall hear the appeal de novo in accordance with the standards and procedures established for Hearing Examiner appeals by Chapter 3.02 of the Seattle Municipal Code. Appeals shall be limited to the issues cited in the notice of appeal. The decision appealed may be reversed or modified only if the Hearing Examiner finds that the Department of Neighborhoods Director's decision was arbitrary and ~~capacious~~ capricious.

 5. If evidence is presented to the Hearing Examiner that was not presented to the Board, or if the Hearing Examiner determines that additional information is required, then the Hearing Examiner shall remand the decision to the Department of Neighborhoods Director for consideration of the additional information or evidence.

 6. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision not later than ninety (90) days after the last of any appeals of related permit decisions is filed provided that, when an appeal of a certificate of approval is consolidated with a predecision hearing, the Hearing Examiner shall issue the decision on the certificate of approval with the recommendation to the City Council on a Type IV Council land use decision, or, if the applicant chooses to proceed immediately with the appeal of the certificate of approval, as provided in subsection E3, then not later than ninety (90) days from the filing of that appeal. ~~Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090, t~~The time period to consider and decide the appeal of a certificate of approval shall be exempt from the deadlines for review and decision on both the certificate of approval and any related permit applications or approvals.

 7. The decision of the Hearing Examiner shall be final. Copies of the Hearing Examiner's decision shall be mailed to all parties of record before the Hearing Examiner. Any judicial review must be commenced within twenty-one (21) days of issuance of the Hearing Examiner's decision, as provided by RCW 36.70C.040.

 Section 3. Subsection C of Section 23.66.115 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is further amended as follows:

 23.66.115 Demolition approval.

 C. Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.140, the Department of Neighborhoods Director's decision is exempt from the time limits and other requirements of RCW 36.70B.060 through ~~36.70B.090~~ 36.70B.080 and the requirements of RCW 36.70B.110 through 36.70B.130.

 Section 4. Subsection C of Section 23.66.318 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118181, is further amended as follows:

 23.66.318 Demolition approval.

 C. Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.140, the Department of Neighborhoods Director's decision is exempt from the time limits and other requirements of RCW 36.70B.060 through ~~36.70B.090~~ 36.70B.080 and the requirements of RCW 36.70B.110 through 36.70B.130.

 Section 5. Section 23.76.005 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 23.76.005. Time for decisions.

 A. Except as otherwise provided in this section or otherwise agreed to by the applicant, land use decisions on applications filed on or after ~~April 1, 1996~~July 1, 2000 shall be made within ~~the time limits set forth in RCW 36.70B.090~~one hundred eighty (180) days after the applicant has been notified that the application is complete.  In determining the number of days that have elapsed after the notification that the application is complete, the following periods shall be excluded:

1. Any period during which the applicant has been requested to correct plans, perform required studies, or provide additional required information, until the determination that the request has been satisfied;

2. Any extension of time mutually agreed upon by DCLU and the applicant;

3. For projects which an environmental impact statement (EIS) has been required, the EIS process period; and

4. Any period for appeal of the land use decision to the Hearing Examiner.

B. The time limits established by subsection A of this section do not apply if a permit application:

1. Requires an amendment to the comprehensive plan or the Land Use Code; or

2. Requires the siting of an essential public facility; or

3. Is substantially revised by the applicant, in which case the time period shall start from the date at which the revised project application is determined to be complete.

~~B~~C. Exclusions pursuant to RCW 36.70B140(1).

 1. Type III decisions.

 a. DCLU shall issue its recommendation within one hundred ~~twenty~~eighty~~(120)~~(180) days as that time is calculated pursuant to ~~RCW 36.70B. 090~~ subsection A of this section; and

 b. The Hearing Examiner shall issue his or her decision within ninety (90) days of issuance of the DCLU recommendation.

 2. Type IV decisions.

 a. There shall be no time limit for decisions on Major Institution Master Plans.

 b. All other Type IV Council land use decisions and any associated Type II decisions listed in Section 23.76.006 C2 shall be made within the following time periods:

 (1) DCLU shall issue its recommendation within one hundred ~~twenty~~ )) eighty~~(120)~~(180) days as that time period is calculated pursuant to ~~RCW 36.70B.090~~subsection A of this section;

 (2) The Hearing Examiner shall issue his or her decision within ninety (90) days of issuance of the DCLU recommendation; and

 (3) The Council shall issue its decision within ninety (90) days of the Hearing Examiner recommendation.

 3. Any application for a land use decision that the Hearing Examiner or Council remands for further information or analysis shall be excluded from the time periods of ~~RCW 36.70B.090~~subsection A of this section for the period of the remand. The Hearing Examiner or the Council shall set a reasonable period for the remand after consideration of the nature and complexity of the issues, and, when practicable, after consultation with the parties about the reasonableness of the remand period.

~~C~~D. Type V council land use decisions are legislative decisions to which ~~RCW 36.70B.090~~ subsection A of this section does not apply.

 Section 6. Subsection B of Section 23.76.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 23.76.015 Public meetings.

 B. The Director may combine a public meeting on a project application with any other public meetings that may be held on the project by another local, state, regional, federal or other agency provided that the meeting is held within The City of Seattle. If requested by an applicant, a joint meeting shall be held, provided that the joint meeting can be held within the time periods specified in ~~RCW 36.70B.090~~SMC Section 23.76.005, or the applicant agrees in writing to additional time, if needed, to combine the meeting.

 Section 7. Subsection B of Section 23.76.016 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 23.76.016 Public hearings.

 B. The Director may combine a public hearing on a project application with any other public hearings that may be held on the project by another local, state, regional, federal or other agency provided that the hearing is held within The City of Seattle. If requested by an applicant, a joint hearing shall be held, provided that the joint hearing can be held within the time periods specified in ~~RCW 36.70B.090~~SMC Section 23.76.005, or the applicant agrees in writing to additional time, if needed, to combine the hearing.

 Section 8. Subsection B of Section 23.76.024 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119239, is further amended as follows:

 23.76.024 Hearing Examiner open record hearing and decision for subdivisions.

 B. The Hearing Examiner may combine a public hearing on a project application with any other public hearings that may be held on the project by another local, state, regional, federal or other agency provided that the hearing is held within The City of Seattle. If requested by an applicant, a joint hearing shall be held, provided that the joint hearing can be held within the time periods specified in ~~RCW 36.70B.090~~SMC Section 23.76.005, or the applicant agrees in writing to additional time, if needed, to combine the hearing.

 Section 9. Subsection B of Section 23.76.052 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119096, is further amended as follows:

 23.76.052 Hearing Examiner open record predecision hearing and recommendation.

 B. The Hearing Examiner may combine a public hearing on a project application with any other public hearings that may be held on the project by another local, state, regional, federal or other agency provided that the hearing is held within The City of Seattle. If requested by an applicant, a joint hearing shall be held, provided that the joint hearing can be held within the time periods specified in ~~RCW 36.70B.090~~SMC Section 23.76.005, or the applicant agrees in writing to additional time, if needed, to combine the hearing.

 Section 10. Section 25.12.375 of the Seattle Municipal Cod, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 SMC 25.12.375 Exemption from permit timelines.

 Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.140, the City excludes the entire designation process, from nomination through the City Council's decision whether to enact a designating ordinance, including any review of the Board's decisions by the Hearing Examiner or the City Council, from the time limits and the other provisions of RCW 36.70B.060 through ~~36.70B.090~~36.70B.080 and the provisions of 36.70B.110 through 36.70B.130.

 Section 11. Subsection D of Section 25.12.740 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119121, is further amended as follows:

 SMC 25.12.740 Appeal to Hearing Examiner.

 D. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision not later than ninety (90) days after the last of the appeals of related permit decisions is filed, or, if the applicant chooses to proceed immediately with the appeal of the certificate of approval, as provided in subsection C, then not later than ninety (90) days from the filing of that appeal. ~~Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090, t~~The time period to consider and decide the appeal of a certificate of approval shall be exempt from the deadlines for review and decision on both the certificate of approval and any related permit applications.

 Section 12. Subsection E of Section 25.12.835 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 118012, is further amended as follows:

 25.12.835 Demolition.

 E. In making the determinations required under this section the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods is not required to hold a hearing or act as a quasi-judicial officer. The Director should consider all relevant information and should communicate with whomever the Director believes can provide useful information or expertise. The Director shall communicate his or her decision to the applicant in writing within fifteen (15) days of receiving the required information from the applicant. Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.140, the Director's decision is exempt from the time limits and other requirements of RCW 36.70B.060 through RCW ~~36.70B.090~~36.70B.080, and the requirements of RCW 36.70B.110 through RCW 36.70B.130.

 Section 13. Subsection C of Section 25.12.845, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 25.12.845 Requests for interpretation.

 C. If the requested interpretation relates to a certificate of approval ~~that is subject to the deadlines set by RCW 36.70B~~for which an application has been filed, then the request for an interpretation cannot be made any later than fourteen (14) days after the application for the certificate of approval was submitted. Provided, however, that a request for an interpretation may be sought by the applicant at a later time if the applicant agrees in writing to suspend the time frames for review of the certificate of approval, and the time frames applicable to any related permits that are under review, until the interpretation is issued.

 Section 14. Subsection C of Section 25.16.110 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119121, is further amended as follows:

 25.16.110 Certificate of approval - Appeal if denied.

 C. ~~Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090, t~~The time period to consider and decide the appeal of a certificate of approval shall be exempt from the deadlines for review and decision on both the certificate of approval and any related permit applications.

 Section 15. Subsection C of Section 25.16.115 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 11118012, is amended as follows:

 25.16.115 Requests for interpretation.

 C. If the requested interpretation relates to a certificate of approval ~~that is subject to the deadlines set by RCW 36.70B~~for which an application has been filed, then the request for an interpretation cannot be made any later than fourteen (14) days after the application for the certificate of approval was submitted. Provided, however, that a request for an interpretation may be sought by the applicant at a later time if the applicant agrees in writing to suspend the time frames for review of the certificate of approval, and the time frames applicable to any related permits that are under review, until the interpretation is issued.

 Section 16. Subsection D of Section 25.20.110 of the Seattle Municipal code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119121, is further amended as follows:

 25.20.110 Appeal to the Hearing Examiner

 D. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision not later than ninety (90) days after the last of the appeals of related permit decisions is filed, or, if the applicant chooses to proceed immediately with the appeal of the certificate of approval, as provided in subsection C, then not later than ninety (90) days from the filing of that appeal. ~~Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090, t~~The time period to consider and decide the appeal of a certificate of approval shall be exempt from the deadlines for review and decision on both the certificate of approval and any related permit applications.

 Section 17. Subsection C of Section 25.20.115 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 25.20.115 Requests for interpretation.

 C. If the requested interpretation relates to a certificate of approval ~~that is subject to the deadlines set by RCW 36.70B~~for which an application has been filed, then the request for an interpretation cannot be made any later than fourteen (14) days after the application for the certificate of approval was submitted. Provided, however, that a request for an interpretation may be sought by the applicant at a later time if the applicant agrees in writing to suspend the time frames for review of the certificate of approval, and the time frames applicable to any related permits that are under review, until the interpretation is issued.

 Section 18. Subsection E of Section 25.22.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by Ordinance 119121, is further amended as follows:

 25.20.110 Appeal to the Hearing Examiner

 E. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision not later than ninety (90) days after the last of the appeals of related permit decisions is filed, or, if the applicant chooses to proceed immediately with the appeal of the certificate of approval, as provided in subsection C, then not later than ninety (90) days from the filing of that appeal. ~~Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090, t~~The time period to consider and decide the appeal of a certificate of approval shall be exempt from the deadlines for review and decision on both the certificate of approval and any related permit applications.

 Section 19. Subsection C of Section 25.22.135 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 25.22.135 Requests for interpretation.

 C. If the requested interpretation relates to a certificate of approval ~~that is subject to the deadlines set by RCW 36.70B~~for which an application has been filed, then the request for an interpretation cannot be made any later than fourteen (14) days after the application for the certificate of approval was submitted. Provided, however, that a request for an interpretation may be sought by the applicant at a later time if the applicant agrees in writing to suspend the time frames for review of the certificate of approval, and the time frames applicable to any related permits that are under review, until the interpretation is issued.

 Section 20. Subsection E of Section 25.24.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was last amended by ordinance 119121, is further amended as follows:

 25.24.080 Appeal to the Hearing Examiner

 E. The Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision not later than ninety (90) days after the last of the appeals of related permit decisions is filed, or, if the applicant chooses to proceed immediately with the appeal of the certificate of approval, as provided in subsection C, then not later than ninety (90) days from the filing of that appeal. ~~Pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090, t~~The time period to consider and decide the appeal of a certificate of approval shall be exempt from the deadlines for review and decision on both the certificate of approval and any related permit applications.

 Section 21. Subsection C of Section 25.24.085 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which section was adopted by Ordinance 118012, is amended as follows:

 25.24.085 Requests for interpretation.

 C. If the requested interpretation relates to a certificate of approval ~~that is subject to the deadlines set by RCW 36.70B~~for which an application has been filed, then the request for an interpretation cannot be made any later than fourteen (14) days after the application for the certificate of approval was submitted. Provided, however, that a request for an interpretation may be sought by the applicant at a later time if the applicant agrees in writing to suspend the time frames for review of the certificate of approval, and the time frames applicable to any related permits that are under review, until the interpretation is issued.

 Section 22. Subsection 106.6.1 of Section 106.6 of the 1997 Seattle Building Code, adopted by Ordinance 119079, is amended as follows:

 106.6 Permit Issuance.

 106.6.1 General. The application, plans, specifications and other data filed by an applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the building official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of the City to check compliance with the laws and ordinances under their jurisdiction. The building official shall mail notice to or otherwise notify the applicant within twenty- eight days of application if additional information is required and what additional information is required before the application will be complete. Within fourteen days of receiving the additional information, the building official shall notify the applicant in writing whether the application is now complete or what additional information is necessary. An application shall be deemed to be complete if the building official does not notify the applicant in writing by the deadlines in this section that the application is incomplete. The Director shall approve, condition or deny the application within ~~120~~ )) 180 days~~as that time period is calculated pursuant to RCW 36.70B.090~~of notification that the application is complete. In determining the number of days that have elapsed since the notification that the application is complete, the following periods shall be excluded:  1. Any period during which the applicant has been requested to correct plans, perform required studies, or provide additional requested information, until the determination that the request has been satisfied;

 2. Any extension of time mutually agreed upon by the building official and the applicant.

 3.If the application is substantially revised by the applicant, the time period shall start from the date at which the revised application is determined to be complete.

 If the building official finds that the work as described in an application for permit and the plans, specifications and other data filed therewith substantially conforms to the requirements of this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances and that the fees specified in the Fee Subtitle have been paid, he/she shall issue a permit therefor to the applicant who becomes the permit holder or authorized agent.

 EXCEPTIONS: 1. The building official may issue a permit for the construction of a part of a building or structure before complete plans have been submitted or approved, provided that the proposed project complies with the State Environmental Policy Act as adopted by the City (Chapter 25.05 Seattle Municipal Code0 and as amended and the Land Use Code, as amended; and provided further that adequate information and plans have been filed and checked to assure compliance with all pertinent requirements of this and other pertinent codes. The holder of such a permit shall proceed at his/her own risk without the assurance that the permit for the entire building or structure will be granted.

 2. After approval of a Master Use Permit as required by the Land Use Code, a permit for excavation may be issued.

 The building official may condition a permit where he/she determines that risks associated with development, construction, ownership and occupation in areas of the city, including, but not limited to potential slide areas, can be reduced to an acceptable level. The building official may deny such permit where he/she determines that the risks cannot be reduced to an acceptable level.

 Section 23. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in

 open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 time.periods.ordinance.v.1.doc

 September 21, 2000

 11:00 AM

 JRD

 - 11 -

```
