

********

**Council Bill Number: 113417**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120168**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; establishing the 2001-2002 fee schedule for the use of park properties and other park and recreation facilities and services; amending Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 27, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 30, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 29, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 9, 2000
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** FEES, PARKS, RECREATIONAL-FACILITIES, ZOO, AQUARIUM

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 119757

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; establishing the 2001-2002 fee schedule for the use of park properties and other park and recreation facilities and services; amending Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code; and ratifying and confirming prior acts.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2001, Section 18.28.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code (as last amended by Ordinance 119757) is amended as follows:

 18.28.010 Fee Schedule Established.

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to charge the fees substantially in the form set forth in the fee schedule entitled Exhibit ~~A~~1 attached to ~~Ordinance 119249~~CB ____________ , ~~, with amendments made by ordinance 119491 and 119757 (Council Bill No. 112943~~ for all uses of Parks and Recreation Department facilities identified therein, and to waive or reduce such fees, establish experimental rates, and engage in special promotional and marketing activities as described in Exhibit ~~A~~1 as conditioned in Sections 18.28.010 through 18.28.040 hereof. This ~~1999 and 2000~~2001 and 2002 fee schedule supersedes all prior fee schedules to the extent inconsistent therewith.

 Section 2. Exhibit 2 shows, by striking and underline, the text being deleted from and added to the 1999 and 2000 fee schedule to result in the 2001 and 2002 fee schedule pages shown in Exhibit 1.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the ______ day of _________________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ______ day of _________________, 2000.

 ________________________________________

 President __________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this ______ day of _________________, 2000.

 ________________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this ______ day of _________________, 2000.

 ________________________________________

 City Clerk

 Exhibit 1: Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 2001 and 2002 Fees and Charges ("Clean Version") Exhibit 2: Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation 2001 and 2002 Fees and Charges (Changes Shown with Underlining and Strike-Through) (SEAL)

 EXHIBIT 1

 SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION 2001 AND 2002 FEES AND CHARGES

 2001 RATES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2001 2002 RATES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2002

 ATTENTION: MasterCard, Visa and American Express credit cards are accepted at selected facilities as a form of payment for the 2001 and 2002 Fees and Charges.

 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION FEES AND CHARGES

 AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

 AUTHORITY Fees and charges are necessary to provide financial support to the Department of Parks and Recreation for the operation and maintenance of programs, facilities and park grounds. The revenue generated by these fees constitutes only a portion of funds required for operating and maintaining the Park System. All fees collected from Park and Recreation activities and concessions are used exclusively for the Park System, as these funds are deposited in the Park and Recreation Fund, not the City General Fund.

 Fees and charges are proposed each year by the Department as a part of the annual budget process. Both the Mayor and City Council review and by legislation authorize the Department to collect these fees and charges.

 GENERAL PROVISIONS The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to establish a fee for requested uses not included in this schedule, keeping the Mayor and the City Council advised thereof. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to revise or waive any of the attached fees when it is in the public interest or where it is required to avoid infringing on the first amendment freedom guaranteed by the United States Constitution or the Washington State Constitution. The attached fees are subject to change due to revisions in Washington State taxes, City taxes or other unforeseen events.

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to approve variances to the fee schedule for special promotional and marketing activities as they may occur to enhance Departmental programs. These include but are not limited to use of 2 for 1 coupons, 50% discount coupons and free admission days for children. The above may occur at various Department facilities throughout the year.

 The Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation is authorized to approve the free use of Department facilities by the Associated Recreation Council and recognized recreation Advisory Councils, and other organizations that are open to the public, that further Department goals and programs, and that apply any proceeds to Park and Recreation services.

 In addition to the fees and charges identified herein, the user may be required to pay any additional Department costs resulting from such use and to pay a reasonable portion of the City's costs for traffic control and police services when the user's event requires them.

 FACILITY PHONE NUMBERS Golf Driving Ranges Interbay 285-2200 Jefferson 763-8989

 Golf Courses Jackson Park 363-4747 Jefferson Park (Course) 762-4513 West Seattle (Course) 935-5187 West Seattle Golf Clubhouse Restaurant (Banquets) 932-7577 Green Lake 632-2280 Interbay 285-2200

 Donald Graham Visitor Center (Arboretum) 543-8800

 Moorages and Boat Rentals Lakewood Moorage 722-3887 Leschi Moorage 325-3730 Aqua Marina 722-3887 Mt. Baker Rowing & Sailing Center 386-1913

 PERMIT AND RESERVATION PHONE NUMBERS Concession Permits 684-8002 Special Events/Commercial Use Permits 684-4080 Day Camp Reservations 684-4080 Field Scheduling - League 684-4082 Field Scheduling - Individual 684-4077 Film Rental 684-7077 Picnic Area Reservations 684-4081 Revocable Use Permits 684-7388 Showmobile 684-4080 Telephone Reservations Fee 684-4077 Tennis Center (Indoor) 684-4764 Tennis Center (Outdoor): Tournaments 684-4082 Tennis Center (Outdoor): Individual Play 684-4077

 GOLF COURSES

 Jackson, Jefferson and West Seattle Golf Courses

 The maximum green fee for 18 holes or fewer at any time by any player shall be $30.00, including tax. All greens fees and all other golf facility or service fees (including but not limited to driving range, carts, cars, play cards, lessons, and room rentals) will be established by Municipal Golf of Seattle, Inc. (MGS), consistent with and subject to the contract between MGS, Inc. and the Department as authorized Ordinance 117663. All golf program fees will be prominently posted at all times in each clubhouse.

 GREEN LAKE PITCH 'N PUTT

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $3.75 $3.75 9 Holes $2.50 $2.50 9 Additional Holes $3.25 $3.25 Sr. Citizen (65 and over), Junior (18 and under) and handicapped until noon

 INTERBAY GOLF COURSE

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $11.00 $11.00 9 Holes, Adults - Weekdays $13.00 $13.00 9 Holes, Adults - Weekends $10.00 $10.00 Juniors And Seniors - Weekdays $13.00 $13.00 Juniors And Seniors - Weekends

 JAPANESE GARDEN (Arboretum) 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $2.50 $3.00 Adult (19-64) $1.50 $2.00 Youth (6-18) $1.50 $2.00 College/university students. College/university student rates are limited to full-time students currently enrolled in an accredited college or university with valid identification. Group rates are not to colleges, universities or day-care facilities $1.50 $2.00 Senior (65 and over) Free Free Children (0-5)

 PUBLIC/PRIVATE SCHOOL GROUP RATE FOR GRADES K THROUGH 12. $10.00 $10.50 Group size 1-24 students. $5.00 $5.50 Additional fee for each added group sized between 1 and 12 students School Group Rates are for students only and do not include Adult fees. Organized groups of children attending an educational institution grades K through 12 are entitled to this group fee during the regular school year if advance reservations are made. Advanced reservations of at least two weeks are required to receive these School Group Rates educational discount. Advanced reservations can be made by calling  684-4725 at least two weeks in advance.

 One responsible Adult who has paid admission is required for every group of student as indicated in the following Ratios: 1:24 for grades 9- 12 2:24 for grades 7 - 8 1:10 for grades 3 - 6 1: 5 for grades K - 2

 Annual Pass 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $10.00 $10.00 Annual Pass, Individual $20.00 $20.00 Annual Pass, Family

 Annual Family Passes include unlimited admission for all members of an immediate family living in the same household, defined as two adults (parents or guardians) and their children. Annual Passes are valid for twelve months from the month of purchase. Individual Annual Passes include unlimited admission for the person whose name appears on the pass.

 Guided Tours Provided By The Japanese Garden Advisory Council

 Public/Private School Groups: Fully accredited and state recognized schools grades 3-12 $10.00 $10.00 Grades 3-12 group size between 1 and 24 students. $5.00 $5.00 Additional guides per each group of 1-12 students (fee does not include price of admission to the garden).

 Non-Commercial Groups: colleges, universities, garden clubs and other groups whose principal function is other than tourism. $15.00 $15.00 Group size between 1 and 24 $5.00 $5.00 Additional guides per each group of 1-12 (fee does not include price of admission to the garden)

 Commercial Groups: businesses, organizations, and companies that charge for and conduct tours as a primary function of their business $25.00 $25.00 Group size between 1 and 24 $10.00 $10.00 Additional guides per each group of 1-12 (fee does not include price of admission to the garden).

 Guided tours are provided by the Japanese Garden Advisory Council. The Guides to Tour Group ratio is 1 guide for each group sized between 1 and 12 people. Tours must be booked two weeks in advance. Guide fees must be paid at the time tours are booked. They do not include admission fees to the Garden which may be paid at Garden on the day of your tour.

 Tours may be rescheduled with 48 hour notice. Rescheduled tours must be taken within 60 days of the original booking. Guide fees for canceled tours are non-refundable.

 SEATTLE AQUARIUM 2001 2002 Fees Include Jan 1 - May 25 - Jan - May 25 - Jan - Dec Tax May 24 Dec 31 May 24 Dec 31 King Co King Co Non-King Non-King King Co Non-King Resident. Resident. Co. Co Resident Co Resident Resident Resident Regular Admissions $7.00 $7.50 $8.50 $9.00 $7.50 $9.00 Adult $6.25 $6.75 $7.50 $8.00 $6.75 $8.00 Senior $5.25 $5.75 $5.75 $6.25 $5.75 $6.25 Youth 6-18 $3.25 $3.75 $3.75 $4.25 $3.75 $4.25 Child 3-5 Free Free Free Free Free Free Child 0-2

 Group Discount $6.50 $7.00 $7.75 $8.25 $7.00 $8.25 Adult $5.75 $6.25 $7.00 $7.50 $6.25 $7.50 Senior $4.50 $5.00 $5.25 $5.75 $5.00 $5.75 Youth 6-18 $3.00 $3.50 $3.25 $3.75 $3.50 $3.75 Child 3-5 Free Free Free Free Free Free Child 0-2

 School Group $5.75 $6.25 $7.00 $7.50 $6.25 $7.50 Adult $5.50 $6.00 $6.50 $7.00 $6.00 $7.00 Senior $4.25 $4.75 $5.00 $5.50 $4.75 $5.50 Youth $2.75 $3.25 $3.00 $3.50 $3.25 $3.50 Child 3-5 Free Free Free Free Free Free Child 0-2

 Free admission will be provided to low income citizens through distribution of admission tickets through social agencies such as United Way, etc.

 Combination tickets: Combination tickets for The Aquarium and the Omnidome are available. The Aquarium portion of individual combination tickets is the same as normal group discount rates. The Aquarium portion of group combination tickets is the same as the school group discount rates.

 Annual Membership

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $45.00 $45.00 Family Membership $35.00 $35.00 Individual/Senior Membership $95.00 $95.00 Combined Aquarium & Zoo Family Membership $70.00 $70.00 Combined Aquarium & Zoo Individual Membership

 Individual Senior annual memberships include unlimited admission for the person registered for the pass. Membership in SEAS is included in the individual.

 Family memberships include unlimited admission for all members of an immediate family. Immediate family is defined as two adults living together, or parent or guardian; and their children and grandchildren under 18. Membership in SEAS is included.

 In addition to these annual memberships, the Seattle Aquarium Society (SEAS) will offer and promote enhanced memberships at higher fees as part of their promotional and fund raising activities. The additional amount charged will represent and be recorded as a donation to the Seattle Aquarium Society.

 Education Course Fees Per person fees depending on course taken, plus cost of materials, associated administrative cost, and applicable admission fee.

 Aquarium Rental Rate (Exhibit Space) $725.00 $725.00 Base Rental Fee, Covers up to 100 people $6.25 $6.25 Sunday through Thursday - per person over 100 people $7.25 $7.25 Friday and Saturday - per person over 100 people. Monday through Wednesday - Groups up to 50. Fee also applies to non-profit organizations serving the low-income and disadvantaged. (Non-profit organizations may be of any size.) $375.00 $375.00 First 2 hour period $150.00 $150.00 Each additional hour $20.00 $20.00 Fee per hour for each staff person on duty. Staff fees (When special exceptions are granted to waive or reduce facility  rental fees, or additional staff are needed, staff fees will be required $80.00 $80.00 Auditorium Rental Rate (Maximum group size of 75 people) Fee per hour (does not include staff costs) $200.00 $200.00 Auditorium Rental Concurrent with Exhibit Space Rental (Does not include staff costs.) The legal limit on number of guests and stated time for use apply. $200.00 $200.00 Board Room Rental: Daily (8 hours) $100.00 $100.00 Up to 4 hours

 In addition, if admissions are charged or products or services sold during facility use, 10% of gross receipts will be charged.

 Birthday Party Fees $125.00 $125.00 (Up to two adults, ten children) includes admission

 OTHER SERVICES $8.00 person $8.00 person Catering Services*

 *The Department will contract catering services by qualified vendors and will charge a minimum of 10% of the vendor's gross revenue, which is based on the vendor charging a minimum of $8.00 per person.

 SEATTLE TENNIS CENTER

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Indoor Courts (1 1/4 hours) $15.00 $16.00 Singles $20.00 $21.00 Doubles $1.00 $1.00 Senior/Handicapped Discount Per Court Singles and Doubles court fees may be made available at half price for special group clinics, tournaments, or lessons for low-income youth and senior adults during off-peak times. These programs to be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation.

 $30.00 $32.00 Telephone Reservation Card (Annual) Indoor/ Outdoor Courts Outdoor Court Reservations (See also "Outdoor Tennis Courts" in RESERVATIONS section. $6.00 $6.00 Reservation Fee. (1 1/2 hours at the Tennis Center) or the same as all other outdoor court rates. Reservations to be made through The Tennis Center only.

 Non-Peak Time Public Service Play

 Five percent of the total time available on a monthly basis will be allocated to public service playing time. The specific times to be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation with the objective of making the public service time at the non-peak demand times as determined by actual use and demand for the facility. During non-peak periods public service times will be free.

 Special Fees for Tournaments and Special Events

 Charges for high volume usage of courts for tournaments and special events, as well as, rates for tournament management can be obtained by contacting the Tennis Center Senior Recreation Specialist. These fees are determined by the Superintendent.

 TENNIS LESSONS

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 $37.00 $38.00 Private lessons per hour

 Semi Private Lessons $42.00 $43.00 Two People $47.00 $48.00 Three People $52.00 $54.00 Four People

 Adult Group Lessons $62.00 $63.00 6 sessions $78.00 Adult Camp 10 hrs/4 days

 Adult Play-instruct classes $72.00 $75.00 Per person fee at 4 students for 6 weeks

 Junior Group Lessons $47.00 $48.00 6 sessions $62.00 Junior Camp 10hrs/4 days

 Tiny Tots $15.00 15.00 Beginning ages 4-5 30 minutes 6 weeks $20.00 20.00 Beginning ages 5-7 45 minutes for 6 weeks $25.00 25.00 Advanced ages 6-7 1 hour for 6 weeks $30.00 Advanced ages 6-7 1 1/4 hour for 6 weeks

 Competitive Flights (Doubles) $58.00 $60.00 7 weeks $50.00 $52.00 6 weeks

 Competitive Flights (Singles) $72.00 $75.00 7 weeks $62.00 $65.00 6 weeks

 Junior Development Program $85.00 $90.00 Future Stars 6 week session $90.00 $90.00 Tournament Team 6 weeks

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Special Events Dbl. Crt. Fee+10% Dbl. Crt. Fee+10% Public Group Dbl. Crt. Fee+20% Dbl. Crt. Fee+20% Private Group $25.00 $25.00 Rescheduling $25.00 $27.00 Ball machine rental: (Includes court fees) 1 hour $2.00 $2.00 Racket Rental

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Senior Public Court Time Monday, Wednesday and Friday 1:45 P.M. to 3:00 P.M. $1.00 $1.00 Per person fee April 1 through September 30 $2.00 $2.00 Per person fee October 1 through March 31

 SWIMMING POOL FEES

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Recreation Swimming $1.75 $1.75 Ages 1 to 18 years (youth) $2.50 $2.50 Ages 19 through 64 years (adult) $1.75 $1.75 Senior Adult - 65 and older, & Special Populations $1.50 $1.50 Recreational Swim for non-profit youth (ages 1-18) organizations (Advance approval through application required). $20.00 $20.00 Discount Recreational Swim Card - ($22.00 value) $30.00 $30.00 Discount Fitness Swim Card - ($33.00 value) $1.00 $1.00 Promotional Swim Fee (All Ages) Children under one year of age are admitted free and must be accompanied by an adult.

 Swimming Instruction and Aquatic Safety $3.25 $3.50 Ages 18 and under - per lesson 1/2 hr. $1.75 $1.75 Ages 18 and under (low income families) - per lesson 1/2 hr $3.50 $3.50 Ages 19 through 64 - per lesson $3.25 $3.50 Ages 65 and over & Special Populations - per lesson $5.50 $5.50 3yr Old Group Lessons one to three ratio (1/2 hr.) $65.00 $70.00 Summer Swim League $32.50 $35.00 Summer Swim League (low income families) $15.00 $18.00 Personal Instruction - one on one (30 minute lesson) $24.00 $30.00 Personal Instruction - one on two (30 minute lesson)

 Special Courses - Note: prices and course titles may be adjusted to correspond to curriculum modifications made by the American Red Cross. Prices include pool admission and instruction only Minimum class size is 6 students..

 $25.00 $25.00 Community Water Safety $90.00 $90.00 Water Safety Instructor $85.00 $90.00 Lifeguard Training Course $40.00 $50.00 Lifeguard Instructor Course $35.00 $35.00 Lifeguard Training Challenge Course $3.50 $3.50 "Guard Start" Program 1 1/2 hr lesson $25.00 $35.00 Various CPR $25.00 $35.00 Various First Aid $10.00 None Water Safety Challenge None $35.00 Challenge Courses Various

 Fitness $45.00 $45.00 Monthly unlimited personal fitness "FAST"- Adult $35.00 $35.00 Monthly unlimited personal fitness - "FAST" Senior Adult $3.00 $3.25 Fitness, ages 19-64 years - per lesson (Including Hydrofit, Masters, and Water Exercise) $2.25 $2.25 Fitness, ages 65 & over & special populations - per lesson

 Competitive Training and Water Polo

 Indoor Pools and Mounger Pool (5 lane maximum at Mounger Pool) $30.00 $33.00 6 lanes, 25 yards - $5.00 per lane per hour in 2001 and $5.50 per lane per hour in 2002 $20.00 $22.00 4 lanes - per hour $10.00 $11.00 2 lanes - per hour $15.00 $22.00 Deep end only - per hour (Synchronized or Water Polo) NOTE: Rates also apply to Metro or Kingco League swim meets for schools that are not in Seattle Public School system.

 Colman Pool $64.00 $68.00 8 lanes - $8.50 per lane per hour.

 Rental Fees - Swimming Pools

 Coin Operated Lockers $ .25 $ .25 1/6 size locker $ .25 $ .25 1/4 size locker $ .50 $ .50 1/2 size locker $ .50 $ .50 Towels, each $1.50 $1.50 Hydrofit Exercise Equipment $1.00 $1.00 Shower use

 Birthday Party Package - A complete birthday party package at pools that includes one hour exclusive use in a section or portion of the pool, a 30-minute party in the lobby or community center room, water recreation leadership, one spill-proof pre-packaged juice, paper products and favors. (Food items not included.)

 $150.00 $170.00 Minimum package fee - for a party of 10 children $5.00 $7.00 Additional fee - per child

 Indoor Non-Commercial Pool Rentals Per Hour (Lifeguard staff costs additional.) $38.00 $42.00 30 swimmers or less $53.00 $55.00 31 swimmers or more $20.00 $20.00 Shallow end only in bulk pools (Evers, Madison and Rainier Beach) Lobby rentals as part of non-commercial pool rental- (see Class C room rental for small rooms on page 22*)

 Colman Pool Non-Commercial Rentals Per Hour (Lifeguard staff costs additional.) $55.00 $75.00 Pool Rental (2002: Exclusive use of entire facility including pool and slide*

 Mounger Pool Non-Commercial Rentals Per Hour (Lifeguard staff costs additional.) $75.00 $90.00 Exclusive Use of entire Facility, including both pools and slide

 Commercial Instructional Rental - Indoor Pool*

 Scuba, Canoe & Kayak Class Rentals* $50.00 $55.00 30 people or less, plus the addition of a $100 in 2001 and $200 in 2002 refundable deposit. $65.00 $75.00 31 people or more, plus the addition of a $100 in 2001 and $200 in 2002 refundable deposit.

 Commercial, Special Events and Private Groups desiring to have charge events at indoor pools* 20% 20% Percentage of event fees to be charged. Negotiated on case by case basis but not to be less than 20%. ($40.00 per hour minimum)

 Swim Meets For 2001 there is a flat rate charge for competitive swimming meets which is a base rental fee plus 10% of entry, concession and spectator fees. For 2002 there is a flat rate charge for competitive swimming meets with no additional percentage for the event.

 Base Rental Fee $15.00/hr $33.00/hr When indoor pool is scheduled to be closed, two hour minimum rental. $30.00/hr $50.00/hr When indoor pool is scheduled to be open. $64.00/hr $68.00/hr For Colman Pool.

 *Additional charge for staff will apply.

 Individuals and groups desiring to use swimming pools will be expected to pay the cost of staffing in addition to the rates established above. Staffing costs will be determined by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation.

 $.50 $.50 Swimming Pool Spa Use Fee (Southwest Pool) per person $1.00 $1.00 Water Slide Use Fee - per person $.25 $.25 Swimming Pool Sauna Use Fee (Queen Anne Pool) - per person $5.00 $5.00 Swimming Pool Sauna Use Fee (Queen Anne Pool) - 20 admission punch card

 SPECIAL PROVISIONS

 Colman and Mounger Pools: Admission fees are charged to all persons entering pool area, even if not swimming (except parents watching children in lesson programs). Use of the pools, decks and picnic areas are part of the overall recreation opportunity; pool capacity is based on use of this area.

 WOODLAND PARK ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS

 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 Jan.-Dec Jan.-Dec Jan.-Jun Jan.-Jun Jul.-Dec Jul.-Dec County Non- County Non- County Non- Resident County Resident County Resident County Resident Resident Resident

 Basic Admission Fee $8.00 $9.00 $8.00 $9.00 $8.50 $9.50 Adult (18-64) $5.75 $6.50 $5.75 $6.50 $6.25 $7.00 Youth (6-17) and Handicapped $7.25 $8.25 $7.25 $8.25 $7.75 $8.75 Senior (65 and over) and College Student $3.75 $4.25 $3.75 $4.25 $4.25 $4.75 Child (3-5) Free Free Free Free Free Free Preschool (0-2)

 Annual Membership - (Annual Memberships Are Valid For Twelve Months From Month Of Purchase.) $60.00 $60.00 Wolf Pack (family)- family annual membership include unlimited admission for all members of an immediate family plus five free guest admissions for non-family members per year. Immediate family is defined as two adults living together, or parent or guardian & their children under 18.

 $45.00 $45.00 Wolf One (individual)- individual membership will be good for unlimited admissions for the pass holder only and fifty percent (50%) discount for two guests per visit.

 $95.00 $95.00 Combined Zoo & Aquarium Family $70.00 $70.00 Combined Zoo & Aquarium Individual

 In addition to these annual membership, the Woodland Park Zoological Society (WPZS) will offer and promote enhanced passes/memberships at higher fees as part of their promotional and fund raising activities. The additional amount charged will represent and be recorded as a donation to the Woodland Park Zoological Society.

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Group Rates

 10% 10% Percentage discount for organized groups of 20 or more paying persons if they enter the Zoo as a group at one time.

 Advance Purchase - Percentage discount off admissions purchased for a particular date at one time by an organization: 10% 10% 20-99 Admissions 20% 20% 100-500 Admissions 35% 35% 501-999 Admissions 50% 50% 1000 & Over

 School Groups Rate - Organized groups of children attending an educational institution through 12th grade are entitled to a special group fee during the regular school year if advance reservations are made.

 Programs - All school zoo visits require advance reservation in order to receive the educational discount. To guarantee entry into the Tropical Rain Forest exhibit for your group, you must make advance reservations for timed entry also. Call 684-4850 at least four weeks in advance.

 Fees for School Zoo Visits - Payments are made on the day of your visit in one lump sum. Admission fee for your class with advanced reservations. In order to receive this school rate, one adult chaperon for every six students must be present and remain with their students. Teachers and chaperons accompanying the class pay the student rate.

 2001 2002 Fee Includes Taxes

 Jan - Dec. Jan - Jun Jul. - Dec. $4.75 $4.75 $5.25 School Group/King County Resident - Per Person $5.50 $5.50 $6.00 School Group/Non King County Resident - Per Person

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 $5.00 $5.00 Materials Fee - Per Class - School groups with advance reservations for docent programs will be charged a materials fee per class which includes a Teacher Information Packet and docent interpretive program. $5.00 $5.00 Tropical Rain Forest Materials Fee - Per Class - School groups with advance reservations to visit the Tropical Rain Forest exhibit will be charged a materials fee per class which includes timed entry for the class into the exhibit and a Tropical Rain Forest Teacher Information Packet.

 Admission Fees for School Groups without Reservations. You must enter the zoo as a group and consolidate payment in one check, cash or purchase order to receive your discount.

 Entry into the Tropical Rain Forest exhibit is on a space available basis after 1 p.m. and cannot be guaranteed if advance reservations are not made.

 10% 10% Percentage discount of regular zoo admission for a group of 20 or more if you do not make advance reservations. $$5.0 $5.00 Teacher Packets $8.50 $8.50 Teacher Packets With Audio-Visual Aids

 Special Provisions Free admission will be provided to the low-income, handicapped, and elderly citizens of Seattle and King County through distribution of admission tickets to social service agencies.

 Annual passes purchased for entry to other municipal zoos shall allow entry to the zoo when the other municipal zoo allows similar entry to holders of annual passes to the Woodland Park Zoological Gardens.

 Other Fees

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 $2.00 $2.00 Pony Ride - Per Ride (including taxes)

 Zoo Doo $50.00 $50.00 Large Pickup $40.00 $40.00 Medium Pickup $35.00 $35.00 Small Pickup $7.00 $7.00 30 Gallon Garbage Can $3.00 $3.00 8 Gallon Garbage Can

 Parking Fee $3.50 $3.50 Private Vehicles All Day $10.00 $10.00 Commercial and School Bus

 DONATION FACILITIES

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 DONATION FACILITIES $1.00 $1.00 Woodland Park Rose Garden per person $1.00 $1.00 Volunteer Park Conservatory per person

 FACILITY RENTALS

 CAMP LONG

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Overnight Use/Cabin $35.00 $35.00 Fee per night/cabin up to 4 persons. $2.00 $2.00 For each additional person over four up to a maximum of 12 persons. $50.00 $50.00 Refundable damage deposit per cabin

 Group Day Use Booking Fee For shelters, fire ring, Rock/Glacier Reservations

 Group Size $15.00/4 hr. $20.00/4 hr 1-50 $25.00/4 hr. $30.00/4 hr. 51-100 $35.00/4 hr $40.00/4 hr. 101-150 $45.00/4 hr. $50.00/4 hr. 151-200 $55.00/4 hr. $60.00/4 hr. 201-250 $40.00 $50.00 Lodge kitchen damage/cleaning refundable deposit

 Meeting Room Rental Fee - "Community Centers, Camp Long, Mt. Baker Rowing and Sailing Facility, and Discovery Park Visitors Center".

 Day use, maximum number of participants - 250 Overnight use, maximum number of participants - 120

 NOTE: Groups involved with outdoor recreation/education will be given priority for scheduling use of Camp Long Social/Meeting Room(s).

 DISCOVERY PARK

 Group-Guided Nature Walks 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 GROUP SIZE STAFF $45.00 $45.00 1-15 1 $90.00 $90.00 16-30 2 $135.00 $135.00 31-45 3 $180.00 $180.00 46-60 4 $3.00/person $3.00/person 61-over additional staff required

 Visitor's Center Social Room Rental Fee - See page 21 Community Centers, Camp Long Mt. Baker and Discovery Park Visitors Center.

 COMMUNITY CENTERS, CAMP LONG, CARKEEK ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION CENTER, DISCOVERY PARK VISITOR CENTER, LANGSTON HUGHES CULTURAL ARTS CENTER, MT. BAKER ROWING & SAILING FACILITY, GREEN LAKE SMALL CRAFT CENTER, AND PRITCHARD BEACH HOUSE

 The Department charges rental fees for the use of social and meeting rooms and gymnasiums at community centers, Camp Long, Carkeek Environmental Education Center, the Discovery Park Visitor Center, Langston Hughes, Mt. Baker Rowing and Sailing Facility, Green Lake Small Craft Center and Pritchard Beach House according to classifications of usage. Meeting rooms and gymnasium space is available only during times Department and Advisory Council programs are not scheduled. Uses are determined by classification A, B, or C as defined below:

 Class A Use: Non-Commercial Use, for the general public. No admission fee, vendor fee and/or donation is requested or received. Class A use is reserved for advertised non-commercial public events/meetings that are for the general public. (If scheduled outside normal community center operating hours, see Class B use.)

 Class B Use: Fund Raising, open to the public, where an admission fee, vendor fee and/or donation is requested or received; or any commercial use which is open to the public. Class B use is reserved for events/meetings that are held for the general public. The rental involves a commercial purpose or there is an admission charge, vendor fee and/or a donation is received.

 Non-profit agencies serving youth, seniors, the disabled or low-income populations. A non-profit agency sponsored event/meeting for youth, seniors, and the disabled or low-income populations in the City of Seattle, which may be open or closed to the general public with an admission fee.

 Any Class A use scheduled outside normal Community Center operating hours.

 Class C Use: Closed to the general public. Class C use is reserved for events/meetings where the general public is not invited. Admission fees may be collected and donations may be received. Examples are private children's birthday parties, seminars, workshops, etc.

 2001 & 2002 HOURLY ROOM AND GYMNASIUM RENTAL FEES

 Facility Rental Fees: Non-refundable $10.00 per facility quarterly booking fee, plus hourly rate of:

 Room Size Measurements Class A Class B Class C 2001 2002 2001 2002 Small Rooms 1 - 400 square Booking fee $16.00 $18.00 $19.00 $21.00 feet only Medium Rooms 401 - 1,500 Booking fee $19.00 $21.00 $25.00 $28.00 square feet only Large Rooms 1,500+ Booking fee $26.00 $29.00 $35.00 $39.00 Square feet only Small Kitchen Booking fee$ 9.00 $10.00 $11.00 $12.00 (minimum of only two hours)* Large Kitchen Booking fee $20.00 $22.00 $23.00 $25.00 (minimum of only two hours)*

 Small Gym Athletic Use Booking fee $15.00 $17.00 $20.00 $22.00 only Non-Athletic Use Booking fee $37.00 $37.00 Only

 Large Gym Athletic Use Booking fee $18.00 $20.00 $25.00 $28.00 only Non-Athletic Booking fee $59.00 $65.00 $65.00 $72.00 Only

 *Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park site.

 For Class C use of rooms for weddings, receptions and other parties a special fee of $380 per use is charged and includes up to 7 hours use of multi-purpose room and kitchen, which allows time for renter to do event set up, kitchen prep, the event and clean up. Included in the rental fee are 10 banquet tables, and 50 chairs. For time over 7 hours the Class C hourly rate is added.

 2001 2002 Fee $380.00 $380.00 Refundable rental and cleaning deposit $100.00 $100.00

 Any Class C use of Laurelhurst Community Center over two (2) hours is charged a special fee of $380.00. Any Class C use of the Pritchard Beach facility is $300.00 (no kitchen).

 Additional Fees for Private Parties with Alcohol 2001 2002 Fee (plus other applicable room rental fees and $60.00 $60.00 staffing charges)

 Refundable damage deposit (if not collected under $100.00 $250.00 special events)

 An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 FACILITIES WITH SPECIAL FEATURES

 Large Kitchen Bitter Lake, Delridge, Garfield, Jefferson, Langston Hughes, Meadowbrook, Miller, Rainier, Southwest Small Kitchen All other Community Center kitchens Small Gym Bitter Lake Annex, Garfield Teen Life Center, Meadowbrook Annex, Miller, Van Asselt, Yesler Large Gym Ballard, Bitter Lake, Delridge, Garfield, Green Lake, Hiawatha, High Point, Loyal Heights, Magnolia, Meadowbrook, Miller, Montlake , Queen Anne, Rainier, Rainier Beach, Ravenna-Eckstein, South Park

 Note: An event will be considered advertised if it has been announced in the local paper, through a mass mailing, radio announcements, posters throughout the community, posted in the Community Center or distributed through the Community Center.

 EVENING RECREATION SCHOOL GYM RENTALS

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $25.00 $30.00 Hourly/gym floor (1 hour minimum) fee plus applicable maintenance and operation costs for heat/utilities and/or custodial costs as determined by the Department.

 Kitchens are not available for commercial use unless used in conjunction with a scheduled community special event held on a park site.

 LANGSTON HUGHES THEATER*

 Langston Hughes Cultural Arts Center Theatre

 Fees and charges for the non-theatre areas of the Langston Hughes Cultural Arts Center are governed by the previous section.

 The fees and charges listed below are for the 300 plus seat theatre. Use fees for the theatre vary by length and type of use.

 Performances Film/Video Conference, Meeting Rehearsals or Seminar 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 Non-refundable $10.00 $10.00 $10.00 $10.00 $10.00 $10.00 $10.00 $10.00 Booking fee Up to 2 hours/ N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. $40.00 $40.00 day 1st 5 hrs. or $200.00 $200.00 $175.00 $175.00 $125.00 $125.00 N.A. N.A. less/day 2nd 5 hrs. $175.00 $175.00 $125.00 $125.00 $100.00 $100.00 N.A. N.A. or less/ day Additional . $55.00 $55.00 $25.00 $25.00 $20.00 $20.00 $15.00 $15.00 Hours Over 10 on the Same day Rental of $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 Marquee For up to 7 days

 The fees above include the theatre, the green room, 2 dressing rooms, foyer and box office. Heating and ventilation, basic house lights, podium lights, public address system, pre-event set up (chairs, tables, screen, podium) and post-event clean up are included in the rental fees. Routine custodial services are covered; however an extra hourly custodial charge may be required for excessive litter such as confetti. All theatre rentals require additional labor charges for the house manager/facility supervisor and a technical director. Labor charges are $14.00 to $22.00 per hour depending on type of labor. During normal operating hours, the charges associated with the facility supervisor may be waived by the LHCAC Coordinator.

 City provides insurance but each use requires an application for a rider. The client pays the rider cost based upon estimated attendance and type of event.

 An additional charge is required for the use of certain types of equipment, subject to availability at the facility.

 Damage deposit of $250.00 required with cash, credit card or cashiers check.

 See section on "Community Centers Meeting Rooms and Gymnasiums" for rental fees which apply to the Langston Hughes Cultural Arts Center's:

 Multi-purpose room (approximately 4400 sq. ft.) is a large meeting room.

 West Room (approximately 750 sq. ft.) is a medium room. Conference room is a small room. Kitchen is a large kitchen.

 Uses and fees are determined by classification A, B or C as in the Community Center section of the fees and charges book.

 WEST SEATTLE STADIUM

 Staff supervision required. Staffing costs to be established by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation at the rate of $13.00 per hour per staff person.

 Where an admission or donation is charged (excluding entry fees), renters must pay 10% of gross receipts in addition to charges noted below:

 All schools may reserve the facility at one half the listed rate, in addition to any applicable staff fees.

 Community youth athletic leagues will be charged $20.00 per game/meet, in addition to any applicable staff fees and youth sports participation fees.

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Football/Rugby

 $$350.0 $350.00 per day game $400.00 $400.00 per night game

 Soccer or other athletic field event $350.00 $350.00 per day game/event $400.00 $400.00 per night game/event

 Track Meet $150.00 $150.00 per day $200.00 $200.00 per night

 Equipment Rental $30.00 $30.00 Pole Vault/day $30.00 $30.00 High Jump/day $30.00 $30.00 Hurdles/day

 Carnivals, festivals and other non-athletic events $100.00 $100.00 Minimum charge per day 10% 10% Percentage of gross receipts

 Use of field for practice: Department policy normally precludes use of this stadium for practice; however, if so utilized, the following fees will be charged:

 Football soccer and other field events $50.00 $50.00 Day use - per hour

 Use of field for track practice $60.00 $60.00 Day per - day use $75.00 $75.00 Night use - per hour

 BOBBY MORRIS PLAYFIELD - SPORT GRASS FACILITY

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Softball $16.00 $16.00 Adult Practice/hour $$30.0 $30.00 Adult Games/hour

 Soccer $20.00 $20.00 Adult Practice/Hour $45.00 $45.00 Adult Games/Hour

 INTERBAY SOCCER STADIUM

 Staff supervision required. Staffing costs to be established by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation at the rate of $13.00 per hour per staff person. Where admission or donation is charged (excluding entry fees), renters must pay 10% of gross receipts in addition to charges noted below. All schools may reserve the facility at one half the listed rate, in addition to any applicable staff fees. Community youth athletic leagues will be charged $27.00 per hour and community adult athletic leagues will be charged $62.00 per hour for use of the stadium plus $13.00 per hour for staff costs for a total of $40.00 per hour and $75.00 per hour respectively. In addition to these fees, if leagues require lights, they will be required to pay $50.00 per game.

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Facility Fee

 Soccer $350.00 $350.00 per day game/event $400.00 $400.00 per night game/event $27.00 $27.00 Community youth athletic leagues per hour plus staffing costs $62.00 $62.00 Community adult athletic leagues per hour plus staffing costs

 Carnivals, festivals and other non athletic events $100.00 $100.00 Minimum charge per day and 10% 10% Percentage of any gross receipts

 Use of field for practice: Department policy normally precludes use of this stadium for practice; however, if so utilized, the following fees will be charged:

 Soccer $$50.0 $50.00 Day use per hour

 WASHINGTON PARK ARBORETUM

 Graham Visitors Center 2001 & 2002 Fees

 Rental Fee Schedule

 Half Day - 8:00 a.m. 12:30 p.m. or 12:30 5:00 p.m $150.00 Meetings overlapping these times will be charges at the full day rate. * Evening Meetings charged this rate.

 Kitchen Use Fee for half day or evening meetings $25.00 Full Day - 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. $250.00 Included kitchen use * Additional hours are charged at the rate of $25.00/hr.

 Social Events Up to 75 guests Up to 6 hours Additional Hours Fundraisers/Memorials (Ltd. Food) $350.00 $50.00 Events with limited food service $450.00 $75.00 Events with full food service $550.00 $100.00

 75 - 125 Guests Fundraisers/Memorials (Ltd. Food) $450.00 $75.00 Events with limited food service $650.00 $100.00 Events with full food service $850.00 $125.00

 Social events are scheduled between 4:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Friday and until midnight on Friday and Saturday nights. Events requested during daytime hours are handled on an individual basis with hours and rates determined by the building manager.

 The Graham Visitor Center is a self-service facility. Deliveries, set-up and clean-up must occur during the scheduled event times.

 Events beginning after 4:00 p.m. weeknights and all weekend events will be charged $10.00/hr. for a security staff person to be on the premises.

 HORTICULTURAL GROUP RATES

 Meetings Up to 5 hours 5-8 hours Extra Hours $80.00 $150.00 $10.00/hr

 Social Events $250.00 - Including Security $250.00 $35.00/hr

 SAND POINT/MAGNUSON PARK

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Daily Rentals:Events/Activities $400.00 $400.00 Hangar 30/Hangar 2-South $300.00 $300.00 Buildings 2n, 30 Workshop, 406 Hanger 2 North $800.00 $800.00 Hanger 27 $300.00 $300.00 Workshops - Buildings 11, 18, 30 and 67 $300.00 $300.00 North Pod of South Pod $600.00 $600.00 Entire Building

 Meeting Spaces $25.00/hr $25.00/hr Building 30 $50.00/hr $50.00/hr Building 406 $200.00 Per day $200.00 Per day

 Outdoor Space Outdoor Spaces/ Parking Lots $45.00 $45.00 Temporary Application Fee $0.00 $20.00 After Hours Staff Fee (Hourly)

 Hourly Rentals $50.00/hr $50.00/hr Building 47 - Gymnasium $25.00 $25.00 Multi-Use Room $10.00 $10.00 Booking Fee $10.00/hr $10.00/hr Photography Fee $30.00/hr $30.00/hr Videography Fee $50.00/hr $50.00/hr Cinematography Fee $60.00 $60.00 Less than seven days in advance

 South Lake Union Armory

 The department acquired title to this property on September 1, 2000, and plans to contract with a Special Events Organizer/Caterer who will create events at this site for a 6-month period. Use will be exclusive as to the organizer/caterer, but the Department reserves the right to use the facility to stage its own special events. In addition, there is an Officer's Club that is available for rent as a conference/meeting site. Fees are proposed as follows:

 Armory Gym

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax 15% of gross receipts 15% of gross receipts Organizer/Caterer Use $300.00 per day $300.00 per day Parks, Navy, Maritime Heritage Foundation

 Officer's Club $10.00 $10.00 Booking fee $42.00 $42.00 Per hr. of every booking.

 MOORAGE AND BOAT RAMP FEES

 Whenever the Department of Natural Resources lease is re-negotiated, the contract with the moorage concessionaires and the moorage fees may be re- established so as to cover the additional fees that must be paid by the City.

 LAKEWOOD MOORAGE

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $6.25 $6.25 Wet Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month. Available slip sizes: 20', 24', 30', 40', 50', and 60'. Tenants pay for the size of the slip or the size of the boat, whichever is greater.

 Quarterly (Examples of quarterly rates for 20', 30', and 40' slips) $375.00 $375.00 Slip 20' minimum $562.50 $562.50 Slip 30' minimum $750.00 $750.00 Slip 40' minimum

 Boats longer than the slip pay an additional $6.25 per foot for excess Extending beyond the slip.

 Electrical Fee Metered Docks - Billed directly to tenant Non-metered docks - $2.00 per month

 Limited Public Access to Ohler's Island (max. 20-30 persons) The Concessionaire will provide information signage which details operation hours, access instructions, and scheduling procedures via the Department's Recreation Information Office.

 LESCHI MOORAGE

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $6.25 $6.25 Wet Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month $3.50 $3.50 Dry Moorage: Fee per slip foot per month

 Quarterly $168.00 $168.00 North Leschi Dry 16' Float Space $525.00 $525.00 Wet Slip 28' maximum $600.00 $600.00 Wet Slip 32' maximum $712.50 $712.50 Wet Slip 38' maximum

 Annually $672.00 $672.00 Dry 16' Float Space $2,100.00 $2,100.00 Wet Slip 28' maximum $2,400.00 $2,400.00 Wet Slip 32' maximum $2,850.00 $2,850.00 Wet Slip 38' maximum

 Quarterly $168.00 $168.00 South Leschi Dry Float Space $450.00 $450.00 Wet Slip 24' maximum $487.50 $487.50 Wet Slip 26' maximum $562.50 $562.50 Wet Slip 30' maximum

 Annually $672.00 $672.00 Dry Float Space $1,800.00 $1,800.00 Wet Slip 24' maximum $1,950.00 $1,950.00 Wet Slip 26' maximum $2,250.00 $2,250.00 Wet Slip 30' maximum

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Fleet Floats (North and South) Quarterly/Float Size $1,008.00 $1,008.00 6 boat float $1,344.00 $1,344.00 8 boat float $1,512.00 $1,512.00 9 boat float $1,680.00 $1,680.00 10 boat float

 Fleets will not be required to fill vacancies from the approved waiting list on these floats.

 Catamarans: Catamaran-type boats requiring the use of one and one-half spaces, the above fee schedule will apply at one and one-half the rate.

 AQUA MARINA

 Wet slip fee of $5.75 per slip foot per month. Boats smaller than slip pay for slip size. Boats longer than slip pay an additional $5.25 per foot for excess extending beyond the slip.

 OTHER MOORAGE FEES

 $20.00 $20.00 Key Fee - (Leschi & Lakewood) - Deposit for each key issued or re-issued. Refundable upon return. All keys must be returned upon vacating a slip. Deposits shall be forfeited for unreturned keys.

 Transient Moorage By Reservation Only.

 $0.75/ft. $0.75/ft. Leschi Moorage - daily rate per boat foot, temporary moorage not to exceed 14 days for attendance at Leschi races. Subject to availability. $0.75/ft $0.75/ft. Lakewood Moorage - daily rate per boat foot. Minimum $10.00/day charge. Temporary moorage not to exceed 14 days. Subject to availability, by reservation only. $10.00 $10.00 Aqua Marina Moorage - Minimum daily rate, temporary moorage not to exceed 14 days. 50% 50% Live Aboard Moorage Fee: Percentage of tenant's monthly moorage fee charged in addition to their monthly fee for Live  Aboard privileges. For example, a tenant paying for a slip of 35 feet @ $5.75/slip foot pays a fee of $201.25/month. To live aboard, the tenant would pay an additional 50% of their monthly fee or $100.63 for a total of $301.88/month ($201.25 + $100.63).

 Fee to be imposed for mooring a private boat in a posted "NO TRANSIENT MOORING" area - $20.00 initial day; $10.00 each additional day.

 Impoundment of Unauthorized Vessel - $25.00 impoundment fee plus $5.00 a day for each day thereafter.

 Moorage Waiting List Reservation Fee $15.00 for all tenant applicants to be applied to first month's rental if moorage space is accepted when offered.

 If application is canceled prior to being offered moorage space, fee shall not be refunded.

 No refund shall be made if space is refused when offered.

 Late Fees Tenants will pay 1% per month simple interest with a $1.00 per month minimum for fees that are past due. An administrative late fee of $20.00 shall be charged for each past due fee. Tenants shall be charged a $20.00 fee for any returned check.

 Sublet Fee Non-Refundable $15.00

 BOAT RAMPS (Total includes taxes)

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax $4.00 $5.00 Daily Permit $65.00 $80.00 Annual Permit $6.00 $7.00 Overnight parking privileges * $90.00 $110.00 Annual Permit w/overnight parking privileges *

 * Overnight parking privileges not to exceed four consecutive days.

 PARTICIPATION FEES

 RECREATION PARTICIPATION FEES

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Community Center and Outdoor Recreation Class Fee $1.00 $1.00 Adult Fee/student/class session

 Workshop Participation Fee $1.50 $1.50 Adult Fee/day/person This fee will be charged to adult students in addition to fees paid to local advisory councils. Children, Senior adults and handicapped students are exempt from the participation fee. Students will not be assessed this fee for out of school day camps nor for classes/ workshops for which there would not be any other charges, i.e. free.

 Daily Small Craft Class Participation Fees $1.40 * $1.40 Adult Fee/student/hour of instruction $.60 * $.60 Youth, Senior Adults and Disabled/student/class hour This fee will be charged to participants in boating programs and is in addition to fees paid to any of the small craft advisory councils.

 There is no City fee for community-based summer day camp youth or Seattle Public Schools participating in the water safety program.

 Special Group Class Participation Fee $1.40 * $1.40 Fee/student/hour This fee will be charged to all participants who wish to have a boating program conducted for a specific group of people. $10.00 $10.00 Monthly Participation fee for Canoe/Kayak sprint racing team at Green Lake Small Craft Center

 * Revenue neutral between Associated Recreation Council and Seattle Parks and Recreation. No fee increase to the public.

 Annual Small Craft Club Participation Fees for members of Seattle Canoe Club at the Green Lake Small Craft Center $30.00 $30.00 Fee for adults and seniors $20.00 $20.00 Fee for youth members $80.00 $80.00 Fee for families (2 adults plus children under 18) As a service to the public, the Department may contract with the local advisory council, boating council, or the Associated Recreation Council for payment by participants of the participation fee with the fees or charges for the class in a single check, money order or other payment and for the collecting council to apportion the amount received. The contract shall require the advisory council or  Associated Recreation Council to remit the participation fee to the City.

 Daily Special Event Fees $1.50 $1.50 Fee/day/participant for Regattas operated by the Department or its recognized Advisory Councils.

 SPORTS USE FEES

 Adult Fees

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Adult Sports Leagues playoffs and tournaments will be assessed the following fees. $20.00 $20.00 Indoor sports per hour $22.00 $22.00 Outdoor sports per hour This fee will be charged to participants in addition to fees assessed by the organization conducting the event. Each team will be responsible for 50% of the above fees. Fees for all league and playoff games will be at the above rates, but teams are required to pay for only the number of games which they are guaranteed to play in tournaments. $30.00 $30.00 Adult Sports Team Administration Fee/Team

 Youth Sports Fee

 A $2.00 per game fee and a $1.00 per hour practice fee will be assessed to all youth sports organizations, in addition to existing fees.

 Single Elimination - number of teams multiplied by one-half of the hourly rate. Round Robin - number of teams multiplied by one-half of the hourly rate plus $1.00 per game/match. Double Elimination - number of teams multiplied by the hourly rate fee. $3.00 $3.00 Teen Dance Participation Fee Per person admission to Department sponsored teen dances.

 Senior Adult Program These fees only apply to programs offered through the Department's Senior Adult Section. Senior adult fees for participation in other programs are listed elsewhere in this ordinance. Where there is no senior adult fee listed for the activity, the adult fee will apply. 10% 10% Field Trips Percentage payment of Senior Adult Advisory Council Trip Fee 10% 10% Class Fee Percentage payment of Senior Adult Advisory Council Class Fee

 Softball Team $15.00 $15.00 Annual fee for 1 session/week $30.00 $30.00 Annual fee for 2 session/week $45.00 $45.00 Annual fee for 3 session/week

 Volleyball Team $15.00 $15.0 Per team/season

 PERMITS

 CONCESSION PERMITS*

 Authority to utilize Department of Parks and Recreation property for sale of goods not in conjunction with scheduled activity or event:

 $70.00 permit fee plus a minimum of 10% of the gross receipts received at the event(s) for the sale of merchandise, food, drink, or printed materials. Insurance and performance bond are also required. Plus applicable taxes including Washington State Leasehold Excise Tax.

 $50.00 permit fee for a weekend event may be charged instead of $45.00 and 10% fee for a single day permit. Minimum fee for permits that are longer than a week--$500.00.

 USE PERMITS*

 Use Permits authorize non-department groups to utilize Department of Parks and Recreation property for special events (i.e.: runs, boating, concerts, day camps, community festivals, rallies, commercials, etc.). If, in the course of the activity/event, charges are levied for admission, sales, or entry fees, the user will be subject to a minimum charge of 10% of the gross receipts. Insurance and/or a performance bond may be required except as limited by the First Amendment for political or religious activities. An application fee of $45.00 in 2001 and $50.00 in 2002 will be collected upon formal written application. This fee is non-refundable except when the Department denies a request. A $30.00 fee is charged for any utility hook-up performed by Department personnel.

 Rush requests for utilities hookup or other special services will require payment at higher overtime rates; customer will be charged for all additional costs which may be incurred.

 YOUTH SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS USE PERMITS

 All Department review and approval requirements shall apply for all Youth Sports organizations' requests to sell food, beverage, or other items on park property. Qualifying community-based outdoor Youth Sports organizations are exempt from percentage payment requirements for Concession Permits only when selling approved food, drink or other items during scheduled regular season league games and practices. The Use Permit Fee shall be $35.00. Youth Sports organizations' special events such as jamborees and tournaments shall be subject to regular Use Permit charges.

 FIRST AMENDMENT ACTIVITIES

 Activities protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Article I of the Washington Constitution are subject to reasonable regulations as to time, place and manner, and to the Department's permit system in reserving or making exclusive use of a site or facility. No fee, deposit, or liability insurance is required to the extent that the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Article I of the Washington Constitution directs gratuitous use of parks, park drives or boulevards as public fora, e.g., for making sermons or political speeches, distributing literature, or soliciting signatures for petitions. Vending by a non-profit, tax-exempt organization, of merchandise in which a political, religious, philosophical or ideological message is inextricably intertwined (First Amendment Vending) is governed by regulations for First Amendment Vending of Merchandise adopted by the Department of Parks and Recreation. When conducted on a park drive or boulevard, First Amendment Vending is subject to a base permit fee of Seventy Dollars ($70.00) for a monthly site permit. When conducted within a park, First Amendment Vending is subject to a base permit fee of seventy Dollars ($70.00) plus a fee of ten percent (10%) of gross receipts, but may exclude from its gross receipts used in calculating the amount of the fee (1) all bona fide donations for which the donor receives no or nominal consideration and (2) payments for items that communicate a political or religious message and have no commercial value apart from the message (e.g., literature, message- bearing buttons and bumper stickers and posters). Use permits issued for First Amendment Vending on department boulevards and park drives shall conform with the zoning and regular usage patterns of the immediately adjacent and surrounding areas.

 USE OF PARK FACILITIES FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES

 Minimum fees range from $10.00 to $50.00 per hour based upon the type of use and medium. Maximum charges subject to negotiations based upon park and public disruption. Posting commercial signage in a park in conjunction with a special event $100.00 per day minimum. Maximum fees are subject to negotiations. Regular permit fees apply to above charges including late permit fee.

 * Late fee for requests submitted less than six working days before event $60.00

 SEATTLE DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION REVOCABLE USE PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE Revocable Permits to Use or Occupy Park Property, commonly called Revocable Use Permits, are issued by the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, under authority of Seattle Municipal Code (SMC) 18.12.042, 18.12.045, and 18.12.275, for various short-term or on-going (i.e., Limited Term or Continuing Use, respectively) non-park uses of public land under the control of the Department of Parks and Recreation. Permits are revocable upon thirty (30) days notice or immediately upon failure of the Permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of the Permit. Unauthorized use of park property, including failure to apply for and obtain a Revocable Use Permit, is unlawful and subject to enforcement actions or other remedies as specified in SMC 18.30.

 In accordance with the Policy on Non-Park Uses of Park Lands, as endorsed by City Council Resolution 29475, it is the policy of the Department of Parks and Recreation to limit authorized non-park uses of park land to the fullest extent practicable. Fees and conditions set for Revocable Use Permits are intended to discourage private, non-park uses of park lands; encourage the elimination of encroachments; and promote private and public cooperation in maintenance of park lands in a manner consistent with a public park-like character.

 Consideration of any permit application requires payment of an Application Fee, unless City action to a public right-of-way resulted in inaccessibility from other than park property. The Application Fee is non-refundable. Issuance of a permit requires payment of a Permit Fee which is: a) a fixed daily fee (i.e., Limited Term permit fee); and/or b) calculated in accordance with a formula (Continuing Use permit fee); or c) a minimum Permit Fee. Both Application Fee and Permit Fee are set periodically by Ordinance adopting a Schedule of Fees and Charges, as authorized by SMC 18.28.010.

 Under exceptional circumstances, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation may waive or reduce the Revocable Use Permit Fee, in accordance with criteria established by SMC 18.28.030, including instances when: a) another City department requests use of the facility for a public purpose; b) or use is granted under a reciprocal use of facilities agreement with c) another government agency; or b) in the opinion of the Superintendent, the waiver or reduction is in the overall public interest due to extraordinary facts or circumstances. Creek restoration projects proposed by other City departments are specifically exempted from permit fees of any kind as the City recognizes these projects as valuable enhancements to its parks and recreation assets.

 In determining whether the Permit Fee should be waived or reduced, the Superintendent shall be guided by: a) the benefit to the public and the direct benefit to the park system; b) the frequency and/or amount of usage requested; c) the effect on and fairness to other park users; d) consistency with policies underlying the fee schedule and SMC Chapter 18; and e) the consequences of denying the request.

 The Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, authorize the acceptance of permanent, physical improvements, such as constructed improvements or landscaping, as compensation in lieu of the Permit Fee in those circumstances where the proposed in lieu compensation can be shown to be equal to or greater in value than the calculated or set amount of the Permit Fee.

 Waiver or reduction of the Permit Fee does not necessarily waive or reduce other fees, charges, requirements, or obligations in connection with issuance of a Revocable Use Permit including Application Fee, Inspection Fee, processing charges, insurance or indemnity requirements, or restoration requirements.

 Limited Term Permit Fee Limited Term permits may be issued for necessary uses of park property for brief periods of time, generally expected to be limited to ninety (90) days or less; however, Limited Term permits may be issued for uses expected to continue beyond ninety (90) days, at the discretion of the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation. Examples of activities for which Limited Term permits may be issued include but are not limited to construction staging, temporary access, utility installation.

 The Limited Term permit fee will be charged at a daily rate from the date the permit is issued or the date the use or occupancy of park property began, whichever is earlier, until the activity is completed and all conditions of the permit, including restoration of any damage to park land, have been satisfied. If seasonal factors, such as planting conditions or construction prohibitions, warrant a delay between the time the use or occupancy of park property is completed and the time the restoration is completed, no Permit Fee shall be charged for the interim period, unless the park land is unavailable for the use or enjoyment of the public.

 If a Revocable Use Permit is issued for a use of park land expected to continue for a limited period of time, such as a Limited Term permit, but for a period exceeding ninety (90) days, the fee shall be the daily rate set for Limited Term permits for the first ninety (90) days; the fee for the period exceeding ninety (90) days shall be calculated in accordance with the Continuing Use permit fee. Under no circumstances shall a Limited Term permit fee be converted to a lesser fee due to extension of the anticipated completion date of the permitted activity. If upon inspection it is determined that the permit conditions have not been satisfied, charges for additional daily fees at the same rate shall accrue until conditions have been satisfied.

 Continuing Use Permit Fee Continuing Use permit fees shall be charged for uses expected to continue for an extended period of time, generally beyond ninety (90) days (e.g., encroachments or other non-park uses that will not be corrected or eliminated within a ninety (90) day period). Continuing Use permit fees shall be calculated using a formula based on land Value, Area of use, a Barrier factor, and a Rate of return (V x A x B x R).

 The Value of the park land used shall be determined by calculating the average of the assessed value per square foot of the benefited property and the assessed values per square foot of comparable (i.e., similarly zoned, having similar amenities such as waterfront or view), nearby (within a distance not to exceed 1000 feet) non-park properties.

 The Area shall be the total of the square footage of park land actually used or occupied for non-park purposes and/or the square footage of park land that is subject to a barrier to public use or enjoyment.

 The Barrier Factor is a multiplier of 1 or less than 1, representing the extent of barrier to public use and enjoyment, as set by the following scale. If two or more Barrier Factors may apply, the greater factor shall apply.

 Factor: 1 Full use and/or occupancy of area, preventing public use or occupancy of the area (e.g., a private structure); or Creation of a physical barrier denying public use or access to the area (e.g., a fence or hedge); 7 Creation of a perceptual barrier by improvements or actions that capture the public space for private use (e.g., paving, shrubbery, other plantings) 35 Private landscaping or other improvements on park land that violate, exceed, or are inconsistent with established design guidelines or reasonable standards intended to preserve the public park-like character of park lands (e.g., private access drive or walkway in excess of standard; private lighting or safety railings that exceed a security function).

 The Rate of return (i.e., land capitalization rate) is set at 10%.

 Continuing Use permit fees will be prorated, as necessary, and annualized October 1 to September 30, billed and payable not later than September 30 of each calendar year for the twelve (12) month period to follow.

 If the permit period is shorter than anticipated, the permit fees paid in advance shall be prorated for the time used and over-payment shall be refunded, except in the case of revocation due to Permittee's failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, in which case no refund shall be given.

 Permits for utility installations, such as electrical, natural gas, or telephone service, shall be charged as Limited Term permits, based on the permit period necessary for installation.

 There is no Permit Fee charged for Limited Term permits of 90 days or less issued expressly to allow the removal or elimination of an encroachment onto park land.

 There is no Permit Fee charged for certain non-park uses of park land which may be allowable by property right, such as driveway access from the roadway portion of a park boulevard if access is not available from any other right- of-way, or pedestrian walkway access from a public sidewalk to the abutting private property, if such uses comply with established design guidelines or reasonable standards intended to preserve the public park-like character of park lands.

 Application Fee ............ ...........$100 Inspection Fee...........................$50 / inspection (Application fee includes one on-site inspection. Additional on-site inspection charges at $50 per inspection may be assessed, if necessary in the Department's judgment, due to Applicant's or Permittee's action(s) or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.)

 Limited Term Permit . ... ...............$50 /day or $100 minimum, whichever is greater

 Continuing Use Permit ..................determined by formula (V x A x B x R) or $200 minimum, whichever is greater

 Processing Charges ......................In the case a Permit Fee is waived or reduced, costs of staff time to review and process permit applications may be recovered on an hourly basis at $50 / hour for time in excess of eight (8) hours.

 VIEW TREE PRUNING PERMIT Private citizens may apply for a permit if they wish to hire a qualified, bonded tree service firm to perform view tree pruning which is not normally done as part of the Department tree maintenance program along its designated viewpoints and scenic drives. The request for this permit must be submitted in writing to the Manager of our City Wide Horticulture Unit. Three site inspections by a Department Landscape Supervisor will be performed. The first inspection to review the request and make a determination of allowed pruning, the second (if the request is approved) during the proposed work to ensure compliance with the permit, and a final inspection for satisfaction of all permit specifications. A non-refundable application fee of $30.00 must be submitted with the written request for a View Pruning Permit. A $100.00 permit fee is due upon issuance of the View Pruning Permit. The tree service firm must submit a $100.00 bond and proof of insurance in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 bodily injury liability and $5,000 property damage.

 RESERVATIONS

 PARK AREA RESERVATION FEE

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 $45.00 $50.00 Areas in many parks are available for various uses. $30.00 $30.00 Utility hook-up fee $250.00 $350.00 Parks for Garden Weddings at Kubota Gardens and Parsons Gardens (Additional staff fee will be charged when wedding is during non-operational hours.) $200.00 $200.00 Parks for Weddings (Additional staff fee will be charged when wedding is during non-operational hours)

 [For events or weddings at the Woodland Park Rose Garden contact the Woodland Park Zoological Society at (206) 615-1030.]

 DAY CAMPS BOOKING FEE

 $40.00 $40.00 Summer day camp program park area reservation - per group camp

 PRACTICE FIELD SCHEDULING $11.00 $11.00 Scheduled practices: One hour minimum, hourly fee for private school use $10.00 $10.00 Scheduled practices: One hour minimum, hourly fee

 PICNIC RESERVATION FEE $30.00 $20.00 Each Regular Shelter/Day $7.50 $10.00 Each Table/Day $40.00 $20.00 Each Large Shelter/Day $10.00 $10.00 Reschedule Fee (14 day notice required to reschedule

 Effective 2002 - Tables at shelters are not included in shelter price and are charged separately. Shelter rental must include shelter price plus $10.00 for each table.

 GREEN LAKE $600.00/day $600.00/day Exclusive use of all or a large portion of the lake for major spectator events such as races, water ski show, etc.

 AQUATICS SPECIAL EVENTS 2002 Fees Include Tax $300.00 per day

 Special Events that result in the cancellation of scheduled programs or closure of a small craft center, swimming beach, or other public program. This fee is in addition to other fees.

 Additional costs incurred by the city as a direct result of exclusive use will be totally reimbursable, subject to negotiation.

 OUTDOOR TENNIS COURTS 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Tennis Reservations (4 or less players) Reservations are scheduled at Departmental discretion. $6.00 $6.00 Court rental

 Where a participant entry fee for tournaments or a fee for lessons is charged, 10% of gross receipts is to be paid to the Department in addition to the charges noted above. All persons who instruct tennis for a fee on Department courts must schedule according to court availability with the Scheduling Office, obtain the appropriate permit and pay the required fees. They must also successfully complete the Department's Tennis Instructor's Certification program and show proof of certification before a permit will be issued.

 RENTALS (other)

 2001 2002 Fees Include Tax

 Film Rental $15.00 $15.00 "Parks, Pleasant Occasions and Happiness" Fee per showing at one location, plus postage and insurance charges when applicable

 Showmobile $125.00 $125.00 Fee for first day or relocation Plus set up/take down ($215 non-overtime/$280 overtime required) $30.00 $30.00 Daily fee second to tenth day $4,000.00 $4,000.00 Large Band Shell Rental

 Weekend (2 day) use Plus $25,000 performance bond $75.00 $75.00 Small Band Shell Rental Fee for first Day Plus set up/take down; ($356 non- overtime/$452 overtime required) $25.00 $25.00 Daily fee second to tenth day

 EXAMPLES OF PROMOTIONAL AND MARKETING FEE WAIVERS AND REDUCTIONS

 The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to waive or reduce entry or use fees from those contained in an approved fee schedule in conjunction with the promotion and marketing of park programs.

 Authorized activities include, but are not limited to, the following arrangements:

 (1) Sponsored days: A sponsored day or activity under which a sponsor pays the department a fixed fee, a matching amount, or supplies advertising, service or other benefit and the department provides free public entry use of the facility or the department provides free or reduced entry for a segment of the public (e.g. children under 12, senior citizens, anyone donating clothing or a can of food for a drive for those in need) or for a special group of the public (e.g., participants in a community parade) or to the first entrants up to a specified number.

 (2) Bonus and prizes: The department may distribute to users or entrants an item supplied by the sponsor, e.g., a button, a balloon, literature, or an item of apparel, or a donated prize for an achievement.

 (3) Combination Tickets: A combination ticket for use of the City's facility or participation in a City event in conjunction with entry to another facility or event in which the combined prices are less than the amount that would be paid for each entry or event singly; the combined ticket shall expire within a proximate time after its sale or first usage; and the City and the other participant shall apportion the revenue from the combined sale by a ratio or formula. A combination may also take the form of a reciprocal discount or credit. For example, presentation of ticket stub or coupon from a Zoo in another City may entitle the holder to a credit on admission to the Woodland Park Zoo or the Seattle Aquarium when a receipt for paid entry to Seattle's Zoo or Aquarium entitles the holder to like privileges in the facility of the other City.

 (4) Discount Coupons: A coupon allowing two people to enter for the price one person, or the coupon holder to enter at a reduced rate. Coupons may be offered through a sponsor who makes a payment to the City or who provides special advertising in return. For example, the coupon may accompany an advertisement in a widely distributed publication for tourists, which contains similar coupons for other attractions. The department may also use coupons as a way of reaching out to a group or segment of the citizenry who would not attend or use the facility at the established fee.

 (5) Prepaid Passes: During special hours or otherwise, admission may be sold to a tour company, the organizer of a convention, or an association at an aggregate fee for all members and the participants may be granted entry, either as a group or individually, at the hours or on the days authorized by presenting a ticket or other indication of pre-payment.

 (6) Departmental Free or Half-Price Days: "Senior citizen's days" may be offered during which people over a minimum age are admitted free; a free day may be provided for the public to see and enjoy an exhibit financed through a bond issue or by a public fund-raising drive; or, on a "Kid's Day"/ Neighborhood Day," admission may be free for children and low income adults; a free golf lesson day for kids; or free swimming day at our pools.

 (7) Promotional Purposes: The Department may offer extended evening hours or special discounts during specific periods in the year to encourage high attendance to our park facilities. Some examples include but are not limited to, the following:

 a) Extended Aquarium hours and special discounts during the summer.

 b) Extended special discount for swimming fees during the summer.

```
