

********

**Council Bill Number: 113446**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120144**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing a power purchase contract with the City of Klamath Falls, Oregon for a portion of the output of a natural gas fired, cogeneration project owned by the City of Klamath Falls.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** October 30, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** October 31, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** October 30, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 16, 2000
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** WILLS
   
   
**Index Terms:** THERMAL-POWER-FACILITIES, CITY-LIGHT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the City Light Department; authorizing a power purchase contract with the City of Klamath Falls, Oregon for a portion of the output of a natural gas fired, cogeneration project owned by the City of Klamath Falls.

 WHEREAS, Seattle owns and operates major hydroelectric generation resources that supply the majority of its electric power, but remains in the position of needing to purchase additional electric energy; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle, together with the eight other owners, recently sold its ownership in the Centralia Coal Plant; and

 WHEREAS, the Bonneville Power Administration will not provide Seattle with public preference power to replace the output from the Centralia Coal Plant; and

 WHEREAS, the Klamath cogeneration project will provide a power output equivalent to the former output derived from Seattle's share of the Centralia Coal Plant; and

 WHEREAS, the Klamath cogeneration project is located adjacent to the Third AC transmission line for which Seattle has a capacity ownership share; and

 WHEREAS, the Klamath cogeneration project is being built with a highly efficient gas fired turbine; and

 WHEREAS, the Klamath cogeneration project includes an unprecedented mitigation program for greenhouse emissions; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution 30144, City Light will develop plans to augment those extensive mitigation measures so that the greenhouse emissions of the project are fully mitigated; Now Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his designee, is hereby authorized to enter into a power purchase contract with the City of Klamath Falls, Oregon substantially in the form of the Power Purchase Agreement attached to this ordinance.

 The Power Purchase Agreement provides for the purchase by Seattle of approximately 100 MW of output from the Klamath cogeneration project. Seattle will pay for a share of the costs of the project, including the fuel prices for running the gas turbine, proportional to the share of electricity delivered to Seattle from the project. The initial term of the Agreement is for five years, with the right of Seattle to renew its purchase commitment for another five years upon eighteen months notice. Seattle also has substantial discretion to require the owner of the project to purchase long term guarantees for gas prices for Seattle's portion of the output.

 Section 2. The Superintendent of the City Light Department, or his designee, is hereby given the authority to make operating decisions on behalf of Seattle throughout this Agreement including, but not limited to, decisions to secure gas purchase guarantees into the future for Seattle's portion of the output. The Agreement, however, may not be extended beyond its initial five- year term without prior approval by ordinance.

 Section 3. Any acts taken in furtherance of this ordinance, but prior to its effective date, are hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its

 approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after

 presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 _____________________________________

 President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 cw:whp

 10/02/00

 113446.doc

 (Ver. 2 ) POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT made between THE CITY OF KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, as Owner and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, CITY LIGHT DEPARTMENT as Power Purchaser

 Exhibits

 A Example of Publication Containing the Gas Index

 B Example of Publication Containing the Malin/AECO Monthly Basis

 C Monthly Capacity Charge

 D Monthly Fixed O&M Charge

 E Monthly Variable O&M Charge

 F Example Calculation of Monthly Fuel Charge for December, 2001

 G Pipeline Loss Percentage and Variable Pipeline Charges

 H [Intentionally Omitted]

 I Example of Written Confirmation for Hedging of Monthly Fuel Charge

 J Operating Reserves Charge

 K Example of Monthly Invoice Calculation for December, 2001

 L Contact Persons at Owner for Power Purchaser's Hedging Requests

 M Owner's Fax Number for Power Purchaser's Monthly Schedule Request

 N Power Purchaser's Instructions for Owner's Notification of Force Majeure or Forced Outages

 O Cycling and Heat Rate Surcharges Associated with On-Peak Schedules

 P Example of Application of Cycling and Heat Rate Surcharges

 POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT

 This Power Purchase Agreement, dated this day of , 2000 (the "Effective Date"), is between the City of Klamath Falls, Oregon, an Oregon municipal corporation, in its capacity as owner of the Klamath cogeneration facility ("Owner"), and The City of Seattle, City Light Department, a department of the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Power Purchaser"). Owner and Power Purchaser are sometimes referred to in this Agreement collectively as the "Parties" and individually as "Party."

 WITNESSETH:

 WHEREAS, the Owner is building and will own the Facility (as defined below) in Klamath County, Oregon;

 WHEREAS, the Facility will generate electric power for sale;

 WHEREAS, through Power Purchaser's "PNW AC Intertie Capacity Ownership Agreement," Power Purchaser has ownership of capacity rights on the Pacific Northwest AC Intertie to which the Facility will interconnect;

 WHEREAS, BPA has indicated to Owner and Power Purchaser that Power Purchaser may utilize its PNW AC Intertie Capacity Ownership Agreement to receive power from the Facility; and

 WHEREAS, the Owner and Power Purchaser desire to set forth in this Agreement the terms pursuant to which Power Purchaser will purchase a portion of the Facility's output.

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

 ARTICLE 1

 DEFINITIONS

 As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings when used with initial capitalization, whether singular or plural:

 ANG: This term shall mean the pipeline system in British Columbia, Canada, owned by the Alberta Natural Gas Company, and its successors or assigns, and interconnecting with NOVA and PG&E GT NW.

 Availability Factor: This term shall mean a ratio equal to: (a) an amount, in MWhs, equal to the Contract Delivery Rate multiplied by the total Delivery Hours in the Operating Year after reductions for Scheduled Maintenance Outages and Forced Outages declared by Owner, at its sole discretion, to Power Purchaser under this Agreement; divided by (b) an amount, in MWhs, equal to the Contract Delivery Rate times the Delivery Hours in the Operating Year.

 BPA: This term shall mean the Bonneville Power Administration.

 Business Day: Any Day Monday through Friday, inclusive, but excluding Days that are observed as business holidays by either Party or that are statutory holidays in the state of Oregon.

 COB: This term shall mean the point of control area interchange at the California-Oregon border between the 500 kilovolt (Kv) transmission system owned and/or controlled by BPA and other Pacific Northwest entities (including its or their successor(s)), and the 500 Kv transmission system owned and/or controlled by the California ISO and other California entities (including its or their successor(s)).

 Contract Delivery Rate: 100 MW or 100,000 Kw.

 Contract Heat Rate: 6,910 Btu/Kwh.

 Current Exchange Rate: This term shall mean the daily Bloomberg Composite U.S. Dollar/Canadian Dollar daily spot exchange rate, offer (ask) side of market (i.e., pay U.S. Dollars and receive Canadian Dollars), as of the first Business Day after the 18th Day of the Month following the Month of delivery of Power under this Agreement, as published at noon on such Business Day by Bloomberg; provided, however, that if this spot rate is unavailable on that Business Day, the Current Exchange Rate for the Month of delivery shall be based on the same spot exchange rate on the first Business Day thereafter when such rate is available. If the rate reference ceases to be published, the Parties shall meet promptly to determine a replacement reference rate that fairly reflects the U.S. Dollar/Canadian Dollar daily spot exchange rate, offer side of the market. Until such replacement is established, the last available spot exchange rate under the rate reference described above shall be used for billing purposes under this Agreement, subject to retroactive adjustment when a new rate reference is agreed upon. The Current Exchange Rate shall be rounded to four places after the decimal.

 Date of Commercial Operation: The Date of Substantial Completion of the Facility as that term is defined in the EPC Contract.

 Day: This term means a calendar day.

 Delivery Hours: All hours during a Month, exclusive of hours during events of Force Majeure.

 Dth: This term shall mean one (1) deca-therm, or one (1) MMBtu.

 EPC Contract: The Design, Engineering, Procurement and Construction Services Contract dated August 31, 1998 between Owner and Black & Veatch Construction, Inc. providing for the design, construction and start up of the Facility, as such contract has been or may be amended from to time.

 Extension Term: This term shall have the meaning given to it in Article 2.3 of this Agreement.

 Facility: The Owner's natural gas fired cogeneration facility located in Klamath County, Oregon, as constructed pursuant to the EPC Contract.

 Facility Base Capacity: The capacity associated with the Facility's two (2) combustion turbine generators and its sole steam turbine generator.

 Force Majeure: Any act or event that delays or prevents Owner or Power Purchaser from timely performing obligations under this Agreement or from complying with conditions required under this Agreement if such act or event is beyond the reasonable control of the Party relying thereon as justification for such delay, nonperformance or noncompliance, including, without limitation, (1) an act of God or the elements, explosion, fire, epidemic, landslide, mudslide, sabotage, lightning, earthquake, flood or similar cataclysmic event, an act of public enemy, war, blockade, civil insurrection, riot, civil disturbance, strike or other labor difficulty beyond the reasonable control of Power Purchaser or Owner (whether such cause is similar or dissimilar to the foregoing or is foreseen, unforeseen, or foreseeable) or (2) any restraint or restriction imposed by law or by rule, regulation, or other acts of governmental authorities, whether federal, state or local (other than an act of either Party).

 Forced Outage: The occurrence of an unplanned reduction or suspension of the electrical output from the Facility in response to mechanical, electrical or hydraulic control systems trips or operator- initiated trips or shutdowns in response to unit alarms or equipment malfunction at the Facility, or to prevent such trips, alarms or malfunctions, which reduction or suspension may be immediate or delayed no longer than the end of the then-applicable daily preschedule.

 Gas Index: This term shall mean the "Alberta Spot Price - AECO 'C' & N.I.T. (7A)" price reported monthly in the Canadian Gas Price Reporter under the table "Monthly Canadian and U.S. Natural Gas Price Summary", in Canadian $ per Gigajoule (GJ) or $US per Dth, as set forth below, then rounded to the nearest 0.001. For purposes of calculating the Monthly Fuel Charge pursuant to Article 4.5 of this Agreement, Gas Index shall be the index published in Canadian $ per GJ and converted to $US per MMBtu using 1.055056 GJ/MMBtu and the Current Exchange Rate. For purposes of Article 4.6 of this Agreement (Hedging the Monthly Fuel Charge), the applicable Gas Index shall be the published index, in Canadian $ per GJ or $US per Dth, as specified in the written confirmation agreement executed pursuant to Article 4.6.6. For purposes of illustration, a copy of an actual page from the Canadian Gas Price Reporter with the Gas Index circled is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit A.

 Kw: This term shall mean kilowatt.

 Malin/AECO Monthly Basis: This term shall be defined as the difference, up to the full tariff demand charges on NOVA, ANG and PG&E GT NW (as set forth in Exhibit C), between the following price references: (a) the "Malin Monthly Index" in $US/Dth for the Month of delivery, reported monthly in the Gas Daily Price Guide under the table "Monthly Contract Index", minus (b) the "AECO-C" index in $US/Dth for the Month of delivery, reported monthly in the Gas Daily Price Guide under the table "Future Basis". For purposes of illustration, a copy of the actual pages from the Gas Daily Price Guide with the relevant price references circled is attached as Exhibit B hereto.

 Material Adverse Change: This term means, with respect to Power Purchaser, that (a) if the Power Purchaser is rated by a Standard & Poor's Rating Group, the Power Purchaser's rating has fallen below BBB, and (b) if the Power Purchaser is not rated by a Standard & Poor's Rating Group, the Power Purchaser has, as determined by Owner in its sole reasonable discretion, experienced an adverse change in its condition (financial or otherwise), net worth, assets, properties or operations that can reasonably be expected to impair Power Purchaser's ability to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement.

 Maximum Ramp Rate: Five (5) megawatts/minute per gas turbine unit then operating or such other rate as may be reasonably determined from time to time by the Owner or its agent.

 Mid-Columbia: This term shall mean points at any of the switchyards associated with the following four hydro-projects: Rocky Reach, Rock Island, Wanapum and Priest Rapids. These switchyards include: Rocky Reach, Rock Island, Wanapum, McKenzie, Valhalla, Columbia, Midway and Vantage.

 Minimum Generation Level: The Facility output corresponding to the lowest output level achievable without causing a violation of any permit conditions. The Minimum Generation Level for each Month shall be determined by Owner at its commercially reasonable discretion at least six (6) Business Days prior to such Month; provided, however, that (a) for projected "2x1" operations (i.e., both of the Facility's combustion turbine generators and its sole steam generator are projected to be in operation), the Minimum Generation Level shall not be greater than 350 MW; and (b) for projected "1x1" operations (i.e., only one (1) of the Facility's combustion turbine generators and its sole steam generator are projected to be in operation), the Minimum Generation Level shall not be greater than 200 MW.

 MMBtu: This term shall mean 1,000,000 Btu, or 1 Dth.

 Month: This term shall mean a calendar month.

 Monthly Capacity Charge: This term shall have the meaning given to it in Article 4.2 and Exhibit C to this Agreement.

 Monthly Fixed O&M Charge: This term shall have the meaning given to it in Article 4.3 and Exhibit D to this Agreement.

 Monthly Fuel Charge: This term shall have the meaning given to it in Article 4.5 and Exhibit F to this Agreement.

 Monthly Variable O&M Charge: This term shall have the meaning given to it in Article 4.4 and Exhibit E to this Agreement.

 MW: This term shall mean megawatt, or 1,000 Kw.

 MWh(s): This term shall mean megawatt-hour(s).

 NOVA: This term shall mean the pipeline system in Alberta, Canada, owned by NOVA Corporation of Alberta, and its successors and assigns, and interconnecting with ANG.

 Off Peak: This term shall mean all hours other than On Peak hours.

 On Peak: This term shall mean the hours ending 0700 Pacific Prevailing Time to 2200 Pacific Prevailing Time, Monday through Saturday, exclusive of any North American Electric Reliability Council holidays; provided, however, that for deliveries by Owner to Power Purchaser to the Point of Delivery or to COB, this term shall mean the hours ending 0700 Pacific Prevailing Time to 2200 Pacific Prevailing Time, all Days.

 Operating Reserves: This term shall mean Spinning Reserve Service and Supplemental Reserve Service, as defined by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (or the applicable successor organization) in Order 888, as it may be amended or replaced, and defined and implemented in accordance with prevailing regional standards, including but not limited to the Western Systems Coordinating Council's "Minimum Operating Reliability Criteria."

 Operating Reserves Charge: This term shall have the meaning given to it in Article 4.7.

 Operating Year: The twelve (12) calendar Months commencing with the first Day of the first full Month following the Date of Commercial Operation and each twelve (12) Month period thereafter during the Term (including any Extension Term) of this Agreement; provided; however; that the first Operating Year will include the period between the Date of Commercial Operation and the first Day of the first full Month following the Date of Commercial Operation.

 Person: This term shall mean any individual or a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture, joint stock company, government (or any agency or political subdivision thereof) or other entity of any kind.

 PG&E GT NW: This term shall mean the pipeline system from Kingsgate, Idaho to Malin, Oregon, owned by the PG&E Gas Transmission, Northwest Corporation, and its successors or assigns, and interconnecting with ANG to the north and Pacific Gas & Electric Corporation's California intrastate pipeline system to the south.

 Pipeline Loss Percentage: The term shall mean the pipeline losses on NOVA, ANG, and PG&E GT NW from the Gas Index point in Alberta, Canada, to Malin, Oregon, pursuant to the pipeline's then-effective published tariffs.

 Point of Delivery: This term shall mean the busbar of the Facility at its interconnection with the Meridian-Captain Jack 500 Kv line.

 Power: Electrical energy and capacity from the Facility, or otherwise, as measured at the Point of Delivery, or as otherwise provided in Article 3.3 or 3.4, sold to Power Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement.

 Power Purchaser's System: The points on the electric grid in the Puget Sound area where the facilities of Power Purchaser are interconnected with BPA and Puget Sound Energy.

 Prime Rate: The publicly announced prime rate or reference rate for commercial loans to large businesses with the highest credit rating in the United States in effect from time to time quoted by Citibank, N.A. If a Citibank, N.A. prime rate is not available, the applicable Prime Rate shall be the announced prime rate or reference rate for commercial loans in effect from time to time quoted by a bank with $10 billion or more in assets in New York City, N.Y., selected by the Party to whom interest based on the prime rate is being paid.

 Prudent Utility Practices: At a particular time, those practices, methods, equipment, and acts then approved of or engaged in by the North American Electric Reliability Council, as modified by the Western Systems Coordinating Council, or otherwise approved of or engaged in by a significant portion of the electric utility industry to design, construct, operate and maintain equipment similar to the Facility's equipment.

 Scheduled Maintenance Outage: This term shall mean any outage or reduced generating capability other than a Forced Outage.

 Term: This term shall have the meaning given to it in Article 2.1 of this Agreement and shall include any Extension Term under Article 2.3.

 Transfer: This term has the meaning given to it in Article 15.1.

 Variable Pipeline Charges: This term shall mean the variable pipeline charges on NOVA, ANG, and PG&E GT NW from the Gas Index point in Alberta, Canada, to Malin, Oregon, pursuant to published tariffs in effect from time to time.

 Year: This term shall mean a calendar year during the Term of this Agreement.

 ARTICLE 2

 TERM AND TERMINATION

 2.1 Term. This Agreement shall bind the Parties upon its execution and delivery, and except as provided in Articles 2.2 and 2.3, shall terminate at 2400 hours Pacific Prevailing Time, on last Day of the fifth (5th) Operating Year.

 2.2 Termination Prior to Date of Commercial Operation. This Agreement shall terminate without any liability or penalty of any kind by either Party to the other, and shall have no further force or effect, on June 30, 2002, if the Date of Commercial Operation has not occurred as of such date.

 2.3 Extension Option.

 2.3.1 Provided that Power Purchaser is not in default of any of its obligations under this Agreement, Power Purchaser may extend the Term for one (1) additional five (5) year period (the "Extension Term") by giving notice to Owner in writing no later than eighteen (18) months before the expiration of the Term; provided, however, that Owner's duty to deliver Power to Power Purchaser during the Extension Term shall be contingent upon Owner's reasonable satisfaction that Power Purchaser has not been affected by a Material Adverse Change or, if so, that the Power Purchaser has provided and will maintain credit support as required by Article 4.10.

 2.3.2 During the Extension Term, Power Purchaser shall continue to pay all charges as described in Article 4 of this Agreement; provided, however, that the Monthly Fixed O&M Charge and the Monthly Variable O&M Charge shall be redetermined for purposes of the first twelve (12) Month period of the Extension Term, and escalated thereafter in the same manner as was the case in the original Term. Such redetermination shall be based on average costs as reasonably forecast by Owner for the initial twelve (12) Month period during the Extension Term. Owner shall provide Power Purchaser with a non-binding written estimate of the redetermination no later than nineteen (19) Months before the expiration of the initial Term, followed by a written summation of the actual redetermination no later than thirty (30) Days before the start of the Extension Term.

 ARTICLE 3

 PURCHASE, SALE, AND RIGHTS UPON COMMERCIAL OPERATION

 3.1 Purchase and Sale. Power Purchaser shall purchase and Owner shall sell Power pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

 3.2 Right to Schedule Power On and After the Date of Commercial Operation. As of the Effective Date, Owner estimates that the Date of Commercial Operation will occur on July 1, 2001. Owner shall promptly inform Power Purchaser in writing of any changes in the estimated Date of Commercial Operation and shall provide Power Purchaser with written notice of the actual Date of Commercial Operation as soon as reasonably practicable but not less than three (3) Business Days in advance of such date, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the Parties. On and after the Date of Commercial Operation, Power Purchaser may schedule electrical energy for monthly delivery, as set forth in Article 6.

 3.3 Delivery. Except as provided in Article 3.4, all electrical energy sold to Power Purchaser under this Agreement shall be delivered to Power Purchaser at the Point of Delivery, or as the Parties may otherwise agree from time to time.

 3.4 Alternate Delivery Rights.

 3.4.1 Owner may, by providing written notice to Power Purchaser at least four (4) Business Days before the start of a Month, elect to (a) alternatively deliver an amount of Power to be included in the written notice but not greater than 50 MW to Mid-Columbia and/or to Power Purchaser's System on a full schedule (24 hours per Day) for the Month or (b) alternatively deliver an amount of Power to be included in the written notice but not greater than 50 MW to Mid-Columbia and/or to Power Purchaser's System on an On Peak only schedule for the Month. Such election shall be effective for all applicable hours during the Month. Power Purchaser shall have the right to reject Owner's alternate delivery election, if any, pursuant to (a) or (b) above by providing written notice to Owner by noon Pacific Prevailing Time on the following Business Day, in which case deliveries for such Month by Owner to Power Purchaser shall be in accordance with Article 3.4.2 below; provided, however, Power Purchaser must accept Owner's election, if any, of alternate deliveries pursuant to (a) or (b) above for a minimum of two (2) Months during each July through June period during the Term (e.g., July 2001 - June 2002, July 2002 - June 2003, etc.).. For any alternate deliveries made by Owner pursuant to this Article 3.4.1, (1) Owner shall credit Power Purchaser an amount equal to $1.50 per MWh for all energy so delivered, (2) all such deliveries shall be scheduled in accordance with the scheduling procedures set forth in Article 6.3, and (3) Owner shall bear all costs and liabilities associated with making such deliveries to the alternate point(s) as provided above, and Power Purchaser shall bear all costs and liabilities associated with taking receipt of deliveries from the alternate point(s) as provided above.

 3.4.2 For all amounts of the Contract Delivery Rate not delivered under an alternate delivery as set forth in Article 3.4.1 for a Month, Owner shall make all such deliveries for such Month to the Point of Delivery; provided, however, that Owner may make such deliveries for any hour during such Month to COB in accordance with the scheduling procedures set forth in Article 6.3. For all deliveries to the Point of Delivery or COB under this Article 3.4.2, Owner shall bear all costs and liabilities associated with making such deliveries to the Point of Delivery or to COB, as the case may be, and Power Purchaser shall bear all costs and liabilities associated with taking receipt of deliveries from the Point of Delivery or from COB, as the case may be.

 ARTICLE 4

 PAYMENTS

 4.1 Payments by Power Purchaser. Commencing on the Date of Commercial Operation, Power Purchaser shall pay Owner the Monthly Capacity Charge, the Monthly Fixed O&M Charge, the Monthly Variable O&M Charge, the Monthly Fuel Charge and the Operating Reserves Charge, all as set forth in this Article 4; provided, however, that any monthly settlement associated with any hedging of the Monthly Fuel Charge shall be credited or debited to Power Purchaser irrespective of the Date of Commercial Operation. If the Date of Commercial Operation occurs on a date other than the first Day of a Month, the charges and credits contemplated by this Article 4 shall be calculated on the basis of a partial Month during the first Month of this Agreement.

 4.2 Monthly Capacity Charge. Power Purchaser shall pay a Monthly Capacity Charge (reduced by any credit pursuant to Article 6.2.4 or 6.2.5.5) equal to the product of the Contract Delivery Rate (converted to Kw) and the capacity rate in effect from time to time, as set forth in Exhibit C hereto. As noted on Exhibit C, the Monthly Capacity Charge includes fixed costs, as stated in the pipeline's then- effective published tariffs for firm service, associated with gas transportation from the Gas Index point to the Facility. Owner shall from time to time amend Exhibit C to reflect changes in these tariffs as provided in Article 4.8; provided, however, that the Monthly Capacity Charge shall not be adjusted based on changes to PG&E GT NW's Medford Lateral Rate Schedule.

 4.3 Monthly Fixed O&M Charge. Power Purchaser shall pay the Monthly Fixed O&M Charge equal to the product of the Contract Delivery Rate (converted to Kw) and the operating and maintenance rate, as set forth in Exhibit D, such rate to escalate as provided in Exhibit D. The Monthly Fixed O&M Charge is based on operating and maintenance costs associated with the Facility that do not vary directly as a function of Facility output.

 4.4 Monthly Variable O&M Charge. Power Purchaser shall pay the Monthly Variable O&M Charge based on the product of the total electrical energy (in MWhs) delivered to the Point of Delivery in a Month and the Monthly Variable O&M Charge (in $ per MWh) set forth in Exhibit E, such rate to escalate as provided in Exhibit E. The Monthly Variable O&M Charge is based on all operating and maintenance costs associated with the Facility that vary directly as a function of Facility output.

 4.5 Monthly Fuel Charge.

 4.5.1 The Monthly Fuel Charge is the cost of gas commodity, as measured by the Gas Index, adjusted for the Pipeline Loss Percentage and Variable Pipeline Charges to deliver such gas commodity to the Facility, as calculated in Article 4.5.2.

 4.5.2 Power Purchaser shall pay the Monthly Fuel Charge based on the following formula:

 [Monthly electrical energy (in MWh) delivered to Point of Delivery * Contract Heat Rate/1000] *

 [(Gas Index * (1+ Pipeline Loss Percentage)) + Variable Pipeline Charges]

 Exhibit F sets forth an example of how the Monthly Fuel Charge is calculated.

 4.5.3 The Pipeline Loss Percentage and the Variable Pipeline Charge as set forth in the pipeline's published tariffs for firm service in effect on the Effective Date are set forth in Exhibit G hereto. Owner shall update the Pipeline Loss Percentage and the Variable Pipeline Charge as provided in Article 4.8 of this Agreement.

 4.6 Hedging the Monthly Fuel Charge.

 4.6.1 At Power Purchaser's request and subject to credit arrangements satisfactory to Owner in its sole discretion, with reasonable notice provided by Power Purchaser, Owner will use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain and provide a hedge to the Gas Index for the requested forward Month(s) based on forward gas market prices at the time of such request.

 4.6.2 Unless otherwise mutually agreed, such hedging shall be: (a) in a form standard to the energy industry (e.g., monthly settlement against a fixed price hedge, a price cap or a price collar); and (b) not less than one (1) Month in length nor greater than the remaining Term of this Agreement, unless Power Purchaser has exercised its extension option pursuant to Article 2.3, in which case such hedging shall be not less than one (1) Month in length nor greater than the remaining Extended Term; and (c) for an amount greater than or equal to 5,000 Dth per Day but less than or equal to 16,000 Dth per Day.

 4.6.3 Subject to the limitations set forth in Article 4.6.2, Power Purchaser's hedging request shall at a minimum specify the type of hedge desired (e.g., fixed price), the specific Month(s), and the amount of gas (in Dth per Day). Power Purchaser's request may initially be verbal; provided, however, that Power Purchaser shall fax a written request to Owner on the same Business Day as provided in Article 11.2.

 4.6.4 If a hedge requires an additional up front payment (e.g., the option premium under a price cap), Power Purchaser shall make such additional payment in advance to Owner.

 4.6.5 Owner may present hedges tied to Canadian dollars or U.S. dollars, consistent with the definition of the Gas Index.

 4.6.6 Upon completion of a hedge, the Parties shall execute a written confirmation, in the form of Exhibit I hereto, describing the terms of such hedge.

 4.6.7 Once established as set forth above, the financial settlement of such hedge shall remain in place and be binding on the Power Purchaser and be unaffected by Power Purchaser's actual monthly schedule established pursuant to Article 6.2 hereto.

 4.6.8 For any Month that a hedge is in effect, the monthly settlement from such hedge shall be calculated independently based on the notional monthly volume specified for such hedge, and shall be broken out as a specific line item in the monthly bill as a credit or debit, as applicable. An example of such separate line treatment is set forth in Exhibit K hereto.

 4.6.9 Upon termination of this Agreement, any hedge of the Monthly Fuel Charge in effect shall be liquidated, with the gain or loss being passed through to Power Purchaser. The timing of such liquidation shall be pursuant to Power Purchaser's instructions, but in any event prior to ninety (90) Days after the receipt of a notice of termination. This article and the provisions of this Agreement required to give it effect shall survive the term of this Agreement.

 4.6.10 Owner and Power Purchaser may, from time to time, agree to remarket an existing hedge of the Monthly Fuel Charge, in full or in part, with the gain or loss resulting from the settlement of such remarketing being passed through to Power Purchaser.

 4.7 Operating Reserves Charge.

 4.7.1 Except as provided in Article 4.7.2, Power Purchaser shall pay Owner for all costs of Operating Reserves required by BPA as the control area operator, or as required by a successor control area operator. The charge to Power Purchaser for Operating Reserves shall be BPA's applicable rate schedule for Operating Reserves, or the charge as required by a successor control area operator, as set forth in Exhibit J. The Operating Reserves Charge shall be assessed to Power Purchaser based on the Contract Delivery Rate or electrical energy delivered, as applicable. Owner shall update the Operating Reserves Charge in Exhibit J as provided in Article 4.8.

 4.7.2 Power Purchaser and Owner may alternatively agree that Power Purchaser may provide its own Operating Reserves in support of its purchase of Power hereunder; provided, however, that any such self- provision of Operating Reserves shall be subject to BPA's approval as the control area operator, or subject to the approval of any successor control area operator. If the Parties agree that Power Purchaser may self-provide Operating Reserves, and such self-provision has received the approval of BPA or any successor control area operator, Power Purchaser shall be relieved of the Operating Reserves Charge under this Agreement to the extent of, and for the duration of, any such self-provision of Operating Reserves.

 4.8 Adjustments for Changes to Applicable Tariffs. If there are any changes after the Effective Date to any of the tariffs used or referred to in any of the attached Exhibits, Owner shall amend the Exhibits to reflect the change in the tariff by sending a notice of the amendment to Power Purchaser. Owner shall send the notice of amendment as promptly as practicable after it becomes aware of the change in the tariff; provided, however, that the amendment shall be retroactively effective to the date on which the change in the tariff took effect and shall be used thereafter in the calculation of all charges to which the tariff applies under this Agreement.

 4.9 Changes in Index. If any index used in this Agreement (including but not limited to the Gas Index or the escalation indices referred to in Exhibits C and D) or any revision or equivalent of that index ceases to be published, the Parties shall replace it with a substantially equivalent index that, after any necessary adjustments, provides the most reasonable substitute for the index in question.

 4.10 Credit Support. If there is any Material Adverse Change, Owner may require Power Purchaser to provide credit support in the form of a bond, letter of credit or other security in form and amount and from a source satisfactory to Owner in its sole discretion, sufficient to assure that Power Purchaser will continue to make the payments contemplated by this Agreement. If Power Purchaser fails to provide such credit support within sixty (60) Days of Owner's demand for it, Owner may suspend its performance under this Agreement until such credit support is posted or may treat the failure to provide credit support as a default and exercise its rights under Article 12 of this Agreement. At Owner's written request, Power Purchaser shall furnish Owner with such financial information as Owner may reasonably require to confirm that Power Purchaser has not been affected by a Material Adverse Change.

 4.11 Credit Support Pursuant to Hedging of Monthly Fuel Charge. Pursuant to the provision of hedging services under Article 4.6, Power Purchaser agrees to post, in a timely fashion, to Owner, or its agent as specified in Article 17.14, collateral or any other credit support required by a third party(s) with whom Owner, or its agent as specified in Article 17.14, is entering into such hedge(s). If Power Purchaser fails to post such collateral or other credit support on a timely basis as required by the third party, Owner or its agent may liquidate any hedge of the Monthly Fuel Charge in effect, with the gain or loss being passed through to Power Purchaser.

 4.12 Taxes. Power Purchaser shall be responsible for paying when due any sales, excise, business, use, energy or other taxes applicable to the purchase of Power (other than taxes on the income produced from the Facility's sale of Power) arising at or from the Point of Delivery.

 4.13 Credit for Deliveries to Alternate Points. Owner shall provide Power Purchaser with a credit, as applicable, in accordance with Owner's alternate deliveries pursuant to Article 3.4.1.

 4.14 Surcharges Pursuant to On Peak Schedule. Power Purchaser shall be responsible for paying any surcharges due to an On Peak schedule as set forth in Article 6.2.5.

 ARTICLE 5

 FACILITY OPERATION

 5.1 Operating Standards. Owner shall construct, operate and maintain the Facility in accordance with Prudent Utility Practices and consistent with any interconnection agreement related to the Facility.

 5.2 Site Visits. Upon Power Purchaser's reasonable prior written request provided to Owner at least thirty (30) Days in advance, Owner shall permit representatives of Power Purchaser to visit the Facility site to ascertain the condition of the Facility, all at Power Purchaser's sole risk and expense. Power Purchaser shall defend, indemnify and hold Owner harmless against any claims, demands, or liabilities of any nature whatsoever asserted by any of its representatives on account of any injury or damage suffered by such representative while visiting the Facility.

 ARTICLE 6

 SCHEDULING OF POWER

 6.1 Scheduled Maintenance. At least thirty (30) Days prior to each Operating Year, Owner shall provide Power Purchaser with written notice of Scheduled Maintenance Outages for such year, including a non-binding estimate of the duration and timing of such outages. At least five (5) Business Days before the Month in which a Scheduled Maintenance Outage is to begin, Owner will provide firm notice of the actual start and duration of such outage. Owner shall use commercially reasonable efforts, consistent with its obligations to other power purchasers, to accommodate any outage schedule adjustment that is requested by Power Purchaser.

 6.2 Monthly Schedules.

 6.2.1 Owner's Monthly Notification. Owner shall inform Power Purchaser of the Facility Minimum Generation Level, in both a 1x1 and a 2x1 operation, for the upcoming Month, no later than six (6) Business Days prior to the start of the Month.

 6.2.2 Power Purchaser's Monthly Nomination. With at least five (5) Business Days written notice before the start of a Month, Power Purchaser may nominate, in its sole discretion:

 (a) electrical energy at the Contract Delivery Rate on a full schedule (i.e. 24 hours per Day) during the Month; or,

 (b) no electrical energy during the Month; or,

 (c) electrical energy at the Contract Delivery Rate during On Peak hours for the Month, and no electrical energy for the remaining hours during the Month.

 If Power Purchaser has not provided such timely notice to Owner, as set forth above, a full (i.e. twenty-four (24) hours per Day) monthly schedule shall automatically apply. Power Purchaser shall nominate a monthly schedule based on either alternative (a) or (b) above no less than nine (9) Months each Operating Year, provided, however, that elections based on alternative (c) above, that are subsequently changed to a full schedule or no schedule pursuant to alternatives (b) or (c) in Article 6.2.5.1 below, shall count toward such nine (9) Month requirement.

 6.2.3 Full Schedules. Pursuant to alternative (a) of Article 6.2.2 of this Agreement, Power Purchaser's nomination for a full monthly schedule shall be deemed confirmed as a monthly schedule upon receipt by Owner.

 6.2.4 No Schedules. Pursuant to alternative (b) under Article 6.2.2 of this Agreement, Power Purchaser's nomination for no electrical energy delivery during the Month shall be deemed confirmed as a monthly schedule upon receipt by Owner and the following shall apply:

 6.2.4.1 Power Purchaser shall continue to pay all fixed charges, provided that the Monthly Capacity Charge shall be credited for an amount, if any, equal to: (a) the total number of hours in the Month; times (b) the Contract Delivery Rate; times (c) the Contract Heat Rate, divided by 1,000; times (d) the Malin/AECO Monthly Basis, less $0.02/Dth;

 6.2.4.2 Charges which vary as a function of power schedule (e.g. the Monthly Fuel Charge, the Monthly Variable O&M Charge, etc.) shall not apply; and

 6.2.4.3 Any hedge instrument in place for that Month, implemented pursuant to Section 4.6, shall continue to apply.

 6.2.5 On Peak Schedules. Pursuant to alternative (c) under Article 6.2.2 of this Agreement, Owner shall review Power Purchaser's On Peak nomination subject to: (a) the Minimum Generation Level; (b) the Maximum Ramp Rate; (c) forward wholesale natural gas and electric market prices for such Month; (d) cycling costs of the Facility; and (e) scheduling nominations by other purchasers of Facility output. As a result of such review, Owner shall determine, at its sole discretion (but using commercially reasonable efforts) the expected most economic daily generation pattern for the Facility. Owner shall notify Power Purchaser of such determination, and the associated daily power schedule to be taken by Power Purchaser for the Month based on Power Purchaser's pro-rata share of the Facility generating pattern determined by Owner no later than 10 a.m. Pacific Prevailing Time on the fourth (4th) Business Day prior to the Month. Such notification shall also include the daily cycling charges and heat rate surcharges to be assessed by Owner for the Month pursuant to Articles 6.2.5.2 and 6.2.5.3 below.

 6.2.5.1 If Owner can meet Power Purchaser's On Peak nomination pursuant to Article 6.2.2(c) without any changes, pro-rations or surcharges, Power Purchaser's On Peak schedule shall be deemed confirmed upon Power Purchaser's receipt of Owner's notice pursuant to Article 6.2.5. Otherwise, by no later than 2 p.m. Pacific Prevailing Time on the fourth (4th) Business Day prior to the Month, Power Purchaser shall confirm to Owner that it will: (a) accept the schedule set forth in Article 6.2.5; or (b) accept a full schedule, subject to all the provisions of Article 6.2.3 above; or (c) accept no schedule, subject to all the provisions of Article 6.2.4 above. Power Purchaser's confirmation notice shall be deemed confirmed as a monthly schedule upon receipt by Owner. If Power Purchaser has not provided such timely notice to Owner pursuant to this Article 6.5.2.1, the schedule pursuant to (a) in this Article 6.2.5.1 shall automatically apply.

 6.2.5.2 To the extent any schedule pursuant to Article 6.2.5 would require Owner, in its sole prospective determination, to operate the Facility Base Capacity at below full "2x1" operation (i.e. the Facility's two combustion turbines and one steam turbine generator), Power Purchaser agrees in advance to pay Owner the applicable surcharge to the Contract Heat Rate, as set forth in Exhibit O hereto. Owner may apply such surcharges to On Peak and/or Off Peak schedules, depending on Owner's commercially reasonable projection of Facility operations for the Month. Exhibit P sets forth examples illustrating the application of these surcharges to the Contract Heat Rate.

 6.2.5.3 At Owner's sole discretion, Owner may prospectively agree to cycle (i.e., dispatch off and on) the Facility (below the Minimum Generation Level) to meet Power Purchaser's monthly nomination pursuant to Article 6.2.5. To the extent that Owner agrees to a projected requirement to cycle the Facility for the Month, Power Purchaser agrees in advance to pay Owner a cycling surcharge based on the applicable charges set forth in Exhibit O. The application of such surcharges shall depend on the nature of the projected cycling (i.e., cycling one combustion turbine, or cycling both combustion turbines and the steam turbine). Power Purchaser's payment associated with such applicable cycling surcharge shall be based on Power Purchaser's schedule in proportion to the overall Facility schedule associated with the cycling of the Facility, times the surcharge rate set forth in Exhibit O, times the number of days in such Month. Exhibit P sets forth examples illustrating the application of these cycling surcharges.

 6.2.5.4 Owner may, upon thirty (30) days advance written notice, amend Exhibit O from time to time to reflect changes to applicable costs.

 6.2.5.5 If Power Purchaser accepts the schedule determined by Owner pursuant to Article 6.2.5 above, Power Purchaser shall, for the Month, pay all fixed and variable costs, as set forth in Article 6.2.4, provided however, that Power Purchaser shall be credited for an amount, if any, equal to: (a) the total delivered energy available in the Month assuming a full (24 hour) schedule, less the total energy that would be delivered based on Power Purchaser's election under Article 6.2.2 above; times (b) the Contract Heat Rate, divided by 1,000; times (c) the Malin/AECO Monthly Basis, less $0.02/Dth.

 6.2.5.6 To the extent Power Purchaser confirms a schedule pursuant to Article 6.2.5.1 (a), and in the event that Owner, or its agent, incurs any additional costs related to gas imbalances strictly due to the application, by the gas pipeline operator, of intra-day balancing requirements, and such additional costs are attributable to Power Purchaser's hourly electric energy schedule, Owner shall promptly inform Power Purchaser and the Parties shall, in good faith, endeavor to determine the portion of such costs, if any, which may be passed through to Power Purchaser based on cost causation.

 6.3 Scheduling Procedures. Owner shall schedule, or cause to have scheduled, Power from the Facility, or otherwise, to the Point of Delivery, or as otherwise provided in Articles 3.3 or 3.4, for delivery to Power Purchaser under this Agreement consistent with Prudent Utility Practices. Power Purchaser shall similarly schedule, or cause to have scheduled, Power from the Point of Delivery, or from alternate points as provided in Articles 3.3 or 3.4, to a legitimate control area or load-serving entity consistent with Prudent Utility Practices. Schedules shall be agreed upon by Owner and Power Purchaser no later than 10 a.m. Pacific Prevailing Time on the immediately preceding Business Day prior to the Day on which electric power deliveries are to be made, provided, however, that for scheduling of deliveries on weekends and holidays (as defined by the North American Electric Reliability Council), Owner and Power Purchaser shall follow prevailing scheduling procedures within the Western Systems Coordinating Council with regard to multiple day scheduling. Once schedules are established, changes to schedules shall be made only pursuant to Article 6.5 or by agreement of the Parties, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld by either Party; provided, however, that for deliveries to COB pursuant to Article 3.4.2, Owner shall schedule such deliveries with Power Purchaser no later than 40 minutes before the hour of delivery, or as the Parties may otherwise mutually agree.

 6.4 Substantive Changes to Industry Scheduling Practices. In the event that the normal scheduling procedures for natural gas or electric energy change in such a way that causes a conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, specifically Articles 6.2 and 6.3, the Parties shall make reasonable best efforts to make necessary changes to this Agreement to conform to the prevailing scheduling practices in effect at that time.

 6.5 Effect of Forced Outages. Owner shall have the right to curtail Power Purchaser's schedule under Article 6.2 for Forced Outages, provided that: (a) such curtailment shall not take effect until the start of the next available scheduling hour, unless the nature of the Forced Outage requires the curtailment to take place sooner; and (b) in the event of a partial Forced Outage at the Facility, Owner shall curtail its sales to any third parties (including Power Purchaser) based on the following curtailment criteria: all hourly sales will be curtailed first, followed by all daily or partial-month sales, followed by all sales of one (1) Month, followed by all sales greater than one (1) Month but not more than twelve (12) Months in total duration, and thereafter on an integer Year basis (e.g., sales greater than twelve (12) Months but less than or equal to twenty-four (24) Months, sales greater than twenty-four (24) Months but less than or equal to thirty-six (36) Months, etc.). In determining the term of any sale for purposes of this Article 6.4, Owner shall look to the original Term of the sale agreement (e.g., five (5) Years for this Agreement).

 6.6 Annual Availability Test. To the extent that the Availability Factor is less than eighty-five percent (85%) in any Operating Year, Owner shall pay Power Purchaser, as Power Purchaser's exclusive remedy, a refund of a percentage of the Monthly Capacity Charge and the Monthly Fixed O&M Charge paid during such Operating Year equal to ([85 %- Availability Factor] / 85%). Such refund shall be paid within ninety (90) Days after the end of the applicable Operating Year.

 6.7 Bi-Annual Availability Test. In the event that the Availability Factor is less than eighty-five percent (85%) in two (2) consecutive Operating Years, either party may terminate this Agreement upon ninety (90) Days written notice to the other Party.

 6.8 Facility Availability Log. Owner shall maintain a log showing operations of the Facility during each hour of the Term of this Agreement on and after the Date of Commercial Operation. Such log shall include all information needed to confirm the Facility availability and may be reviewed and copied by Power Purchaser during normal business hours upon giving reasonable advance written notice of its election to do so.

 ARTICLE 7

 METERING AND QUANTITY

 Owner shall install, own, maintain and test meters and associated equipment necessary to determine the amounts of capacity and associated energy available from the Facility and to confirm the data included in the Facility availability log maintained pursuant to Article 6.7. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of calculating billings pursuant to Article 4, the determination of electrical energy delivered to Power Purchaser for a Month shall be based upon the sum of the actual schedules in such Month delivered by Owner to Power Purchaser at the Point of Delivery, COB, Mid-Columbia, into Power Purchaser's System, and/or at other alternate points as provided and defined in Articles 3.3 and 3.4. Such delivered amounts in a Month shall be verified by Owner and Power Purchaser as soon as reasonably practicable after the Month in which delivery occurs and billed in accordance with Article 8.

 ARTICLE 8

 BILLING AND PAYMENT

 Billings to Power Purchaser under this Agreement shall be addressed as follows: Seattle City Light Power Management Branch Attention: Paul Munz 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300 Seattle, WA 98104-5031 Fax: (206) 386-4555

 or to such other address as Power Purchaser may designate in writing from time to time.

 Owner shall bill Power Purchaser no later than the 15th Day of each Month for charges determined under Article 4 for the preceding Month and shall transmit the bill to Power Purchaser by fax. An example of the billing calculation is set forth in Exhibit K hereto. Owner may use an estimate of the Current Exchange Rate in calculating the Monthly Fuel Charge included in each bill; provided, however, that Owner shall provide a retroactive adjustment in the next Month's invoice based on the actual Current Exchange Rate, with interest calculated pursuant to Article 17.7 hereto. Owner shall include in each faxed bill sufficient detail to allow Power Purchaser to verify the billing. Power Purchaser shall pay the amount specified in the bill by wire transfer of good federal funds by the later of (a) ten (10) Days after Power Purchaser's receipt of the bill, or (b) the 20th Day of the Month, the "Due Date," in accordance with instructions given by Owner to Power Purchaser from time to time; provided, however, that any changes to such wire transfer instructions will not be effective until two Business Days after the date on which notice of the change is sent to the Power Purchaser. If the Due Date is not a Business Day, Power Purchaser shall pay the monthly bill on the Business Day following such Due Date. If Power Purchaser pays any bill under protest and its position is subsequently upheld, or if an error in any billing is discovered within two years of when it was submitted, interest shall accrue at the rate for late payments as specified in Article 17.7, applied to the amount of any billing adjustment from the date the bill was initially paid to the date of the adjustment. Late payments shall bear interest from the date due until paid at the rate specified in Article 17.7.

 ARTICLE 9

 ENVIRONMENTAL OFFSETS

 9.1 General. As part of the construction of the Facility, Owner has performed certain activities to offset the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from the Facility. It is the intent of the parties that the environmental benefits of these activities will be held in trust by the Oregon Energy Facility Siting Council and will at no time be sold.

 9.2 Offset Programs. Owner will fund the CO2 mitigation projects identified in the Amended Site Certificate for the Klamath Cogeneration Project dated April, 1998 ("Offset Programs") during the Term of the Agreement. A detailed description of the Offset Programs and the amount of CO2 mitigated by each program is contained in the document titled "Order In the Matter of the 500 MW Exemption from the Demonstration of Showing Need for a Power Plant" and dated August, 1996. A brief description follows:

 9.2.1 Reforestation of unstocked and understocked forest lands in Oregon through the Oregon Forest Resources Trust;

 9.2.2 Capture of waste methane from coal mines for use in generating electricity;

 9.2.3 Funding of solar photovoltaic projects in developing countries;

 9.2.4 Expansion of the Klamath Falls geothermal district heating system;

 9.2.5 Funding of the Oregon Climate Trust; and

 9.2.6 Other projects as may be mutually agreed in writing by the Parties.

 9.3 Monitoring and Verification. The Owner will develop a monitoring and verification program for Offset Programs described in Articles 9.2.1 through 9.2.4 and will make a copy of the results of this program available to the Power Purchaser.

 9.4 Funding Requirements of Offset Programs. The total funding of the offset Programs by the Owner shall be no less than $5.42 million. Adequate accounting of all funding of the Offset Programs shall be maintained by Owner and subject to review by Power Purchaser. Owner will prepare an annual status report of the offset program under U.S. Department of Energy Section 1605(b), a copy of which will be made available to the Power Purchaser. A more detailed report of the program will be prepared by Owner for the Oregon Energy Facility Siting Council and the Power Purchaser every five (5) years.

 9.5 CO2 Reductions. Under the Owner's Oregon site certificate, the Owner expects to make steam available for off-site industrial use of 200,000 pounds of steam per hour on an annual basis. Benefits associated with the steam sales will accrue to the Facility and be reported under the Department of Energy Section 1605(b), a copy of which will be made available to the Power Purchaser.

 9.6 Contingency Fund. The stated plan for the use of a high efficiency gas turbine, steam sales and the funding of the Offset Programs will be made with the goal of offsetting approximately thirty (30) percent of the Facility's CO2 emissions. Consistent with the Facility's site certificate, if the mitigation portfolio, as calculated in accordance with the site certificate, results in mitigation that is less than 90 percent of its projected level, the Owner will make available a contingency fund of $300,000 for additional offset funding, as monitored and managed by, and at the discretion of, the Oregon Facility Siting Council.

 9.7 Enforcement. Power Purchaser agrees that the provisions of this Article 9 do not grant Power Purchaser the right to enforce the Offset Programs against Owner or to approve modifications to the Offset Programs or the cite certificate for the Facility. Owner agrees to provide Power Purchaser with timely written notice of proposed material changes to the Offset Programs. Power Purchaser's sole remedy for a breach of this Article 9 is termination of this Agreement pursuant to Articles 12.1 and 12.4.

 ARTICLE 10

 AUDIT RIGHTS

 During the Term of this Agreement (and for a period of twelve (12) Months after the date on which this Agreement terminates), Power Purchaser may review the accounting records and supporting documents of Owner or its agent used to calculate charges under Article 4 of this Agreement during the prior twenty four (24) months. Owner shall maintain such accounting records and adequate supporting documents for at least such 24-month period.

 ARTICLE 11

 NOTICES

 11.1 General. Except as specifically provided below, any notice or notification required, permitted or contemplated hereunder shall be in writing, shall be addressed to the Party to be notified at the address set forth below or at such other address as a Party may designate for itself from time to time by notice hereunder, and shall be deemed to have been validly served, given or delivered (i) five (5) Business Days following deposit in the United States mail, with proper first class postage prepaid, (ii) the next Business Day after such notice was delivered to a regularly scheduled overnight delivery carrier with delivery fees either prepaid or an arrangement, satisfactory with such carrier, made for the payment of such fees, or (iii) upon receipt of notice given by fax or personal delivery:

 To Owner: Manager, Middle Office PacifiCorp Power Marketing, Inc. (as agent for City of Klamath Falls, Oregon) 830 NE Holladay, Suite 250 Portland, OR 97232 Fax: (503) 813-5707

 with a copy to: City Manager City of Klamath Falls, Oregon 500 Klamath Avenue P.O. Box 237 Klamath Falls, OR 97601 Fax: (541) 883-5399

 To Power Purchaser: Paula S. Green Deputy Superintendent Seattle City Light Power Management Branch 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300 Seattle, WA 98104-5031 Fax: (206) 386-4555

 with a copy to: Cindy M. Wright Manager of Wholesale Contracts Seattle City Light Power Management Branch 700 Fifth Avenue, Suite 3300 Seattle, WA 98104-5031 Fax: (206) 386-4555

 11.2 Hedging Requests. Hedging requests made by Power Purchaser pursuant to Article 4.6 shall be made to the contact person(s) designated in Exhibit L hereto, as unilaterally revised by Owner from time to time upon written notice to Power Purchaser.

 11.3 Scheduling Notices. Notices to Owner of Power Purchaser's monthly schedule request pursuant to Article 6 hereto shall be made in writing and shall be delivered to the fax number designated in Exhibit M hereto, as unilaterally revised by Owner from time to time upon written notice to Power Purchaser.

 11.4 Forced Majeure and Forced Outage Notices. Notices of Force Majeure or Forced Outages declared by Owner shall be made verbally to Power Purchaser, followed by written notice delivered by Owner to Power Purchaser. Notice will be effective at the time verbally given. Such notices shall be made to the person(s) specified in Exhibit N hereto, as unilaterally revised by Power Purchaser form time to time upon written notice to Owner.

 ARTICLE 12

 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES

 12.1 Defaults. The following events shall constitute defaults under this Agreement:

 12.1.1 Failure of a Party to perform any material duty imposed upon that Party by this Agreement;

 12.1.2 Filing of a petition in bankruptcy by or against a Party if such petition is not withdrawn or dismissed within sixty (60) Days after it is filed;

 12.1.3 Assignment by a Party for the benefit of creditors;

 12.1.4 Allowance by a Party of the appointment of a receiver or trustee of all or any part of its property if such receiver or trustee is not discharged within 60 Days after his appointment;

 12.1.5 Failure of Power Purchaser to provide credit support within sixty (60) Days as required by Article 4.10 of this Agreement;

 12.1.6 Failure of Power Purchaser to post or maintain credit support pursuant to Article 4.11 of this Agreement.

 12.2 Notice of Default. The Party in default under this Agreement shall be referred to as the "Defaulting Party," and the other Party shall be referred to as the "Non-Defaulting Party." The Non- Defaulting Party shall have the right to give the Defaulting Party a written Notice of Default, which shall describe the default in reasonable detail and state the date by which the default must be cured. In the case of a default described in Articles 12.1.2, 12.1.3, 12.1.4, 12.1.5 or 12.1.6, there will be no cure period and no opportunity to cure. In the case of a failure to pay money when due, the default must be cured within ten (10) Days after receipt of the Notice of Default. In the case of all other defaults, the default must be cured (except to the extent provided in Article 12.3) within thirty (30) Days after receipt of the Notice of Default.

 12.3 Opportunity to Cure. If within the thirty (30) Day period described in Article 12.2, the Defaulting Party cures the default, or if the failure is one (other than the failure to make payments) that cannot in good faith be corrected within such period and the Defaulting Party begins to correct the default within the applicable period and continues corrective efforts with reasonable diligence until a cure is effected, the Notice of Default shall be inoperative, and the Defaulting Party shall lose no rights under this Agreement. If, within the specified period, the Defaulting Party does not cure the default or begin to cure the default as provided above, the Non- Defaulting Party may exercise the remedies set forth in Article 12.4.

 12.4 Rights upon Default. After providing notice and an opportunity to cure as provided above, the Non-Defaulting Party shall have the right (but not the duty) to terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to the Defaulting Party.

 12.5 Remedies Not Exclusive. Each and every power and remedy given to the Non-Defaulting Party (a) shall be in addition to every other power and remedy now or hereafter available to the Non-Defaulting Party at law or in equity (including the right to specific performance), (b) may be exercised from time to time and as often and in such order as may be deemed expedient, and (c) shall be cumulative, so that the exercise of one power or remedy shall not waive the right to exercise any other or others. No delay or omission in the exercise of any power or remedy and no renewal or extension of any performance due under this Agreement shall impair any such power or remedy or waive any default. Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, all financial obligations that have accrued under this Agreement shall remain until paid.

 12.6 Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence for each and every obligation set forth in this Agreement.

 ARTICLE 13

 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

 13.1 Waiver of Consequential Damages. NEITHER PARTY HEREUNDER SHALL BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT OR TORT (INCLUDING SUCH PARTY'S OWN NEGLIGENCE) AND INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, LOSS OF PROFITS OR REVENUE, LOSS OF USE OF THE EQUIPMENT OR ANY ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT, COST OF CAPITAL, COST OF PURCHASED POWER, COST OF SUBSTITUTE EQUIPMENT, FACILITIES OR SERVICES, DOWNTIME COSTS, OR CLAIMS OF CUSTOMERS OF THE OWNER OR OF POWER PURCHASER FOR SUCH DAMAGES.

 13.2 Nonrecourse to Owner. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, there shall be no recourse against Owner, or any of its officials or employees, for any liability to Power Purchaser arising in connection with any breach or default under this Agreement, except that Power Purchaser may satisfy any judgement obtained by Power Purchaser against Owner arising from a breach or default by Owner under this Agreement from moneys available therefor, if any, under the Indenture of Trust dated as of April 1, 1999, between Owner and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as "Bond Trustee" (as the same may hereafter be amended, restated, or supplemented, the "Bond Indenture"). If the Bond Indenture has been discharged, defeased or otherwise terminated, the Power Purchaser shall have the right to satisfy any judgement obtained by Power Purchaser against Owner arising from a breach or default by Owner under this Agreement, from revenues (as defined in the Bond Indenture) available to pay such judgement, from proceeds from the disposition of Facility assets, or from insurance policies or agreements maintained by Owner to the extent such policies or agreements provide coverage for any such breach, default or judgement, and Power Purchaser shall look solely to such moneys under the Bond Indenture, revenues, proceeds or insurance (collectively "Project Assets") in enforcing rights and obligations under and in connection with this Agreement, provided that (a) the foregoing provisions of this Article 13.2 shall not constitute a waiver, release or discharge of any of the indebtedness, or of any of the terms, covenants, conditions, or provisions of this Agreement, and the same shall continue until fully paid, discharged, observed, or performed; (b) the foregoing provisions of this Article 13.2 shall not limit or restrict the right of Power Purchaser to name Owner or any other Person as a defendant in any action or suit for the exercise of  any remedy under or with respect to this Agreement, or for injunction, mandamus or specific performance, so long as such remedy shall not be enforced against any other assets of Owner or any of its respective officials or employees or out of any property, assets or funds other than Project Assets. The limitations on recourse set forth in this Article 13.2 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the full payment and performance of the obligations of the Parties hereunder.

 ARTICLE 14

 DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 If the Parties are unable to resolve a dispute with respect to this Agreement, either Party may send a notice to the other requesting a meeting at which senior officers or officials of the Parties will attempt to resolve the dispute. If the Parties are unable to resolve the dispute within ten (10) Days after the meeting notice is received by the Party to whom it is directed, either Party may demand that the matter be submitted to a single neutral arbitrator with significant experience in the power industry. If the Parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator within ten (10) Days of the demand, the arbitrator shall be selected by the Presiding Judge of the Circuit Court of Multnomah County, Oregon, and the Party applying for the selection of the arbitrator shall request that the selection be made on an expedited basis. Within ten (10) Days of the selection of the arbitrator, the Party demanding arbitration shall submit to the arbitrator a reasonably detailed description of its position together with supporting material. Within a further ten (10) Days, the other Party shall respond by submitting to the arbitrator a reasonably detailed statement of its position together with supporting material. Each Party shall deliver copies of its submissions to the other Party and shall promptly provide any additional explanation or information requested by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall be instructed to use all reasonable efforts to render a written decision setting forth its findings and conclusions within thirty (30) Days of the date on which the arbitration proceedings are concluded. The arbitrator's decision concerning the item or items in dispute shall be final and binding on the Parties. Each Party shall bear the arbitrator's expenses equally.

 ARTICLE 15

 ASSIGNMENT

 15.1 Restriction on Assignment by the Owner. Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, Owner may not assign or otherwise transfer or permit the transfer of (collectively, "Transfer") this Agreement without the Power Purchaser's prior written consent, which the Power Purchaser shall not unreasonably withhold; provided, however, that Power Purchaser's consent is not required for any Transfer of this Agreement resulting from the Bond Trustee's acquisition of the Owner's interest in this Agreement by foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure or other enforcement under the Bond Indenture or any other document executed in connection with the Bond Indenture.

 15.2 Restriction on Assignment by the Power Purchaser. Power Purchaser may not assign this Agreement without Owner's prior written consent, which Owner shall not unreasonably withhold. Owner may withhold its consent if Power Purchaser proposes to assign its rights or delegate its duties under this Agreement to any party that (a) is not either (i) a state or any political subdivision of a state or instrumentality thereof, or (ii) BPA with respect to obligations incurred pursuant to 16 USC section 839ff, (b) is, in Owner's judgment, not a qualified purchaser for purposes of preserving the tax-exempt status of the interest on certain bonds issued to finance the Facility, or (c) has a credit rating from a Standard & Poor's Rating Group of BBB or less. If Power Purchaser wishes to assign or delegate any rights or obligations under this Agreement, it shall provide Owner with a detailed description of the nature and duration of the proposed assignment and information concerning the proposed assignee. Any assignment in violation of this provision shall be void.

 15.3 Additional Assignments of Security Interests. Owner may from time to time grant one or more security interests in its interest in this Agreement.

 15.4 Assumption of and Release from Liabilities. Any permitted assignee or transferee of Owner's interest in this Agreement shall assume all existing and future obligations of Owner to be performed under this Agreement. Upon any permitted assignment of this Agreement, Owner shall be released from any and all liability accruing from and after the date of the assignment.

 15.5 Binding Effect. This Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their permitted successors and assigns.

 15.6 No Waiver. A Party's consent to a Transfer shall not be construed or deemed to be a waiver of the restrictions contained in this Article 15 or to be a consent to any later Transfer.

 15.7 Limits on Resale of Power. Power Purchaser shall not resell as Facility-specific any of the Power that it purchases under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the Owner; provided, however, that Power Purchaser may, without obtaining Owner's consent, resell as Facility-specific Power for a period of not more than thirty (30) days (including all renewal options) from the date on which the Facility-specific resale purchaser obtains the right to take delivery of the Power or the date on which the short-term Facility-specific resale contract is executed (whichever occurs first). Power Purchaser shall maintain a record of each such short-term resale contract and shall provide, upon reasonable request by Owner, a copy of such record to Owner for its review. If Power Purchaser wishes to resell on a Facility-specific basis any of the Power that it purchases under this Agreement for a period of thirty (30) days or more, it shall provide Owner with a detailed description of the nature and duration of the proposed Facility-specific resale and information concerning the proposed purchaser. Owner may withhold its consent if it concludes that a proposed Facility-specific resale may adversely affect the tax exempt status of the interest on certain bonds issued to finance the Facility. Any Facility-specific resale in violation of this provision shall be void.

 ARTICLE 16

 REPRESENTATIONS, COVENANTS, AND WARRANTIES

 16.1 Power Purchaser's Representations, Covenants, and Warranties. Power Purchaser represents, covenants, and warrants to the Owner that:

 16.1.1 Corporate Organization. Power Purchaser is a duly organized, validly existing municipal corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Washington.

 16.1.2 Power and Authority. Power Purchaser has the requisite authority to enter into this Agreement and to perform according to the terms hereof.

 16.1.3 Due Authorization. Power Purchaser's City Council has taken all actions required to be taken by its charter to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.

 16.1.4 No Violation. The execution and delivery of this Agreement does not contravene any provision of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, or other material agreement binding on Power Purchaser or any valid order of any court, or any regulatory agency or other body having authority to which Power Purchaser is subject.

 16.1.5 Enforceability. This Agreement is a valid and legally binding obligation of Power Purchaser, enforceable against Power Purchaser in accordance with its terms (except as the enforceability of this Agreement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, bank moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and laws restricting the availability of equitable remedies and except as the enforceability of this Agreement may be subject to general principles of equity, whether or not such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at equity or in law).

 16.1.6 Purpose of Purchase. Power Purchaser is purchasing Power to serve its own retail customers and not for the purpose of Facility- specific resale, and the amount of Power purchased does not exceed Power Purchaser's expected customer load over the Term.

 16.1.7 Governmental Status. Power Purchaser is a political subdivision within the meaning of Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

 16.2 Owner's Representations, Covenants, and Warranties. The Owner represents, covenants, and warrants to Power Purchaser that:

 16.2.1 Corporate Organization. The Owner is a municipal corporation duly organized and validly existing under its Charter and the laws of Oregon.

 16.2.2 Power and Authority. The Owner has the requisite power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to perform according to the terms hereof.

 16.2.3 Due Authorization. The Owner's City Council has taken all actions required to be taken by its Charter or otherwise necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.

 16.2.4 No Violation. The execution and delivery of this Agreement does not contravene any provision of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, or other material agreement binding on the Owner or any valid order of any court, or any regulatory agency or other body having authority to which the Owner is subject.

 16.2.5 Enforceability. This Agreement is a valid and legally binding obligation of the Owner, enforceable against the Owner in accordance with its terms (except as the enforceability of this Agreement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, bank moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, principles of public policy concerning, affecting or limiting the enforcement of rights or remedies against governmental entities such as the Owner, and laws restricting the availability of equitable remedies and except as the enforceability of this Agreement may be subject to general principles of equity, whether or not such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at equity or in law).

 16.2.6 Public Contract Findings. This Agreement is exempt from the applicable competitive bidding requirements of ORS chapter 279 and of Owner's Local Contract Review Board rules.

 ARTICLE 17

 MISCELLANEOUS

 17.1 Severability. The invalidity, in whole or in part, of any of the sections or paragraphs of this Agreement will not affect the validity of the remainder of such sections or paragraphs.

 17.2 Amendment. No modification, amendment, or other change to this Agreement will be effective unless consented to in writing by each of the Parties.

 17.3 Waiver. Failure or forbearance by any Party to exercise any of its rights or remedies under this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of such rights or remedies. No Party shall be deemed to have waived or forborne any right or remedy resulting from such failure to perform unless it has made such waiver specifically in writing.

 17.4 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which shall be deemed one and the same Agreement.

 17.5 Choice of Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Oregon without reference to conflict of laws or the principles thereof.

 17.6 Effect of Force Majeure. Except for the obligation to make any payments that are due and payable, Power Purchaser or Owner, as the case may be, shall be excused from performance under this Agreement to the extent, but only to the extent, that performance hereunder is prevented by an act or event of Force Majeure. Power Purchaser or Owner, as the case may be, shall use its reasonable efforts to overcome or mitigate the effects of such an act or event of Force Majeure; provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Party affected by an act or event of Force Majeure to forestall or settle any strike, lock-out or other labor dispute against its will.

 17.7 Interest on Amounts Due. Any amounts owing after the due date thereof shall bear interest at the Prime Rate plus two percent (2%) from the date due until paid; provided, however, that the interest rate shall at no time exceed the maximum rate allowed by applicable law.

 17.8 Facility Financing. To facilitate the obtaining of financing or refinancing for the Facility, Power Purchaser shall execute and deliver such consents, agreements or similar documents not adverse to Power Purchaser's interests hereunder or otherwise as the Bond Trustee or Owner may reasonably request in connection with the documentation of the financing or for the Facility.

 17.9 Further Assurances. The Parties shall do and shall perform all such acts and things and shall execute all such deeds, documents and writings and shall give all such further assurances as may be necessary to carry out the intent of this Agreement. In particular, if any governmental or administrative approval, permit, order or other authorization shall be necessary relative to this Agreement and any provision of this Agreement or any transaction contemplated by this Agreement, each Party shall use all reasonable efforts to assist in the obtaining of such approval, permit, order or other authorization.

 17.10 No Third Party Beneficiaries. Except for Persons to whom this Agreement is assigned in compliance with Article 15, there are no third party beneficiaries to this Agreement, and this Agreement shall not impart any rights enforceable by any Person that is not a Party.

 17.11 Time. Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to specific times under this Agreement shall be references to Pacific Standard or Pacific Daylight Savings Time, whichever is then prevailing.

 17.12 Headings. The various headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of the provisions.

 17.13 Interpretation. Whenever the singular or masculine or neuter is used in this Agreement, the same shall be construed as meaning the plural or feminine or body politic or corporate and vice versa, as the context so requires. Whenever the words include(s) or including are used in this Agreement, they should be interpreted to mean include(s) or including, but not limited to. Because both Parties have participated in the drafting of this Agreement, the usual rule of contract construction that resolves ambiguities against the drafter shall not apply.

 17.14 Designation of Agent. Owner hereby appoints PacifiCorp Power Marketing, Inc. to act on Owner's behalf and as Owner's agent for the performance of the Owner's duties under this Agreement. Owner may modify or revoke the designation of such agency, provided that Owner first addresses to Power Purchaser's satisfaction the transfer (to Owner or Owner's new agent) of any credit or collateral posted by Power Purchaser to PacifiCorp Power Marketing, Inc. pursuant to Article 4.11.

 17.15 Entire Agreement. This Agreement (including the attached Exhibits) and all amendments to this Agreement contain the complete agreement between the Owner and the Power Purchaser with respect to the matters contained in this Agreement and supersede all other agreements, whether written or oral, with respect to the matters contained in this Agreement.

 City of Klamath Falls The City of Seattle, City Light Department an Oregon municipal corporation a Washington municipal corporation By: ____________________________ By: ________________________ Mayor Its: ________________________ Date: ____________________________ Date: ________________________

 Attest: By: ____________________________ City Recorder, City of Klamath Falls

 Approved as to form: By: ____________________________ City Attorney, City of Klamath Falls

 Exhibit A - Example of Publication Containing the Gas Index

 Exhibit B - Example of Publication Containing the Malin/AECO Monthly Basis

 Exhibit C - Monthly Capacity Charge

 Monthly Capacity Time Period Charge (see Notes) Date of Commercial Operation through the last Day $8.49 per kW- of the last Month in the fifth (5th) Operating Year

 Beyond the last Day of the last Month in the $8.89 per kW- fifth (5th) Operating Year

 Notes

 The Monthly Capacity Charge, above, incorporates the following fixed charge for gas transportation, which tariff may be changed from time to time pursuant to Article 4.8 of the Agreement, and which tariff rate is converted to US dollars at the Current Exchange Rate:

 Gas Transportation Reservation Charges (US Dollars per Dth):

 Pipeline Tariff Tariff Rate Current Estimated Effective Schedule Reservation Reservation Date Charge Charge as $/Dth of 11/01/02 $/Dth

 NOVA Standard April 1, 2000 FT-D $0.104 $0.104 Tariff ANG Standard April 1, 2000 FS-1 $0.050 $0.050 Tariff PG&E GT NW First Revised Volume No. 1-A Feb. 2, 1998 FTS-1 $0.315 $0.275

 Total Reservation Charges $0.469 $0.429

 Example Computation of Gas Transportation Reservation Charges

 Converted to US Dollars at current exchange rate of $.67655 Canadian dollars per US Dollar

 Conversion of Pipeline Demand Charges to $/Kw-mo for Capacity Charge:

 Pipeline Demand Charge in $/Kw-mo

 = [Total Pipeline Demand Charges ($/Dth) * (Contract Heat Rate/1000) *24 hours per day * Average number of days per month]/1000

 = Prior to 11/1/02 = [$0.469*(6910/1000)*24*(365/12)]/1000] = $2.366/Kw-mo.

 = After 10/31/02 = [$0.429*(6910/1000)*24* (365/12)]/1000] = $2.164/Kw-mo.

 Exhibit D - Monthly Fixed O&M Charge

 The Monthly Fixed O&M Charge shall initially be $ 1.900/Kw-month.

 The Monthly Fixed O&M Charge shall be escalated as of July 1 each year commencing with July 1, 2000, by the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers, All Cities, as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor (the "CPI Index") from March 1, 1999 (or nearest publication thereafter). To determine the appropriate escalation, the CPI Index for March 1 of each year (or nearest publication thereafter) shall be divided by the CPI Index for March 1, 1999 (or nearest publication thereafter). Such ratio shall then be multiplied by the initial Monthly Fixed O&M Charge, above, and rounded to the nearest $0.001 per Kw-month, to determine the Monthly Fixed O&M Charge for the relevant annual period (July 1 through June 30) period.

 For example, assuming a CPI Index for March 1, 1999 of 145.0, and a CPI Index for March 1, 2000 of 148.0, the applicable Monthly Fixed O&M Charge for the period July 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001 would be:

 (148.0/145.0) * $1.900/Kw-month = $1.939/Kw-month.

 If the CPI Index or a substantially equivalent replacement of that index is no longer published, then the Parties shall promptly identify a new index to determine the escalation of the Monthly Fixed O&M Charge. If the Parties are unable to agree upon a new index within sixty (60) Days after the CPI Index or a substantially equivalent replacement of that index is no longer published, the matter shall be submitted to dispute resolution under Article 14.

 A new method for escalating the Monthly Fixed O&M Charge shall be effective the first Day of the Month after the Parties have reached agreement or a resolution has been reached under Article 14. The new method shall be given retroactive effect to the date on which the CPI Index or a substantially equivalent replacement of that index ceased to be published, with interest on any amount owed by one Party to the other from time to time to be charged at the Prime Rate plus two percent (2%) from the date due until satisfied; provided, however, that this interest rate shall at no time exceed the maximum rate allowed by applicable law.

 Exhibit E - Monthly Variable O&M Charge

 The Monthly Variable O&M Charge shall initially be $2.50/MWh.

 The Monthly Variable O&M Charge shall be escalated as of July 1 each year commencing with July 1, 2000, by the percentage change in the Bureau of Labor Statistics Index for Gas Turbine Generator Sets (Series ID Number PCU3511#131), as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor (the "Gas Turbine Index") from March 1, 1999 (or nearest publication thereafter). To determine the appropriate escalation, the Gas Turbine Index for March 1 of each year (or nearest publication thereafter) shall be divided by the Gas Turbine Index for March 1, 1999 (or nearest publication thereafter). Such ratio shall then be multiplied by the initial Monthly Variable O&M Charge, above, and rounded to the nearest $0.001 per MWh, to determine the Monthly Variable O&M Charge for the relevant annual period (July 1 through June 30) period.

 For example, assuming a Gas Turbine Index for March 1, 1999 of 130.0, and a Gas Turbine Index for March 1, 2000 of 133.0, the applicable Monthly Variable O&M Charge for the period July 1, 2000 through June 30, 2001 would be:

 (133.0/130.0) * $2.50/MWh = $2.558/MWh.

 If the Gas Turbine Index or a substantially equivalent replacement of that index is no longer published, then the Parties shall promptly identify a new index to determine the escalation of the Monthly Variable O&M Charge. If the Parties are unable to agree within sixty (60) Days after the Gas Turbine Index or a substantially equivalent replacement of that index is no longer published, the matter shall be submitted to dispute resolution under Article 14.

 A new method for escalating the Monthly Variable O&M Charge shall be effective the first Day of the Month after the Parties have reached agreement or a resolution has been reached under Article 14. The new method shall be given retroactive effect to the date on which the Gas Turbine Index or a substantially equivalent replacement of that index is no longer published , with interest on any amount owed by one Party to the other from time to time to be charged at the Prime Rate plus two percent (2%) from the date due until satisfied; provided, however, that this interest rate shall at no time exceed the maximum rate allowed by applicable law.

 Exhibit F - Example Calculation of Monthly Fuel Charge for December, 2001

 I. Assumptions:

 Monthly electrical energy delivered to Power Purchaser = 69,936 MWh Contract Heat Rate = 6,910 Btu/Kwh Gas Index ($ Canadian/GJ) = $C 4.250/GJ Current Exchange Rate = $US 0.6850/$C GJ/Dth Conversion = 1.055056 GJ/Dth Pipeline Loss Percentage = 3.83% Variable Pipeline Charges = $US 0.032225/ Dth

 II. Conversion of Gas Index from $C/GJ to $US/Dth:

 = $C 4.25/GJ * $US 0.6850/$C * 1.055056 GJ/MMBtu = $US 3.072/MMBtu = $US 3.072/Dth

 III. Calculation of Monthly Fuel Charge:

 = [Monthly electrical energy delivered to POD* (Contract Heat Rate/1000)] * [(Gas Index in $US/Dth * (1 + Pipeline Loss Percentage)) + Variable Pipeline Charges] = [69,936 * (6910/1000)] * [(3.072 *(1.0383)) + 0.032225] = $1,557,000

 Exhibit G - Pipeline Loss Percentage and Variable Pipeline Charges

 Pipeline Loss Percentage:

 NOVA 0 % ANG 0.95% PG&E GT NW 2.88% Total 3.83%

 Variable Pipeline Charges:

 Pipeline Tariff Tariff Rate Variable Effective Schedule Charges Date $/Dth NOVA April 1, 2000 FTD $0.00000 (Note 1) ANG April 1, 2000 FS-1 $0.00846 (Note 2) PG&E GT NW First Revised Volume No. 1-A Feb. 2, 1998 FTS-1 $0.023765 Total Variable Pipeline Charges $0.032225

 Notes on Variable Pipeline Charges:

 1. No variable pipeline charges are currently assessed on NOVA export volumes

 2. Converted to US Dollars at Current Exchange Rate (i.e., in this example, $0.67655 Canadian dollars per US Dollar).

 Delivery Charge Alberta/British Columbia Border = $0.00621 to Kingsgate NEB (National Energy Board) Cost recovery = $0.00225 = $0.00846

 3. Delivery Charge to Milepost 599.20 = $0.007790 @ $0.000013/Dth-mile GRI (Gas Research Institute) Reservation = $0.006575 GRI Delivery = $0.0072 ACA = $0.0022 Total = $0.023765/Dth

 Exhibit H - Intentionally Omitted

 Exhibit I - Example of Written Confirmation for Hedging of Monthly Fuel Charge

 Trade Date:

 Fixed Price Payor: Seattle City Light

 Floating Price Payor: City of Klamath Falls, as owner of the Facility

 Commodity: Natural Gas

 Type of Transaction: Fixed Price

 Delivery Period: Nov. 1, 2001 - Feb. 28, 2002

 Quantity: 15,800 Dth per calendar day.

 Total Monthly Quantity: Nov-01 = 474,000 Dth Dec-01 = 489,800 Dth Jan-02 = 489,800 Dth Feb-02 = 442,400 Dth Total = 1,896,000 Dth

 Determination Period(s): Four consecutive monthly periods with each determination period corresponding to a calendar month ("reference month"). The first reference month beginning November, 2001 and the last reference month ending with February, 2002.

 Fixed Price: $_____/Dth.

 Floating Price: The Gas Index (in $US/MMBtu).

 By: ___________________ By: _____________________ Seattle City Light City of Klamath Falls Date: ___________________ Date: _____________________

 Exhibit J - Operating Reserves Charge

 Through September 30, 2001:

 "Control Area Reserves for Resources -- Rate for Control Area Reserves for Non-Hydroelectric Resources"

 $0.36 per Kw-month applied to Power Purchaser's "average monthly demand," where "average monthly demand" equals the sum of Power Purchaser's hourly schedules (delivered from the Facility) in a Month under this Agreement divided by the number of hours in such Month.

 October 1, 2001 through September 30, 2003:

 "Operating Reserve -- Spinning Reserve Service" and "Operating Reserve -- Supplemental Reserve Service"

 $8.27 per MWh applied to 7.0% of MWhs purchased by Power Purchaser (and delivered from the Facility) under this Agreement

 Exhibit K - Example of Monthly Invoice Calculation for December, 2001

 Sec. 4.2 Monthly Capacity Charge = $8.49/Kw-mo. * Contract Delivery Rate = $ 849,000

 Sec 4.3 Monthly Fixed O&M Charge = $2.00/Kw-mo. (Note 1) * Contract Delivery = $ 200,000 Rate

 Sec 4.4 Monthly Variable O&M Charge = $2.65/MWh (Note 2) * MWh Delivered at POD in month = $2.65/MWh * 69,936 MWh (Note 3) = $ 185,330

 Sec 4.5 Monthly Fuel Charge = [69,936 MWh * (6910/1000)] * [($3.072/Dth * = $1,557,000 (1.0383)) + $0.032225/Dth] (Note 4)

 Sec 4.6 Hedging the Monthly Fuel Charge Notional amount of gas hedged = 489,800 Dth for the Month The AECO Gas Index was hedged at $US 2.80/MMBtu The published AECO Gas Index in $ US was $3.05/MMBtu Debit (Credit) Associated with Hedge = (2.80 - 3.05) * 489,800 =($122,450)

 Sec 4.7 Operating Reserves = 69,936 per MWh * 7% * $8.27/MWh (Note 5) = $40,486

 Sec 4.13 Credit Pursuant to Article 3.4.1 = $0

 Sec 4.14 Surcharges pursuant to Article 6.2.5 (Note 6) = $0

 Total Monthly Bill =$2,709,366

 Notes:

 1. Assumes the Monthly Fixed O&M Charge escalates by 2.5% on July 1, 2000 and July 1, 2001. 2. Assumes the Monthly Variable O&M Charge escalates by 3.0% on July 1, 2000 and July 1, 2001. 3. Assumes Power Purchaser scheduled monthly deliveries at the Maximum Delivery Rate on a 24 hour, seven day a week basis, and that the Project was available 94% of the such hours. 4. The assumed Monthly MWh delivered to POD. 5. Calculated per Exhibit J. 6. No surcharges apply because of flat schedule.

 Exhibit L - Contact Persons at Owner for Power Purchaser's Hedging Requests

 Contact Person #1: Gary Ordway Phone Number: (503) 813-5763 Fax Number: (503) 813-5707

 Contact Person #2 Pete Witteried Phone Number: (503) 813-5708 Fax Number: (503) 813-5700

 Exhibit M - Owner's Fax Number for Power Purchaser's Monthly Schedule Request Fax Number: (503) 813-5707 and (503) 813-5700

 Exhibit N - Power Purchaser's Instructions for Owner's Notification of Force Majeure or Forced Outages

 Contact Person #1: Seattle City Light Real-Time Marketer Phone Number: (206) 615-0966 Fax Number: (206) 615-0969

 Contact Person #2 Seattle City Light Day Ahead Marketer Phone Number: (206) 615-0971 Fax Number: (206) 615-0969

 Exhibit O -Cycling and Heat Rate Surcharges Associated with On Peak Schedules

 Cycling Charges

 Each complete plant startup (i.e., both combustion turbine generators and the steam generator cycling off and on) costs $3,900 of short term fuel and auxiliary power, plus $14,300 for long term impact on plant maintenance costs.

 Each partial plant startup (i.e., only one of the combustion turbines cycling off and on) costs $1,800 of short term fuel and auxiliary power, plus $7,200 for long term impact on plant maintenance costs.

 Heat Rate Surcharges to the Contract Heat Rate

 "2x1" operation at the applicable Minimum Generation Level: 600 Btu/Kwh

 "1x1" operation at full output: 400 Btu/Kwh

 "1x1" operation at the applicable Minimum Generation Level: 1,300 Btu/Kwh

 Exhibit P - Example of Application of Cycling and Heat Rate Surcharges

 Example for Month of November, 2002

 Pursuant to the Article 6.2.1, at least six Business Days prior to such Month, Owner provides notice to Power Purchaser of the Minimum Generation Level for such Month:

 Minimum Generation Level for "2x1" operations = 310 MW Minimum Generation Level for "1x1" operations = 165 MW

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.2 (c), Power Purchaser nominates an On Peak schedule for such Month at least five Business Days prior to such Month.

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.5, Owner reviews Power Purchaser's nomination and determines that the most economic daily generation pattern for the Facility for such Month is projected to not require the Project to run at the Minimum Generation Level nor to cycle. Owner notifies Power Purchaser by 10 a.m. on the fourth (4th) Business Day prior to such Month that Power Purchaser's On Peak nomination is available without change, pro-rationing, or surcharges. Such schedule is deemed confirmed upon Power Purchaser's receipt of Owner's notice. No heat rate or cycling surcharges will apply for such Month.

 Example for Month of January, 2003

 Pursuant to the Article 6.2.1, at least six Business Days prior to such Month, Owner provides notice to Power Purchaser of the Minimum Generation Level for such Month

 Minimum Generation Level for "2x1" operations = 320 MW Minimum Generation Level for "1x1" operations = 170 MW

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.2 (c), Power Purchaser nominates an On Peak schedule for such Month at least five (5) Business Days prior to such Month.

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.5, Owner reviews Power Purchaser's nomination and determines that the most economic daily generation pattern for the Facility for such Month is projected to be to run the Project at the Minimum Generation Level for "2x1" operations in the Off Peak. Owner notifies Power Purchaser by 10 a.m. on the fourth (4th) Business Day prior to such Month of the available On Peak schedule (with an Off Peak pro-ration based on projected Off Peak operations). Power Purchaser confirms such pro-rated schedule by 2:00 p.m. on the same Day. A heat rate surcharge in the Off Peak associated with Minimum Generation Level for "2x1" operations apply for the Month.

 Example for Month of March, 2003

 Pursuant to the Article 6.2.1, at least six Business Days prior to such Month, Owner provides notice to Power Purchaser of the Minimum Generation Level for such Month.

 Minimum Generation Level for "2x1" operations = 310 MW Minimum Generation Level for "1x1" operations = 165 MW

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.2 (c), Power Purchaser nominates an On Peak schedule for such Month at least five Business Days prior to such Month.

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.5, Owner reviews Power Purchaser's nomination and determines that the most economic daily generation pattern for the Facility for such Month is projected to be to run the Project at full output for "1x1" operations in the Off Peak. Owner notifies Power Purchaser by 10 a.m. on the fourth (4th) Business Day prior to such Month of the available On Peak schedule (with an Off Peak pro-ration based on projected Off Peak operations). Power Purchaser confirms such pro-rated schedule by 2:00 p.m. on the same Day. The surcharge based on Power Purchaser's share of cycling costs for one (1) combustion turbine per Day applies for the Month. In addition, the heat rate surcharge applies to the Off Peak schedule for the Month for "1x1" operations at full output.

 Example for Month of April, 2003

 Pursuant to the Article 6.2.1, at least six Business Days prior to such Month, Owner provides notice to Power Purchaser of the Minimum Generation Level for such Month.

 Minimum Generation Level for "2x1" operations = 310 MW Minimum Generation Level for "1x1" operations = 165 MW

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.2 (c), Power Purchaser nominates an On Peak schedule for such Month at least five Business Days prior to such Month.

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.5, Owner reviews Power Purchaser's nomination and determines that the most economic daily generation pattern for the Facility for such Month is projected to be to run the Project at the Minimum Generation Level for "1x1" operations in the Off Peak. Owner notifies Power Purchaser by 10 a.m. on the fourth Business Day prior to such Month of the available On-Peak schedule (with an Off Peak pro- ration based on projected Off Peak operations). Power Purchaser confirms such pro-rated schedule by 2:00 PM on the same day. The heat rate surcharge in the Off-Peak associated with Minimum Generation Level for "1x1" operations applies for the Month. In addition, the surcharge based on Power Purchaser's share of cycling costs for one (1) combustion turbine per Day.

 Example for Month of June, 2003

 Pursuant to the Article 6.2.1, at least six Business Days prior to such Month, Owner provides notice to Power Purchaser of the Minimum Generation Level for such Month.

 Minimum Generation Level for "2x1" operations = 300 MW Minimum Generation Level for "1x1" operations = 160 MW

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.2 (c), Power Purchaser nominates an On Peak schedule for such Month at least five Business Days prior to such Month.

 Pursuant to Article 6.2.5, Owner reviews Power Purchaser's nomination and determines that the most economic daily generation pattern for the Facility for such Month is projected to be to cycle the Project completely off in the Off Peak. As a result, Owner confirms Power Purchaser's nomination for the Month, unchanged, with a surcharge based on Power Purchaser's share of cycling costs for two (2) combustion turbines and one (1) steam turbine for the Month.

```
