

********

**Council Bill Number: 113483**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120208**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending the Official Land Use Map, Section 23.32.016, Plat 11E, Page 54, and Section 23.47.040, of the Seattle Municipal Code to establish a Pedestrian 2 zone along 22nd and 24th Avenues NW generally between NW Market Street and NW 58th Street.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 11, 2000
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 19, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 15, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** November 13, 2000
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Sustainability and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** PEDESTRIANS, REZONES, BALLARD, ADAMS, COMMERCIAL-AREAS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning, amending the Official Land Use Map, Section 23.32.016, Plat 11E, Page 54, and Section 23.47.040, of the Seattle Municipal Code to establish a Pedestrian 2 zone along 22nd and 24th Avenues NW generally between NW Market Street and NW 58th Street.

 WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the Pedestrian 2 zone established by this ordinance will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public,

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Attached to this ordinance is a zoning map, identified as Attachment A, that is incorporated herein by reference. The areas depicted on this map showing a change in the zoning designation are hereby rezoned to Neighborhood Commercial 3-65 Pedestrian 2. This map is hereby adopted as an amendment to the Official Land Use Map, Seattle Municipal Code Section 23.32.016.

 Section 2. Section 23.47.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code, as last amended by Ordinance 120004, is further amended as follows:

 23.47.040 General provisions for pedestrian-designated zones.

 C. For purposes of this subchapter, the following streets are principal pedestrian streets when located within a pedestrian- designated zone:

 10th Avenue;

 11th Avenue;

 12th Avenue;

 15th Avenue East;

 22nd Avenue Northwest;

 23rd Avenue;

 24th Avenue Northwest;

 25th Avenue Northeast;

 Broadway;

 California Avenue Southwest;

 ((East Union Street;))

 East Greenlake Drive North;

 East Madison Street;

 East Olive Way;

 East Pike Street;

 East Union Street;

 First Avenue North;

 Fremont Avenue North;

 Fremont Place North;

 Greenwood Avenue North;

 Lake City Way Northeast;

 Madison Street;

 Mercer Street;

 North 85th Street;

 Northeast 45th Street;

 Northwest Market Street;

 Queen Anne Avenue North;

 Rainier Avenue South;

 Roosevelt Way Northeast;

 Roy Street;

 Southwest Alaska Street;

 University Way Northeast; and

 Woodlawn Avenue Northeast.

 Section 3. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, subsection, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the remainder of this ordinance or the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000. __________________________________ City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 List of Attachments

[ATTACHMENT A: Ballard Municipal Center Rezone NC3-65 to NC3-65 P2](/~ordpics/113483a.gif)

 ATTACHMENT A

 MBB/DCLU

 bmp-p2ord-v3

 9/5/00

 CITY OF SEATTLE ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION OF REZONES PROPOSED TO IMPLEMENT THE BALLARD MUNICIPAL CENTER MASTER PLAN

 SUMMARY OF PROPOSED ACTION

 Proposal

 * Designate 22ND Avenue NW and 24th Avenue NW between NW Market Street and NW 58th Street a Pedestrian 2 (P2) Overlay District.

 A map of the rezone areas is attached at the end of this report as Exhibit 1.

 Format of Analysis

 The analysis of the proposed rezone is divided into three main sections, addressing the applicable rezone criteria in the Land Use Code (SMC 23.34):

 Section 1, General Rezone Criteria

 Section 2, Match Between Zone Function and Locational Criteria and Area Characteristics

 Section 3, Weighing and Balancing Rezone Criteria

 In summary, conclusions and recommendations for Council action are presented.

 Summary of Conclusion

 The Executive finds that the proposed P2 Overlay designation implements the goals of the Crown Hill/Ballard Neighborhood Plan and the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan, which is a key implementation strategy of the Neighborhood Plan, as well as the general rezone and locational criteria in the Land Use Code. Therefore, the Executive is recommending that the rezone be approved.

 ANALYSIS OF REZONE PROPOSAL

 SECTION 1. GENERAL REZONE CRITERIA

 Zoned Capacity

 The rezone would not significantly affect either the household or employment capacity.

 Match Between Zone Criteria and Area Characteristics

 The proposed P2 Overlay designation is the most appropriate pedestrian overlay to implement the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan recommendations. The area proposed for rezoning generally meets the function and the locational criteria in the Land Use Code for a P2 Overlay. The proposed rezone would encourage pedestrian oriented development within the Ballard municipal area. The P2 Overlay areas are adjacent to an existing P1 Overlay along NW Market Street. The proposals extend the pedestrian-orientated area north three blocks on 22nd Avenue NW and 24th Avenue NW. This will reinforce a pedestrian oriented connection between residential areas to the north and the Ballard business district to the south on NW Market Street.

 Zoning History for 22nd Avenue NW: In 1958 both the east and west sides of 22nd Avenue NW between NW Market Street and NW 57th Street were zoned BC (Community Business), and between NW 57th Street and NW 58th Street were zoned RM (Multiple Residence). In 1986 the zone on the east side of 22nd Avenue NW between NW Market Street and NW 57th Street was changed from BC to NC3 65 (Neighborhood Commercial 3), and between NW 57th Street and NW 58th Street was changed from RM to to MR RC (Midrise Residential Commercial) on the south half of the block and L3 (Lowrise 3) on the north half of the block. Also in 1986 the zone on the west side of 22nd NW between NW Market Street and NW 58th Street was changed from BC to NC3 65 (Neighborhood Commercial). The zoning pattern established in 1986 remains in effect today.

 Zoning History for 24th Avenue NW: In 1958 both the east and west sides of 24th Avenue NW between NW Market Street and NW 58th Street were zoned BC. In 1986 the zone for this area changed from BC to NC3 65 and remains in effect today.

 Neighborhood Plans

 This area is a designated a Hub Urban Village. The Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan, which is a key implementation strategy of the Crown Hill/Ballard Neighborhood Plan, applies to the areas proposed for a rezone. The proposed P2 Overlay designation requires parking to be located in, behind or to the side of a building, requires pedestrian-oriented commercial activities and discourages curb cuts along the Principal Pedestrian street. These requirements will serve to increase pedestrian safety. The designation would, therefore, help to implement the plan's recommendations to enhance 22nd Avenue NW and 24th Avenue NW as pedestrian connections between residential areas to the north and the Ballard business district to the south on NW Market Street.

 Zoning Principles

 In general, the P2 Overlay will reinforce the desired character as expressed in the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan. Designating properties fronting on both 22nd and 24th Avenues NW between NW Market Street and NW 58th Street will improve the pedestrian environment over time. Implementation of this P2 Overlay will work with the underlying zone to improve the pedestrian environment.

 Impact of more intensive zones on less intensive zones

 The designation of Pedestrian 2 Overlay District will not create a more intensive zone. Therefore, the designation will not create impacts on less intensive zones.

 Buffers between zones

 The requirements associated with the Pedestrian 2 Overlay District do not create a situation where buffers are needed.

 Zone boundaries

 Platted lot lines, street and alleys establish the P2 Overlay designation, consistent with current zone boundaries.

 Impact Evaluation

 The evaluation of a proposed rezone considers the possible negative and positive impacts on the area proposed for rezone and its surroundings. An analysis follows each italicized impact criterion below.

 In summary, the proposed rezone would have a strong positive impact on the pedestrian environment within the overlay district. Over time, the existing commercial zoning pattern along with the proposed pedestrian designation is expected to have a positive impact on creating a more pedestrian oriented and friendly environment along both 22nd and 24th Avenues NW. Some existing developments with surface parking lots fronting the streets are located along these street frontages, inconsistent with the requirements of a P2 Overlay and would, therefore, become non- conforming. While no requirements will be made to require existing developments to comply with the P2 Overlay requirements, compliance with the requirements will be required as these sites are redeveloped.

 More specific impacts would be addressed through the environmental review process when specific projects are proposed.

 Housing The P2 Overlay designation will support a more pedestrian friendly environment, requiring retail sales and services uses at ground level. This may encourage the development of housing.

 Public Services and Services Capacity The P2 Overlay designation will not result in a demand for public services greater than at present.

 Environmental The P2 Overlay designation is intended to encourage people to walk within the district to shops and services and transit facilities, thereby providing alternatives to single occupant vehicles.

 Pedestrian Safety The proposed P2 Overlay designation requires parking to be located in, behind or to the side of a building, and requires pedestrian-oriented commercial activities and discourages curb cuts along the Principle Pedestrian street. These requirements will serve to increase pedestrian safety.

 Manufacturing Activity There is no existing or proposed manufacturing activity the area, nor is it allowed. The P2 Overlay designation would not change this.

 Employment Activity The P2 Overlay designation will increase opportunities for employment in retail and service activities.

 Historic and Architectural Character - The P2 Overlay designation will promote the development of a pedestrian-oriented commercial district. It is unlikely to have any negative impacts on historic and architecturally significant development in the area. A reduced parking requirement may work to help retain existing structures.

 Shoreline view, public access and recreation - The area is not near a shoreline. The P2 Overlay designation will not impact views of or access to shorelines.

 Nonconforming Uses The P2 Overlay designation on 22nd and 24th Avenues NW would make several surface parking lots non-conforming to the P2 Overlay. These parking lots front along both streets: two lots are accessory for grocery stores; two are accessory for banks; one is accessory to a branch library; and several others appear to be for general commercial parking and storage lots for boats.

 Changed Circumstances

 The changed circumstance is development of the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan. Implementation of the P2 overlays along 22nd and 24th Avenues NW will serve to reinforce the area's character as a mixed-use pedestrian and transit oriented environment, while prohibiting auto-oriented uses in the area.

 Recent Permit Activity in the Area

 There is no recent permit activity in the areas of the proposed P2 Overlay designation.

 Critical Areas

 There are no known critical areas within the proposed rezone area.

 Overlay District

 A P2 Overlay designation supports a pedestrian environment by reducing the requirements for parking spaces, encouraging a continuous commercial frontage on the street generally uninterrupted by curb cuts whenever possible, retail sales and service uses, and parking located in, under, behind or to the side of structures.

 Land Use Policies

 The Land Use Policies in Chapter 23.12.060 of the Land Use Code apply broadly throughout the city to areas including Hub Urban Villages. Adding a Pedestrian 2 Overlay District is consistent with the applicable policies in the Code. The rezone areas implement recommendations contained in the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan.

 Land Use Policies in Chapter 23.12.070

 Policy 18: Pedestrian Districts - Land use policy directing the application of pedestrian districts is to preserve and encourage an intensely retail and pedestrian-oriented shopping district where non-auto modes of transportation to and within the district are strongly favored. The intention of the rezone is to implement the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan recommendations to encourage a pedestrian focussed commercial area.

 SECTION 2. MATCH BETWEEN ZONE LOCATIONAL CRITERIA AND AREA CHARACTERISTICS

 This Section compares the proposal against the locational criteria for the proposed zone.

 23.43.088 Locational Criteria - Pedestrian District (P2) Overlay

 Proposal

 Summarized Criteria

 Meets Criteria

 Add P2 Overlay District.

 Criteria (23.34.088)

 YES

 NO

 Comments/Description

 FUNCTION. The intended function of a Pedestrian Overlay 2 Overlay

 The function of a P2 Overlay is to preserve and encourage a pedestrian-oriented retail shopping area where non-auto modes of transportation within the district are strongly favored but where many of the conditions favoring designation as P1 are not present.

 These P2 overlays along two side streets for several blocks north of NW Market Street will provide a connection between the residential areas to the north gradually transitioning to the more intensely developed commercial area along NW Market Street, which is the primary pedestrian oriented street of the Ballard business district that currently has a P1 overlay. These two side streets do not have the existing or future conditions warranting a P1 overlay, unlike NW Market Street. With a P2 overlay, the side streets will strengthen the desired pedestrian pattern envisioned for the area in the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan.

 Physical Conditions Favoring Designation as Pedestrian 1 Overlay

 The area is surrounded by low- to medium-density areas;

 Pedestrian access from residential areas is good, and/or excellent transit service exists;

 On- and off-street parking capacity is limited, and full parking waiver (as in Pedestrian 1) could create unacceptable spillover parking in surrounding residential areas; and

 The commercial area is shallow, so that there is limited opportunity to provide accessory parking away from the principal pedestrian street front.

 The commercial area where the P2 overlays would be placed is surrounded by low to medium density multifamily areas, primarily to the north. Over time with redevelopment, the overlays will create inviting pedestrian streets transitioning the residential areas to the north with the Ballard business district.

 Pedestrian access from residential areas to the P2 overlays and on to NW Market Street is good and will significantly improve over time with redevelopment to P2 pedestrian standards. There is very good transit service along NW Market Street and side streets to downtown and other areas of the city.

 Currently along both 22nd and 24th Avenues NW where the P2 overlay is proposed, there are numerous surface parking lots serving grocery stores, banks, and other commercial uses, plus a lot accessory to the public library and another used for boat storage. These lots are heavily used, and both this off-street parking as well as on-street parking is limited. As previously mentioned both multifamily and single family residential development surround these proposed P2 overlay streets, particularly to the north. One reason a P2 overlay is proposed here rather than a P1 overlay is because a full parking waiver (as in Pedestrian 1) could create unacceptable spillover parking in surrounding residential areas.

 NW Market Street is the principal pedestrian street in the Ballard business district. 22nd and 24th Avenues NW would be considered secondary pedestrian street fronts connecting the residential areas to the north with the central Ballard business district to the south. The commercial area to the west of 24th Avenue NW is shallow, however, the commercial areas to the east of 24th Avenue NW and on both sides of 22nd Avenue NW are not shallow. Although not totally in compliance with this physical condition, nonetheless these two streets remain prime candidates for a P2 overlay due to other overriding conditions mentioned above and throughout this report, as recommended by the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan.

 Match between the zone criteria and area characteristics: Extending the P2 Overlay designation on 22nd and 24th Avenues NW would fit with the pattern of development anticipated in the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan. Existing and future physical conditions favor the P2 Overlay designation.

 SECTION 3 WEIGHING AND BALANCING THE REZONE CRITERIA

 This presents a comparison of the Executive's proposed P2 Overlay designations to existing designation and the P1 Overlay. This is done to assist Councilmembers in weighing and balancing the criteria from the Land Use Code.

 The following table summarizes the conclusions regarding rezone evaluation criteria as they apply to the P2 Overlay designation. The table is presented for ease of reference to the detailed discussion of the criteria found in this report and in the original report.

 Please note that the table is not meant to represent a tabulated comparison, as the criteria overlap in some cases, are to be weighed and balanced, and would not necessarily be given equal weight by Councilmembers.

 Evaluation

 Criterion

 Criterion Favors

 No P

 P1

 P2

 =

 Rezone Evaluation: Zone Function Statements 23.34.007

 General Rezone Criteria 23.34.008 A

 1. Capacity for Growth Targets

 2. Minimum Zoned Capacity (Section B of Comp Plan LU Element)

 3. Maximum Zoned Capacity (Section B of Comp Plan LU Element)

 Match Between Zone Criteria and Area Characteristics 23.34.008 B

 Zoning History and Precedential Effect 23.34.008. C

 Neighborhood Plans 23.34.008 D

 Zoning Principles 23.34.008 E:

 1. Impact on less intensive zones

 2. Physical Buffers

 3. Zone Boundaries

 Impact Evaluation 23.34.008 F

 Changed Circumstances 23.34.008 G

 Overlay Districts 23.34.008 H

 Critical Areas 23.34.008 I

 NA

 Land Use Policies 23.34.008 J

 Key criteria favoring P2 designation:

 Rezone Evaluation: Zone Function Statements 23.34.007: The P2 Overlay designation is appropriate given the current and future pedestrian-retail nature of the area, the connection between residential areas with the pedestrian-retail area, and the presence of a high level of service.

 Match Between Zone Criteria and Area Characteristics 23.34.008 B: The P2 Overlay designation is the more appropriate given the character of 22nd and 24th Avenues NW as they link residential areas with the Ballard business district as envisioned in the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan.

 Zoning History and Precedential Effect 23.34.008. C: Over the years, the area has continued to be zoned for commercial uses, ranging from BC (Community Business) under the City's former Zoning Code, Title 24, to NC3/65 (Neighborhood Commercial 3/65' height limit) under Title 23, the City's current Land Use Code.

 Neighborhood Plans 23.34.008 D: The Comprehensive Plan designates this area as the Ballard Hub Urban Village. The Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan, which is a key implementation strategy of the Crown Hill Ballard Neighborhood Plan proposes that 22nd and 24th Avenues NW between NW Market Street and NW 58th Street be designated with a P2 overlay to strengthen this area as a pedestrian-oriented business district.

 Changed Circumstances 23.34.008 G: The development of the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan, which recommends these changes to enhance pedestrian activity in the area, is the changed circumstance. The plan represents the desires of the community.

 Overlay Districts 23.34.008 H: A P2 Overlay designation would be most appropriate to support the desired pedestrian environment envisioned by the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan by reducing the requirements for parking spaces, encouraging a continuous commercial frontage on the street generally uninterrupted by curb cuts whenever possible, retail sales and service uses, and parking located in, under, to the side, or behind structures. This area has good access to existing bus service.

 Land Use Policies 23.34.008 J: The P2 Overlay designation is most appropriate as proposed in the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan given the proximity to NW Market Street, an intensely developed retail and pedestrian-oriented shopping street, as well as the availability of non-auto-modes of transportation.

 Key criteria favoring P1 designation:

 None

 Key criteria favoring no P designation:

 None

 Neutral criteria:

 General Rezone Criteria 23.34.008 A: Neither the P1 nor P2 Overlay designation would have an appreciable effect on the area's capacity for growth.

 Zoning Principles 23.34.008 E: Neither the P1 nor P2 Overlay designations would result in any impacts related to more intensive uses adjacent to less intensive zones. The boundaries follow existing lot lines, streets and alleys. No buffers are needed.

 Impact Evaluation 23.34.008 F: Neither the P1 nor P2 Overlay designations would result in any increased impacts.

 Critical Areas 23.34.008 I: There are no critical areas in the area.

 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

 This rezone proposal is an element of the overall strategy to support and encourage recommendations of the Ballard Municipal Center Master Plan. The Executive finds that the proposal meets the general and specific rezone criteria, and that is the best fit pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 23.34 Rezone Criteria, of the Land Use Code.

 The Executive recommends approval of the rezone proposals as described above and as shown on the rezone map attached at the end of this report noted as Attachment A.

```
