

********

**Council Bill Number: 113429**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning for the Pike/Pine Overlay District; adding a new Section 23.73.012 relating to anti-displacement measures associated with the use of affordable housing incentives in the District, and amending Sections 23.54.015, 23.73.008, and 23.73.010 to clarify existing language regarding the use of the housing incentives and to make changes regarding the application of the height exception for mixed use structures.

**Status:** Retired 04/05/04
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Godden, Steinbrueck)
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 9, 2000
   
**Committee:** Landlord/Tenant and Land Use Re-referred to Land Use on 1/28/02.
   
**Sponsor:** STEINBRUECK
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-USE-PLANNING, ZONING, LAND-USE-PERMITS, CONSTRUCTION, BUILDING-PERMITS, SUBSIDIZED-HOUSING, LOW-INCOME-HOUSING

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to land use and zoning for the Pike/Pine Overlay District; adding a new Section 23.73.012 relating to anti-displacement measures associated with the use of affordable housing incentives in the District, and amending Sections 23.54.015, 23.73.008, and 23.73.010 to clarify existing language regarding the use of the housing incentives and to make changes regarding the application of the height exception for mixed use structures.

 WHEREAS, City Council Resolution 28966, adopted August 1, 1994, established a Neighborhood Planning Program for the City of Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, a coalition of Pike/Pine neighborhood stakeholders came together to form the Pike/Pine Urban Neighborhood Coalition in the Autumn, 1995 for the purpose of preparing a Neighborhood Plan as provided for in the City of Seattle Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, stakeholders in this community formed a Planning Committee and worked with City staff and consultants to develop specific plan recommendations; and

 WHEREAS, a final plan incorporating Key Strategies and Additional Activities for Implementation was reviewed and approved by the Pike/Pine Urban Neighborhood Coalition and validated by the community in response to a community-wide mailer and validation event; and

 WHEREAS, the GMA requires development standards to be consistent with comprehensive plans; and

 WHEREAS, the overall vision of the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Neighborhood Plan is consistent with the goals and policies of Seattle's Comprehensive Plan; and

 WHEREAS, on March 22, 1999, by Ordinance 119413, the City Council amended the Seattle Comprehensive Plan to incorporate portions of the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Neighborhood Plan, including the Pike/Pine Plan goals and policies; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the proposed amendments to the Land Use Code established by this ordinance are consistent with the adopted the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Neighborhood Plan; and

 WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the proposed amendments to the Land Use Code established by this ordinance and will protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public; and

 WHEREAS, key recommendations from the Pike/Pine Urban Center Village Plan were adopted by Council by Ordinances 120000 and 120004 on June 26, 2000 to provide incentives to encourage the development of housing within the Pike/Pine Overlay District; and

 WHEREAS, Council directed the Executive to prepare amendments to the Land Use Code to add anti-displacement protections to apply to the affordable housing incentives for the Pike/Pine Overlay District; and

 WHEREAS, the anti-displacement protections are consistent with the Pike/Pine Neighborhood Plan goals and policies which encourage the preservation of existing affordable housing and the City's Comprehensive Plan policies to preserve existing housing, particularly in urban centers and urban villages where most redevelopment pressure will occur, and to promote the continued production and preservation of low-income housing;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Chart A of Section 23.54.015 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120004, is further amended as follows:

 23.54.015 Required parking.

 * * *

 Chart A for Section 23.54.015 PARKING

 Use Parking Requirements

 Adult care center1 1 space for each 10 adults (clients) or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 adults (clients).

 Adult family home 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Adult motion picture theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Adult panoram 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Airport, land-based (waiting area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Airport, water-based (waiting area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Animal services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Animal husbandry (retail area only) 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Aquaculture (retail area only) 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Artist's studio/dwelling 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Assisted living facility2 1 space for each 4 assisted living units plus 1 space for each 2 staff members on-site at peak staffing time; plus 1 barrier- free passenger loading and unloading space; plus loading berth requirements per Section 23.54.035.

 Automotive parts or accessory 1 space for each 350 square feet. sales

 Ball courts 1 space per court.

 Bed and breakfast 1 space for each dwelling, plus 1 space for each 2 guest rooms or suites.

 Bowling alley 5 spaces for each lane.

 Brewpub 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Business support services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Business incubators 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Carwash 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Caretaker's quarters 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Cargo terminal 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Cemetery None.

 Child care center1,9 1 space for each 10 children or 1 space for each staff member, whichever is greater; plus 1 loading and unloading space for each 20 children.

 Colleges1 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Commercial laundries 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Commercial moorage 1 space for each 140 lineal feet of moorage.

 Communication utilities 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Community centers1, 2 and 1 space for each 80 square feet Community clubs1, 2 of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or 1 space for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 space for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Community centers owned and 1 space for each 555 square feet. operated by the Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR)1, 2, 3

 Congregate residences 1 space for each 4 residents.

 Construction services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Custom and craft work 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Dance halls (dance floor and 1 space for each 100 square feet. table area)

 Dry storage of boats 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Family support centers located 1 space for each 100 square feet. in community centers owned and operated by the Seattle DOPAR3

 Floating homes 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Food processing for human 1 space for each 1,000 square feet. consumption

 Gas station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 General retail sales and services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Ground-floor businesses in multi- None, maximum of 10 spaces. family zones

 Heavy commercial services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Heliports (waiting area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 High-impact uses~~.~~ 1 space for each 1,500 square feet or as determined by the Director.

 Horticultural uses (retail area 1 space for each 350 square feet. only)

 Hospitals1 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 5 employees; plus 1 for each 6 beds.

 Hotels 1 space for each 4 sleeping rooms or suites.

 Institute for advanced study1 1 space for each 1,000 square feet of administrative offices and similar spaces; plus 1 space for each 10 fixed seats in all auditoria and public assembly rooms; or 1 space for each 100 square feet of public assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Institutes for advanced study in 3.5 spaces for each 1,000 single-family zones square feet of office space; (existing) plus 10 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of additional building footprint to house and support conference center activities, or 37 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of actual conference rooms to be constructed, whichever is greater.

 Kennel 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Lecture and meeting hall 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Library10 1 space for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public meeting rooms; plus 1 space for each 500 square feet of floor area, excluding auditoria and public meeting rooms.

 Major durables, sales, service, 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. and rental

 Manufacturing, general 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, heavy 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Manufacturing, light 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Marine service station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Medical services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Miniature golf 1 space for each 2 holes.

 Mini-warehouse 1 space for each 30 storage units.

 Mobile home park 1 space for each mobile home.

 Mortuary services 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Motels 1 space for each sleeping room or suite.

 Motion picture studio 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Motion picture theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Multifamily uses4 except those Uses containing 2--10 dwelling units: listed below 1.1 spaces for each dwelling unit. Uses containing 11--30 dwelling units: 1.15 for each dwelling unit. Uses containing 31--60 dwelling units: 1.2 spaces for each dwelling unit. Uses containing more than 60 dwelling units: 1.25 spaces for each dwelling unit.

 In addition, for all multifamily uses whose average gross floor area per dwelling unit, excluding decks and all portions of a structure shared by multiple dwelling units, exceeds 500 square feet, an additional .0002 spaces per square foot in excess of 500 shall be required up to a maximum additional .15 spaces per dwelling unit; and

 When at least 50 percent of the dwelling units in a multi~~-~~family use have 3 bedrooms, an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 3 bedrooms shall be required; and

 Any multi~~-~~family use which contains a dwelling unit with 4 or more bedrooms shall be required to provide an additional .25 spaces per bedroom for each unit with 4 or more bedrooms.5

 Multifamily uses containing 1.5 spaces per unit with 2 or dwelling units with 2 or more more bedrooms. The requirement bedrooms, when within the area for units with 3 or more impacted by the University of bedrooms contained above shall Washington as shown on Map A also apply. All other following this section, unless requirements for units with such multifamily uses are fewer than 2 bedrooms occupied by low-income elderly, shall be as contained low-income disabled, or above.5 low-income elderly/low-income disabled households, in which case the provisions below apply

 Multifamily uses, when within 1.5 spaces per unit. the Alki area as shown on Map B following this section, unless such multifamily uses are occupied by low-income elderly, low-income disabled, or low- income elderly/low-income disabled households, in which case the provisions below apply

 Multifamily development, for 1 space for each dwelling unit. those ground-related uses within the development with 10 units or fewer

 Multifamily uses occupied by 1 space for each 6 dwelling units low-income elderly households

 Multifamily uses occupied by 1 space for each 4 dwelling units. low-income disabled households

 Multifamily uses occupied by 1 space for each 5 dwelling units. low-income elderly/low-income disabled households

 Multifamily uses, when within 1 space for each dwelling unit. the Seattle Cascade Mixed zone or the Pike/Pine Overlay District12

 Multifamily uses, when within 1 space for every 2 the Pike/Pine Overlay District, dwelling units13~~, when for each residential unit applicants demonstrate designated by development compliance with these criteria agreement for occupancy by  for the life of the building.~~~~rented to~~ households with incomes at the time of each household's initial occupancy of no more than ~~at rents not exceeding thirty (30) percent of~~ sixty (60) percent of the medianhousehold income, adjusted for household size, for the Seattle-Everett Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)

 Multi-purpose convenience store 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Museum1 1 space for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, not containing fixed seats; or 1 space for every 10 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; plus 1 space for each 250 square feet of other gross floor area open to the public.

 Nonhousehold sales and services, 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. except sales, service and rental of office equipment

 Nursing homes6 1 space for each 2 staff doctors; plus 1 additional space for each 3 employees; plus 1 space for each 6 beds.

 Office, administrative 1 space for each 1,000 square feet.

 Office, customer service 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Outdoor storage 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Parks None.

 Participant sports and recreation, 1 space for each 350 square feet. indoor, unless otherwise specified

 Participant sports and 1 space for each 350 square feet. recreation, outdoor, unless otherwise specified

 Passenger terminals 1 space for each 100 square feet. (waiting area)

 Performing arts theater 1 space for each 8 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Personal transportation services 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Playgrounds None.

 Power plants 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Private club1 1 space for each 80 square feet of floor area of all auditoria and public assembly rooms not containing fixed seats; or

 1 space for every 8 fixed seats for floor area containing fixed seats; or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 space for each 350 square feet, excluding ball courts.

 Railroad rights-of-way None.

 Railroad switchyard 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Railroad switchyard with 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. mechanized hump

 Recreational marinas 1 space for each 75 lineal feet of moorage.

 Recycling center 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Recycling collection station None.

 Religious facility1 1 space for each 80 square feet of all auditoria and public assembly rooms.

 Research and development 1 space for each 1,000 square feet. laboratory

 Restaurant 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Restaurant, fast-food 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Sale and rental of large boats 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sale and rental of motorized 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. Vehicles

 Sale of boat parts and 1 space for each 350 square feet. accessories

 Sale of heating fuel 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Sales, service and rental of 1 space for each 2,000 square feet. commercial equipment

 Sales, service and rental of 1 space for each 350 square feet. Office equipment

 Salvage yard 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 School, private elementary and 1 space for each 80 square feet secondary1,2 of all auditoria and public assembly rooms, or if no auditorium or assembly room, 1 space for each staff member.

 School, public elementary and 1 space for each 80 square feet of secondary 1,2,7 all auditorium or public assembly rooms, or 1 space for every 8 fixed seats in auditoria or public assembly rooms, containing fixed seats, for new public schools on a new or existing public school site.

 Sewage treatment plant 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Single-family dwelling units 1 space for each dwelling unit.

 Skating rink (rink area) 1 space for each 100 square feet.

 Solid waste transfer station 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Specialty food stores 1 space for each 350 square feet.

 Spectator sports facility11 1 space for each 10 fixed seats or 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area not containing fixed seats.

 Sport range 1 space for each 2 stations.

 Swimming pool (water area) 1 space for each 150 square feet.

 Taverns 1 space for each 200 square feet.

 Transit vehicle base 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Universities 8 A number of spaces equal to 15 percent of the maximum number of students present at peak hour; plus 30 percent of the number of employees present at peak hour; plus 1 space for each 100 square feet of spectator assembly area in outdoor spectator sports facilities.

 Utility service uses 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vehicle and vessel repair 1 space for each 2,000 square feet.

 Vocational or fine arts school 1 space for each 2 faculty plus full-time employees; plus 1 space for each 5 students (based on the maximum number of students in attendance at any one time).

 Warehouse 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Wholesale showroom 1 space for each 1,500 square feet.

 Work-release centers 1 space for each 2 full-time staff members; plus 1 space for each 5 residents; plus 1 space for each vehicle operated in connection with the work- release center.

 1 When permitted in single-family zones as conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multifamily zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122. The Director, in consultation with the Director of Seattle Transportation, may allow adult care and childcare centers locating in existing structures to provide loading and unloading spaces on-street when no other alternative exists.

 2 Indoor gymnasiums shall not be considered ball courts, nor shall they be considered auditoria or public assembly rooms unless they contain bleachers (fixed seats). If the gymnasium contains bleachers, the parking requirement for the entire gymnasium shall be one (1) parking space for every eight (8) fixed seats. Each twenty inches (20") of width of bleachers shall be counted as one (1) fixed seat for the purposes of determining parking requirements. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a school, there is no parking requirement for the gymnasium. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center, the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each 350 square feet. If the gymnasium does not contain bleachers and is in a community center owned and operated by the Department of Parks and Recreation (DOPAR), the parking requirement shall be one (1) space for each five hundred fifty-five (555) square feet.

 3 When family support centers are located within community centers owned and operated by DOPAR, the Director may lower the combined parking requirement by up to a maximum of fifteen percent (15%), pursuant to Section 23.54.020 I.

 4 Parking spaces required for multifamily uses may be provided as tandem spaces according to subsection B of Section 23.54.020.

 5Bedroom-Any habitable room as defined by the Building Code which, in the determination of the Director, is capable of being used as a bedroom.

 6When specified in single-family zones, Section 23.44.015, the Director may waive some or all of the parking requirements.

 7For public schools, when an auditorium or other place of assembly is demolished and a new one built in its place, parking requirements shall be determined based on the new construction. When an existing public school on an existing public school site is remodeled, additional parking is required if any auditorium or other place of assembly is expanded or additional fixed seats are added. Additional parking is required as shown on Chart A for the increase in floor area or increase in number of seats only. If the parking requirement for the increased area or seating is ten percent (10%) or less than that for the existing auditorium or other place of assembly, then no additional parking shall be required.

 8 Development standard~~s~~ departures may be granted or required pursuant to the procedures and criteria set forth in Chapter 23.79 to reduce the required or permitted number of parking spaces.

 9 Child care facilities, when co-located with assisted living facilities, may count the passenger load/unload space required for the assisted living facility toward its required passenger load/unload spaces.

 10 When permitted in single-family zones as conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022; when permitted in multi~~-~~family zones as a conditional use, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.45.122; and when permitted in commercial zones, the Director may modify the parking requirements pursuant to Section 23.44.022L.

 11 Required parking for spectator sports facilities or exhibition halls must be available when the facility or exhibition hall is in use. A facility shall be considered to be "in use" during the period beginning three (3) hours before an event is scheduled to begin and ending one (1) hour after a scheduled event is expected to end. For sports events of variable or uncertain duration, the expected event length shall be the average length of the events of the same type for which the most recent data are available, provided it is within the past five (5) years. During an inaugural season, or for non-recurring events, the best available good faith estimate of event duration will be used. A facility will not be deemed to be "in use" by virtue of the fact that administrative or maintenance personnel are present. The Director may reduce the required parking for any event when projected attendance for a spectator sports facility is certified to be 50% or less of the facility's seating capacity, to an amount not less than that required for the certified projected attendance, at the rate of one space for each ten fixed seats of certified projected attendance. An application for reduction and the certification shall be submitted to the Director at least 15 days prior to the event. When the event is one of a series of similar events, such certification may be submitted for the entire series 15 days prior to the first event in the series. If the Director finds that a certification of projected attendance of 50% or less of the seating capacity is based on satisfactory evidence such as past attendance at similar events or advance ticket sales, the Director shall, within 15 days of such submittal, notify the facility operator that a reduced parking requirement has been approved, with any conditions deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure adequacy of parking if expected attendance should change. The parking requirement reduction may be applied for only if the goals of the facility's Transportation Management Plan are otherwise being met. The Director may revoke or modify a parking requirement reduction approval during a series, if projected attendance is exceeded.

12 In circumstances where a developer agreement calls for use of affordable housing incentives within the Pike/Pine Overlay District, see the applicable multi-family parking requirements in Chart A.  13 This parking requirement is part of the affordable housing incentives for the Pike/Pine Overlay District and applies only when applicants have executed a developer agreement with the City promising compliance with these criteria for the life of the building. The size of housing units, based on bedroom size, used to meet the affordable housing incentives shall be substantially proportional to the overall mix of unit sizes of the total housing units in the proposed development; provided that all units of two or more bedrooms shall be considered as a single size category for the purpose of compliance with this provision. In addition, the housing units used to meet the affordable housing incentives for this parking requirement shall be substantially the same construction quality as market rate units in the proposed development.

 * * *

 Section 2. Subsection C of Section 23.73.008 of the Seattle Municipal Code, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120004, is further amended as follows:

 23.73.008 Uses.

 * * *

 C. Single-purpose Residential Structures.

 1. Single-purpose residential structures are permitted outright where commercial use is not required by subsection B, above, or as provided for in Section 23.47.023 B.

 2. A density of one unit per four hundred (400) square feet of lot area is permitted except that density shall be unlimited in areas where single-purpose residential  structures are~~is~~ permitted outright, as per Section 23.73.008C1, subject to the following:

 a. Single-purpose residential structures are located in NC zones with a height limit of sixty-five (65) feet or more; and

 b. At least forty (40) percent of ~~all~~ residential units are designated by development agreement for occupancy by households with incomes at the time of each household's initial occupancy of no more than ~~are rented to households at rents not exceeding thirty (30) percent of~~ sixty (60) percent of the median household income for the Seattle-Everett Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).

 (1)~~a~~. ~~Applicants shall demonstrate compliance with t~~These income criteria are applicable for the life of the building.

 (2) The size of housing units, based on number of bedrooms, used to meet the affordable housing incentives in this section shall be substantially proportional to the overall mix of unit sizes in the proposed development; all units of two or more bedrooms shall be considered as a single size category for the purpose of compliance with this provision.

 (3) Housing units used to meet the affordable housing incentives of this section shall be substantially the same construction quality as market rate units in the proposed development.

 * * *

 Section 3. Section 23.73.010, which Section was last amended by Ordinance 120004 is further amended as follows:

 23.73.010 Development standards.

 A. Height Exception for Mixed Use Structures

 1. In zones with a sixty-five (65) foot height limit, the Director ~~may~~shall permit the height of the structure to exceed the height limit of the zone by up to four (4) feet, only if the residential and nonresidential uses are located in the same structure and subject to the following:

 a. The additional height will result in ((~~nonresidential use at street level requires a~~floor to floor~~ceiling~~ heights~~that exceeds the minimum required ceiling height~~ of thirteen (13) feet  or more for the nonresidential use at street level; ~~floor to ceiling to support business operations;~~ and

 b. The additional height will not permit an additional story to be built beyond what could be built under a sixty- five (65) foot height limit if a ~~ceiling height of more than~~ thirteen (13) foot ceiling were ~~feet floor to ceiling is~~ not required at~~needed to support~~ street level.~~commercial uses.~~

 B. Open Space.

 1. Open space is not required for structures existing as of April 1, 2000, that are repaired, renovated or structurally altered to the extent permitted by the development standards of the Land Use Code, provided that street facing facades are retained and fifty (50) percent or more of the gross floor area is retained.

 2. Open space is not required for new construction, when affordable housing is provided ~~by a nonprofit organization~~ that meets the following criteria:

 a. At least forty (40) percent of ~~the~~residential  units shall be designated by development agreement for occupancy by households with incomes at the time of each household's initial occupancy of not more than ~~are rented to households at rents not exceeding thirty (30) percent of~~ sixty (60) percent of the median household  income, adjusted for household size, for the Seattle- Everett Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).~~and~~

 b. ~~Applicants shall demonstrate compliance with t~~ These income criteria are applicable for the life of the building.

 c. The size of housing units, based on number of bedrooms, used to meet the affordable housing incentives in this section shall be substantially proportional to the overall mix of unit sizes in the proposed development; all units of two or more bedrooms shall be considered as a single size category for the purpose of compliance with this provision.  d. Housing units used to meet the affordable housing incentives of this section shall be substantially the same construction quality as market rate units in the proposed development.

 3. Existing residential uses that meet the open space requirements of Section 23.47.024, Open space standards, may eliminate the open space, provided they comply with the requirements of Section 23.73.010B2.

 C. Parking.

 1. Required parking. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for multifamily uses is specified in Chart A of Section 23.54.015, Required parking.

 2. Location of parking. Parking for residential uses shall be provided on the same lot as the principal use. Parking for non-residential uses may be located on the lot or built into or under the structure or within eight hundred (800) feet of the lot on which the use is located. When parking is provided on a lot other than the lot of the use to which it is accessory, the provisions of Section 23.54.025, Parking covenants, shall apply.

 Section 4. A new Section, 23.73.012, is hereby added to the Seattle Municipal Code to read as follows:

 23.73.012 Requirements for use of affordable housing incentives to minimize displacement of affordable housing.

 A. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to ensure to the extent possible that the use of affordable housing incentives does not diminish the supply of affordable housing units located within the Pike/Pine Overlay District that existed prior to August 2, 2000, and were occupied by and affordable to households earning less than sixty (60) percent of the median income, adjusted for household size, for the Seattle- Bellevue-Everett Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area.

 B. Applicability.

 1. The affordable housing incentives may not be used for a project that would result in demolition or substantial rehabilitation of an existing, occupied rental housing structure with at least forty (40) percent of its occupied dwelling units occupied by households earning less than sixty (60) percent of the median income, adjusted for household size, for the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area unless the project will result in the provision of at least as many affordable units as existed on the property prior to demolition or substantial rehabilitation.

 2. For purposes of this subsection, existing, occupied rental housing structure means a rental housing structure that was occupied by lawful tenants on a date twelve (12) months prior to submittal of a Master Use Permit application even if it has since been vacated or demolished.

 3. Development agreement. Affordable housing incentives for the Pike/Pine Overlay District that are specified in Chart A of Section 23.54.015, Section 23.73.008C2b, and Section 23.73.010B2 shall be by development agreement, in a form to be specified by Director's Rule, entered into by the City and the property owner seeking to use the incentives.

 Section 5. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000. __________________________________ City Clerk

 PikePine2 Committee's recommended version_.doc 12/5/00 V5

```
