

********

**Council Bill Number: 113449**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120181**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the organization of City government; abolishing the Executive Services Department; creating a Department of Finance; creating a Personnel Department; creating a Fleets and Facilities Department; establishing the duties of the new departments; reassigning certain functions currently performed by the separate Divisions of the Executive Services Department; transferring positions; abrogating and creating positions, some of which are exempt; making provisions for transition and transfer; transferring appropriations in the 2001 adopted budget; repealing additional obsolete provisions, and repealing, amending, and adding various provisions throughout the Seattle Municipal Code in connection therewith; all by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** November 27, 2000
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** November 30, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** November 29, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** October 23, 2000
   
**Committee:** Budget
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** DEPARTMENT-OF-FINANCE, EXECUTIVE-SERVICES-DEPARTMENT, GOVERNMENTAL-REORGANIZATION, PERSONNEL-DEPARTMENT, FLEETS-AND-FACILITIES-DEPARTMENT, OFFICE-OF-SUSTAINABILITY-AND-ENVIRONMENT

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 120165, 119915, 119690, 119158, 119094, 120021, 120021

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the organization of City government; abolishing the Executive Services Department; creating a Department of Finance; creating a Personnel Department; creating a Fleets and Facilities Department; establishing the duties of the new departments; reassigning certain functions currently performed by the separate Divisions of the Executive Services Department; transferring positions; abrogating and creating positions, some of which are exempt; making provisions for transition and transfer; transferring appropriations in the 2001 adopted budget; repealing additional obsolete provisions, and repealing, amending, and adding various provisions throughout the Seattle Municipal Code in connection therewith; all by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 ABOLITION AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS

 Section 1. Effective January 1, 2001, the Executive Services Department is abolished. From and after that date, all the functions, responsibilities, agreements, obligations, authorizations, powers, equipment, records, appropriations, assets, and liabilities of the Executive Services Department shall belong to the department, departments or offices specified in this ordinance or in ordinances subsequently enacted.

 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENTS

 Section 2. Effective January 1, 2001, there is created a Department of Finance, which shall be the Department of Finance established in Article VIII of the City Charter. From and after that date, except as provided for in this or another ordinance, all the functions, responsibilities, agreements, obligations, authorizations, powers, equipment, records, appropriations, assets, and liabilities of the Executive Services Department not specifically assigned elsewhere by this or a subsequently enacted ordinance shall belong to the Department of Finance. The head of the Department of Finance shall be known as the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance is authorized to perform all responsibilities, duties, and obligations and exercise all powers heretofore belonging to the Finance Director when the Finance Director was the director of the Finance Division of the Executive Services Department. The Director of Finance is further authorized to perform all responsibilities, duties, and obligations and exercise all powers heretofore belonging to the Executive Services Director that are not specifically transferred in this ordinance to the Fleets and Facilities Director, the Director of the Office of Sustainability and Environment, or the Personnel Director. All references elsewhere to the Finance Director or the Director of Finance shall refer to the head of the Department of Finance except as may be otherwise provided by this or another ordinance.

 Section 3. Effective January 1, 2001, there is created a Personnel Department. From and after that date, except as provided for in this or another ordinance, all the functions, responsibilities, agreements, obligations, authorizations, powers, equipment, records, appropriations, assets, and liabilities of the Personnel Division of the Executive Services Department shall belong to the Personnel Department. The head of the Personnel Department shall be known as the Personnel Director. The Personnel Director shall exercise the authority granted by Article XVI of the Seattle City Charter, and is authorized to perform all responsibilities, duties, and obligations and exercise all powers heretofore belonging to the Personnel Director when the Personnel Director was the director of the Personnel Division of the Executive Services Department. All references elsewhere to the Personnel Director shall refer to the head of the Personnel Department except as may be otherwise provided by this or another ordinance.

 Section 4. Effective January 1, 2001, there is created a Fleets and Facilities Department. From and after that date, except as provided for in this or another ordinance, all the functions, responsibilities, agreements, obligations, authorizations, powers, equipment, records, appropriations, assets, and liabilities of the Fleet Services Division and the Facility Services Division of the Executive Services Department shall belong to the Fleets and Facilities Department. The head of the Fleets and Facilities Department shall be known as the Fleets and Facilities Director. The Fleets and Facilities Director is authorized to perform all responsibilities, duties, and obligations and exercise all powers heretofore belonging to the Fleet Services Division Director when the Fleet Services Division Director was the director of the Fleet Services Division of the Executive Services Department. The Fleets and Facilities Director is authorized to perform all responsibilities, duties, and obligations and exercise all powers heretofore belonging to the Facility Services Division Director when the Facility Services Division Director was the director of the Facility Services Division of the Executive Services Department. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, the Fleets and Facilities Director is further authorized to perform all responsibilities, duties, and obligations and exercise all powers heretofore belonging to the Executive Services Director related to the Fleet Services Division and the Facility Services Division of the Executive Services Department.

 Section 5. Effective January 1, 2001, all the functions, responsibilities, agreements, obligations, authorizations, powers, equipment, records, appropriations, assets, and liabilities of the Executive Services Department pertaining to the City's Environmental Management Program and of the Strategic Planning Office pertaining to environmental policy and sustainability shall belong to the Office of Sustainability and Environment created by Ordinance 120121 (Council Bill 113413), and the Director of the Office of Sustainability and Environment is authorized to perform and exercise all City-wide responsibilities, duties, obligations, and powers related to the City's Environmental Management Program theretofore belonging to the Director of the Executive Services Department and related to environmental policy and sustainability theretofore belonging to the Director of the Strategic Planning Office, including without limitation any such responsibilities, duties, obligations and powers that may be created by ordinance after the passage of this ordinance, unless expressly stated in the later ordinance.

 Section 6. From and after January 1, 2001, all rules, regulations, notices, and proceedings in effect on that date with respect to activities carried on by the Executive Services Department shall continue in effect, unless and until they expire of their own terms or are superseded.

 BUDGET

 Section 7. The City Council intends that, effective January 1, 2001, the departments created in this ordinance and the Office of Sustainability and Environment shall have control of and responsibility for the appropriations, positions, and incumbents in the 2001 adopted budget that relate to their respective departments or that relate to the Office of Sustainability and Environment. Each department head shall have the authority to expend and the responsibility for funds in Lines of Business ("LOBs") within the Executive Services Fund as set forth in this ordinance until such time as new funds may be created for each department or the existing appropriations may be transferred or reappropriated by ordinance. To the extent that this ordinance fails to transfer LOBs, programs, funds, or personnel positions to the department controlling that function, the Director of Finance, after consultation with the affected department heads, shall have the authority to transfer resources in order to effectuate the intent of this ordinance.

 Section 8. Personnel Department. Effective January 1, 2001, all the expenditure authority, positions, and incumbents in the Personnel LOB within the Executive Services Department of the 2001 Adopted Budget are hereby transferred to the Personnel Department except for the following positions and incumbents:

 Position Title 00017371 Personnel Spec. 00014295 Admin. Spec. I 00020662 Safety and Health Specialist, Sr. 00015675 Personnel Spec., Sr.

 which are transferred to the Fleets and Facilities Department, and:

 Position Title 00024230 Executive 1 00015531 Personnel Spec., Sr. 00024657 Personnel Spec. 00025929 Admin. Spec. I

 which are transferred to the Finance Department. Effective January 1, 2001, the Training and Education Coordinator, Senior position (Position #00010722) is abrogated.

 Section 9. Fleets and Facilities Department. Effective January 1, 2001, all the expenditure authority, positions, and incumbents in the General Services LOB within the Executive Services Department of the 2001 Adopted Budget are hereby transferred to the Fleets and Facilities Department. Effective January 1, 2001 there is authorized to be created within the Fleets and Facilities Department a new Training and Education Coordinator, Senior, .5 FTE position, with final classification to be determined by the Personnel Director in accordance with SMC 4.04.130. The incumbent serving in position 00010722 on December 31, 2000 is hereby assigned to the Training and Education Coordinator, Senior, .5 FTE position.

 Section 10. Office of Sustainability and Environment. Effective January 1, 2001, all the expenditure authority, positions, and incumbents in the Sustainability and Environmental Management LOB within the Executive Services Department of the 2001 Adopted Budget are hereby transferred to the Office of Sustainability and Environment in the Executive Department, except for the Executive 2 position (Position #086384), which is abrogated.

 Section 11. Department of Finance. Effective January 1, 2001, all the expenditure authority, positions, and incumbents in the Administration LOB within the Executive Services Department in the 2001 Adopted Budget are hereby transferred to the Department of Finance except for the following positions and incumbents:

 Position Title 00010436 Mgmt Systems Analyst, Supv. 00011215 Rates Management Analyst, Sr. 00020766 Rates Management Analyst, Sr. 00020902 Strategic Advisor 2 00025028 Planner, Sr. 00015690 Admin. Spec. II - BU 00014290 Admin. Spec. II - BU 00011228 Admin. Spec. III

 which are transferred to the Fleets and Facilities Department. Effective January 1, 2001 there is authorized to be created within the Department of Finance a new Training and Education Coordinator, Senior, .5 FTE position, with final classification to be determined by the Personnel Director in accordance with SMC 4.04.130. The incumbent serving in position 00010722 on December 31, 2000 is hereby assigned to the Training and Education Coordinator, Senior, .5 FTE position. Effective January 1, 2001, all the expenditure authority, positions, and incumbents in the Finance LOB within the Executive Services Department in the 2001 Adopted Budget are hereby transferred to the Department of Finance. Effective January 1, 2001, all the expenditure authority, positions, and incumbents in the Revenue and Consumer Affairs LOB within the Executive Services Department in the 2001 Adopted Budget are hereby transferred to the Department of Finance. Any expenditure authority, positions, and incumbents in the Executive Services Department in the 2001 Adopted Budget and not specifically transferred to the Personnel Department, Fleets and Facilities Department, or the Office of Sustainability and Environment by this ordinance are hereby transferred to the Department of Finance. The Director of Finance shall, after consulting with the affected department heads, divide all overhead functions and the appropriations in the Administration LOB among the Personnel, Finance, and Fleets and Facilities Departments and to the extent necessary to provide for support of the Office of Sustainability and Environment in the Executive Department.

 DEPARTMENT HEADS

 Section 12. Department of Finance. Effective January 1, 2001, there is created a new Executive 4 position, exempt under Article XVI, Section 3 of the Seattle City Charter, titled "Director of Finance," to be the head of the Department of Finance created by this ordinance. The position of Executive Services Department Director (Position # 025516) is abrogated as of January 1, 2001. The incumbent serving as the Executive Services Department Director in the Executive Services Department on December 31, 2000, is hereby confirmed as the Director of Finance in the new Department of Finance.

 Section 13. Personnel Department. Effective January 1, 2001, there is created a new Executive 3 position, exempt under Article XVI, Section 3 of the Seattle City Charter, titled "Personnel Director," to be the head of the Personnel Department created by this ordinance. The position of Personnel Director (Position # 10460) is abrogated as of January 1, 2001. The incumbent serving as Personnel Director in the Personnel Division of the Executive Services Department on December 31, 2000, is hereby confirmed as the Personnel Director in the new Personnel Department.

 Section 14. Fleets and Facilities Department. Effective January 1, 2001, there is created a new Executive 3 position, exempt under Article XVI, Section 3 of the Seattle City Charter, titled "Fleets and Facilities Director," to be the head of the Fleets and Facilities Department created by this ordinance. The position of Facility Services Division Director (Position # 019000) is abrogated as of January 1, 2001.

 AMENDMENT OF CODIFIED ORDINANCES

 Section 15. Subsection 3.14.620(B) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.14.620 Director - Powers and authority.

 * * *

 B. To manage the preparation of the annual budget of the Office of Economic Development, under the guidance of the ~~Budget~~ Director of Finance; authorize appropriate expenditures and carry out the adopted budget; ~~supervise the maintenance of adequate accounting systems and procedures;~~ develop and manage programs; and undertake authorized activities;

 Section 16. Chapter 3.18 of the Seattle Municipal Code is retitled "Fleets and Facilities Department" and is amended by adding new sections as follows:

 Chapter 3.18

~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Department

 Subchapter I ~~(Reserved)~~ General

 3.18.010 Department Established - Purpose.

 There is established a Fleets and Facilities Department to manage municipal property, the City's motor pool and vehicular fleet, and to provide office services, and printing and duplicating.

 3.18.020 Director - Appointment.

 The Director of the Fleets and Facilities Department shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to confirmation by majority vote of the City Council. The Director may be removed by the Mayor at any time upon filing a statement of reason therefore with the City Council.

 3.18.030 Director - Functions, Powers, and Duties.

 The Fleets and Facilities Director shall manage the Fleets and Facilities Department and shall have the following powers and perform the following functions:

 A. Subject to the City's personnel ordinances and rules, appoint, assign, supervise and control all officers and employees in the Department;

 B. Promulgate rules and regulations in accordance with the City's Administrative Code (Chapter 3.02, as it may be amended or succeeded) as deemed necessary and proper;

 C. Manage the preparation of the annual budget for the Department under guidance from the Director of Finance; authorize appropriate expenditures and carry out the adopted budget; develop and manage programs, and undertake authorized activities;

 D. Strategically manage the City's real estate portfolio, excluding those properties outside of Seattle, those used for power or water distribution or for drainage or wastewater purposes, and properties for which the City Charter or state law requires management by another department. Strategic management includes planning and development, acquisition, disposal, analysis, development of policy and procedure, and general administration;

 E. Establish a system of prices, rates and allocations, and charge City departments for services furnished by the Fleets and Facilities Department and the use of City facilities and equipment;

 F. Assign space in Municipal Buildings to City departments and agencies;

 G. Establish rates of fees to be charged for parking privately owned vehicles of City officers, employees, agents, and other persons on City premises and implement policies and procedures to administer a City facility parking program consistently with policy developed by the City Council.

 H. Manage contracts for public works programs in the Fleets and Facilities Department capital improvement program.

 I. Perform other functions and execute such other powers as may be prescribed from time to time by ordinance.

 Section 17. Section 3.18.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.18.060 Recycling Program.

 The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director shall manage and maintain the City's program for recycling waste paper products, including office paper, computer paper, tab cards, and other paper products, and for such purpose the Director is authorized to promulgate such rules, in accordance with the Administrative Code (Ordinance 102228) as are necessary to manage and maintain the paper recycling program in an efficient, economic and environmentally sound manner. Revenues from the sale of paper products collected under the recycling program shall be deposited in the Executive Services Fund.

 Section 18. Subsection 3.18.140(B)(2) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.18.140 City Motor Vehicle Fleet

 * * *

 B. Assigned Vehicles. Where the normal operations of a City department extend beyond established work headquarters and work hours, and based on the substantiated needs of such department for adequate supervision or job performance, such vehicles may be assigned on the following basis:

 * * *

 2. As soon as practicable after the end of each calendar year, the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director (called the "Director" in this section) shall submit to the City Council a list of the officials and employees to whom a vehicle should be assigned for the next succeeding year in accordance with the following criteria:

 * * *

 Section 19. Section 3.18.160 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.18.160 Authority to negotiate and execute leases.

 The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director is authorized to negotiate and to enter into new interim leases or subleases and extensions or modifications of existing leases or subleases of any property now or hereafter owned by or leased to the City that is under the management of the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director or is under the management of another department that has requested that the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director lease or sublease such property. The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director is authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of the City, all documents he or she shall deem necessary or appropriate in connection with any lease or sublease authorized in this section. The authority in this section is limited as follows:

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities  Director shall use a standard lease form or forms prepared with the assistance or advice of the City Attorney or, contingent upon prior consultation with the City Attorney regarding any difference between the standard and any nonstandard from, such nonstandard form lease; and

 B. The total term of any new lease together with all extensions of the initial term thereof, and the total term of any existing lease together with all extensions for the term thereof, shall not exceed five (5) years in duration; provided, however, that this limitation shall not restrict the authority of the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director to negotiate and to enter into new leases for the same property with the same tenant upon terms and conditions different from any earlier lease pertaining to such property.

 * * *

 Section 20. Section 3.18.180 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.18.180 Reimbursement of Executive Services Fund.

 To provide for the reimbursement of the Executive Services Fund for expenses incurred in the maintenance, repair, and administration of the property leased pursuant to the authority of the subchapter, the ~~City Finance~~ Director of Finance is authorized and directed to deduct from the rental payments received from the leasing of such property amounts equal to such expenses of the ~~Executive~~Fleets and Facilities Department, to deposit such funds into the Executive Services Fund, and to deposit the remainder of such funds (if any) in the fund from which money was expended to acquire said property.

 Section 21. Section 3.18.200 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.18.200 Authority to execute leases - Standard form.

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director is authorized to negotiate and execute for and on behalf of the City, real property leases for the purpose of acquiring necessary facilities for use by City departments and agencies to carry out authorized functions and programs. The term of any such lease shall not exceed sixty (60) consecutive calendar months.

 B. The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director shall use a standard lease form or forms prepared with the assistance or advice of the City Attorney, or contingent upon prior consultation with the City Attorney regarding the differences between the standard and any nonstandard form, such nonstandard form lease.

 Section 22. Section 3.18.260 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.18.260 Rental payments - Annual adjustment.

 Any rental payment specified in any lease may be made subject to an annual adjustment based upon the expenditure class "Rent, residential" in the Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (1967=100) of the Consumer Price Index for the Seattle area as compiled by the Bureau of labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, and any rent which is so adjusted may exceed the limits imposed by Section 3.18.240 hereof upon rental payments provided in leases entered into by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director pursuant to the authority granted in Section 3.18.200.

 Section 23. Section 3.18.280 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.18.280 Department or Agency responsibility.

 No lease shall be executed by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director pursuant to the authority of Section 3.18.200 of this chapter unless the department or agency which is to occupy the premises to be leased shall have available to it funds which it is duly authorized to use to pay the ~~Executive Services~~ Fleets and Facilities Department for its anticipated billing for the use of such space during the balance of the current budget year. Funds paid by the departments and agencies using space leased by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director pursuant to the authority of Section 3.18.200 of this Chapter shall be deposited in the Executive Services Fund.

 Section 24. Section 3.24.300 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.18.300 and is amended as follows:

~~3.24.300~~3.18.300 Asset management -- Real property.

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director shall be responsible for centrally managing City-owned properties with the exception of those properties outside of Seattle, those properties used for power or water distribution or for drainage or wastewater purposes, those properties under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Center Department, those properties leased for the City by the Director of Neighborhoods pursuant to SMC Section 3.35.080 for use as a P-Patch community garden or another similar open space purpose, and those properties for which the City Charter or state law requires control by another department; and for providing City-wide planning and leadership to ensure the most effective use of the City's real property resources and compliance with City objectives and goals. Whether or not real property is centrally managed by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Department, the acquisition, reuse or disposal of real property or any interest therein is subject to policies adopted by the City Council and rules adopted by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director or the Director's predecessor pursuant to SMC Ch. 3.02.

 B. For those City-owned properties that are to be centrally managed by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Department pursuant to the authority granted in SMC Section ~~3.24.300 A~~3.18.300 A, only the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director, pursuant to and consistent with the authority granted in SMC Section 3.18.160, may grant a leasehold interest in such City-owned real property, unless:

 * * *

 2. A City department or official obtains the written approval of the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director for such action, and the terms of the proposed lease are consistent with the restrictions contained in SMC Section 3.18.160.

 C. Except for property to be used for power or water distribution or for drainage or wastewater purposes, those properties under the jurisdiction of the Seattle Center Department, property leased for the City by the Director of Neighborhoods pursuant to SMC Section 3.35.080 for use as a P- Patch community garden or another similar open space purpose, and property for which the City Charter or state law requires control by a department other than the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Department after acquisition, only the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities  Director, pursuant to the authority granted under SMC Section 3.18.200, may acquire a lease-hold interest in any real property on behalf of the City unless:

 * * *

 2. A City department or official receives the written approval of the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director for such action, and the terms of the proposed lease are consistent with the restrictions contained in SMC Section 3.18.200.

 D. The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director may, consistent with the Director's leasing authority under SMC Sections 3.18.160 and 3.18.200, by rule adopted pursuant to SMC Ch. 3.02, grant blanket approval for departments or officials designated by him or her to enter into certain specified types of leases, so long as the lease is of the type described in the rule and the lease terms are substantially in the form of the form lease approved by the rule. Execution of any lease not in the form approved by rule shall be contingent on approval by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director after consultation with the City Attorney regarding the differences between the form of the lease proposed for execution and the form approved by the rule.

 E. Any lease entered into in violation of this section is voidable at the City's option unless and until ratified by ordinance or, if the violation of this section is merely a failure to obtain the approval of the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director, if approved in writing by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director.

 * * *

 Section 25. Chapter 3.38 of the Seattle Municipal Code is redesignated "Department of Finance."

 Section 26. Section 3.38.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

~~FINANCE DIVISION~~DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

 3.38.010 Department Established - Functions, Powers, and Authority.

There is established a Department of Finance to ~~The Finance Director shall manage the Finance Division of the Executive Services Department. The Finance Division is the Department of Finance referred to in the City Charter. The Finance Director shall~~ exercise general supervision over the financial affairs of the City;~~and~~ administer and enforce laws and ordinances relating to weights, measures, and consumer protection;  administer the City's public works contracting processes and execute contracts for public works projects; administer the contract processes of and execute and manage contracts for all supplies, material, equipment and services required by City agencies, and the disposition of property, equipment, supplies, and material other than art works that are surplus to the City's needs; administer and enforce law and City ordinances relating to contract compliance and animal control; direct City budgeting, revenue forecasting, and economic analysis activities, and license~~ing~~ for regulation and/or revenue unless law or ordinance vests such power elsewhere.

The head of the Department of Finance shall be the Director of Finance. As of January 1, 2001, all references to "Finance Department," "Finance Director," "Purchasing Agent," "Department of Administrative Services," "Comptroller," "Department of Licenses and Consumer Affairs," "Director of Licenses and Consumer Affairs," or "Board of Public Works" shall be deemed to be a reference to "Department of Finance" or "Director of Finance" as may be applicable, except where the historical reference to "Finance Department," "Finance Director," "Purchasing Agent," "Department of Administrative Services," "Comptroller," "Department of Licenses and Consumer Affairs," "Director of Licenses and Consumer Affairs," or "Board of Public Works" is called for by context. The City's Code Reviser is authorized to amend the Seattle Municipal Code over time as he or she deems appropriate in order to carry out this reference change. The ~~Finance Director's~~ Director of Finance's functions and powers include the following:

 * * *

M. Manage the preparation of the proposed budget for the Department, authorize appropriate expenditures and carry out the adopted budget, develop and manage programs, and undertake authorized activities;  N. Be the Budget Director as referenced in Chapter 35.32A RCW and prepare the Mayor's proposed budgets and revenue forecasts for submission to the Council, giving guidance as appropriate to other City departments, offices, boards, and commissions in the preparation of their proposed budgets;

 O. Provide strategic financial analysis, including debt management, economic and revenue forecasting, and special analysis of trends and events;

 P. Issue, deny, suspend, and revoke licenses for regulatory or revenue purposes according to law;

 Q. In the administration of public works contracting processes, require that all public works activities and contracts for public works projects are developed and carried out in a manner consistent with applicable state law and City ordinances. In case of an emergency requiring public works contracts, the Director of Finance or his or her designee is authorized to declare the existence of an emergency situation, waive competitive bidding requirements, and award public works contracts necessary to address the emergency

 R. Consistent with this title and as otherwise authorized by ordinance, administer the City's purchasing and contracting processes, including solicitation of offers and proposals, and administration and enforcement of agreements made; execute contracts for an on behalf of the City of public works projects, purchasing of supplies, materials, equipment and maintenance services, expert and consultant services, and disposition of property, equipment, supplies, and material, other than art works, that are surplus to the City's needs;

 S. Provide risk management and insurance services;

 T. At his or her discretion or as otherwise authorized by ordinance, delegate any or all of the powers granted in Subsections 3.38.010(Q) and 3.38.010(R) to other departments, including but not limited to the authority to execute or administer classes of or individual portions of contracts.

 Section 27. Section 3.18.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.100 and Subsections 3.38.100 A and 3.38.100 B are amended as follows:

~~3.18.150~~3.38.100 Review of Contracting Services Division Recommendation for contract awards by the Hearing Examiner.

 A. The Hearing Examiner shall hear and make a recommendation to ~~Executive Services~~~~Department~~ Director of Finance with respect to any protest by a bidder in connection with the awarding of a public works or purchase contract including, but not limited to, a determination by the Director of Contracting Services regarding: the immateriality of one (1) or more bidding errors, omissions, or variations; selection of a bidder as the apparently lowest and best bidder; implementation of SMC Chapters 20.44 (City Contracts -- Prevention of Discrimination) and 20.46A (Women's and Minority Business Enterprise Utilization); and the rejection or disqualification of any bidder.

 B. Bid protests shall be heard in an informal manner. Notwithstanding the provisions of SMC Chapter 3.02, the Hearing Examiner shall not act in an appellate capacity with respect to the hearing of any protest, but shall be limited to making an advisory recommendation to the ~~Executive Services Department~~ Director of Finance on the bid protest. Bidders may, but are not required to, have their protests heard by the Hearing Examiner prior to seeking other appropriate relief as may be provided by law.

 * * *

 Section 28. Section 3.18.800 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.800 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.800~~3.38.800 Purchasing Powers.

 Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall purchase, sell or transfer, contract for, rent or lease all supplies, materials, equipment, and services other than expert and consultant services needed by various departments of the City government, referred to in this subchapter as "using" agencies; provided, that the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance is authorized to enter into cooperative and/or joint agreements with any state or governmental agency or subdivision thereof, or any other governmental unit or any public benefit nonprofit corporation for the purchase of such supplies, materials, equipment, and services under the purview of this chapter; provided, further, that such public benefit nonprofit corporation is an agency that is receiving local, state, or federal funds either directly or through a public agency; provided, further, that purchases made pursuant to any such agreement shall be separately invoiced to the respective purchasers in accordance with the purchases made by each; and provided, further, that each such purchaser shall be responsible for payment for its own purchases only. Purchases made for the City under a purchasing contract executed by a state, or agency or subdivision thereof, or by another governmental unit or public benefit nonprofit corporation shall be exempt from the competitive bidding and related requirements of Section ~~3.18.806~~3.38.806.

 Section 29. Section 3.18.802 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.802 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.802~~3.38.802 Compliance by City officers and employees -- Exceptions.

 No city officer or employee shall have the authority to order or contract for the purchase of any supplies, materials, equipment, or service within the purview of this subchapter except through, or in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance and no order or contract made contrary to the provisions of the subchapter shall be approved by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or any subordinate thereof or be binding upon the City; provided, that contracts for services in connection with public works and construction, or by consultants pursuant to SMC Chapter 3.114, and all contracts for services in connection with the acquisition of real property and property rights, processing of claims and all litigation of the City or in which the City or any of its departments may be interested, shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.

 Section 30. Section 3.18.806 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.806 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.806~~3.38.806 Competitive bidding -- Cost over $30,000.00.

 A. Except in emergencies provided for in this subchapter, all expenditures for supplies, materials, equipment, and services within the purview of this subchapter the estimated cost of which is in excess of Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000.00) per requisition shall be made on written contract entered into upon the basis of competitive bids and are subject to the preferences provided by SMC Section ~~3.18.910~~3.38.910. Notices inviting sealed competitive bids shall be published at least once in the City official newspaper, and at least five (5) calendar days must intervene between the date of the last publication and the final date for submitting the bids; provided, that purchases of patented or proprietary items available from a single source, or purchases or contracts for services within the purview of this subchapter where competitive bidding is deemed impracticable by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director  of Finance, shall be exempt from the competitive bidding requirements of the section; provided, further, that the purchase of supplies, materials, and equipment to be resold by the using agency may be negotiated for by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance when, in his or her judgment, the lowest and best price can be obtained by such negotiation.

 B. All such bids shall be submitted sealed to the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance and shall be accompanied by surety in such form and amount as shall be prescribed by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance in the notice inviting bids.

 C. The bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the notice inviting bids. No bids will be considered which arrive at the place of bid opening at any time later than the time specified in the notice inviting bids. After examination and tabulation by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, all bids may be inspected by the competing bidders. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may reject any or all bids, or part of bids, and shall state in writing and keep a record of the reason or reasons for such rejection, which record shall be open to public inspection. Otherwise the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall award the contract to the lowest and best bidder, or in the case of multiple awards to the lowest and best bidders. In determining the lowest and best bidder, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may consider such factors, among others, as quality, delivery terms, and service reputation of the vendor.

 D. An Invitation to Bid may specify that life cycle costing will be used either as the exclusive basis for evaluating bids or on an alternative basis. If sufficient life cycle cost information is readily available, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall consider the life cycle cost in determining the lowest and best bid in accordance with the Invitation to Bid. "Life cycle cost" means the total cost to the City of the supplies, materials, or equipment procured over its estimated useful life, including costs of selection, acquisition, operation, maintenance, and where applicable, disposal as far as these costs can be reasonably determined, minus the salvage value at the end of its estimated useful life. The "estimated useful life" means the estimated time from the date of acquisition to the date of replacement or disposal, determined in a reasonable manner.

 E. When in the judgment of the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, bids require further information and analysis for the purpose of determining the lowest and best bidder, he/she may request that bidders provide pertinent information, and on receipt thereof may negotiate with one (1) or more bidders and award such contract to the lowest and best bidder as determined by such negotiation.

 F. When two (2) or more low bids received are for the same total amount or unit price, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may allow such tied bidders to offer a lower price or may make such purchase in the open market at a price not exceeding such bid price.

 G. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  may require, before any contract is executed, that the successful bidder furnish a performance bond in such amount as said official shall find reasonable and necessary, which requirement shall be stated in the notice inviting bids. All surety bonds shall be subject to approval as to form by the City Attorney. If the successful bidder does not enter into a contract and file any required surety within ten (10) days after the award, such bidder shall forfeit the surety which accompanied its bid. A copy of each contract covering a term of three (3) months or more together with any required surety for performance thereof, shall be filed with the City Clerk.

 H. As authorized by RCW 39.30.040, for determining the lowest and best bidder, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall take into consideration the tax revenues derived by the City from its business and occupation or utility taxes (Seattle Municipal Code Chapters 5.44 and 5.48) and its sales and use taxes (Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 5.60) from the proposed purchase.

 Section 31. Section 3.18.808 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.808 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.808~~3.38.808 Zoo animals and specimens.

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall effect acquisition or disposal by sale, purchase, trade, exchange, or loan, of all zoo animals and other zoo specimens and where competitive bidding is deemed impracticable by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, such acquisition or disposal shall be exempt from the competitive bidding requirements of this subchapter and the same may be effected by negotiated agreements by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance in cooperation with the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation in accordance with such procedures as may be established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance.

 Section 32. Section 3.18.810 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.810 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.810~~3.38.810 Expenditures under $30,000.00.

 All expenditures for supplies, materials, equipment, and services within the purview of this subchapter, the estimated cost of which will not exceed Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000.00) per requisition may be made in the open market; provided, that to the extent possible, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his or her designated representative shall endeavor to obtain from prospective vendors at least three (3) competitive bids, and shall award such purchase to the lowest and best bidder, subject to the preferences provided by SMC Section ~~3.18.910~~3.38.910. The Director or his or her designated representative may, in his or her discretion, determine the lowest and best bidder for expenditures under Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000) per requisition by the same criteria as used for larger purchases. When the Invitation to Bid so specifies, and if sufficient life cycle cost information is readily available, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall consider the life cycle cost in determining the lowest and best bidder in accordance with the Invitation to Bid.

 Section 33. Section 3.18.812 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.812 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.812~~3.38.812 Open market purchases where bidding is impractical.

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his or her designated representative may secure in the open market without bids any supplies, materials, equipment, or services within the purview of this subchapter, the cost of which will not exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) per item, when the delay and expense of handling bids on small purchases would not be advantageous to the City. ~~Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 3.24,~~T~~t~~he ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may delegate any or all of the powers in this section to other departments at his or her discretion.

 Section 34. Section 3.18.814 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.814 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.814~~3.38.814 Emergency purchases.

 In case of an emergency which requires immediate purchase of supplies, materials, equipment, or services within the purview of this subchapter the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or such other City officers or employees authorized by ordinance or rule to act in such event may make such purchases in the open market without advertisement at the best obtainable price regardless of the amount of the expenditure; and in determining the best price, such factors, among others, as quality, delivery terms, and service reputation of the vendor, may be considered; provided, that expenditures amounting to more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) per requisition shall be based on written contract; and provided, further, that a full explanation of the circumstances of such emergency shall be filed by the using agency with the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance.

 Section 35. Section 3.18.816 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.816 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.816~~3.38.816 Items purchased by published price list.

 In the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment or services needed continuously or repeatedly, including catalog or standard production items, the price of which is determined by published price lists, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may enter into "open-end," "blanket- order," or "price-agreement" contracts.

 Section 36. Section 3.18.818 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.818 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.818~~3.38.818 Leasing or rental of equipment.

 The leasing and renting of equipment by the using agencies shall be contracted for by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, subject, where practicable, to competitive bidding.

 Section 37. Section 3.18.820 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.820 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.820~~3.38.820 Repair or maintenance of equipment.

 In the repairing or maintenance of City equipment where the City is not equipped or able to perform the work, and when it is impossible to estimate the repairs necessary until such equipment is dismantled, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may award a contract or contracts to those responsible firms that he or she is convinced can do satisfactory repairing.

 Section 38. Section 3.18.822 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.822 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.822~~3.38.822 Inspection of deliveries.

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall be responsible for the inspection of all deliveries of supplies, materials, equipment, and services within the purview of this subchapter, and the acceptance thereof as to conformance with the specifications set forth in the order or contract.

 B. To facilitate such inspection, personnel employed by the using agencies and having assigned responsibility for receiving supplies, materials, equipment, and services may be designated as representatives of the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance to make inspections and accept deliveries in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance.

 C. All such supplies, materials, equipment or services shall be receipted for by an authorized ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance receiving clerk or by such designated representative in the using agency, and a written report of such receipt shall be transmitted to the ~~Executive Services~~ Director ofFinance. No payment shall be made for any such supplies, materials, equipment, or services unless the same have been receipted and a written report thereof has been made as provided in this section.

 D. The return or exchange of any merchandise received by a using agency shall be handled directly through ~~an Executive Services~~a Department of Finance receiving clerk or such a designated representative in the using agency, who shall obtain a credit memorandum from the firm which originally supplied the merchandise.

 E. Invoices issued against such supplies, materials, equipment, leases, rentals, repairs, or services shall be submitted to the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, who shall approve the same as to price, delivery, or work performed before any voucher for payment shall be issued.

 Section 39. Section 3.18.824 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.824 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.824~~3.38.824 Reports of supplies on hand -- Sale or transfer of surplus.

 A. All using agencies shall submit to the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, at such times and in such form as he or she shall prescribe, reports showing stocks of supplies, materials and equipment on hand awaiting use. When any stock is surplus or no longer of use to any using agency, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may transfer it to another or other agencies which have need for it, subject to adjustment between the agencies concerned. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may sell all supplies, materials, and equipment not needed for public use or that may have become unsuitable for public use; provided, that, except for computer equipment disposed of under subsection B, any such sale shall be based on competitive bids in the same manner required for purchases unless the ~~Executive Services~~Director of Finance shall determine competitive bidding to be impracticable.

 B. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, the Director of the Department of ~~Housing and~~ Human Services, and the Director of the Department of Neighborhoods may dispose of surplus computer equipment in accordance with Ordinance 119145 as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended.

 Section 40. Section 3.18.826 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.826 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.826~~3.38.826 Testing of samples.

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may prescribe chemical and physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries to determine their quality and conformance with the City's specifications. These tests may include tests which evaluate a product's ability to meet recycled content standard product specifications established in SMC Section ~~3.18.908~~3.38.908. In the performance of such tests, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may use private testing laboratories. The costs of such tests shall be charged to the appropriate budget allowance of the using agency on whose behalf such test is made.

 Section 41. Section 3.18.830 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.830 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.830~~3.38.830 Examination of requisition -- Brand and trade names.

 A. It shall be the duty of the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance to examine each requisition and specification submitted by any using agency and determine whether the same is clear and may be readily understood by prospective bidders and provides a sound basis for competitive bidding. When, in the judgment of the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, any requisition or specification is vague, ambiguous or unduly restricts competitive bidding, he or she shall return the same to the using agency for clarification or modification.

 B. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall avoid, to all practicable extent, the use of brand or trade names as criteria for procurement of supplies, materials, equipment and services when, in his or her judgment, such purchases can be accomplished to the greater advantage of the City through use of general specifications.

 Section 42. Section 3.18.832 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.832 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.832~~3.38.832 Contracting with sheltered workshops -- Exemption.

 Pursuant to and in accordance with RCW 39.23.005 and RCW 39.23.020, and notwithstanding the provisions of SMC Section ~~3.18.806~~3.38.806, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance is hereby authorized to directly negotiate, and without competitive bidding, to contract with qualified sheltered workshops for purchase of products manufactured or provided by sheltered workshops and programs and

 for the provision of janitorial services for City-owned facilities. Such purchases shall be at the fair market price of such product and services as determined by the City.

 Section 43. Section 3.18.840 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.840 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.840~~3.38.840 Escalation of dollar limits.

 A. As of January 1, 1997, all monetary amounts specified in Sections ~~3.18.806~~3.38.806 and ~~3.18.810~~3.38.810 shall be annually adjusted hereafter by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, consistent with the formula described in SMC Section 3.114.140 for adjustment of the consultant selection threshold, so that the thresholds for competitive bidding for purchases and the consultant selection threshold are maintained at the same amount.

 B. As of January 1, 1997, the monetary amounts specified in Section ~~3.18.812~~3.38.812 shall be adjusted every five years by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance immediately following publication of the preceding year's annual Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers Seattle-Tacoma metropolitan area, All Items (1982 - 84 = 100), as determined by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, to eliminate the effects of inflation or deflation on purchasing power and the authority granted by this subchapter. Such monetary amount, as adjusted, in Section ~~3.18.812~~3.38.812 shall be rounded upwards to the nearest Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00).

 Section 44. Section 3.18.900 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.900 and Subsection 3.38.900(D) is amended as follows:

~~3.18.900~~3.38.900 Purpose.

 * * *

 D. Provide the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance with the necessary authority to adopt preferential purchasing policies for recycled content and recyclable products, including price preferences and set-asides.

 Section 45. Section 3.18.902 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.902 and Subsections 3.38.902(1), 3.38.902(7), 3.38.902(12), and 3.38.902(19) are amended as follows:

~~3.18.902~~3.38.902 Definitions.

 1. "Building insulation" means a material, primarily designed to resist heat flow, which is installed between the conditioned volume of a building and adjacent unconditioned volumes or the outside. This term includes but is not limited to insulation products such as blanket, board, spray-in-place, and loose-fill insulation that are used as ceiling, floor, foundation, and wall insulation. This term also includes insulation products used to improve the thermal effectiveness of building envelopes, but does not apply to insulation for air-handling units, insulation for acoustic purposes, or cold- storage insulation unless otherwise designated by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his or her predecessor.

 * * *

 7. "Content standards" means standards set or adopted by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance specifying the minimum content of recycled materials, whether post-consumer waste or secondary waste, in a product necessary for the product to qualify as a recycled content product. Content standards may also specify that a product be made in whole or in part from recyclable materials, and the maximum level of hazardous substances allowable in a product.

 * * *

 12. "Hazardous substance" means any hazardous substance listed as a hazardous substance pursuant to Section 313 of Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, all ozone-depleting compounds as defined by the Montreal Protocol of October 1987, and such other substances adopted by rule by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his or her predecessor as presenting a threat to human health or the environment.

 * * *

 19. "Purchase order" means any contract or order which is duly authorized and awarded or entered into by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or department for the purchase of tangible goods.

 Section 46. Section 3.18.904 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.904 and Subsections 3.38.904 (A)(1), 3.38.904 (D), 3.38.904 (E), 3.38.904 (F), and 3.38.904 (G) are amended as follows:

~~3.18.904~~3.38.904 Policies.

 A. All departments shall use, where practicable, reusable products, recycled content products and recyclable products. The term "practicable" shall mean:

 1. The recycled content product meets product specifications established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance;

 * * *

 D. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall use recycled material content as a factor in determining the lowest and best bid in its procurement of goods and materials.

 E. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall promote the use of recycled content products and recyclable products to potential vendors to the City by publicizing their availability.

 F. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance , through the procedures set forth in SMC Chapter 3.02, is authorized to establish guidelines and/or rules to further the intent of this section and ordinance.

 G. All terms, conditions and requirements of this section shall apply equally to the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance and any department when it acts to acquire any aspects of public works for the City.

 Section 47. Section 3.18.906 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.906 and Subsections 3.38.906 (A), 3.38.906 (B), and 3.38.906 (C) are amended as follows:

~~3.18.906~~3.38.906 Annual report.

 A. Beginning March 15, 1994, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall provide an annual report to the City Council on or before March 15th of each year on the progress of implementation of the Recycled Content Product Program required in Resolution 28556. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may require periodic reporting by other departments to the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance for the purpose of developing this report.

 B. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall compile records of purchases by departments for inclusion in the annual report. The report shall include all purchases in excess of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00). At a minimum, the report will include the following components:

 * * *

 C. Beginning February 1, 1994, each department shall report its actions to comply with the Recycled Content Procurement Program to the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance by February 1st of each year.

 Section 48. Section 3.18.907 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.907.

 Section 49. Section 3.18.908 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.908 and Subsections 3.38.908(A)(1), 3.38.908(C), 3.38.908(D), 3.38.908(E), 3.38.908(F), and 3.38.908(G) are amended as follows:

~~3.18.908~~3.38.908 Standards for recycled content.

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall set or adopt standards that specify the minimum level of recycled materials, whether post-consumer waste or secondary waste, necessary to qualify a product as a recycled- content product. The standards shall:

 1. Be consistent with the USEPA and Washington State recycled-content standards, unless the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance finds that different standards would significantly increase recycled- content product availability or competition. In no case shall these standards be less stringent than USEPA product standards;

 * * *

 C. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall consult with the appropriate departments regarding technical and performance specifications for products in those situations where a department has specific expertise in the use of the product and/or the establishment of the product's performance specifications.

 D. By December 1, 1992, as part of the Recycled Content Procurement Plan identified in Resolution 28556, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his or her predecessor shall adopt recycled content standards for the following products or product categories:

 * * *

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall adopt specifications for the following products or product categories:

 * * *

 E. The standards and specifications established pursuant to this section shall guide product purchasing by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance and all departments. Under no circumstances shall the standards established pursuant to this section be less stringent than USEPA product standards.

 F. Standards established pursuant to this section shall be developed for any additional products for which either Washington State or USEPA recycled-content standards are developed in the future. In addition, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may, at his or her discretion, adopt content standards for products for which standards have not been established by Washington State or the USEPA.

 G. Existing procurement policies and specifications shall be revised to include recycled content products or recyclable products unless a recycled content product or recyclable product does not meet an established performance standard of a department. In such situations, a department must provide the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance with satisfactory evidence that, for technical reasons, and for a particular end use, a product containing such materials will not meet reasonable performance standards. Upon submittal of evidence satisfactory to the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, a department will be granted a waiver by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance. Such waiver shall not be granted for more than two (2) years without reissuance of a waiver within guidelines established by ~~the Executive Services~~ Director of Finance.

 Section 50. Section 3.18.910 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.910 and Subsections 3.38.910(A) and 3.38.910(B) are amended as follows:

~~3.18.910~~3.38.910 Price preference.

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall adopt rules for applying a price preference toward the purchase of recycled-content products identified in SMC Section ~~3.18.908 D~~3.38.908 D. The rules shall be applicable to purchases by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance and all departments for those products identified in SMC Section ~~3.18.908 D~~ 3.38.908 D as well as for other products for which content standards are developed according to SMC Section ~~3.18.908 D~~3.38.908 F. The rules shall include a maximum price preference of ten percent (10%) of the lowest and best bid or price quoted by suppliers offering products without recycled content for recycled content products (as defined in SMC Section ~~3.18.902~~3.38.902, unless the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance determines that a different price preference is warranted based upon factors such as the prevailing market price, product availability, and product quality. The rules shall include a price preference of fifteen percent (15%) of the lowest and best bid or price quoted by suppliers offering products without recycled content, for local recycled-content products (as defined in SMC Section ~~3.18.902~~ 3.38.902, unless the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance determines that a different preference is warranted based upon factors such as the prevailing market price, availability and product quality.

 B. A price preference shall be applied only to those bids where a nonrecycled content product is determined to have the lowest and best bid and similar products with recycled content have also responded to the bid. Where the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance determines that the purchase of a recycled-content, recyclable or reusable product is practicable as defined in SMC Section ~~3.18.904~~ 3.38.904, a price preference shall not be applied. Upon determination that the purchase of such a product is practicable, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall require that recycled content, recyclability or reusability be required as specifications in any invitations to bid for that product.

 * * *

 Section 51. Section 3.18.912 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.912 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.912~~3.38.912 Requirements for purchase contracts.

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  shall use the standards, procedures, and criteria specified in this chapter in conjunction with other factors as authorized by Charter and ordinance. If a bidder, in response to any invitation to bid, offers to supply the City with one (1) or more recycled-content or recyclable products, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall reduce the actual bid amount for each such product by the applicable price preference developed pursuant to SMC Section ~~3.18.910~~3.38.910. The reduced bid amount for each such product shall be used only for purposes of determining the lowest and best bid. However, nothing in this ~~S~~subchapter ~~IX~~ shall preclude the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance from requiring local recycled content, recycled content or recyclable content as specifications in invitations to bid for any products. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may adopt specifications requiring that only local recycled-content products, recycled-content products or recyclable-content products be responsive even though the cost of such goods exceeds ten percent (10%) of the price of equivalent products without recycled content.

 Section 52. Section 3.18.914 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.914 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.914~~3.38.914 Bid notification.

 A statement regarding the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance's or a department's intent to procure recycled-content products or recyclable-content products must be prominently displayed in the procurement solicitation or invitation to bid including:

 * * *

 C. A statement that the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or any department which procures a product shall have the right to verify the certification by review of the bidder or manufacturer's records as a condition of the bid award.

 Section 53. Section 3.18.916 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.914.

 Section 54. Section 3.18.918 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.918 and Subsection A is amended as follows:

~~3.18.918~~3.38.918 Rules and regulations for procurement of paper and paper products including the following provisions.

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  and departments shall purchase and/or use only recycled- content paper for all imprinted letterhead, envelope and business card paper, file folders, writing and message tablets, photocopy paper, sanitary papers, packaging papers, and printing papers. In addition, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance and departments shall purchase recycled-content photocopy paper that has not been bleached with a chlorine-based lighting process, including elemental chlorine gas, chlorine dioxide, or hypochlorite when nonchlorinated bleached photocopy paper is readily available and similarly priced.

 * * *

 Section 55. Section 3.18.920 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.920 and is amended as follows:

~~3.18.920~~3.38.920 Requirements and procedures for designation and procurement of other recycled-content products and recyclable products.

 Any department or vendor may petition the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance to qualify a product as a recycled content or recyclable product on a case-by-case and/or product-by-product basis. The department or vendor shall be responsible for providing sufficient evidence to the ~~Executive Services~~Director of Finance that the product qualifies for the purpose of procuring recycled content or recyclable products.

 Section 56. Section 3.18.922 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.922.

 Section 57. Section 3.18.924 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.924 and the section heading and first clause thereof is amended as follows:

~~3.18.924~~3.38.924 Responsibilities of the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance.

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance is responsible for:

 * * *

 Section 58. Section 3.18.926 of the Seattle Municipal Code is recodified as Section 3.38.926.

 Section 59. Subsections 3.35.040(B) and 3.35.040(D) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 3.35.040 Director -- Ancillary powers.

 * * *

 B. Manage the preparation of the annual budget for the department under guidance from the ~~Budget~~; Director of Finance, authorize appropriate expenditures and carry out the adopted budget; develop and manage programs; and undertake authorized activities;

 * * *

 D. Establish a system of rates to be charged to City departments for the value of providing Citywide directory assistance services, which the ~~Executive Services Department~~Department of Information Technology will bill to departments~~in addition to rates the Executive Services Department is authorized to charge City departments under Section 3.24.040 G~~; and

 Section 60. Effective January 1, 2001, those portions of Chapter 3.24 of the Seattle Municipal Code not redesignated in this ordinance are REPEALED.

 Section 61. Subsection 3.76.010(E) of the Seattle Municipal Code is REPEALED and Subsection 3.76.010(F) is redesignated as Subchapter 3.76.010(E).

 Section 62. Subsection 3.114.010(B) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.030 Advertising of need for consultant services.

 B. Advertisements soliciting consultants for placement on a consultant roster shall be advertised in the same manner and with as much of the information described in subsection A of this section as practical. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall determine the frequency of the solicitation advertisements for placement on a consultant roster.

 Section 63. Subsection 3.114.040(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.040 Consultant selection criteria.

 A. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  is hereby authorized and directed to adopt rules and regulations regarding the procedures by which City departments or Executive Department offices seek out qualified applicants and contract with consultants for work; provided that, under such rules and regulations, consultants shall be selected on the basis of, among other factors, their competence and qualifications for the type of services to be provided, the cost, price, compensation, or consideration to be paid by the City for such services, and the affirmative action/equal opportunity record of the consultant. ~~Until such time as the Executive Services Director adopts such rules and regulations, all rules and regulations of the Board of Public Works shall remain in full force and effect, notwithstanding the abolition of such board, and all references in such rules and regulations to the "Board of Public Works" shall be treated as references to the Executive Services Director~~.

 Section 64. Section 3.114.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.050 Consultant evaluation committee.

 Whenever a City department, City Commission ~~s~~, or Executive Department office desires consultant services estimated to cost Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000) or more, as adjusted pursuant to SMC Section 3.114.140, the head of the concerned department or Executive Department office shall appoint and utilize a consultant evaluation committee of not less than three (3) members and representative, where practical, of women and minorities. Each consultant evaluation committee shall review the proposals, applications, questionnaires, and related materials submitted by consultants interested in providing the particular service(s) sought by the concerned department or Executive Department office, and on the basis of the specific written evaluation criteria announced with respect to such consultant selection, report in writing, to the head of the concerned department or Executive Department office its recommendations including, where possible, the ranking of the top five (5) consultants evaluated. The written report, where appropriate, shall describe the lack of measurable differences among consultants evaluated, together with such explanation of evaluation processes used as is necessary to fully advise such official of the committee's evaluation results. Thereafter, such evaluation report shall be filed with the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance by the evaluating department or Executive Department office and made available for public inspection consistent with the provisions of RCW Chapter 42.17. In lieu of the process set forth herein, for contracts meeting the criteria of SMC Section 3.114.150, a department may elect to use the Consultant Roster Program provided for in SMC Sections 3.114.150.

 Section 65. Subsection 3.114.060(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.060 Selection of consultants.

 A. In selecting a consultant to provide services estimated to cost Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000) or more, as adjusted pursuant to SMC Section 3.114.140, or establishing a certified roster, each department or Executive Department office head shall take into consideration the report and recommendations of the consultant evaluation committee appointed in connection with said proposed selection. In the event said department or Executive Department office head determines not to accept and act on the recommendation of the consultant evaluation committee, said official shall file with the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance a written justification describing the reasons for such determination. Each such department or Executive Department office head shall make a good-faith effort to rotate the award of consultant service(s) contracts among consultants evaluated as being equally qualified and capable of performing the desired services.

 Section 66. Section 3.114.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.090 Filing of consultant contracts.

 The City shall be provided at least one (1) complete copy of each consultant contract to which the City is a party, which copy shall have affixed to it an original signature of an authorized representative of each party to the contract, and which copy shall be filed by the contracting department or Executive Department office with the City Clerk or such official's functional successor immediately following execution by all parties. A copy of such contract shall be filed by the concerned department with the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance immediately following execution by all parties.

 Section 67. Section 3.114.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.100 Consultant's performance review and evaluation reports.

 Each City department or Executive Department office that contracts with any consultant shall prepare, in writing, a summary evaluation report upon expiration or termination of each such contract, which report shall describe the deficiencies noted in any periodic consultant performance evaluations and the action (if any) taken by the consultant in response thereto; indicate whether such responsive actions by the consultant corrected the noted deficiencies to the satisfaction of the concerned department or Executive Department office; any unresolved problems with respect to the consultant's performance; and indicate to the ~~Finance~~ Director of Finance whether any final payment or payment of retainage should be made, the amount (if any) of such payment that is approved by the department or Executive Department office, and whether the concerned department or Executive Department office has imposed conditions upon such payment because of such deficiencies that warrant the withholding of all or any portion of the consultant's compensation. Within thirty (30) days after the expiration or termination of every consultant contract, a copy of each such report shall be filed with the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, who shall file the same in such department's consultant reference file.

 Section 68. Section 3.114.110 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.110 Requirements inapplicable under certain conditions.

 The provisions of SMC Sections 3.114.020 C, 3.114.030 through 3.114.070, 3.114.150 and 3.114.160 shall be inapplicable in the following circumstances:

 A. Whenever such provisions would adversely affect the City's interests either because of an emergency as determined by the head of the department or Executive Department office desiring consultant services or because of a particular aspect of the services to be provided or the need therefor that would be compromised by compliance with such provisions (such as but not limited to the need to perform a confidential or surprise security review or evaluation or an anonymous management audit), in which case, the department or Executive Department office head shall file with the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance as soon as practicable, a written explanation of the circumstances of the emergency or justification for the nonapplication of such provisions to said procurement.

 B. Whenever it can be established to the satisfaction of the department head or Executive Department office head contracting for consultant services that only one (1) consultant is available with the expertise required to provide the services desired; provided, that each department or Executive Department office securing any consultant under such circumstances shall file a written justification for such action with the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to executing any agreement committing the City to pay for such services.

 Section 69. Section 3.114.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.120 ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance rules applicable to consultant contracts.

 In addition to the requirements imposed by this chapter, the contracting with any consultant for work to be performed or services to be provided shall be subject to rules and regulations adopted by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance not inconsistent with this chapter.

 Section 70. Section 3.114.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.140 Escalation of dollar limitations.

 All monetary amounts specified in Sections 3.114.030 through 3.114.060, 3.114.080, and 3.114.160 shall be annually adjusted hereafter by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, immediately following publication of the preceding year's annual Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers Seattle-Tacoma metropolitan area, All Items, (1982-84 = 100), as determined by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, to eliminate the effects of inflation or deflation on purchasing power and the authority granted by this chapter, and all such monetary amounts, as adjusted, shall be rounded upwards to the nearest thousand dollars.

 Section 71. Section 3.114.150 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 3.114.150 Consultant rosters.

 Through the process set forth in SMC Section 3.114.160, the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance, in conjunction with interested City departments or offices, may establish consultant rosters of qualified consultants for the use by any City department or Executive Department office, hereinafter referred to as "participating department," for skills or services in specialized areas of knowledge or experience including, among other specialties, architectural and engineering services. A participating department may contract with a consultant on the appropriate roster for assignments or projects within the described specialty without soliciting proposals as set forth in SMC Sections 3.114.030 through 3.114.060 as long as: (A) each contract is estimated to cost no more than the amount established pursuant to SMC Section 3.114.160; and (B) the participating department has determined that its needs can be fully met without soliciting proposals as set forth in SMC Sections 3.114.040 through 3.114.060.

 Section 72. Subsections 3.114.160(A), 3.114.160(D)(1)(a), and 3.114.160(E) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 3.114.160 Establishment and operation of rosters.

 A. Establishment and Duration.

 1. The ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance, in conjunction with participating departments, shall determine the number of consultant rosters to be established based on the different consultant skills or services that the City is likely to need during the time that the consultant rosters are expected to be in effect. An evaluation committee for the Consultant Roster Program will be created to perform the evaluation process.

 2. Requests for Qualifications (RFQ) for Placement on a Consultant Roster. ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance, in conjunction with participating departments, shall issue RFQ(s) to establish consultant rosters for use by any City department or office. At a minimum, the RFQ shall describe the skills or services needed by the City; the minimum qualifications to be placed on the particular consultant roster; the roster contract dollar limits; the expected duration of the roster, if known; standard contract terms and conditions, if any; and a description of the process to be used for selecting consultants off of the roster.

 3. A consultant roster shall remain in effect until such time as the ~~Executive Services~~Director of Finance determines it is in the best interests of the City to disestablish the roster. City departments may petition for the establishment or disestablishment of a roster, or a roster category where the existing rosters or roster categories do not meet the needs of the department.

 * * *

 D. Deletion From a Roster/Limits on Eligibility.

 * * *

 a. The consultant requests deletion (the deletion shall take effect ten (10) business days after notice to the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance;

 * * *

 E. Adding Consultants to a Roster. During the existence of a roster, the ~~Executive Services~~Department  of Finance in conjunction with participating departments will perform ongoing evaluations of any new consultant response to an RFQ(s). All consultants found to be qualified for a consultant roster category will be added to that roster, except as a roster category may be limited by SMC Section 3.114.160 B and except as a consultant may be ineligible in accordance with SMC Section 3.114.160 D.

 Section 73. Subsections 4.04.225(B), 4.04.225(E), and 4.04.225(F) are amended as follows:

 4.04.225 Smoking in the work environment.

 B. Uniform Smoking Policy. Smoking is prohibited in all City enclosed work and common areas, with the following exceptions:

~~1. Temporary designated smoking areas:~~

~~a. Temporary smoking designated areas will be established, where feasible, within each City facility that permanently houses twen- ty-five (25) or more City employees.~~

~~b. The Executive Services Director (ESD) or his or her designee shall determine the number and locations of those areas that shall become designated smoking areas, using already available means of ventilation or separation of office space.~~

~~c. Temporary designated smoking areas shall be available for use whenever City employees are working in City facilities. Employees may use said temporary designated smoking areas only during their rest break(s) and lunch hour or before and after the work shift.~~

~~d. All temporary designated smoking areas shall be removed by ESD two (2) years after the implementation date of the smoking policy unless abolished sooner or extended further by a legis- lative act of the Council.~~

~~2.~~1. Smoking is permitted in outdoor areas unless smoke would be drawn into the work or common areas.

~~3.~~2. City Vehicles. Persons may smoke in City vehicles when:

 a. The vehicle is occupied only by persons who smoke; and

 b. The employee under whose name the vehicle is assigned agrees to return the vehicle thoroughly aired with all smoking debris removed; and

 c. Smoking is not otherwise prohibited for safety reasons.

~~4.~~3. Other Exceptions.

 a. Represented Officers and Employees. Where members of a bargaining unit determine that the uniform smoking policy creates a unique situation, with an impact peculiar to their particular bargaining unit, an exception request may be submitted to the Personnel Director, who will meet and confer and/or negotiate with the bargaining representative regarding an exception to the City-wide smoking policy.

 b. Nonrepresented Officers and Employees. Any nonrepresented officer(s) or employee(s) who find that the uniform smoking policy creates a unique situation with an adverse impact on the employee(s) while in his/her usual place of work, may submit an exception request to his/her Department Director, who shall submit the request, along with the Director's recommendation, to the Personnel Director. The Personnel Director shall determine the feasibility of allowing an exception to the policy in the employee's work area.

 * * *

 E. ~~Compliance~~Discipline.

~~1. Discipline.~~ Discipline shall be imposed on any City officer or employee violating the uniform smoking policy, in accordance with the particular employee's collective bargaining agreement, The Charter or the City Personnel Rules, whichever is applicable. The primary objective of discipline with regard to the City's uniform policy governing smoking in the work environment shall be to correct behavior in violation of said policy, not to punish or penalize employees who smoke.

~~2. Smoking Cessation Classes.~~a. For all officers and employees who wish to quit smoking, the City will temporarily sponsor smoking cessation classes for two (2) years after the effective date of the smoking policy unless abolished sooner or extended further by a legislative act of the Council. Officers and employees may also choose to use an alternative to the City-sponsored smoking cessation classes. The city will establish the cost per person of providing the City-sponsored smoking cessation classes and will reimburse officers and employees participating in and completing any City-approved alternative smoking cessation program in an amount equal to the City's "per employee" cost for the program it sponsors. Said officers and employees may take advantage of only one (1) of the above options at the City's expense, one (1) time during the period that they are offered.

 b. The City will offer an officer or employee the opportunity to attend a City-sponsored smoking cessation class or to be reimbursed a dollar amount equivalent to the City's cost per person for one (1) of its smoking cessation classes to be applied to other, City-approved alternative smoking cessation programs as established in subsection E2a of this section in conjunction with the first disciplinary warning imposed. Said offer will be made available for only a two (2) year period after the effective date of the smoking policy.

 c. "Employee" as used in subsections E2a and E2b of this section is defined in subsection 10 of Seattle Municipal Code Section 4.04.030.

~~F. Review. The Personnel Director shall study the impact of the policy and shall make recommendations to the Council regarding implementation of the policy ten (10) months after the effective date of this policy. The Council may also consider recommendations from employees regarding the effect of the policy in enclosed work and common areas. The Council may adopt those recommendations which are consistent with the provisions of this chapter.~~

 Section 74. Section 4.04.255 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.04.255 Determinations regarding exemptions from Civil Service.

 Any question regarding whether the City's legislative authority has made a particular position of employment exempt from the Civil Service shall be determined solely by the Personnel Director only by reference to pertinent annual City budgets and exemptions ordinances and the records of the ~~Executive Services~~Personnel Department with respect to such position and the occupant thereof; the Civil Service Commission shall have no jurisdiction to determine such question.

 Section 75. Section 4.14.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.14.100 Payment for travel expenses.

 When the appointing authority of an employing unit deems it necessary for the successful recruitment of qualified persons for key positions, he or she may, upon the approval of the ~~Budget~~ Director of Finance and the filing of a claim therefor, authorize payment of reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by applicants from out of the City for traveling to and from Seattle for the purpose of being interviewed for employment by the City in that unit. All authorized travel expenses are subject to the rules, policies, and procedures established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee. Payment of authorized expenses may be made in advance by the employing unit for the applicant(s), or the applicant(s) may be reimbursed for authorized expenses paid out of pocket. Authorized expenses shall include lodging, meals, incidentals, and transportation from such applicant's place of residence to Seattle and return to such place of residence, or mileage in accordance with the mileage reimbursement rate established in SMC Chapter 4.70; provided that, payment for mileage shall not exceed the round-trip airfare of a common carrier. No payment shall be authorized for expenses deemed disallowable pursuant to rules, policies, and procedures established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee.

 Section 76. Section 4.20.140 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.20.140 Filling positions for limited periods in excess of those established.

 The ~~Budget~~ Director of Finance may, within the limits of moneys appropriated for "salaries," authorize filling positions for limited periods in excess of those established in the current budget and may authorize the use of unencumbered salary funds as a reimbursement for trainee positions budgeted in the ~~Executive Services~~ Personnel Department.

 Section 77. Subsection 4.20.300(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.20.300 Payment for performance of out-of-class and limited term assignment duties.

 * * *

 C. An employee whose regular position is not included in a compensation program with delegated pay discretion may be assigned to work out-of-class in a higher-paid position that is not included in a compensation program with delegated pay discretion; or may be assigned to work out-of-class in a position that is allocated to a classification in a compensation program with delegated pay discretion. Unless approved by the Classification and Compensation Director of the Personnel ~~Division of the Executive Services~~ Department, an employee who is not a Manager or Strategic Advisor may not be assigned to work out-of-class in an APEX position.

 Section 78. Section 4.20.375 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.20.375 Parking of privately-owned motor vehicles by Councilmembers.

 A. Seattle City Councilmembers who choose to park privately-owned motor vehicles in the Municipal Building garage, or in any other City-owned parking facilities in which other City officers or employees must pay for the parking of such vehicles, shall pay for such parking. Rates for such Councilmember parking shall be established by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code Section ~~3.24.040 I~~3.18.030(G), and shall be established in an amount that is consistent with fees charged to other City officers and employees for comparable parking privileges. City Councilmembers also shall be eligible for other types of parking permits, including but not limited to carpool parking permits, on the same terms and pursuant to the same rates as are applicable to other City officers and employees; and may request the issuance of occasional City-paid one-day parking passes, on the same basis as those are available to other City officers and employees, when it is necessary to park privately-owned motor vehicles in such garage or facilities for purposes that are solely related to City business. City Councilmembers also are eligible to use City motor-pool vehicles pursuant to Seattle Municipal Code Section 3.18.140.

 B. City Council Positions 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9 shall become subject to subsection A of this section at the time of commencement of the next term of office in January, 2000. All other City Council positions shall become subject to subsection A of this section at the time of commencement of the next term of office in January, 2002. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to prevent City Councilmembers from voluntarily paying for parking privileges in the Municipal Building garage or other City-owned parking facilities in which other City officers or employees must pay for the parking of privately-owned motor vehicles prior to such effective dates, and the ~~Executive Services~~ Fleets and Facilities Director shall be authorized to collect such voluntary payments prior to such effective dates, and to establish a payroll check-off or deduction system to facilitate such collection.

 Section 79. Section 4.44.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.44.070 City's self-insurance program.

 The Personnel Director shall administer the City's self- insurance program for worker's compensation; establish rules and procedures for the administration of benefits; in consultation with the ~~City~~ Director of Finance adjust rates of contributions from the respective City departments to reflect their cost experience; contract for consulting services; and, through the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, contract for reinsurance and other services and similar items as may be required to administer such program.

 Section 80. Section 4.68.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.68.020 Persons who may use City vehicles -- Adoption of rules.

 No City owned or leased motor vehicles shall be rented or loaned, except to City departments, to duly registered and authorized volunteer workers in the furtherance of approved City programs, to persons providing service to the City under contract and in accordance with the terms of their contract, or to other governmental agencies or associations of cities, towns or governmental agencies, or in conformance with mutual aid agreements. The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director is authorized and directed to prepare and adopt rules and regulations to secure adequate consideration for the use of City owned or leased motor vehicles rented or loaned pursuant thereto, and to secure the return of such motor vehicles in proper condition.

 Section 81. Subsection 4.68.030(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.68.030 Defense for agent of City in event of accident.

 A. Whenever a City owned or leased motor vehicle shall be rented or loaned to or used by a person or persons providing service to the City under a contract of employment or pursuant to an agreement for the performance of volunteer services, the department head executing such contract or agreement shall have authority to provide therein in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the ~~Executive Services~~ Fleets and Facilities Director that in the event of an accident arising out of an authorized use of the vehicle, the employee or volunteer will be considered an agent of the City and afforded a defense for any action or claim arising from the accident and the City shall pay any proper claims or judgments against the employee or volunteer in connection therewith.

 Section 82. Subsections 4.68.100(C) and 4.68.100(E) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 4.68.100 General policies.

 It is the policy of the city that:

 * * *

 C. Except for special equipment needed for particular types of city work or determined by the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director to be necessary for best resale value or decreasing maintenance costs, City-owned motor vehicles shall not be equipped with optional or extra equipment.

 * * *

 E. Vehicles assigned to the use of a City department and not in regular daily use shall be returned to the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Department for pool use or reassignment to other City departments requiring the use of such vehicle.

 Section 83. Section 4.68.110 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.68.110 Authorization for use of private vehicle.

 Where the use of a City employee's private automobile is determined by a City department head to be more economical than the use of a City owned or leased vehicle and upon written justification therefor submitted by the department head requiring such use to the ~~Executive Services~~ Fleets and Facilities Director, such department head may authorize the use of such private automobile by such employee solely on City business and such employee shall be reimbursed for such use in accordance with the applicable rate schedule, payable monthly on vouchers approved by the head of the department concerned; provided, that unless such use includes transportation to a destination or destinations a substantial distance outside the City, the use of a private automobile by employees other than those covered by that certain collective bargaining agreement entered into between the City and Professional and Technical Engineers Association, Local No. 17 pursuant to the authority of Ordinance 100881, shall not be determined to be more economical if the amount of reimbursement will exceed the monthly rental rate applicable to a standard motor pool vehicle.

 Section 84. Section 4.68.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.68.120 Procedure for checking out vehicles.

 The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director shall develop and implement a procedure for checking out City owned or leased vehicles and billing City departments for the use thereof, which procedure shall limit availability of such vehicles to such officers and employees as shall have been properly authorized to use the same.

 Section 85. Section 4.68.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.68.130 Administration of Sections 4.68.100 through 4.68.120.

 The administration of Sections 4.68.100 through 4.68.120 shall be shall be vested primarily in the Mayor, provided that it shall be the duty of the ~~Executive Services~~ Fleets and Facilities Director and other department heads to assist the Mayor in such administration and to furnish to the Mayor and the City Council any information concerning the violation of any of the provisions thereof.

 Section 86. Subsections 4.72.010(A)(3), 4.72.010(B)(5), and 4.72.010(B)(6) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 4.72.010 Reimbursement for reasonable and necessary expenses.

 * * *

 A. Expenses Involving Travel Outside the City for Period of Less Than Twenty-four Hours and Not Requiring Overnight Lodging. Reimbursement shall be made for actual expenses for:

 * * *

 3. Meals, when travel outside the City is not a routine or normal part of an employee's job; provided that, reimbursement shall not exceed the amount established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee, by rule as hereafter authorized; and

 * * *

 B. Expenses Involving Travel for Periods Requiring Overnight Lodging. Reimbursement shall be made for actual expenses incurred for:

 * * *

 5. Lodging; provided that, the reimbursement shall not exceed the amount established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee, by rule as hereafter authorized;

 6. Meals; provided that, reimbursement shall not exceed the amount established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee by rule as hereafter authorized; and

 Section 87. Subsection 4.72.020(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.72.020 Claims for reimbursement -- Invoices and receipts.

 A. Claims for reimbursement of certain expenses will be permitted in accordance with the rules, policies, and procedures established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee.

 Section 88. Section 4.72.050 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.72.050 Advance cash allowances -- When allowed.

 Advance cash allowances for travel on City business will be permitted pursuant to rules, policies, and procedures established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee.

 Section 89. Section 4.72.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.72.060 Advance cash allowances -- Accounting or repayment time.

 Repayment of advance cash allowances for travel on City business will be subject to the rules, policies, and procedures established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee.

 Section 90. Section 4.72.070 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.72.070 Allowable and disallowable expenses.

 Allowable and disallowable expenses shall be determined pursuant to the rules, policies, and procedures established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee.

 Section 91. Section 4.72.080 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 4.72.080 Rules and regulations for reimbursement.

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee is authorized to promulgate rules, policies, and procedures, consistent with this chapter. The rules, policies, and procedures promulgated by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee shall be made available from his/her office or from other identified locations.

 A. Rates of reimbursement for meals and lodging shall be determined by the ~~Executive Services~~Finance Director or his/her designee and shall be identified in the rules, policies, and procedures promulgated by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee. Rates of reimbursement for meals and lodging shall be based upon and not exceed the average cost for meals and lodging (single occupancy) reflected in a national comparative cost index, such as the Runzheimer Meal Lodging Cost Index or the Federal Per Diem Index, for the city visited by the officer or employee requesting reimbursement.

 B. When the State Legislature is in session, in lieu of reimbursement for meals and lodging in accordance with the rules, policies, and procedures established by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or his/her designee, claims approved for employees in the Office of Intergovernmental Relations, shall receive an amount equal to the per diem established for the Washington State Legislature pursuant to RCW 44.04.080, as now or hereafter amended or succeeded. No portion of such funds may be used for promotional hosting.

 Section 92. This Section left blank intentionally.

 Section 93. Section 5.22.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.22.010 Fee authorized.

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or the Director's designee ("Director") is authorized to establish and collect a convenience fee ("fee") that shall apply to the total payment charged to each credit or debit card transaction made via electronic commerce technology. The fee shall only be imposed one (1) time on each credit or debit card used in a transaction. The fee shall be in addition to the total amount of the original fee, fine, or bill owed to the City, plus any applicable interest, penalty, or late charge. The fee shall also be in addition to any transaction charges or fees set by a financial institution that the City decides to collect as a means of recovering the City's cost of having the financial institution process the credit or debit card payments.

 Section 94. Subsection 5.32.030(4) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.32.030 Definitions.

 4. "Department" means the ~~Finance Division of the Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle, or its functional successor.

 Section 95. Subsections 5.44.022(6) and 5.44.022(7) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 5.44.022 Definitions, A -- I.

 6. "Department" ~~or "Finance Department"~~ means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle, or its functional successor.

 7. "Director" ~~or "Finance Director"~~ means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance of The City of Seattle, or his or her functional successor.

 Section 96. This Section left blank intentionally.

 Section 97. Subsections 5.48.020(6) and 5.48.020(7) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 5.48.020 Definitions.

 * * *

 6. "Department" ~~or "Finance Department"~~ means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle, or its functional successor.

 7. "Director" ~~or "Finance Director"~~ means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance of The City of Seattle, or his or her functional successor.

 Section 98. Subsections 5.52.010(B) and 5.52.010(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 5.52.010 Definitions.

 B. "Department" ~~or "Finance Department"~~ means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle, or its functional successor.

 C. "Director" ~~or "Finance Director"~~ means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance of The City of Seattle, or his or her functional successor.

 Section 99. Section 5.78.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.78.130 Expenditures -- Personnel Director.

 The ~~Director of~~ )) Personnel Director is authorized to direct expenditures for the donations made to programs of the ~~former~~ Personnel Department or to programs of the former Personnel Division of the Executive Services Department in the City's Gift Catalogue as designated by the donor; and the City ~~Finance~~ Director of Finance is authorized to draw and to pay warrants against said program accounts or subaccounts on vouchers approved by the ~~Director of~~ )) Personnel  Director as to payee and purpose.

 Section 100. Subsections 6.02.030(A) and 6.02.030(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 6.02.030 Definitions.

 A. "Complainant" means any person who files a complaint in writing with the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance.

 * * *

 C. "Director" ~~or "Finance Director"~~ means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance of The City of Seattle and shall include the Director's authorized representatives.

 * * *

 Section 101. Subsection 6.02.030(G) of the Seattle Municipal Code is REPEALED.

 Section 102. Subsections 6.202.060(6) and 6.202.060(7) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 6.202.060 Definitions.

 * * *

 6. "Department" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of the City.

 7. "Director" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance of the City or his/her designated representative.

 Section 103. Subsections 6.222.010(B) and 6.222.010(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 6.222.010 Definitions.

 B. "Department" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of the City.

 C. "Director" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance of the City or any authorized representative of the Director.

 Section 104. Subsections 6.270.030(C) and 6.270.030(D) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 6.270.030 Definitions.

 * * *

 C. "Department" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle.

 D. "Director" ~~or "Finance Director"~~ means the Director of the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle and shall include his or her authorized representatives.

 Section 105. Subsections 6.294.040(A) and 6.294.040(B) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 6.294.040 Definitions.

 A. "Director" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance of The City of Seattle or his or her authorized representative.

 B. "Department" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle.

 Section 106 Subsection 6.294.040(I) of the Seattle Municipal Code is REPEALED:

 Section 107. Subsections 6.310.110(G) and 6.310.110(H) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 6.310.110 Definitions.

 G. "Department" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle, or any department that succeeds to the Department's duties under this chapter.

 H. "Director" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance or the director of any successor department and the Director's authorized designee.

 Section 108. Subsections 6.315.020(C) and 6.315.020(D) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 6.315.020 Definitions.

 C. "Department" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle, or any department that succeeds to the ~~Executive Services~~ Department ~~'s~~of Finance's duties under this chapter.

 D. "Director" means the director of the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance or any successor department or the director's authorized designee.

 Section 109. Section 7.04.130 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 7.04.130 ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance designated as City Sealer.

 There shall be a City Sealer of Weights and Measures, referred to in this code as the City Sealer. The ~~Executive Services Director shall be the City Sealer and the Finance~~ Director of Finance ("Director") shall be ~~a Deputy~~the City Sealer. There shall be such other necessary Deputy Sealers and technical and clerical personnel, as the City Council may from time to time authorize who shall be appointed by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance subject to Civil Service laws and regulations.

 Section 110. Subsections 7.04.645(A), 7.04.645(B), and 7.04.645(E) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 7.04.645 Registration - Fees.

 A. Except as provided in subsection E of this section, no weighing or measuring instrument or device may be used for commercial purposes in the city unless its commercial use is registered annually with The City of Seattle ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance.

 B. The annual registration with The City of Seattle ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance is accomplished as part of the State of Washington master license system under RCW Chapter 19.02. Payment of an annual registration fee for a weighing or measuring device under the State of Washington master license system constitutes the registration required by this section.

 * * *

 E. A weighing or measuring instrument or device must be initially registered with The City of Seattle ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance at the time the owner applies for master license for a new business or at the first renewal of the license that occurs after the instrument or device is first placed into commercial use. Any instrument or device that is in commercial use on January 1, 1996, must be initially registered with The City of Seattle at the time of the instrument or device owner's first renewal of their State of Washington master license.

 Section 111. Subsection 7.04.650(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 7.04.650 Request for service.

 A. "Special inspection service," as used in this Code, shall denote all inspection service made on the owner's request. Special inspection service fees are additional to the fees required under the annual registration. Special inspection service fees are to be paid directly to The City of Seattle ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance .

 Section 112. Subsections 9.25.020(H) and 9.25.020(I) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 9.25.020 Definitions -- A -- E.

 * * *

 H. "Director" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance of The City of Seattle or his/her authorized representative.

 I. "Department" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance of The City of Seattle.

 Section 113. Section 10.02.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 10.02.090 ~~Executive Services~~Personnel Department

 The ~~Executive Services~~Personnel Department with the cooperation of City departments shall be responsible for the registration of City employees and volunteers as civil defense or emergency services workers pursuant to RCW Chapter 38.52 and shall formulate and recommend a plan and program for compensation and reimbursement of persons so registered.

 Section 114. Subsection 10.08.165(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 10.08.165 Alarm system monitoring companies -- Verification process.

 Every alarm system monitoring company engaging in business activities in Seattle shall:

 A. Obtain a City of Seattle business license from the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance;

 Section 115. Section 11.30.280 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 11.30.280 Contractor to file monthly claim for services.

 The contractor shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, file his or her claim with the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance for towing and storage charges accruing to him or her upon vehicles redeemed as provided in this chapter during the preceding month, in accordance with this chapter and with the specifications for the contract authorized in Section 11.30.220, and such claim shall be sworn to by him or her under oath. The ~~Finance~~ Director of Finance shall audit such claim and any payment thereof at least once annually. A warrant or warrants for payment of such claim shall be drawn and paid by the ~~Finance~~ Director of Finance from such expenditure allowances as may be provided therefor in the annual budget or from such moneys as may otherwise be appropriated for such purpose.

 Section 116. Subsection 11.30.290(D) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 11.30.290 Contract for towing and storage -- Administrative fee.

 * * *

 D. The administrative fee shall be collected by the contractor performing the impound, and shall be remitted to the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance in the manner directed by the ~~Finance~~ Director of Finance and as specified in the contract provided by Section 11.30.220 A. The administrative fee shall be for the purpose of offsetting, to the extent practicable, the cost to the City of implementing, enforcing, and administering the provisions of this chapter and shall be deposited in an appropriate account. The administrative fee shall be set by rule by the ~~Finance~~ Director of Finance in an amount not to exceed One Hundred Dollars ($100).

 Section 117. Subsections 15.32.300(C)(3), 15.32.300(C)(3)(j), 15.32.300(C)(3)(k), and 15.32.300(C)(3)(m) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 15.32.300 Attachments to City-owned poles.

 * * *

 C. If additional communication space is available on City- owned poles, after reserving one (1) space for the City and after accounting for the space occupied by existing services already on the poles, the City may permit additional attachments in communication space under the following conditions:

 * * *

 3. All attachments, including co-lashing, shall be subject to prior approval of the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Information Technology, Seattle Transportation and the City Light Department in accordance with the following principles, requirements and procedures:

 * * *

 j. As a further condition of securing the City's permission to use its poles for attachment of cable, all applicants upon request shall be required to provide the City with capacity on the applicant's cable over and above the capacity specifications submitted by the applicant. Such additional capacity may be in the form of dedicated fiber or dedicated space on the same cable being installed by the applicant or in the form of separate cable, as specified by the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Information Technology, and shall be dedicated to the City for as long as the cable is attached to the City's poles. The City shall have the right to use that capacity for any governmental purpose and the right to lease that capacity to any public or nonprofit entities. The incremental costs of adding the specified amount of capacity for the City shall be borne by the City.

 * * *

 k. Applications for attachment to City-owned poles shall be submitted to the City Light Department. The City Light Department shall then coordinate that request with Seattle Transportation and the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Information Technology. Approval of all three (3) departments shall be required prior to the issuance of a permit to attach to the poles.

 m. If no space can be created on the poles requested, the applicant may seek an exception to any of the requirements set forth in this section by submitting a written request to a three (3) person review committee comprised of one (1) representative each from the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Information Technology, Seattle Transportation and the City Light Department. The committee shall review the request with reference to considerations which may warrant making an exception including, but not limited to reduced environmental effects, the lack of alternatives for achieving equivalent service available to the applicant, the lack of alternative routing which can be made available and the feasibility of undergrounding all or part of the cable. After engaging in a review of the application, the committee shall forward a recommendation to the Mayor and City Council. Exceptions will not be recommended where the City Light Department believes the safety will be compromised by the granting of an exception. Any exceptions to the requirements of this section must be approved by ordinance.

 Section 118. Subsection 15.38.030(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 15.38.030 Sale of impounded property.

 A. If, at the expiration of the time set forth in Section 15.38.020 the property has not been released to the owner, the property is surplus to the City's needs, and has a sufficient value for sale, the authorizing official may arrange for its sale at public auction or through the City's ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance in conjunction with the sale of surplus City property.

 Section 119. Section 20.38.005 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.38.005 Apprentice utilization.

 On public works contracts with an estimated cost of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) or more, the Director of Finance~~of the Executive Services Department~~ is authorized to require that up to fifteen (15) percent of the contract labor hours be performed by apprentices enrolled in training programs approved or recognized by the Washington State Apprenticeship and Training Council (SAC). Furthermore, it is the City's intent that, on public works projects with an apprentice utilization requirement, there shall be a goal that twenty-one (21) percent of the apprentice labor hours be performed by minorities and twenty (20) percent of the apprentice labor hours be performed by women.

 Section 120. Subsection 20.38.010(B) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.38.010 Definitions.

 When used in this chapter:

 * * *

 B. "Director" means the Director of the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance or his or her designee.

 Section 121. Section 20.38.020 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.38.020 Powers.

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance shall be responsible for the implementation and administration of this chapter and is authorized to develop and adopt rules consistent with the requirements of this chapter. The ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance shall establish contract specification language to implement the apprenticeship requirement, which may change from time to time. The ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance shall develop and implement a system for monitoring the actual use of apprentices on public works projects. The ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance shall hire one (1) additional FTE (Civil Rights Analyst) for the purpose of performing monitoring and enforcing the apprentice utilization requirements on public works projects.

 Section 122. Section 20.38.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.38.030 Waivers or reductions of goals.

 The ~~Executive Services Department~~ Director of Finance is authorized to waive or reduce the apprenticeship participation goals on contracts.

 Section 123. Section 20.40.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.40.010 Small public works -- Department authority to execute contracts.

 Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter ~~3.24~~ 3.38, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance may authorize other departments to administer and execute public works contracts that are less than or equal to Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000). Such departments shall comply with all state laws and City ordinances governing public works contracts.

 Section 124. Subsection 20.44.010(F) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.44.010 Definitions.

 As used in this subchapter:

 * * *

 F. "Director" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance~~(ESD)~~ or his/her designee.

 Section 125. Section 20.44.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.44.030 Franchises, consultant, public improvement and services contracts.

 All consultant contracts, franchises, and contracts for public improvements, or services, the estimated cost of which exceeds One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), shall contain the following provisions:

 "During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:

 "The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, creed, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer, recruitment, or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

 "The contractor will, prior to commencement and during the term of this contract, furnish to the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance (as used herein "Director" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance  or his/her designee) upon his/her request and on such form as may be provided by the Director therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the contractor in implementing the terms of these provisions, and will permit access to his/her records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Director for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with this provision.

 "If upon investigation the Director finds probable cause to believe that the contractor has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provisions, the contractor and the contracting authority shall be so notified in writing. The contracting authority shall give the contractor an opportunity to be heard, after ten (10) days' notice. If the contracting authority concurs in the findings of the Director, it may suspend the contract and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to the contractor, pending compliance by the contractor with the terms of these provisions.

 "Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be a material breach of this contract.

 "The foregoing provisions will be inserted in all subcontracts for work covered by this contract."

 Section 126. Section 20.44.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.44.040 Lease and concession contracts.

 A. All contracts of the City for leases and concessions shall contain the following provisions:

 "The lessee (contractor) agrees to comply with all state and local laws prohibiting discrimination with regard to creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap."

 B. All contracts of the City for leases and concessions of seven (7) consecutive days' duration or longer and involving employers with three (3) or more employees shall contain the following pro- visions:

 "During the performance of this contract, the lessee (contractor) agrees as follows:

 "The lessee (contractor) will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The lessee (contractor) will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The lessee (contractor) agrees to post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause. The lessee (contractor) will take affirmative action to ensure that all of its employees, agents and subcontractors adhere to these provisions; provided, nothing herein shall prevent an employer from giving preference in employment to members of his/her immediate family.

 "Lessee (contractor) will, upon the request of the Director (as used herein Director means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, or his/her designee) furnish to the Director on such form as may be provided therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the lessee (contractor) in implementing the terms of this provision, and will permit access to his records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Director for the purpose of investigation to determine compliance with these provisions.

 "If, upon investigation, the Director determines that there is probable cause to believe that the lessee (contractor) has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provisions, the lessee (contractor) shall be so notified in writing. The contracting authority shall give the lessee (contractor) an opportunity to be heard, after ten (10) days' notice. If the contracting authority concurs in the findings of the Director, it may suspend or terminate this lease (contract) and evict lessee (terminate the contract) in accordance with law.

 "Failure to comply with any of the terms of these provisions shall be material breach of this lease (contract).

 "The foregoing provisions will be inserted in all subleases (subcontracts) entered into under this lease (contract)."

 Section 127. Section 20.44.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.44.060 Substitute provisions.

 A City contracting authority may substitute in lieu of the contract provisions set forth in Sections 20.44.030 such antidiscrimination or equal opportunity provisions required or requested by the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance, the United States of America or The State of Washington.

 Section 128. Section 20.44.090 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.44.090 Assistance to contractors.

 The Director may offer the services and facilities of the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance to assist contractors desiring to bid on, or having been awarded a City contract, to comply with the equal opportunity provisions for such contract, and may offer information as to organizations and agencies available to assist such contractor in recruiting, tutoring, training, and/or otherwise preparing potential employees.

 Section 129. Subsections 20.44.100(C) and 20.44.100(F) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 20.44.100 Employment goals, ranges, or ratios.

 * * *

 C. On projects or activities financed with assistance from the United States or The State of Washington, the contracting authority may substitute for such provisions such antidiscrimination or equal employment opportunity provision required or requested by the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance, the United States, or the state.

 * * *

 F. Employment goals established by this section are not intended and shall not be taken to diminish the contractor's responsibility and obligation under other sections of this subchapter. A contractor whom the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance has certified to be acting in good faith and making every reasonable effort to comply with the employment goals established shall be deemed in compliance, even though the employment goals are not met.

 Section 130. Subsections 20.45.010(A), 20.45.010(C), and 20.45.010(D), of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 20.45.010 Definitions.

 For the purposes of this chapter:

 A. "Contract" means a contract for public works, consulting, or supplies, material, equipment or services as set forth in SMC Section ~~3.18.800~~3.38.800 et seq., estimated to cost Thirty-three Thousand

 Dollars ($33,000) or more in 1999, consistent with the competitive threshold requirements of, and as adjusted pursuant to, Seattle Municipal Code Sections ~~3.18.840~~3.38.940.

 * * *

 C. "Department" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance.

 D. "Director" means the ~~Executive Services Department~~ Director of Finance.

 Section 131. Subsection 20.45.040 (preamble) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.45.040 Powers and duties of the Director.

 The ~~Executive Services Department~~ Director of Finance shall have the power to:

 * * *

 Section 132. Subsection 20.46.050(D) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.46.050 Definitions.

 D. "Director" means the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance~~(ESD)~~

 Section 133. Subsections 20.46.095(A) and 20.46.095(B) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 20.46.095 Utilization requirements -- Certified rosters.

 A. ~~ESD~~Department of Finance Review. A department's solicitation and selection process for establishing a certified roster of consultants pursuant to SMC Sections 3.114.150 and 3.114.160 and a standard form of contract authorized by SMC Section 3.114.160 C shall be subject to review of the Director for compliance with this chapter. Departments using such rosters shall make quarterly reports to the Director on the use of women's and minority business enterprises.

 B. Requirements. When a department establishes a certified roster under SMC Sections 3.114.150 and 3.114.160, compliance with the departmental goals for women's and minority business enterprises shall be determined by the gross value of all contracts and subcontracts awarded to such enterprises through all its rosters. The mandatory subcontracting requirements contemplated by Section 20.46.090 B1 for women's business enterprises and minority business enterprises shall not apply to contracts awarded through such rosters. However, should subcontracting become necessary, the consultant shall make every effort to subcontract to women's business enterprises and minority business enterprises in accordance with the Rules of the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance.

 Section 134. Section 20.46.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.46.100 Utilization requirements -- Purchasing contracts.

 All contracts awarded by the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance for the purchase of materials, equipment, supplies or services, the estimated cost of which equals or exceeds One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00), shall be awarded and administered in accordance with the following standards and procedures:

 The Director shall solicit bids from women's business enterprises and minority business enterprises qualified to supply the required materials, equipment, supplies or services. The Director shall provide such women's business enterprises and minority business enterprises every practical opportunity to submit bids.

 Section 135. Section 20.46A.300 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.46A.300 Participation -- Purchasing contracts.

 All contracts awarded by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance for the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment and services, the estimated cost of which equals or exceeds One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), shall be awarded and administered in accordance with the following standards and procedures and in accordance with rules adopted by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance to carry out the provisions of this section. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall:

 A. Make affirmative efforts to solicit bids from WMBEs qualified to supply supplies, materials, equipment, or services. Such efforts may include, but not be limited to, arranging contracts by size and type of supply, material, equipment, or service to enhance the possibility of participation by WMBEs, and providing information and technical assistance to WMBEs to promote their ability to compete effectively for city contracts;

 B. Provide WMBEs every practical opportunity to submit bids. To encourage submission of bids by WMBEs, the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall:

 1. Rank bidders whose bids are within five (5) percent, or a lower percent as determined by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, of the bid made by the lowest and best bidder as follows: first, WMBEs; second, non-women's business enterprises and non-minority business enterprises, or,

 2. Encourage subcontracting of WMBEs in contracts to be awarded through the request for proposal process. Such encouragement may include awarding bonus evaluation points on the financial element of proposals to proposers who have included women business enterprise and/or minority business enterprise subcontracting participation in their proposals; provided, participation shall become a requirement of the contract awarded to a proposer who has included participation in its proposal and such participation shall be monitored and enforced by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance per SMC Section 20.46A.180; and

 C. Assist City agencies in their utilization of WMBEs in the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment, and services by:

 1. Providing information to City agencies about WMBEs qualified to supply supplies, materials, equipment or services,

 2. Recommending to the Mayor annual targets for WMBEs by City agencies; and

 3. Reporting to City agencies at least annually their utilization of WMBEs.

 Section 136. Section 20.48.030 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.48.030 Funds to be available before entering into contract.

 Before the construction of any public work or improvement, or any part thereof, either by contract or by day labor, is authorized or begun under the direction and general supervision of ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, said Director shall obtain from the head of the City department for which such work is to be undertaken, such department head's certification that sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover the full cost and expense of completing the desired public work or improvement (which appropriations shall be identified, by ordinance number and, where appropriate, by Capital Improvement Project number, in such certification). No contract shall be entered into, nor shall the construction of such work or improvement, or any part thereof, be undertaken by said Director, unless there is a balance in the appropriation sufficient to cover such cost and expense. For contracts executed pursuant to Chapter 39.10 RCW, the Director or department head is authorized to enter into contracts without such certification, provided that no phase of any public work may be started unless sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover the full cost and expense of completing that phase.

 Section 137. Section 20.48.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.48.040 Filing of statement of contract amount.

 Whenever the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance shall award any contract for any public work or improvement, or any part thereof, or shall have determined to make such public work or improvement, or any part thereof, by day labor under such official's management, the Director shall forthwith file ~~with the City Finance Director~~ a statement of the amount of such contract or the estimated cost of such work, and ~~upon receipt of such statement the City Finance Director~~ shall enter such amount upon the books in his or her office as a preliminary charge against the appropriation made to cover the cost and expense of such work or improvement.

 Section 138. Section 20.48.060 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.48.060 Contracts in violation -- Voidable.

 Any contract entered into, or any obligation against the City incurred by the ~~Executive Services~~ Director  of Finance in violation of the provisions of Sections 20.48.030, 20.48.040 or 20.48.050 shall be voidable at the option of the City.

 Section 139. Subsection 20.84.030(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 20.84.030 Definitions.

 * * *

 A. "City Department Head" means the head of the City department (such as the Director of Transportation, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, among others) having authority over and responsibility for the applicable program or project and its costs.

 Section 140. Section 21.52.100 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.52.100 Insulation contracts with residential heat customers.

 The Superintendent of Lighting is authorized to enter into contracts with residential heat customers of the City Light Department ~~of Lighting~~ to provide for the supply and installation of attic and/or floor insulation by qualified contractors in a principal amount of not more than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), based on cost and conservation of electricity, on such installment terms and conditions, including payment of interest, as appropriate. In order to provide for the implementation of such contracts, the Superintendent of Lighting and the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance are authorized to determine contractors qualified to install attic and/or floor insulation based on appropriate criteria, including capability to supply and install insulation of the type and on specified terms; compliance with applicable contractor's bonding and licensing requirements; a showing of adequate financial resources and insurance coverage; and necessary integrity, judgment and skill. Following audits by ~~Lighting~~City Light Department personnel to determine insulation requirements, electric heat customers may select proposals from a qualified contractor or contractors, and upon review and approval thereof, the Superintendent of Lighting and the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance are authorized to enter into an installation contract with the contractor; and any provisions of Ordinance 102151, as amended, to the extent inconsistent herewith, are hereby superseded.

 Section 141. Subsection 21.52.230(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.52.230 Program components.

 * * *

 C. 1. Home Energy Loan Program ("HELP"). HELP shall be administered by the City Light Department for its customers whose dwelling units are electrically heated. HELP shall provide assistance for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures designated by the Department on the terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Superintendent and the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance, consistent with this chapter and with the requirements of Amendment 70, Article VIII, Section 10 of the Washington State Constitution, as implemented by the Revised Code of Washington, RCW 35.92.360.

 Section 142. Subsection 21.52.250(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.52.250 Low-income Electric Program (LIEP).

 C. The Director is authorized to enter into contracts with qualified contractors for the supply and installation of energy conservation measures on terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Director and the ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance.

 Section 143. Subsection 21.60.030(O) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.60.030 Definitions.

 * * *

 O. "Office of Cable Communications" means and shall refer to the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Information Technology.

 Section 144. Section 21.60.040 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.60.040 Cable Communications.

 The ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Information Technology shall constitute an Office of Cable Communications for the administration and enforcement of this chapter and any other City ordinances relating to cable communications. The head of the Office of Cable Communications shall be the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer. The ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer shall succeed without interruption to all the rights, duties, assets, responsibilities, contracts, and enforcement proceedings heretofore belonging to or exercised by the Executive Services Director ~~of Administrative Services~~ in connection with cable communications.

 Section 145. Subsection 21.60.230(B) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.60.230 When applications accepted -- Notification.

 B. In the event that the Office of Cable Communications, upon the advice and recommendation of the Advisory Board, determines that an area not a part of a cable district is to be designated a cable district and is to be served, the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer shall publish notice in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the City that applications for a franchise to serve such area will be received until a designated date which date shall be not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred eighty (180) days after publication of such notice. Such published notice shall contain a copy of the table of contents of this chapter.

 Section 146. Section 21.60.330 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.60.330 Bonds.

 Upon being granted a franchise and upon the filing of the acceptance required under Section 21.60.370, a grantee shall deliver to the City Clerk for filing, and thereafter maintain continuously in effect a good and sufficient bond in the penal sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00), executed by a surety company authorized and qualified to do business in the state as a surety or by other sureties acceptable to the Office of Cable Communications and in a form approved by the City Attorney, which bond shall stipulate that grantee shall strictly comply with each and every condition and covenant of its franchise; provided, that whenever in the judgment of the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer any bond or bonds filed by a grantee pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be deemed insufficient to satisfy the conditions of the bond, the grantee shall upon demand furnish a new or additional bond in such amount as may be specified by the ~~Executive Services Director~~ Chief Technology Officer and with such sureties as are acceptable to the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer, and maintain such new or additional bond continuously in effect; and provided further that the bond shall include the obligation of the surety to guarantee payment to the City of the penalty provided for in Section 21.60.360 should such penalty become applicable.

 Section 147. Section 21.60.360 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.60.360 Penalties.

 It is the intent of this chapter that the citizens of Seattle who have contracted with a cable television franchise grantee for basic cable services be provided uninterrupted service and, if any grantee abandons or willfully ceases to serve any cable district or portion thereof, the grantee, after a hearing before the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer, upon a determination and findings of such abandonment or willful cessation of service shall be subject to a penalty of not less than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) nor more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), in the discretion of the Director, for each day such willful cessation of service or abandonment continues, but not to exceed a total sum of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00). Operation by a temporary substitute operator by permission of the grantee and the City shall stay the penalty provision of this section for so long as the system is thereby maintained in operation.

 Section 148. Section 21.60.380 of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 21.60.380 Construction -- Approval of plan -- Rate or extension of service.

 The construction of new cable facilities or the extension of existing cable facilities by a grantee shall be done in accordance with a plan or design first submitted to and approved by the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer, then the City Engineer and the ~~Board of Public Works~~Director of Finance under the Street Use Ordinance. The grantee shall at all times comply with this chapter and with Ordinance 90047 (commonly called the Street Use Ordinance) as the same now reads or is hereafter amended, except that if this chapter and Ordinance 90047 are in any respect inconsistent the provisions of the latter shall control. To the end that an entire cable district shall be served within twelve and one-half (12 -1/2) years from the date of the awarding of the franchise, a grantee shall extend cable service at a rate of not less than eight percent (8%) per year of the area uncabled as of the date the franchise was granted; provided, however, that the legislative authority may by ordinance and pursuant to a specific application by the grantee, extend the time for a grantee's performance to a date certain after receiving findings and a recommendation from the Hearing Examiner and after a hearing by the Hearing Examiner upon the facts as to whether the failure to extend the time would cause the grantee to suffer an unreasonable rate of return in its investment in the cable district, or as to whether delay is caused by strikes, acts of God, or other unforeseen circumstances beyond the control of the grantee.

 Section 149. This Section left blank intentionally.

 Section 150. Subsections 21.60.660(B) and 21.60.660(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code are amended as follows:

 21.60.660 Equal opportunity employment and affirmative action plan.

 * * *

 B. Grantee also agrees that it will, prior to commencement of operations pursuant to its franchise and during the term of the franchise, furnish to the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer of the City, upon his or her request and on such form as may be provided by the ~~Director~~Chief Technology Officer therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the grantee in implementing the terms of this provision, and will permit access to his or her records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records by the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer for the purpose of investigation to determine compliance with this provision.

 C. If upon investigation the ~~Executive Services Director~~Chief Technology Officer finds probable cause to believe that the grantee has failed to comply with any of the terms of this section, the grantee and the Council shall be so notified in writing. The Council shall give the grantee an opportunity to be heard, after ten (10) days' notice. If the Council concurs in the findings of the ~~Director~~Chief Technology Officer, it may suspend the franchise, pending compliance by the grantee with the terms of this provision.

 Section 151. Subsection 23.44.051(A)(1) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 23.44.051 Bed and breakfasts.

 A. Bed and breakfasts shall be permitted provided they meet the following standards:

 1. A business license for the bed and breakfast was secured from the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance on or before April 1, 1987;

 Section 152. Subsection 22.900D.170(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 22.900D.170 Design Commission fees.

 A. City Capital Improvement Projects, as Defined in SMC Section 3.58.020. Design Commission fees shall be assessed at a rate of three-tenths of one (0.3) percent of the construction cost for City capital improvement projects for which billing will commence on or before December 31, 1998, except as specified in subsections B and D of this section. Billing will occur at the time of contract award by the ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance, who will forward the bills to the Department for distribution to appropriate City departments. Payment will be made through a fund transfer to the Department Operating Fund.

 AMENDMENT OR REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS

 Section 153. Subsection 5.32.130(A) of the Seattle Municipal Code is amended as follows:

 5.32.130 Penalties.

 A. Any person who engages in conduct made unlawful, or who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter, or rule or regulation, shall be guilty of an offense subject to the provisions of Chapters 12A.02 and 12A.04 of this Code (Criminal Code). Such unlawful conduct, violation, or failure to comply is a violation unless specifically designated as a crime. Any person convicted of a violation is punishable by a civil fine not to exceed One Thousand Dollars ($1,000). Any person convicted of a crime is punishable by a fine of not more than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) or by imprisonment ~~in the City Jail~~ for a term not exceeding ninety (90) days, or both such fine and imprisonment.

 Section 154. Subsection 5.32.160(C) of the Seattle Municipal Code is REPEALED.

 Section 155. Section 20.44.120 of the Seattle Municipal Code is REPEALED.

 AMENDMENT OF UNCODIFIED ORDINANCES

 Section 156. Subsection 3(h), Subsection 5(a) and Section 6 of Ordinance _______ (C.B. 113402) are amended as follows:

 Section 3.

 * * *

 (h) The ~~City Finance~~ Director of Finance is authorized to draw and pay the necessary warrants and to make any necessary transfers among funds and accounts.

 * * *

 Section 5. (a) The Transportation Director, the Superintendent of Parks, the Arts Commission Director, the ~~Budget~~ Director of Finance, the Superintendent of City Light, the Director of Seattle Public Utilities, the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director, the City Librarian, and the Seattle Center Director are authorized to negotiate for and enter into contracts, within their appropriation authority, to obtain property and services authorized in Section 3 to carry out those capital projects included in the 2001-2006 Capital Improvement Program and assigned to their respective departments, commissions or offices.

 * * *

 Section 6. The Mayor, in consultation with the ~~Budget~~ Director of Finance, is authorized to transfer up to ten percent (10%) of an appropriation for a particular capital improvement project or program authorized in Section 1 or Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000), whichever is greater, to another capital improvement project or capital improvement program authorized in Section 1 and to be carried out by the same department, provided:

 (a) The sum of such changes during the budget year does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the sum of:

 (i) the gross amount appropriated in the budget for the year of the transfer for capital projects to be carried out by the department, and

 (ii) unexpended balances carried forward from prior year appropriations for capital projects to be carried out by that department;

 (b) The Mayor or, at the Mayor's request, the ~~Budget~~ Director of Finance, reports in writing to the City Council on a annual basis the nature and amount of such changes and an explanation therefor; and

 Section 157. Section 2 of Ordinance 119915 is amended as follows:

 Section 2. The Fleets and Facilities Director ~~of the Executive Services Department~~ or his or her designee is authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to appraise, and to negotiate for agreements, to acquire in fee simple at fair market value, and to accept the deed for the real property described in Section 1. (Authorization to execute any such agreements that may be negotiated and acceptance of deeds shall be granted by separate ordinance.)

 Section 158. Sections 1 and 4 of Ordinance 119690 are amended as follows:

 Section 1. As recommended by the Mayor, the ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director is authorized to design the new City Hall and open space on the present site of the Municipal Building, to complete design and begin the initial phase of construction of the Municipal Courthouse and Police Headquarters Building on the block east of the Municipal Building [known as the Cordes site]; and to design and implement initial moves into Key Tower and Park 90/5 that are related to the Civic Center project.

 * * *

 Section 4. The ~~Executive Services~~Fleets and Facilities Director and his/her designees are authorized to enter into such contracts as they determine to be appropriate in order to carry out the activities authorized and funded by this ordinance.

 Section 159. Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance 119158 are amended as follows:

 Section 2. The ~~Executive Services~~ Department of Finance is hereby assigned responsibility for operations of the Garage in accordance with the terms of the Umbrella Agreement and Parking Agreement authorized by Ordinance 118011, as those agreements may be amended or supplemented from time to time.

 Section 3. The ~~Executive Services~~ Director of Finance is hereby authorized to approve minor changes to the Condominium Declaration authorized by Ordinance 118349. Such changes may include, but are not limited to, transfer of small areas such as stairwells between the units and the establishment of new common areas. No change that would substantially affect the value of the Garage Unit may be made unless approved by ordinance.

 Section 160. Section 2 of Ordinance 119094 is amended as follows:

 Section 2. The ~~Executive Services~~Personnel Director is authorized to fill, or to authorize other appointing authorities to fill, any or all of these positions within their existing budget authority.

 Section 161. Section 1 of Ordinance 118881 is amended as follows:

 Section 1. The Chief Technology Officer~~Director of the Department of Executive Services~~ is authorized to enter into an agreement with King County substantially in the form attached hereto providing for sharing of Internet access services. The agreement establishes the terms and conditions for sharing of Internet access services between participants, including cost sharing for such services. The Chief Technology Officer~~Director of the Department of Executive Services~~ is authorized to amend this agreement, including such provisions as renewals, addition of new parties to the agreement, adjustments and/or redistributions of costs, and other terms and conditions.

 Section 162. Sections 3 (parts), 6, and 8 of Ordinance 120021 are amended as follows:

 Section 3. Section 4 of Ordinance 119602 is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 Definitions.

 * * *

 "Director" means the Director of Finance~~of the Executive Services Department~~.

 * * *

 "Small Economically Disadvantaged Business" means a business and the person or persons who own and control it are in a financial condition which puts the business at a substantial disadvantage in attempting to compete for public contracts. In assessing these financial conditions, ~~ESD~~the Director shall substantially adopt the approach used by the Federal Small Business Administration ("SBA"), provided that the SBA dollar ceilings for various standard business classifications and levels for owners' personal net worth shall be adjusted by the Director to account for local market conditions.

 * * *

 Section 6. ~~ESD~~The Director shall promulgate rules to implement the Boost Program authorized by Ordinance 119602, as amended, in accordance with the requirements of Seattle Municipal Code Ch. 3.02.

 * * *

 Section 8. ~~ESD~~The Director shall report to the Housing, Human Services, Education and Civil Rights Committee by no later than November 22, 2000 and annually thereafter on the progress of the Boost program. The report shall include among other things: the number of certified businesses; the utilization rate of Boost businesses on public works projects; the demography of businesses utilized; information regarding consultant contracts implementation status; findings of small business limits and recommendations. In addition, ~~ESD~~The Director shall report potential changes and strategies for improvement; emerging issues and the status of community outreach/reaction.

 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

 Section 163. The Director of Finance, under the authority of the Mayor, shall have the power to make all administrative decisions necessary to carry out the intent of this ordinance.

 Section 164. The section headings in this ordinance are for reference purposes only. They have no legal effect, and shall not be codified.

 Section 165. It is the express intent of the City Council that this ordinance makes only those changes to the Seattle Municipal Code or uncodified ordinances shown by striking out, inside double parentheses, text to be deleted, and underlining text to be added. To this end, errors shown in the pre- existing Seattle Municipal Code or uncodified ordinances are to be disregarded, and no change in the Seattle Municipal Code is intended thereby.

 Section 166. The City Clerk shall publish in the City's legal newspaper the title and sections 1 through 14 of this ordinance, and a numerical tabulation by Seattle Municipal Code number or Ordinance number of the sections or subsections that are redesignated, amended, or repealed by sections 15 through 162 of this ordinance as the summary of this ordinance, and state as part of that publication that the entire text may be examined electronically at http://clerk.ci.seattle.wa.us/ on the Internet, or in paper form at the offices of the City Clerk, First Floor, Seattle Municipal Building, 600 Fourth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98104, or will be mailed upon request.

 Section 167. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event a subsequent ordinance refers to a position or office that was abolished by this ordinance, that reference shall be deemed to be to the new position or office created by this ordinance, and shall not be construed to resurrect the old position or office unless it expressly so provides by reference to this ordinance.

 Section 168. It is the express intent of the City Council that, in the event a subsequent ordinance refers to or amends a section or subsection of the Seattle Municipal Code or a previously enacted ordinance that is amended or recodified herein, but the later ordinance fails to account for the change made by this ordinance, the two sets of amendments should be given effect together if at all possible.

 Section 169. The several provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable and the invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance of the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances.

 Section 170. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 171. The Code and Ordinance amendments in Sections 15 through 162 of this ordinance shall take effect January 1, 2001.

 Section 172. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the members of the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000. ___________________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000. ___________________________________________ City Clerk

 11/22/00 (Ver. 12) 113449-v12.doc

```
