

********

**Council Bill Number: 113510**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120229**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department, authorizing the execution of an agreement with SSI, Inc. regarding the use of KeyArena for the playing of Women's National Basketball Association ("WNBA") games.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 2, 2001
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Steinbrueck, Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** January 8, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** January 8, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 4, 2000
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, COLISEUM, BASKETBALL

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department, authorizing the execution of an agreement with SSI, Inc. regarding the use of KeyArena for the playing of Women's National Basketball Association ("WNBA") games.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an agreement with SSI, Inc. substantially in the form of agreement attached hereto and identified as "AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SSI, INC. FOR THE USE OF KEYARENA FOR PROFESSIONAL WOMEN'S BASKETBALL" regarding the use of KeyArena for the playing of Women's National Basketball Association ("WNBA") games for the 2001 and 2002 seasons.

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 20__ and signed by

 me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____day of ______________,20__.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20__.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20__.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 ATTACHMENTS

 AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SSI, INC. FOR THE USE OF KEYARENA FOR PROFESSIONAL WOMEN'S BASKETBALL

 Exhibit 1 - Premises Licensed for Use on Home Game Dates

 Exhibit 2 - Projected Per Game WNBA Expenses

 Exhibit 3 - Personnel Rates Addendum

 Exhibit 4 - Equipment and Services Addendum

 Exhibit 5 - Insurance Requirements

 Exhibit 6 - Agreement between One Reel, Inc., SSI, Inc., and The City of Seattle Concerning the Use of KeyArena Over Labor Day Weekend: 2001 and 2002

 nd

 D:

 11/27/00

 V # 1

 AGREEMENT BETWEEN

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 AND

 SSI, INC.

 FOR THE USE OF KEYARENA

 FOR PROFESSIONAL WOMEN'S BASKETBALL

 AGREEMENT made and entered into this ___ day of _________, 2000, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("CITY"), a Washington municipal corporation, acting by and through its Seattle Center Director ("Director"), and SSI, Inc. ("Licensee"), a Washington business corporation.

 I. DEFINITIONS

 All words in this Agreement bearing initial capitals, other than proper nouns, section headings or words required to be capitalized for proper usage, are defined terms and shall have the meanings specifically assigned to them in the following subsections and elsewhere in this Agreement. Unless otherwise expressly provided, use of the singular includes the plural and vice versa.

 A. Approval.

 "Approval" means the prior written consent of a party hereto or a designated representative thereof.

 B. Gross Ticket Receipts.

 "Gross Ticket Receipts" means the total income Licensee receives from the sale of tickets for admission to any Home Game played at KeyArena pursuant to this Agreement, whether for cash, barter, exchange or credit or any other method; mail or telephone orders for tickets received or filled on or from the Premises; all deposits not refunded to purchasers; and orders for tickets taken although filled elsewhere. "Gross Ticket Receipts" does not include money refunded to, and not merely credited to the account of customers who return or do not accept services sold by or for Licensee; the Washington State Sales Tax; and any other tax imposed by any government agency directly on admission to a Home Game.

 C. Home Game.

 "Home Game" means any professional women's basketball game for which the Seattle Franchise is the host team.

 D. KeyArena.

 "KeyArena" means the multi-purpose, public performance facility located at Seattle Center, together with all City-owned equipment and other appurtenances incorporated therein.

 E. Premises.

 "Premises" mean those portions of the KeyArena that are licensed and made available to Licensee for its use and occupancy under Subsection VI.A. of this Agreement.

 F. Seattle Franchise.

 "Seattle Franchise" means the WNBA team owned or operated by Licensee.

 G. WNBA.

 "WNBA" means the Women's National Basketball Association and its successor or successors, the professional women's basketball league or organization of which the Seattle Franchise is a member.

 II. USE

 Subject to the terms and conditions herein, the City hereby grants to Licensee the right to occupy and use the Premises for the presentation and broadcasting of Seattle Franchise Home Games; for Seattle Franchise practice sessions; and for two additional events, annually, that shall be sponsored by a non-profit organization or to which the general public shall be admitted free of charge. The Director reserves the right to reschedule such two additional events upon not less than thirty (30) days' notice to Licensee in order to book a commercial event at the KeyArena. Licensee shall promptly pay Seattle Center for all costs associated with the presentation of such additional events. The City agrees that Licensee shall be the sole person or entity entitled to use and occupy the Premises for the presentation of professional women's basketball games for the duration of this Agreement.

 The City also hereby grants Licensee the exclusive right to directly, or indirectly through one or more third parties, sell WNBA and National Basketball Association ("NBA") novelties at all Seattle Franchise Home Games in the specific location(s) designated from time to time by the Director, without additional compensation being payable to the City. For purposes of this Agreement, WNBA and NBA novelties means merchandise, goods, wares, and publications bearing the symbol, mark or name of the WNBA, the Seattle Franchise or any other WNBA or NBA team or association, including team pictures or pictures of players or other team personnel, only. Licensee may engage in the sale of non-WNBA novelties with the prior written approval of the Director. Novelties unrelated to basketball shall not be sold at Seattle Franchise Home Games by persons other than Licensee.

 III. LICENSEE'S OBLIGATION TO USE KEYARENA

 Except as otherwise agreed to by both parties, in writing, for the duration of this Agreement Licensee shall schedule and ensure that the Seattle Franchise plays all of its regular and post-season Home Games in the KeyArena; provided, however, that in the event that the City does not specifically guarantee certain dates for playoff games acceptable to the WNBA, then Licensee may, in its sole discretion, contract with alternative venues for such games.

 IV. TERM OF AGREEMENT

 This Agreement shall commence January 1, 2001, and expire December 31, 2002, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof.

 V. SCHEDULING OF SEATTLE FRANCHISE HOME GAMES AND PRACTICES

 A. Selection of Regular Season Home Game Dates.

 1. By October 1 of the year immediately preceding each WNBA season that is subject to this Agreement, the Director shall provide Licensee with a list of a minimum of twenty-eight (28) potential "regular season" Home Game dates occurring between the succeeding second Tuesday in June and the last Saturday in August. If this agreement is subsequently extended for the 2001 and 2002 seasons, the list of regular season Home Game dates shall include six (6) Fridays, two (2) Mondays, and six (6) Saturdays, with no more than four (4) of the Fridays and Saturdays consecutive with each other. The parties acknowledge that a list of potential regular season Home Game dates has been provided to Licensee for the 2000 season.

 2. In the event the WNBA increases the number of regular season games, then the number of potential available dates shall be increased to accommodate such expansion. By December 29, 1999, for the 2000 WNBA season, and by December 1st for each succeeding season, or immediately after the WNBA finalizes the schedule for the relevant season, whichever occurs later, Licensee shall notify the Director in writing or by telephone with a written confirmation, of those dates on the Director's list on which it wishes to license the KeyArena for a regular season Home Game. Such dates shall be known as "Confirmed Dates". Any dates not selected by Licensee as Confirmed Dates shall be deemed relinquished and shall be available for use by other facility licensees.

 B. Selection of Pre-Season Home Game Dates.

 At any time, Licensee may ask the Director to hold potential dates for pre-season Home Games. As soon as reasonably practicable after the receipt of such request, the Director shall determine whether any of the requested dates is being held for or is contractually committed for use by another licensee. If no conflict exists with respect to any requested date, the Director shall advise Licensee of the availability of the KeyArena on such date and shall hold the same for use by Licensee until each such date is confirmed or released by Licensee. At the earliest possible opportunity, but not less than sixty (60) days prior to each potential pre-season Home Game date, Licensee shall confirm its intention to use the KeyArena for such date(s). Any dates not so confirmed shall be deemed released and available for licensing by third parties. Prior to such confirmation, the Director shall notify Licensee of any third-party requests for use of KeyArena for any date being held for Licensee. Licensee shall have seventy-two (72) hours from the time of the notification to confirm or release the date.

 C. Scheduling of Playoff and Championship Home Game Dates.

 Licensee shall provide notice to the Director of all additional dates that have been tentatively scheduled or are desired by the WNBA or Licensee for playoff or championship Home Games occurring during the current season immediately after the WNBA advises Licensee of the scheduling of such playoff games. Provided the KeyArena has not been contractually committed to a third party, the Director shall schedule and reserve the KeyArena for Licensee's use for such designated dates, with the exception of Thursday through Monday of each Labor Day weekend during the term hereof, for which period the KeyArena will be scheduled and used consistent with the terms, conditions and principles described in Exhibit 6, Agreement between One Reel, Inc., SSI, Inc., and The City of Seattle Concerning the Use of KeyArena Over Labor Day Weekend: 2001 and 2002. At the earliest possible opportunity, Licensee shall orally or in writing confirm its intention to use the KeyArena for any designated date(s). Upon confirmation or, in the absence of same, upon Licensee's use of KeyArena for a post-regular season game, each such date shall become a Confirmed Date hereunder. The parties acknowledge that a list of potential post-season Home Game dates has been provided to Licensee for the 2000 season.

 D. Director's Endorsement.

 The Director shall prepare and issue a written "use date endorsement notice" to Licensee for each Confirmed Date.

 E. Use of KeyArena for Seattle Franchise Practice Sessions.

 Licensee may request the use of some or all of the KeyArena basketball floor for a Seattle Franchise practice session on days when no Home Game is scheduled

 provided the request is made no more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date of the proposed practice. Such requests shall be granted if: (i) no other user or event has been scheduled to use the portions of the KeyArena necessary for the practicing of professional basketball on such day; (ii) the City does not need to do maintenance or repair work on the KeyArena that would be interfered with by such use or that would interfere with such use; and (iii) the KeyArena does not need to be prepared in any respect on such day for any user or event scheduled for any subsequent day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall have the right to cancel a scheduled practice session at any time in order to schedule a revenue-generating activity in the KeyArena. In approving a request for a practice session, the Director may impose reasonable restrictions or conditions on Licensee's use and occupancy of the Premises. Licensee shall pay all costs incurred by the City in making the Premises available for any practice session, including ancillary costs, e.g., for security personnel.

 VI. PREMISES AVAILABLE FOR USE BY LICENSEE

 A. Premises Licensed for Use by Licensee.

 1. Premises Licensed for Use on Home Game Dates.

 On each Home Game date, Licensee shall have the right to use and to authorize others to use for the presentation and broadcasting of Seattle Franchise Home Games, those portions of the KeyArena that are reasonably necessary for the playing, exhibition, and viewing of, and attendance at, a professional basketball event. Such portions include the audience seating areas (other than suites); the basketball floor and scoreboard, and the areas listed on Exhibit 1 hereto.

 On each Home Game date, Licensee shall also be permitted to use KeyArena box office spaces not reserved for exclusive use by third parties, for ticket selling. Licensee shall not make any alterations to existing ticketing equipment without the prior written approval of the Director and any such changes as may be approved by the Director shall be implemented at Licensee's sole cost and expense.

 2. Permitted Hours of Use.

 The Premises shall be available to Licensee during the following periods:

 a) On any Home Game day on which the KeyArena does not have to be converted to or from a non-basketball use, Licensee shall be permitted to the Premises beginning at 9:00 a.m. and ending at 11:59 p.m. of that same day.

 b) On any day Home Game day on which the KeyArena must be converted on that same day to a basketball use from a different use, Licensee shall be permitted to use the Premises beginning two (2) hours before the starting time of the Home Game or practice scheduled on that day or such earlier time on that same day as the Director shall specify; provided, that for Home Games, the general public shall not be admitted to the KeyArena until one and one-half (11/2 ) hours before the starting time for such Home Game; and provided, further, that on such days, no practice session shall commence prior to 11:00 a.m.

 c) On any Home Game day on which the KeyArena must be converted on that same day from a basketball use to a different use, Licensee shall be permitted to use the Premises until one (1) hour after any scheduled Home Game or practice session, or such later time on that same day as the Director shall specify; provided, that any practice session scheduled for such a day shall conclude by 9:00 p.m.

 d) Licensee shall ensure that no Home Game commences before 12:00p.m.

 B. Limited Use of Common Areas.

 Licensee is hereby granted the right to use the common areas of the KeyArena (including but not limited to all lobby, entry, vestibule, balcony, mezzanine, corridor, concourse, passage, ramp, stair, landing, vomitory, elevator and public restroom areas) in common with authorized third parties to access those areas of the KeyArena that have been specifically licensed for use by it under this Agreement. Neither Licensee nor any of its officers, employees, invitees, contractors or any of their subcontractors shall use any portion of Seattle Center not specifically granted to Licensee for its use and occupancy hereunder for any purpose, without the Director's Approval.

 C. Public Address Facilities.

 For each Seattle Franchise Home Game the City shall provide Licensee with exclusive access to, and control of, the public address facilities in the KeyArena, which right shall not permit Licensee to use or allow others to use such public address facilities for any political purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City reserves the right to use the public address facilities at all times for general safety, health, and legal announcements including but not limited to those for emergency or crowd control purposes.

 VII.

 TICKET ADMINISTRATION

 A. Licensee's Responsibilities.

 Licensor shall have no rights, authority or responsibility for the sale of tickets to Seattle Franchise Home Games, including but not limited to the printing and distribution of tickets; the undertaking and conducting of group, season, and special package sales; the establishing of any and all prices for basic admission to Licensee's events and activities at Seattle Center and any service charge(s) thereon; the collecting and counting of receipts; and accounting.

 B. Admissions.

 Licensee shall take reasonable steps to ensure that no person with a primary purpose of viewing a Seattle Franchise Home Game is admitted to any such Home Game at the KeyArena without first presenting an admission ticket.

 C. Box Office Statement Provided to Director.

 At the end of each Home Game, Licensee shall deliver to the Director a box office statement prepared in connection therewith, showing for each such game the number of tickets distributed, by price category and certified as to accuracy by an authorized employee of agent of Licensee.

 VIII. RECOGNITION OF SEATTLE CENTER LOCATION

 Licensee, to the extent practicable shall ensure that the words "KeyArena at Seattle Center" appear in or on all tickets and advertising material (including but not limited to brochures, signs, and logos) imprinted, published or otherwise produced by or on behalf of Licensee that makes reference to the Seattle Franchise.

 IX. SERVICES AND FACILITIES

 A. Services and Facilities to be Provided by City for Seattle Franchise Home Games.

 In consideration of the License Fee required by Subsection XI of this Agreement, the City shall provide Licensee with the following services for each Home Game basketball presentation: Seattle Center Event Service Representative(s); set-up and removal of basketball game-associated equipment; Seattle Police personnel for crowd control purposes, only; a public first-aid facility in the KeyArena; KeyArena admissions, stage and sound personnel; building technical staff and security; and cleaning staff. The Director shall determine the necessary level of service after consultation with Licensee; provided that for the year 2000, the parties agree that the services shall be as stated on Exhibit 2. The City and Licensee shall endeavor to jointly develop operating standards for Home Games in an effort to provide high levels of customer service while also controlling operational costs; however, in the event of any disagreement pertaining to operational issues, the decision of the Seattle Center Director shall be final.

 B. Services and Facilities to be Provided by Licensee.

 The License Fee does not include and Licensee shall provide at its sole expense or pay the costs of the following, together with any other personnel or services not specifically enumerated in Subsection IX.A: scoreboard operators; staff required for television and radio broadcasts; Seattle Center staff required for installation and/or removal of the upper bowl vertical curtain system; scorers; paramedics; ticket sellers; and game officials. Licensee shall also secure and pay for whatever number of off-duty Seattle Police Department law enforcement officers as License determines are necessary for player, coach, bench or courtside security. Licensee shall not engage any other public or private security personnel for the Premises without the Approval of the Director.

 C. Pre-, Mid- and Post-Home Game Activities.

 The City is not obligated under this Agreement to provide at any pre-, mid-, or post-Home Game activity at KeyArena any services beyond those reasonably required for a basketball game presentation. Such activities may be scheduled by Licensee upon reasonable prior notice to the Director provided they occur within the hours of Licensee's authorized occupancy of Key Arena, as described in Subsection VI.A.2, above. Licensee shall pay all costs the City incurs for personnel, services, and equipment that the Director determines is necessary to facilitate each such activity. The City shall invoice Licensee for costs incurred in connection with such activities at the rates shown in the then- current Personnel Rates Addendum and Equipment and Services Addendum, attached hereto as Exhibits 3 and 4, any successor document(s) or, in the absence of such a document, for actual costs. Payment shall be made as provided in Subsection XII.B. of this Agreement.

 D. Seat Assignment Activities.

 For a period not to exceed fourteen days in January, February or March of the first year of this Agreement, at a time mutually agreeable to the parties, Licensee shall have the right to admit season ticket-holders into the KeyArena for the purpose of assigning seat locations. For subsequent years, Licensee may undertake such seat assignment activities only with the prior approval of the Director. In the event the Director approves such activity, the City shall retain the right, without liability of any kind, to reschedule or cancel any such event or activity in order to license the Premises for a commercial event. In addition, Licensee shall not be permitted to reserve the Premises for such purposes more than thirty (30) days prior to the proposed event date. Licensee shall pay any and all expenses incurred by the City in making the facility available for such purpose upon receipt of an invoice therefor.

 E. Utilities.

 The License Fee shall include electricity, water, ventilation, sewer and solid waste removal reasonably required for Licensee's use of the KeyArena as contemplated herein. Licensee shall secure, at no expense to the City and with the Director's Approval, such telephone service as Licensee desires to and from the KeyArena. The City shall repair any malfunction or failure of any utility service provided by the Seattle Center Department but shall not be liable for any interruption or impairment of Licensee's use, enjoyment and occupancy of the KeyArena resulting from any such utility system malfunction or failure to repair.

 F. Basketball Floor.

 Licensee may utilize either the "Seattle SuperSonics" basketball floor or the Mercer Arena basketball floor. All costs associated with re-painting and preparing either floor, as well as any changes needed to accommodate the accompanying baskets, courtside seating, etc., for WNBA purposes shall be the sole responsibility of Licensee. Licensee shall ensure that any floor that is utilized contains the words "KeyArena at Seattle Center" in a prominent and television-viewable location unless such display is expressly prohibited by the WNBA.

 X. CONCESSION REVENUE

 The City confirms that SSI's rights to engage in concession sales of food at the KeyArena are governed by a separate agreement between the City and SSI. So long as Licensee remains the owner of the Seattle Franchise, Licensee shall have the right to retain all revenue from KeyArena concession sales at Seattle Franchise Home Games.

 XI. CONSIDERATION DUE TO CITY FROM LICENSEE

 A. License Fee.

 Licensee shall pay the City the License Fee set forth below for each Home Game played at the KeyArena:

 Attendance License Fee

 0-4499 $ 11,500

 4500-7999 $ 12,500

 8000-10,999 $ 13,500

 11,000-capacity $ 14,500

 1. Attendance shall be measured by counting the actual number of tickets that are taken at each Home Game, i.e., the "drop count", not including suites.

 2. The License Fee described in Subsection XI.A., above, is designed to cover the City's costs of providing the services and facilities described in Subsection IX.A. If the actual costs of said services exceed the amounts stated in Subsection XI.A. due to wage or cost of living increases, Licensee shall remit the additional amount to the City at the time of the annual reconciliation described in Subsection XII.C. If the actual costs are less than those stated in Subsection XI.A, sixty percent (60%) of the savings will be rebated to Licensee at the time of reconciliation.

 B. Percentage Fee.

 In addition to the License Fee, in every season when Gross Ticket Receipts exceed $1,250,000, the City shall receive ten percent (10%) of all Gross Ticket Receipts in excess of that amount. As an example, if Gross Ticket Receipts for a season total $1,500,000, the City shall be entitled to an additional fee of ten percent (10%) of $250,000, or $25,000, for that season.

 C. Performance Deposit.

 During each year this Agreement is in effect, not later than the date on which Licensee confirms the first pre- or regular season Home Game date for the current season as described in Subsections V.A and B, above, Licensee shall deposit the sum of $100,000 with the City. For each Seattle Franchise Home Game actually played in the KeyArena during that season, Licensee shall receive a credit of $6,000, to a maximum total credit of $96,000 per season. The balance of the deposit, including any interest earned thereon, shall become the property of the City and shall accrue to the KeyArena Building Fund.

 D. Cancellation Fee.

 Licensee shall pay the City a Cancellation Fee of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) for each confirmed pre- or regular season Home Game it cancels with less than sixty (60) days' notice to the City. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Cancellation Fee shall be due if the cancellation results from causes beyond the reasonable control of Licensee or the WNBA or any successor organization. If such a Home Game is cancelled on less than sixty (60) days' notice but the City is able to provide a replacement event at KeyArena for such cancelled Home Game date, the Cancellation Fee shall be reduced by the amount of the net license fee actually received by the City from such replacement event, but in no event shall Licensee's credit exceed $5,000.

 XII. Reporting, Invoicing and Timing of Payments.

 Licensee shall deliver to the City, in care of the Seattle Center Accounting Office, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington 98109, or such other address as the Director may specify from time to time, all sums due the City hereunder, together with an accounting worksheet in a form subject to Approval by the Director that separately identifies the amount of each such payment and the source thereof by reference to the pertinent subsection of this Agreement requiring such payment.

 A. Payments Due Monthly Without Invoice.

 On or before the fifth (5th) day of each month during the Term hereof, Licensee shall remit the aggregate amount of the KeyArena fixed License Fees specified in Subsection XI above, that have become due and payable as a consequence of Licensee's use of KeyArena during the preceding calendar month.

 B. Payments Due After Invoice.

 Licensee shall pay all other amounts due the City pursuant to this Agreement within 20 days following receipt of the City's invoice therefor.

 C. Annual Reconciliation.

 On or before September 30 of each year during the Term hereof, the Director shall provide Licensee with a summary sheet reflecting the actual total costs to the City for presenting a Seattle Franchise Home Game, and Licensee shall provide the City with the report of Gross Ticket Receipts described in Subsection XII.D., below. Thereafter, the Director shall perform a reconciliation, taking into consideration the actual costs to the City of Seattle Franchise Home Games during that calendar year; the Gross Ticket Receipts; any rebate due from the Performance Deposit; any cancellation fees due; and any outstanding miscellaneous charges otherwise due upon presentation of any invoice. The City shall pay Licensee any amount due in the form of a credit toward payments due for the succeeding calendar year hereunder, or for the last year of the Agreement, in cash, within thirty (30) days of the reconciliation. Licensee shall pay the City any undisputed amounts within the same thirty- (30) day period.

 D. Licensee's Report of Revenues.

 On or before September 30th of each year during the Term hereof, Licensee shall deliver to the Director a written report detailing the amount of Gross Ticket Receipts generated by Licensee from the sale of Seattle Franchise Home Game admission tickets in that calendar year. Said reports shall show revenues on both an aggregate and a per-Home Game basis.

 E. Delinquencies, Invoicing Service Charge & Interest.

 All payments shall be delinquent if not paid on the date due. The amount of each month's delinquency shall be subject to an invoicing service charge of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) and shall also bear interest at a rate of one percent (1%) per month from the date of the delinquency until it is paid. Payments made after a delinquency shall be applied first to accrued interest and then to the principal sum due.

 F. Books and Records; Audit.

 1. Obligation to Keep Records.

 a. Licensee's Obligation. Licensee shall keep true, accurate, complete and auditable records and receipts relating to revenues received by it pursuant to the activities Licensee is authorized to perform under this Agreement. Such records shall be separate from the records pertaining to other business activities of Licensee.

 b. City's Obligation. The City shall keep true, accurate, complete and auditable records and receipts relating to costs incurred in providing any service or performing any work for which compensation or reimbursement is sought hereunder. Such records shall be separate from the records pertaining to other business activities of Licensor.

 c. Records Retention. All records to be kept pursuant to this Agreement shall be retained in King County, Washington, for at least thirty-six (36) months after the close of the fiscal year in which they were generated or issued.

 2. City Audits.

 Licensee shall permit the State Auditor or the City, from time to time during regular City working hours, as the State Auditor, Director or City Auditor deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, all books and records of Licensee pertaining to the activities permitted hereunder, including but not limited to the numbers of complimentary tickets and credentials issued for admission to any KeyArena Home Game or special event and the amount of Gross Ticket Receipts received or receivable therefrom. Licensee shall supply the State Auditor or City with, or shall permit the State Auditor or the City to make, copies of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon the State Auditor's or the City's request.

 3. Licensee's Audits.

 The City shall permit Licensee's auditor, from time to time during regular City working hours, as Licensee's auditor reasonably deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, those Seattle Center books and records that pertain to revenues received and costs incurred and billed to Licensee pursuant to this Agreement. The City shall supply Licensee's auditor or Licensee with, or shall permit Licensee's auditor or Licensee to make, copies of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon Licensee's auditor's or Licensee's request.

 4. Over- & Underpayments.

 Each party shall notify the other Licensee of the amount of any overpayment or underpayment found during any audit. Any overpayments shall be applied, first, as a credit against any fees and charges subsequently due to the party giving notice or, if none, refunded.

 XIII. PARKING

 A. South KeyArena Parking Lot.

 Licensee, at no additional cost, shall be entitled to full use of the South KeyArena Parking Lot for parking for Licensee's players, staff and other special designees for parking on Home Game dates and when the driver or a passenger of the vehicle to be parked is on official business for Licensee.

 B. First Avenue North Parking Garage.

 The Director shall annually issue to Licensee up to 451 permits authorizing parking by Licensee's players, staff and ticket holders in the City's First Avenue North Parking Garage on Home Game dates, only. Licensee shall be billed for each such permit at a rate calculated by multiplying the prevailing Seattle Center public parking rate by the number of Home Games. Licensee shall use its best efforts to ensure that no such parking permit is resold at more than the Seattle Center prevailing rate.

 XIV. NO NUISANCES OR OBJECTIONABLE ACTIVITY

 Licensee shall not permit any excessive or objectionable noise, odor, dust, vibration, or other similar substance or condition to remain on or be emitted from the Premises and shall not create any nuisance in or adjacent to the Premises and the City shall not knowingly permit or create the same. Neither the City, in or about the licensed Premises on any Home Game date, nor Licensee shall do anything on the Premises that will create a danger to life or limb, except such dangers as are the usual and necessary result of basketball playing or practicing.

 XV. IMPROVEMENTS, ADDITIONS, AND ALTERATIONS TO PREMISES BY OR FOR LICENSEE

 A. Installation of Vertical Curtain System.

 Licensee shall secure and pay all costs to design and install a vertical curtain system for the upper bowl of the KeyArena. The intent of this system is to allow the upper bowl or sections thereof to be masked from view and closed when attendance does not warrant the opening of those areas. Licensee shall submit to the Director for Approval at each phase and prior to any installation, a design concept, final design and fabrication drawings for the vertical curtain system, all of which shall be Approved by the Director; provided, however, that all rules and regulations of the WNBA regarding the design or construction of such system shall control, except in matters of compliance with safety regulations. The vertical curtain system shall be installed only in accordance with the Approved design. The City shall have the unrestricted right and to use and permit others to use this system at non-WNBA events at no cost.

 B. No Representation Created by Approval.

 The Director's Approval of Licensee's vertical curtain system design shall not constitute an opinion or representation by the City as to its compliance with any law, code or ordinance.

 XVI. MAINTENANCE

 A. City Maintenance Responsibilities.

 The City shall maintain the Premises and City-owned equipment therein, in a neat, clean, safe and sanitary condition, and in a good state of repair that is at least the equivalent of other WNBA venues.

 B. Licensee's Maintenance Responsibilities.

 The City shall not be responsible for providing or performing any maintenance, repair or servicing of any of Licensee's improvements, equipment or other personal property, and the maintenance, repair or servicing of all of the same shall be Licensee's sole responsibility and shall be undertaken at Licensee's sole expense.

 C. Licensee's Responsibility for Damage.

 Neither Licensee nor any of its officers, employees, contractors, agents or invitees shall damage or in any manner deface any portion of the Premises or cause or allow anything to be done whereby any portion of the Premises is defaced or damaged in any manner. If such damage or defacement occurs, then the City will notify Licensee of the same and if the City elects to perform maintenance, repair, or renovation occasioned thereby, it shall invoice Licensee for the reimbursement of such expenses, which reimbursement shall be paid as provided in Subsection XI.B.2. hereof.

 XVII. CITY'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

 A. City's Control of KeyArena.

 The City shall at all times maintain overall supervision and control of the KeyArena, including the Premises. The Director shall have the right to use whatever means that the Director deems proper to enter the Premises at any time and for any purpose, without liability to Licensee except for any failure to exercise due care for Licensee's property.

 B. City's Control of Other Seattle Center Buildings and Grounds.

 The City reserves the exclusive right, without liability of any kind, to do any and all of the following throughout the term of this Agreement:

 1. Increase, reduce, and change in any manner whatsoever the number, appearance, dimensions, and locations of the Seattle Center walks, buildings, landscaping, parking, and service areas, and make improvements, alterations, and additions to the Seattle Center facilities.

 2. Regulate all traffic within and adjacent to the Seattle Center.

 3. Impose a reasonable charge for admission to the Seattle Center.

 4. Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events to occur in and on the Seattle Center grounds, buildings, and facilities including the Premises.

 5. Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle Center.

 6. Determine the days and hours the Seattle Center and various business operations conducted thereon shall be open to the public.

 7. Determine the size, number, and type and identity of concessions, stores, businesses, and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center other than as set forth herein and to operate and authorize others to engage in any and all forms of concession activity at the Seattle Center and in any facility thereof, as the Director deems appropriate.

 XVIII. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 The Licensee, at its sole cost and expense, shall conform and comply with, and shall take reasonable precaution to ensure that every person it admits to any Seattle Center facility abides by and complies with, all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and ordinances of The City of Seattle; rules and regulations of the Seattle Center, Fire, and Police Departments, and the Seattle-King County Department of Public Health, and their respective successors; and licenses, permits and any directives issued by any authorized official thereof. In addition, Licensee shall comply with all of the following requirements:

 A. Licenses.

 Licensee shall obtain all licenses, permits and authorizations required by law and conform to all applicable requirements of any authorized person acting in connection therewith.

 B. Taxes.

 Licensee shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities in, on, or involving occupancy and use of the Premises including, but not limited to, taxes arising out of the occupancy of, or activity or business conducted in or from the Premises; taxes levied on Licensee's property, equipment, improvements on or made to the Premises or any portion thereof; and taxes levied on Licensee's interest in this Agreement and any leasehold interest recognized by Ch. 82.29A of the Revised Code of Washington, and in the event the State of Washington makes any demand upon the City for the remittance of leasehold excise taxes payable by Licensee as a consequence of Licensee's occupation of the Premises or withholds funds due to the City to enforce collection of such leasehold excise taxes, Licensee shall immediately pay the same together with all interest and penalties accessed in connection therewith, or, at its sole expense, shall contest such action and indemnify the City for all sums expended by, or withheld by the State from, the City in connection with such taxation; provided, that Licensee shall not be deemed to be in default as long as Licensee, in good faith, is contesting the validity or amount of any such taxes.

 C. Nondiscrimination.

 Licensee shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the Sate of Washington, and The City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC"), notably SMC 20.44, and all rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 D. Attendance and Safety Standards.

 The Seattle Fire Chief or his/her designee shall have the authority to determine, in the reasonable exercise of his/her discretion, the number of persons that may be admitted to, and safely and freely move about in the Premises. The Licensee shall not sell or issue Home Game tickets or credentials for admission to KeyArena in an aggregate number that exceeds the Seattle Fire Chief's determined number for the same. The City shall not admit to KeyArena more people than the number so determined by the Seattle Fire Chief. No sidewalk, grounds area, entry, passage, vestibule, hall, elevator, abutting street, doorway, or any other way of access to the Premises shall be obstructed by Licensee or used for any purpose other than for ingress and egress to the Premises.

 E. Enforcement.

 If Licensee or its authorized representative is informed of any violation of any law, Charter provision, ordinance, rule, regulation, license, permit, or authorization committed by Licensee or any person admitted to a Home Game, Licensee immediately shall desist from and/or take reasonable measures to prevent or correct such violation.

 XIX. SURRENDER OF PREMISES

 A. Surrender and Delivery.

 1. Upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement, Licensee shall surrender and promptly deliver to the Director all keys Licensee and any of its officers, agents, and employees may have acquired in the course of performing this Agreement.

 B. Removal of Licensee's Property.

 1. Prior to the expiration of the Term of this Agreement or, in the event this Agreement is terminated, within seven (7) days after the termination date, Licensee shall remove, at its sole expense, all trade equipment and personal property owned or installed by Licensee on or in the Premises. Except as may be required by the Director, improvements, additions and alterations made or provided to the Premises by or on behalf of Licensee shall not be removed.

 2. In removing any trade equipment or personal property, Licensee shall take due care to not injure or damage the Premises. If any damage or injury occurs, Licensee shall be liable to, and shall reimburse the City for, the cost of making such repairs to the Premises as may be necessary to restore the same to their condition as of the commencement date of this Agreement, ordinary wear and tear, excepted, which reimbursement shall be paid as provided in Subsection XII.B, hereof.

 C. Storage of Licensee's Property.

 In the event Licensee fails to remove trade equipment and other personal property owned by Licensee on or by the time specified in Subsections XIX.A and XIX.B hereof, the City may, but shall not be required to, remove such material from the Premises and store the same, all at Licensee's expense; and in the event the City removes or arranges for the storage of such material, Licensee shall reimburse the City for all costs incurred in connection with such removal or storage, including any administrative costs, which reimbursement shall be paid as provided in Subsection XII.B hereof.

 XX. SUBCONTRACTING, ASSIGNMENTS AND TRANSFERS OF OWNERSHIP

 INTERESTS

 A. Subcontracting and Assignments.

 Licensee shall not subcontract or assign any of its responsibilities or obligations under this Agreement to another person or entity without the prior Approval of the Director, which approval may be withheld or conditioned based solely upon the Director's reasonable concerns as to the financial condition of the assignee or transferee. Any subcontract or assignment shall be subject to all terms and provisions of this Agreement.

 B. Transfer Of Ownership Interest.

 1. Licensee's Delivery of Instrument of Assumption and Agreement. In the event of the sale, assignment or other transfer of any ownership interest in the Seattle Franchise to any third party or parties, Licensee shall cause to be delivered to the Seattle Center Director, immediately after such assignment, sale, or transfer, an instrument, in writing, executed by the assignee, grantee, purchaser or transferee, in which such person agrees to assume and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement to the extent the same are then unperformed.

 2. Release of Licensee Upon Total Assumption of Licensee's Obligations by Other Party. Upon the delivery by Licensee of an instrument of assumption and agreement as contemplated in Subsection XX.B.1, hereof, executed by the assignee, grantee, purchaser, or transferee acquiring one hundred percent (100%) of Licensee's interest in the Seattle Franchise and provided the Director has approved such transfer, this Agreement, each and every obligation of Licensee hereunder shall become null and void as to Licensee and Licensee shall have no further direct or indirect liability or obligation hereunder to the extent of that assumption.

 3. Joint & Several Liability of Licensee and Other Party Where Licensee's Obligations Are Not Totally Assumed. In the event less than one hundred percent (100%) of Licensee's interest in the Seattle Franchise and/or this Agreement is assigned, granted, purchased by, or transferred to, one or more other persons or entities, Licensee shall remain jointly and severally liable with such other persons or entities for the performance of all obligations hereunder.

 XX. WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS

 Licensee hereby warrants to and specially covenants with the City that Licensee is the holder of a valid effective WNBA franchise that permits and authorizes Licensee to operate a professional women's basketball team in and from the Seattle Center and that Licensee is authorized to enter into this Agreement.

 XXI. MEDIATION

 In the event a dispute shall arise between the parties to this Agreement, and the parties are unable to settle the dispute between themselves, it is hereby agreed that the dispute shall then be referred to a mutually agreeable mediator for resolution within thirty (30) days of a written request for mediation submitted by either party. The parties agree to participate in at least three hours of mediation in an effort to resolve their dispute and to equally share the costs of the mediation process.

 XXII. DEFAULT AND REMEDIES THEREFOR

 A. Default by Licensee.

 1. Event of Default. Licensee's material breach of any covenant, warranty or representation contained herein shall constitute a default of this Agreement.

 2. Notice to Cure. The Director shall notify Licensee of any event of default and Licensee shall have a reasonable period to cure such default, which period shall not exceed ninety (90) days from the date of such notice unless such default is not susceptible of cure within said ninety- (90) day period, in which event Licensee shall not be in default provided Licensee commences to cure the default within said ninety- (90) day period and diligently pursues the same to completion.

 3. City's Rights Upon Licensee's Breach. In addition to any other remedies available to it under this Agreement or in law, the City may immediately terminate this Agreement upon fifteen (15) days' notice to Licensee and without any further proceedings under any of the following circumstances. In such event, the City shall have the right to declare Licensee in default, to re-enter the Premises, and to lease and license the Premises to others for any date and receive rent and license fees therefor, all as if this Agreement has not been made.

 a) Licensee fails to cure any default of which it had notice within the time specified by the City.

 b) Licensee fails to comply with all of the requirements of Section XXIII hereof (including Exhibit 5), regarding insurance.

 c) Licensee fails to pay the City, in a timely manner, any undisputed amount due under this Agreement.

 B. Default by City.

 1. Event of Default. The City's material breach of any covenant, warranty or representation contained herein shall constitute a default of this Agreement.

 2. Notice to Cure. Licensee shall notify the Director of any event of default and the City shall have a reasonable period to cure such default, which period shall not exceed ninety (90) days from the date of such notice unless such default is not susceptible of cure within said ninety- (90) day period, in which event the City shall not be in default provided the City commences to cure the default within said ninety- (90) day period and diligently pursues the same to completion.

 3. Licensee's Rights Upon Failure to Cure Default. In addition to any other remedies available to it under this Agreement or in law, Licensee may terminate this Agreement upon fifteen (15) days' notice to the City and without any further proceedings under any of the following circumstances.

 a) The City fails to cure any default of which it had notice within the time specified by Licensee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee shall not have a right of termination if the Director reasonably determines that more days than those specified by Licensee are required for performance and the City commences performance within the period specified by Licensee and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 b) The City fails to pay Licensee, in a timely manner, any undisputed amount due under this Agreement.

 XXIII. LIABILITY FOR BODILY INJURY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE

 Licensee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect throughout the term of this Agreement, and shall otherwise fully comply with requirements of Exhibit 5.

 XXIV. INDEMNIFICATION

 A. Licensee to Indemnify City.

 Licensee shall indemnify and hold the City and its officers, employees and agents harmless from, any and all losses, claims, actions, and damages suffered by any person or entity arising out of: any negligent, reckless, or intentional act or omission of Licensee or any of its agents, employees, invitees, concessionaires, contractors and any of their subcontractors in connection with Licensees use or occupancy of the Premises; any grant of advertising rights for display advertising within the KeyArena; and from any damages arising out of any breach or default in the performance of any obligation on Licensee's part to be performed under the terms of this Agreement or any breach of any representation or warranty made by Licensee hereunder. If, as a result of any such act, omission or breach, any suit or action is brought against the City, Licensee, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at no cost and expense to the City, and promptly satisfy any final judgment adverse to the City; provided, that in the event the City determines that one or more principles of governmental or public law are involved, the City retains the right to participate in such action. Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as requiring Licensee to indemnify the City against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from negligentce, reckless or intentional conduct attributable solely to the City or its officers, employees, or agents. The indemnification provided in this subsection shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 B. City to Indemnify Licensee.

 The City shall indemnify and hold Licensee harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, and damages suffered by any person or entity arising out of any negligent, reckless, or intentional act or omission of the City or any of its agents, employees, invitees, or contractors and any of their subcontractors in connection with the City's use or occupancy of the Premises and from damages arising out of a breach or default in the performance of any obligation on the City's part to be performed under the terms of this Agreement or any breach of any representation or warranty made by the City hereunder. If, as a result of any such act or omission or breach, any suit or action is brought against Licensee, the City, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at no cost and expense to Licensee, and promptly satisfy any final judgment adverse to Licensee. Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as requiring the City to indemnify Licensee against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from negligent reckless or intentional conduct attributable solely to Licensee or any of its officers, employees, concessionaires, contractors, or agents. The indemnification provided for in this subsection shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

 XXV. FORCE MAJEURE

 Whenever a party's performance under this Agreement is prevented by an act of nature; war or war-like operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including a strike or walkout (but not a lockout); sabotage; Federal or State regulation or control; or other condition beyond the reasonable control of such party, performance of such affected obligation shall be suspended for the duration of such condition but shall not be excused except by agreement of the parties.

 XXVI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

 A. Captions.

 The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 B. Amendments.

 No modification or amendment of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless written and signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement from time to time by mutual agreement.

 C. Remedies Cumulative.

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; any failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. Each party shall also have any other remedy given by the law. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 D. No Waiver.

 No action other than a notice by one party to the other specifically stating that such notice has the effect of a waiver, shall constitute a waiver of any particular breach or default of such other party, and only the Director, personally, shall be authorized to provide such a notice for or on behalf of the City. No such notice shall waive Licensee's failure to fully comply with any other term, condition, or provision of this Agreement, irrespective of any knowledge any the City officer, employee, or agent may have of any breach or default of, or noncompliance with, such other term, condition, or provision. No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed, or operate, as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement. The payment or acceptance of fees or charges for any period after a default shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or acceptance of defective performance.

 E. Limited Effect of Approval by Director.

 Action of the Director pursuant to or in implementation of this Agreement does not constitute any official action by any other City department or official that may be required by law, City Charter, ordinance, rule or regulation before Licensee may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking.

 F. No Relationship.

 In no event shall the City be construed to be a partner, associate, joint venturer of Licensee, or any party associated with Licensee, with respect to the undertakings authorized by this Agreement. Licensee is not an agent of the City for any purpose whatsoever hereunder. The Licensee shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the City or bind the City in any manner.

 G. Power of City.

 Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be considered to diminish the governmental or police powers of the City.

 H. Binding Effect.

 The provisions, covenants and conditions of this Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal representatives, successors, and assigns.

 I. Invalidity of Particular Provisions.

 Should any term, provision, condition or other portion of this Agreement or the application thereof be held to be inoperative, invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement or the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect.

 J. Applicable Law; Venue.

 This Agreement shall be construed under the Law of the State of Washington. Venue for any action brought hereunder shall be in the Superior Court for King County, Washington.

 K. Incorporation of Exhibits; Entire Agreement.

 This Agreement, including the exhibits attached hereto and forming a part hereof, as well as the various periodic use date endorsement notices issued by the City, all of which, by this reference, are incorporated herein, constitute all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions between the parties regarding the terms and conditions of Licensee's use of the KeyArena under this Agreement.

 XXVII. NOTICES

 Any notice or communication to be given by one party to the other under this Agreement must be in writing. Such notices or communications shall be delivered or sent to the following respective addresses or to such other addresses as the parties, from time to time, may specify in writing:

 If to the City: If to Licensee:

 Seattle Center Director John Dresel

 The City of Seattle Full House Sports & Entertainment Division

 305 Harrison Street Ackerley Communications Group, Inc.

 Seattle, WA 98109 190 Queen Anne Avenue North, Suite 200

 Seattle, WA 98109

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by having their authorized representatives affix their signatures in the spaces below.

 SSI, INC. THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By: By:

 Title: Seattle Center Director

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , 2000, before me personally appeared ________________________, to me known to be the ____________of SSI, Inc., the corporation that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and further that said officer has the authority to sign on behalf of said corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 ____________________________________

 (Signature) (Print or type name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at .

 My appointment expires .

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this day of , 2000, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Virginia Anderson, to me known to be the Seattle Center Director, who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledge said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle, for the uses and purposes herein mentioned, and on oath stated that is authorized to execute said instrument.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 ___________________________________

 (Signature) (Print or type name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, residing at .

 My appointment expires .

 25

 WNBA20012002.doc

 11/8/00

 WNBA.doc

 3/30/00

 EXHIBIT 1

 Premises Licensed for Use on Home Game Dates

 All areas identified as "media lounge", "media workroom"; and Rooms E14H (Visiting Team Locker Room), E15A (Training), E15B (Vest./Interv.), E14C (Office) and E15E (Visiting Team Shower and Toilet Rooms), and E14D (the adjoining Passage); Rooms E01A, E01B, E01C, E01D, E01E, E01F, E01G (toilet/shower), E 01H , E01J (performer dressing/visiting team locker room), E02A, E02B, E02C, E02D, E02F, E30A, E30C, E30D, L13C, L13D, L13F, L16G.

 EXHIBIT 2 Projected Per Game WNBA Expenses

 Event Per Game Admissions Service (average) Technical Attendance Personnel Reps Stage Sound Police Turnover Staff* TOTAL

 2,000 * $4,591 $826 $300 $400 $800 $3,808 $500 $11,225

 3,000 * $4,591 $826 $300 $400 $800 $4,254 $500 $11,671

 4,000 * $4,591 $826 $300 $400 $800 $4,687 $500 $12,104

 5,000 $5,166 $826 $300 $400 $800 $5,126 $500 $13,118

 6,000 $5,166 $826 $300 $400 $800 $5,126 $500 $13,118

 7,000 $5,166 $826 $300 $400 $800 $5,126 $500 $13,118

 Costs are ESTIMATES based upon 1999 Labor Costs

 EXHIBIT 3 Personnel Rates Addendum

 Effective

 1/1/99 1/1/00

 Admissions

 Admissions Guard $14.58 $14.94 Overtime $20.82 $21.34

 Door Attendant $12.85 $13.17 OT $18.55 $19.01

 Seller, General $13.46 $13.80 OT $18.10 $18.55

 Seller, Reserved $15.97 $16.37 OT $23.11 $23.69

 Ticket Splitter $12.85 $13.17 OT $18.54 $19.01

 Usher $10.30 $10.56 OT $15.03 $15.40

 Ass't. Head Usher $15.39 $15.77 OT $22.34 $22.90

 Head Usher $17.80 $18.25 OT $25.74 $26.38

 Stage/Sound

 Sound Operator $33.37 $34.37 OT $54.64 $56.28

 Stage Supervisor $34.97 $35.67 OT $51.09 $52.11

 Stage Rigger $30.17 $31.08 OT $42.64 $43.92

 Stagehand $25.82 $26.59 OT $36.39 $37.48

 Stage Grip $23.82 $24.53 OT $33.49 $34.49

 Other

 Carpenter $36.06 $37.14 OT $52.77 $54.35

 Electrician $36.84 $37.95 OT $54.25 $55.88

 Engineer $37.41 $38.53 OT $54.99 $56.64

 Janitor $24.85 $25.60 OT $34.62 $35.66

 Laborer $26.66 $27.46 OT $37.11 $38.22

 Painter $36.09 $37.17 OT $53.37 $54.98

 Parking Attendant $25.43 $26.19 OT $25.43 $26.19

 Plumber $38.45 $39.60 OT $56.74 $58.44

 Event Service Rep. $37.10 $38.21 OT $42.01 $43.27

 EXHIBIT 4

 EQUIPMENT AVAILABLE FOR HIRE

 SEATTLE CENTER OWNED EQUIPMENT may be rented, subject to availability. Seattle Center personnel are required to operate this equipment; see the Personnel Rates Addendum for charges. The Event Service Representative (ESR) assigned to your Event, will make arrangements for any available Seattle Center equipment you request. If you need equipment not available through Seattle Center, there are rental agencies in the area which you may contact. As a City of Seattle department, we cannot make a specific recommendation but will be happy to supply a listing of possible sources.

 All prices are subject to change. Equipment damaged or not returned will be charged to you at replacement cost. This shall be considered an appropriate charge against any contingency fee paid.

 CHORAL UNITS 3-row fold out Risers $20.00/unit/run of show Portable Choral Shell $20.00/unit/run of show

 FOLLOW SPOTS Xenon Bulb Spotlights: $75.00 each/performance Opera House and KeyArena; For Spectator Events only in KeyArena, first 4 at no charge) Supertrouper: $50.00 each/performance (Mercer Arena only) (cost of operators additional)

 FORKLIFT Non-stage work $50.00/hour (includes cost of operator)

 For stage work $100.00/day (operator additional)

 KEYS/CORES Room cores changed: $15.00 each

 No charge for Facility keys during the Event. Seattle Center keys not returned within 3 days of conclusion of the Event $50.00 each

 PIANOS - Opera House Only

 Upright Piano $40.00/day

 Baby Grand Piano $75.00/day

 (tuning not included)

 READERBOARDS

 Daily charge for units not included with rental of Facility:

 Per face for the 1st day $75.00

 Per face/day for 2nd-7th days $40.00

 Per face/day thereafter $60.00

 SOUND EQUIPMENT

 Additional In/Outputs $15.00 each per day

 (mics, direct input boxes, CD players,

 cassette decks, press boxes, or monitor speakers)

 Wireless Microphone:

 for Meeting Rooms $40.00 each per day

 (includes cost of operator)

 for On Stage $25.00 each per day

 (operator additional)

 Portable Speaker System

 $40.00 each per day

 (2 speakers, mixer/amplifier, and 1 microphone)

 STAGE PLATFORMS

 FOR RUN OF SHOW: $10.00 each

 4' x 8' x (21" or 31")

 * 4' x 8' x (24" or 32" carpeted)

 * 4' x 8' x (48"- 60" in 4" increments)

 6' x 8' x (10-1/2" or 42")

 * 6' x 8' x (48"- 84" in 8" increments)

 * 4' x 8' x (8", 16", 24" or 32")

 * 6' x 8' x (8" for Northwest Rooms only)

 *Skirting: $1.50/linear foot/run of show

 $25.00 minimum

 FOR RUN OF SHOW: $10.00 each

 Barricade sections

 KEYARENA ONLY:

 60'x40' "rolling stage" $600.00/run of show

 TABLES

 8' x 30" $9.00 each/run of show

 6' rounds $9.00 each/run of show

 Maximum cost for "Classroom style" set up in

 Northwest Rooms only, (8' x 24" tables):

 Fidalgo Room $150.00

 Lopez Room $250.00

 Olympic Room $300.00

 Orcas Room $ 55.00

 Rainier Room $485.00

 San Juan Suite $650.00

 Shaw Room $180.00

 Snoqualmie Room $415.00

 TABLE COVERS

 (White paper table covers, 54" x 108")

 Available at no additional charge for speaker tables and the tables included with the Facility rental except in Conference Center

 Additional covers $2.00 each

 THEATRICAL LIGHTING INSTRUMENTS

 For run of show $6.00 each

 $30.00 minimum

 TICKET BOOTHS AND OFFICES (Portable)

 Ticket Booths $100 each/run of show

 Offices $100 each/run of show

 THREE-COMPARTMENT SINKS (Portable)

 For run of show $250.00/unit

 INCLUDED WITH RENTAL OF ROOM

 Subject to availability, for use in all facilities:

 U.S. and Washington State flags

 Chalkboards

 Coat racks

 Easels

 Lecterns - standing and table top

 OTHER SERVICE FEES

 ELECTRICAL AND WATER HOOKUPS TO BUSES, TRAILERS AND CAMPERS

 $75.00/unit per run of show

 (limited availability - Mercer Arena and KeyArena courtyard only)

 EXCESSIVE CLEANUP

 Materials plus labor costs; see Personnel Rates Addendum for hourly rates and minimums

 POWER CONSUMPTION

 Assessed and billed at $.061/KWH based on an averaging system of usage determined by the type of event.

 EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES ADDENDUM

 to Licensing Agreement

 Revised 01/12/99

 EXHIBIT 5

 Insurance Requirements

 The Licensee shall, at all times during the term of this Agreement, obtain and maintain continuously, at its own expense, and file with the Seattle Center Department and the City's Risk Manager, evidence of a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below:

 1) A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG 00 01) or equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability

 - Products/Completed Operations

 - Personal/Advertising Injury

 - Contractual Liability

 - Independent Contractors Liability

 - Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability

 - Copyright/Trademark/Tradename infringement

 - Liquor Liability/Host Liquor Liability (as applicable)

 - Fire Damage Legal

 Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $ 1,000,000 General Aggregate

 $ 1,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate

 $ 1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury

 $ 1,000,000 Each Occurrence

 $ 100,000 Fire Damage

 Stop Gap Employers Liability

 $ 1,000,000 Each Accident

 $ 1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit

 $ 1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of the Licensee.

 2) A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent.

 Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $ 1,000,000 per accident

 3) A policy of Excess Insurance above the primary general liability and auto liability policies that will provide a total limit of insurance of $5,000,000. The excess policy must be at a minimum as broad as the primary policies.

 4) A policy of Worker's Compensation. As respects Workers' Compensation insurance in the state of Washington, Licensee shall secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington. If Licensee is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Licensee shall so certify by letter signed by a corporate officer indicating that it is a qualified self insured, and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees.

 5) Additional Insured and Primary Insurance Provisions: Such insurance, as provided under items (1), (2) (3) above, shall be endorsed to include the City of Seattle, its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as additional insured, and shall not be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City. In addition, Licensee's insurance shall be primary as respects the City, and any other insurance maintained by the City shall be excess and not contributing insurance with the Licensee's insurance.

 6) Evidence of Insurance: The following documents must be provided as

 evidence of insurance coverage:

 * A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the Insuring Company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements.

 * A copy of the endorsement naming The City of Seattle as an Additional Insured, showing the policy number, and signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company on Form CG2026 (ISO) or equivalent.

 * A copy of the "Endorsements Form List" to the policy or policies showing endorsements issued on the policy, and including any company-specific or manuscript endorsements.

 * A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverages provided by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City of Seattle.

 * A copy of A "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause, indicating essentially that - except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought (Commercial General Liability & Business Automobile Liability Insurance).

 7) All policies shall be issued by a company rated A-:VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus line broker. Such policies shall be primary to all other insurance and shall be subject to the approval of the City's Risk Manager as to issuing company, form and coverage.

 8) Self-Insurance: If Licensee is self-insured for the exposures identified in items (1) and (2) above, Licensee shall submit a letter from its corporate risk manager or appropriate financial officer stating whether such self-insurance program is actuarially funded and fund limits, and shall supply copies of any excess declaration pages that meet the contract requirements. Further, the letter should advise how Licensee would protect and defend the City of Seattle as an additional insured in its self-insured layer, and include claims handling directions in the event of a claim.

 9) Subcontractors - Contractor shall include all subcontractors as insureds under its policies or shall furnish separate evidence of insurance as stated above for each subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be subject to all the requirements stated herein and applicable to their profession.

 WNBA.doc

 3/30/00

 EXHIBIT 6

 Agreement between One Reel, Inc., SSI, Inc., and The City of Seattle Concerning the Use of KeyArena Over Labor Day Weekend: 2001 and 2002

 In order to accommodate the needs of The City of Seattle ("City"), One Reel, Inc. ("One Reel") and SSI, Inc., ("SSI") and allow for the consecutive hosting of a morning WNBA Finals Basketball game and a Bumbershoot Festival evening musical performance inside KeyArena during the Sunday of each Labor Day weekend during the years 2001 and 2002, the parties hereby execute this Agreement, expressing their intention to be bound by the terms, conditions and principles contained herein, which govern the use of that facility from Thursday through Monday of each Labor Day weekend. SSI and One Reel understand that this Agreement shall be attached to and incorporated in their individual agreements with the City for use of the KeyArena for professional women's basketball and the Bumbershoot Festival, respectively, for the relevant years.

 Agreement Regarding Date Use

 One Reel shall have the right to use KeyArena on the Friday, Saturday and Monday of each Labor Day weekend. Consistent with Section V.C. of the "Agreement Between the City of Seattle and SSI, Inc. for the Use of KeyArena for Professional Women's Basketball," SSI shall have the right to use KeyArena on the Thursday prior to Labor Day weekend. One Reel and SSI agree to share use of KeyArena on the Sunday of Labor Day weekend under the following conditions:

 1. This agreement applies only to events that are part of the annual Bumbershoot Festival and WNBA Finals basketball games. If One Reel or SSI does not use the KeyArena for the stated purposes during the applicable period, that party shall not have any right to use the facility for any other event. If either party does not require the use of KeyArena for the specified purposes, the other shall have the first right to schedule the facility for additional WNBA Finals games or Bumbershoot events, as the case may be.

 2. One Reel shall only be permitted to use the KeyArena in a "lower bowl" configuration for it's events. The upper bowl shall always be closed to public access.

 3. One Reel shall be permitted access to the KeyArena immediately following the "load out" of the Thursday WNBA game.

 4. SSI shall be permitted access to the KeyArena immediately following the Saturday evening Bumbershoot performance in the facility.

 5. SSI shall schedule its Sunday basketball games so that doors open to the public at 10:00 a.m., and the games begin at 11:00 a.m., local time.

 6. WNBA television crews and vehicles shall have access to the KeyArena and the South Courtyard the Saturday of Labor Day weekend so long as they do not interfere with the Bumbershoot performances or performers during that time.

 7. The WNBA Sunday game, post-game activity and "load-out" must be completed in time to allow turnover of the KeyArena for a Bumbershoot concert at 8:00 p.m., local time, with doors opening to the public no later than 7:00 p.m. Turnover is estimated to take approximately five hours and shall include stage and backstage set-up and sound check.

 8. The Bumbershoot concert stage in the Northwest Courtyard shall continue to operate during the playing of any and all WNBA Finals games.

 9. All entry to the KeyArena for the WNBA Finals games shall be through the west side of the KeyArena.

 10. Egress from the KeyArena following the WNBA Finals game shall be through the west, south and upper southeast exits, only, with patrons moving in a westerly direction only and not onto Seattle Center grounds unless they hold a Bumbershoot ticket. WNBA patrons can exit the east side of the KeyArena if they purchase a Bumbershoot ticket. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an emergency that requires the evacuation of the KeyArena, SSI and One Reel acknowledge that patrons will enter the grounds from the KeyArena through whatever means necessary and no compensation shall be expected from either party or from the City.

 11. One Reel and SSI agree to cooperate and undertake all reasonable actions that may be necessary to stage two events in one day. One Reel and SSI shall make every effort to allow the technical and production aspects of their respective events to be rigged, placed, set-up, etc., in advance, and to remain for the course of both events as necessary. For example, the lights and sound used by Bumbershoot should be "flown out" for the WNBA game at the highest trim possible but not necessarily be disassembled, in order to save time and costs when the WNBA game is completed and production needs to be reset for the Bumbershoot concert Sunday evening. By the same token, One Reel shall work to ensure that production needs for its events do not interfere with the raising and lowering of the scoreboard and sound clusters. These are just two examples of the many operational details that will require both parties to work cooperatively to save time and money.

 12. The parties shall use their best efforts to resolve issues of payment prior to the implementation of this event schedule, whenever necessary. This means that the determination of which party, i.e., One Reel or SSI, pays for any unanticipated costs not specifically documented in this agreement shall be decided prior to or as near as possible to the actual implementation of this plan. In the event of a dispute between SSI and One Reel concerning responsibility for costs incurred by the City, each shall pay the City promptly upon its request, fifty percent (50%) of the amount due, and shall thereafter resolve the contribution issue between them. It is understood that operational expenses related to the playing of a WNBA Finals basketball game, e.g.., space conversions, stagehand needs, additional staffing, equipment movement, outside perimeter placement and associated security, etc., will be estimated in advance of the event and payment for these items shall be the responsibility of SSI.

 13. One Reel may schedule events in the KeyArena for the Sunday morning of Labor Day weekend in anticipation of a WNBA Finals game not taking place. However, if such game does occur, resulting in the cancellation of the Bumbershoot event, One Reel shall be solely responsible for any and all costs resulting from that cancellation, including, but not limited to, the act's guarantee, production costs, etc.

 14. Any relocation of Bumbershoot areas such as food booths, staging or other exterior considerations that result from the need to maintain emergency ingress or egress to or from the KeyArena during a WNBA Finals game, and all associated costs, shall be the responsibility of One Reel, regardless of the cause of the relocation.

 15. Seattle Center shall perform the landscape work necessary to allow the placement of a stage over the current "planter area" in the Northwest Court area for Bumbershoot use if, and only if, a WNBA Finals game is scheduled to be played in the KeyArena and the use of the "Upper Bowl" becomes necessary for the playing of that game. If planter area is used for such purpose, at no time shall the stage height be lower than five feet.

 SSI, INC. ONE REEL, INC. By: _________________ By_______________________ Title: Title:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE By: _______________________ Seattle Center Director

 EXHIBIT 6 WNBA Agreement Exhibit 6 November 29, 2000 Page 2 of 3

```
