

********

**Council Bill Number: 113509**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120228**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department, authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Fisher Companies Inc. regarding the installation of telecommunications equipment for delivery of telecommunications services to the Seattle Center campus.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 2, 2001
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Steinbrueck, Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** January 8, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** January 8, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 4, 2000
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** SEATTLE-CENTER, COMMUNICATION-FACILITIES, EASEMENTS, PERMITS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center Department, authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Fisher Companies Inc. regarding the installation of telecommunications equipment for delivery of telecommunications services to the Seattle Center campus.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, an easement agreement with Fisher Companies Inc. substantially in the form of agreement attached hereto and identified as "EASEMENT AGREEMENT FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS CONDUIT" regarding the installation of conduit, vaults, and telecommunications equipment for the delivery of telecommunications services to the Seattle Center campus, and the payment of fees therefor to the City as specified in the attached agreement.

 Section 2. The Seattle Center Director is authorized to negotiate, execute and record additional easements, licenses, or other forms of agreement with Fischer Companies Inc. to allow the installation of additional conduit to serve Seattle Center and its tenants and licensees; provided, however, that any such agreements shall be upon the same or substantially similar terms and conditions as the attached Easement Agreement; and provided, further, that no extension shall encompass more than thirty percent (30%) of the area encompassed by the attached Easement Agreement.

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2000, and signed by

 me in open session in authentication of its passage this ____day of ______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2000.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 ATTACHMENTS

 EASEMENT AGREEMENT FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS CONDUIT

 Exhibit 1 - Legal Description of Grantor's Property

 Exhibit 2 - Conduit Easement Sketch

 Exhibit 3 - Conduit Easement Legal Description

 nd/hh

 D:

 11/29/00

 V # 1 RECORDED AT THE REQUEST OF

 AND AFTER RECORDING RETURN TO:

 Seattle Law Department

 600 Fourth Avenue, 10th Floor

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Attention: Helaine Honig

 EASEMENT AGREEMENT FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS CONDUIT

 Grantor: THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation

 Grantee: FISHER COMPANIES INC., A Washington corporation

 Legal Description: Portions of Lot 6 and 4, Block 50 and Lot 12, Block 49, D.T. Denny's third Addition to North Seattle, and of Lots 10, 11, and 12, Block 57, and of Lots 7, 8 and 9, Block 56, all in D.T. Denny's Park Addition to North Seattle, Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in the City of Seattle

 Additional Legal Description is on Page ___ of Document

 Assessor's Tax

 Parcel ID No's.: 198520-0130

 198520-0140

 198520-0005

 Reference #

 (If applicable): N/A

 THIS EASEMENT AGREEMENT is executed as of this _____ day of ___________, 2000, by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington ("Grantor"), which is the owner of that real estate located in King County, Washington, and legally described in the attached Exhibit 1 ("Grantor's Property"), and FISHER COMPANIES INC., a Washington corporation ("Grantee").

 In consideration of the mutual promises of the parties hereto and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Grantor and Grantee agree as follows:

 A G R E E M E N T S:

 Grant of Telecommunications Easement. Grantor hereby conveys and warrants to Grantee a non-exclusive easement (the "Easement") under and within that portion of the Grantor's Property generally shown on the attached Exhibit 2 and more particularly described on the attached Exhibit 3 (the "Easement Area"). Grantee shall use the Easement solely (i) to install and operate telecommunications conduit, and any replacements thereof (the "Conduit"), (ii) to install and operate within the Conduit wiring and cable, (iii) to install and maintain underground vaults servicing the Conduit, wires and cables, and (iv) to use the Conduit to provide telecommunications connections to networks and facilities outside the Seattle Center. The use of the Easement is intended to provide access to telecommunications services to, for, and associated with the Pacific Science Center, the Space Needle, and the Experience Music Project (the "Seattle Center Venues"). Subject to the conditions set forth in this Easement, the rights granted herein shall include the right to maintain, repair, construct, reconstruct and replace the Conduit located within the Easement Area.

 Term of Easement.

 a. The term of this Easement Agreement and the Easement shall be twenty (20) years ("Term"), commencing on July 1, 2000, and terminating on June 30, 2020, unless sooner terminated as provided in herein. If Grantee determines it no longer requires the benefit of the Easement, it shall have the right to terminate this Easement Agreement and the Easement upon advance written notice to Grantor, which notice shall specify the date on which such termination shall take effect (which date of termination shall be no sooner than ninety (90) days after the date of such notice).

 b. Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Easement Agreement (except for a termination pursuant to Section 10(d) below), the Conduit shall become at once a part of the realty and without the need for further action, shall become the property of the Grantor. All wires and cables installed by Grantee within the Easement Area shall remain the property of Grantee. Upon a termination of this Easement Agreement pursuant to Section 10(d) below, Grantee may, at its option, decommission the Conduit and abandon it in place. Upon any other expiration or earlier termination of this Easement Agreement, and at Grantee's sole cost and expense, Grantee shall remove any wires and cable within the Conduit, or shall sever the same at Grantee's control facility and at the Broad Street vault and remove the cable between those two points. Grantee shall secure and protect the Broad Street terminus of the severed wires and cable from damage.

 Annual Easement Fees.

 a. Commencing on January 1, 2001, and annually thereafter on each January 1 during the term of this Easement Agreement, an annual easement fee equal to twelve percent (12%) of thirty-three percent (33%) (i.e., 12% x 33% = 4%) of the fair market value of the Easement Area shall be due and payable to Grantor by Grantee, in advance, for the right to use the Easement Area in accordance with the terms of this Easement Agreement (the "Base Easement Fee"). As used in this Easement Agreement, "fair market value" means the price that a commercially-reasonable purchaser, who is willing but not obligated to purchase the land comprising the Easement Area, would be willing to pay for such land in an unimproved state to an owner willing but not obligated to sell it, as determined jointly by Grantor and Grantee, taking into consideration all uses for which the land was suited and might be applied, and assuming the land was owned by a private seller and contained no restrictions as to its use. For purposes of all calculations of the Base Easement Fee, the parties agree that the Easement Area contains 2,090 square feet. For calendar year 2000, the parties agree that the fair market value is One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per square foot, resulting in an initial Base Easement Fee of $8276.40.

 b. The Base Easement Fee shall be annually adjusted upward effective on January 1, 2002, and each January 1 thereafter (each, a "Fee Adjustment Date") to reflect increases in the total percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers in the Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton Metropolitan Area ("CPI"), published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Grantor shall notify Grantee in writing at least three (3) months prior to each Fee Adjustment Date of the new Base Easement Fee that will be due starting on such Fee Adjustment Date. By way of example only, if the CPI on January 1, 2001 is 100 and the CPI as of January 1, 2002 is 110 and the Base Easement Fee due under this Easement Agreement immediately prior to the Fee Adjustment Date is $5,000, then the CPI-based fee adjustment would be 10% and the Base Easement Fee would increase to $5,500 effective for the period from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002, and if, in that following year, the CPI as of January 1, 2003 is 115, then the next CPI-based fee adjustment would be 4.55% and the Base Easement Fee would increase to $5,750 effective for the period from January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2003. In the event the CPI is discontinued, the parties shall agree upon another similar index to be used to calculate the contemplated adjustments, and in the event of an inability to agree, the parties shall request the American Arbitration Association or its successor to appoint a qualified arbitrator to establish an appropriate adjustment standard.

 c. The Grantee shall also pay Grantor an annual Percentage Easement Fee equal to 7% of Grantor's Gross Revenues in excess of the Base Easement Fee. The Percentage Easement Fee shall be paid annually, in arrears, with the first payment due January 1, 2002. The Percentage Easement Fee due will be 7% of Gross Revenues earned in the preceding 12 months, less the Base Easement Fee paid for the corresponding period. As used in this Easement Agreement, "Gross Revenues" means the total income received by Grantee as fees and charges to third parties which, but for the existence and use of the Conduit and vaults installed pursuant to this Easement, would not exist. Gross Revenues shall not include (i) any value-added services provided by Grantee outside the Easement Area, such as studio use, editing suite charges, mixing or editing charges, (ii) any payments received from Grantor based on discounted rates charged by Grantee (if applicable), or (iii) all taxes related to the collection of such Gross Revenues. Upon the mutual agreement of the parties, some or all of the Easement Fee payments required by this Paragraph 3 may be paid by permitting Grantor to utilize Grantee's conduit, cables, and transmission facilities. In such case, the value of Grantor's usage shall be calculated using the current commercial rates charged to Grantee's preferred customers for similar services or, in the absence of a preferred customer rate, at the Grantee's lowest available rate.

 d. There shall be an option exercisable one time for each five (5) year period during the term of this Easement Agreement, with the first five (5) year period commencing as of January 1, 2001, to have the fair market value of the Easement Area reappraised and the Base Easement Fee shall be adjusted upward, if necessary, to equal four percent (4%) of the reappraised or then-current fair market value of the Easement Area, whichever is greater (the "Reappraisal Option"). Either Grantor or Grantee may exercise the Reappraisal Option for any of the five (5) year periods specified above, subject to the following limitations: (a) the applicable Reappraisal Option for a five (5) year period may only be exercised during such five (5) year period and the one (1) year immediately prior to such five (5) year period, and (b) once one party has exercised the applicable Reappraisal Option for a five (5) year period, neither party shall have any further right to exercise a Reappraisal Option during such five-year period. Subject to the foregoing limitations, a party can exercise a Reappraisal Option by simply delivering written notice of its exercise of the Reappraisal Option to the other party. Upon delivery of the exercise notice, the parties shall proceed to determine the fair market value of the Easement Area in the manner described below. Any adjustment in the Base Easement Fee resulting from the exercise of the Reappraisal Option shall first take effect as of the first January 1 occurring after the date upon which the fair market value of the Easement Area is finally determined in accordance with the procedures outlined below. If the parties cannot agree upon the fair market value of the land by the date that is thirty (30) days after a party has given notice of its exercise of the Reappraisal Option, then the parties shall agree within fifteen (15) days thereafter on one real estate appraiser (who shall be a member of the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers, or equivalent) who will determine the fair market value of the land. The costs and expenses of the appraiser shall be borne equally by the parties.

 e. All payments due hereunder shall be paid by check payable to the City of Seattle and shall be sent to Grantor in care of Seattle Center Accounts Receivable, 305 Harrison Avenue, Seattle, WA 98109, or such other place as may be designated from time to time in writing by Grantor. Grantee shall pay interest on all overdue sums at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date when said sum becomes due until the date it is paid in full.

 Grantee's Report of Revenues. Commencing on March 1, 2002, and on each March 1 thereafter during the Term of this Easement Agreement, Grantee shall deliver to the Grantor at the address shown in Paragraph 15, a written report detailing the amount of Gross Revenues received by Grantee as a consequence of the installation and use of the Conduit for the preceding twelve (12) months, itemized by type of use and service. The report of revenues is required annually whether or not a Percentage Easement Fee is due.

 Books and Records; Audit.

 a. Grantee shall keep true, accurate, complete and auditable records and receipts relating to revenues received by it pursuant to the activities Grantee is authorized to perform under this Easement Agreement. Such records shall be separate from the records pertaining to other business activities of Grantee and shall be retained in King County, Washington, for at least thirty-six (36) months after the close of the fiscal year in which they were generated or issued.

 b. Grantee shall permit the State Auditor or the City, from time to time during regular City working hours, as the State Auditor, Director or City Auditor deems necessary, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, all books and records of Grantee pertaining to the activities permitted hereunder. Grantee shall supply the State Auditor or City with, or shall permit the State Auditor or the City to make, copies of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon the State Auditor's or the City's request.

 c. Grantor party shall notify Grantee of the amount of any overpayment or underpayment found during any audit. Any overpayments shall be applied, first, as a credit against any fees and charges subsequently due to the party giving notice or, if none, refunded. The amount of any overpayment shall be immediately due and payable, and shall include interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date when such payment would have been due had the same been timely paid.

 Condition of Grantor's Property. Grantee warrants and represents that it has had an opportunity to and has conducted an investigation of Grantor's Property and is generally knowledgeable and familiar with its present condition. Grantee acknowledges that neither Grantor nor any agent of Grantor has made any representation or warranty with respect to Grantor's Property or with respect to the suitability or fitness of Grantor's Property for the conduct of Grantee's business or any other purposes. The entry onto Grantor's Property pursuant to this Easement Agreement or the use of Grantor's Property by Grantee for the conduct of its business shall conclusively establish that Grantor's Property was at such time in satisfactory condition, and without any representation or warranty by Grantor, express or implied, and expressly without recourse to Grantor as to the physical condition or suitability of the premises for Grantee's intended purposes.

 Maintenance. The Conduit, vaults and any installations therein shall be maintained in good condition, repair and working order at Grantee's sole cost and expense. Subject to reasonable rules and regulations established by Grantor from time to time, Grantee shall have a right of entry upon Grantor's Property for the purpose of performing maintenance, repair, construction, reconstruction and/or replacement of the Conduit ("Repair Work") within the Easement Area. Grantor shall not perform any Repair Work or other activities on the Conduit located in the Easement Area except in cases of emergency, and after the giving of such prior notice to Grantee as may be possible under the circumstances. Grantee shall be solely responsible for repairing all damages and paying all costs of any nature whatsoever associated with such Repair Work and for restoring the Easement Area and surrounding portions of Grantor's property to their condition prior to the commencement of such Repair Work. All Repair Work shall be performed only in accordance with plans and specifications and a construction schedule that have been submitted to the Grantor at least thirty (30) days in advance of the commencement date of the proposed Repair Work, and have been approved by the Grantor, in advance (except in cases of emergency, when Grantee shall be entitled to perform such Repair Work without the prior approval of, but with contemporaneous notice to, Grantor).

 Insurance. Grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, obtain and maintain in effect during the term of this Easement Agreement and shall ensure that each of its contractors maintain throughout the course of any construction activities undertaken on the Easement Areas, commercial general liability insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form (CG0001) or equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as Premises/Operations Liability, Products/Completed Operations, Personal/Advertising Injury, Contractual Liability, Independent Contractors' Liability, and Stop Gap, and providing property damage and bodily injury liability coverage with limits not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate, for any damage, loss or injury resulting from Grantee's use of the Easement Areas or the activities of its contractors thereon. Grantee's insurance policies shall be primary to all other insurance of the Grantor, shall be rated A-VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide, shall be issued by a company licensed to do business in the State of Washington, and shall be subject to the reasonable approval by Grantor's Risk Manager as to company, form and coverage. All insurance policies required under this Paragraph 7 shall not be reduced or canceled without thirty (30) days' prior written notice to Grantor. Grantor shall be named as an additional insured on all such policies and shall receive as evidence of insurance a copy of each of the policy's declaration pages, showing the insuring company, effective dates, limits of liability, schedule of forms and endorsements, and the additional insured endorsement (ISO CG2026, or equivalent). Such declaration pages shall be due on the date of execution of this Easement Agreement with respect to the policy required of Grantee, and prior to commencement of any construction activities with respect to those policies required of Grantee's contractors. Grantor shall receive a renewal certificate or a certificate for a new policy meeting the foregoing requirements within thirty (30) days after the policy expiration date identified in the then last insurance certificate provided to Grantor.

 Liens; Taxes. Grantee covenants and agrees promptly to pay all sums legally due and payable by it on account of any work performed upon or its use of the Easement Area and to keep Grantor's interest in the Easement Area free and clear of all liens of any nature whatsoever.

 Relocation of Easement. Subject to the conditions set forth in this Paragraph 10, Grantor shall have the right to relocate the Conduit and/or the Easement Area on Grantor's Property (hereinafter, a "Relocation") when Grantor determines that such relocation is necessary to accommodate other public uses of the property. Grantee shall not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition its agreement to a Relocation proposed by Grantor. Grantor and Grantee, at the request of either party, shall prepare, execute, acknowledge and record such documents and instruments as are necessary to amend this Easement Agreement to reflect any Relocation pursuant to this Paragraph 10. Any Relocation shall be subject to the following conditions:

 a. Grantor shall endeavor to provide Grantee no less than six (6) months' prior written notice in the event Grantor desires to effect a Relocation. In such notice, Grantor shall specify (i) the intended dates of commencement and completion of Relocation, (ii) the reasons for the Relocation, (iii) the intended route of the Relocation identified by Grantor.

 b. All Relocation work shall be undertaken as follows: trenching, backfill and cover work shall be performed by Grantor, and all work on the Conduit shall be performed by Grantee. Grantor shall consult with Grantee in establishing and evaluating the qualifications of contractors seeking to bid on Relocation work. The parties shall consult concerning the means, methods, plans and timing of Relocation work so as to prevent any disruption to the communications systems located within the Conduit.

 c. Each party shall be solely responsible for the costs of Relocation work performed by such party. With respect to any Relocation work performed by Grantee, upon the completion of the work, Grantee shall provide Grantor with lien releases from all contractors supplying labor or materials of a value greater than $10,000 in connection with the work. At the conclusion of any Relocation work, Grantor shall prepare and deliver to Grantee a revised as-built survey of the location of the Conduit and the Easement Area, and this Easement Agreement shall be automatically amended to reflect such Easement Area. The then-applicable Base Easement Fee shall not be adjusted based on any modification to the size of the Easement Area resulting from a Relocation hereunder.

 d. If Grantee, in its sole discretion, determines that it is unwilling to pay the cost of Relocation as provided herein, Grantee may terminate this Easement Agreement, and all rights and obligations of the parties, immediately upon notice to Grantor.

 Indemnity. Grantee does hereby release and shall indemnify and hold Grantor harmless for, from and against all losses, liabilities, claims (including mechanics' or materialmen's liens), costs (including attorneys' fees), actions or damages of any sort or nature whatsoever relating to the installation, use or presence of the Conduit and any telecommunication cable installed therein, or Grantee's exercise of its rights hereunder. The indemnities granted hereby shall not apply to any losses, liabilities, claims, costs, actions or damages suffered by third parties to the degree they are caused by the negligence of Grantor. In the event that any action is brought against Grantor by any employee of Grantee, the indemnification obligation of Grantee set forth in this Paragraph shall not be limited by a limit on the amount or type of damages, compensation or benefits payable by or for Grantee under RCW Title 51, the Industrial Insurance Act, or any other employee benefit act. In addition, solely for the purpose of giving full effect to the indemnities contained herein and not for the benefit of Grantee's employees or any third parties, Grantee waives its immunity under RCW Title 51. Grantee acknowledges that this indemnification has been negotiated by the parties.

 No Interference with Grantee's Use of Easement. Grantor shall not take any actions or permit acts by third parties which would unreasonably interfere with the purpose of this Easement Agreement or would otherwise unreasonably impair or interfere with Grantee's use and enjoyment of the Conduit.

 Easement in Gross. The Easement granted herein and the rights and restrictions contained herein are intended to be in gross, and shall not run with the land.

 Assignment. Grantee shall not voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law, assign, license, mortgage, hypothecate, sublet or in any manner transfer this Easement Agreement, the Easement, any interest herein, or any option that may be contained herein or any title or interest in all or a portion of Grantee's interest in the Conduit without first obtaining the written consent and approval of the Grantor, which approval may be denied or conditioned in Grantor's sole discretion. Any assignment, license, mortgage, sublease, hypothecation, transfer, or use in violation of this Paragraph shall be null and void and of no force and effect and shall further constitute a breach of this Easement Agreement by Grantor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) Grantor acknowledges that Grantee is entitled to enter into agreements with third parties to provide for such parties' use of the Conduit and/or the wires and cables therein, and (ii) Grantee's rights under this Easement Agreement shall be automatically assigned (without the need for Grantor's consent) to any entity that acquires Grantee or a controlling interest in Grantee.

 Grantor's Remedies Upon Grantee Default. Grantor shall only be entitled to terminate this Easement Agreement as a result of any default or breach by Grantee of any representation, warranty or covenant hereunder if (a) Grantor has given written notice of such default to Grantee and (b) Grantee has failed to cure such default within thirty (30) days of receipt of such written notice of default (or if the default is not reasonably susceptible to cure within such thirty (30) day period, Grantee has commenced the cure within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently pursues the cure to completion); provided, however, that the third notice of default in any twelve (12) month period shall be deemed an incurable default, subjecting this Easement Agreement and the Easement to immediate termination upon notice by the Grantor within thirty (30) days of the third notice of default. Subject to the foregoing limitation, Grantor shall be entitled to pursue any and all other any right or remedy available at law or in equity for such default or breach by Grantee, including without limitation an action for specific performance, injunctive relief or actual damages.

 Notices. All notices required to be given hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed delivered on (i) the date of hand delivery of the notice, or (ii) the date that is three days after mailing of the notice by certified or registered mail, return receipt, postage prepaid, or (iii) the date that is one day after posting of the notice with a reputable overnight delivery service, to the parties at the addresses set forth below:

 If to Grantor: Seattle Center Director

 305 Harrison Street

 Seattle, WA 98109

 ATTN: Grants and Contracts Manager

 If to Grantee: Fisher Companies Inc.

 140 Fourth Avenue North

 Seattle WA 98109

 Attention: Fisher Plaza General Manager

 The parties, by notice given, may designate any further or different address to which subsequent notices are to be sent.

 Prior Agreements; Amendments. This Easement Agreement is the full, final and complete expression of the agreements of the parties with respect to any matter covered or mentioned in this Easement Agreement, and no prior agreements or understandings, promises or representations, oral or otherwise, pertaining to any such matters shall be effective for any purpose with respect to any matter covered or mentioned in this Easement Agreement. No provision of this Easement Agreement may be amended or added to except by an agreement in writing signed by the parties or their respective successors in interest.

 Severability. That any provision of this Easement Agreement is invalid, void, or illegal shall in no way affect, impair, or invalidate any other provision of this Easement Agreement and such other provisions shall remain in full force and effect.

 Governing Law. This Easement Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington.

 DATED as of the day and year first above written.

 GRANTOR: THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington

 By: ________________________________

 Virginia Anderson

 GRANTEE:

 By: ________________________________

 Its:______________________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of _________________, 2000, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared VIRGINIA ANDERSON, to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center for the City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that she was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year first above written.

 Signature ______________________________

 Printed Name ___________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at _________________

 My appointment expires___________________

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 )ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of _________________, 2000, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared __________________, to me known to be the ______________ of FISHER PROPERTIES, INC., the Washington corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such party for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that _____ was authorized to execute the said instrument.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year first above written.

 Signature ______________________________

 Printed Name ___________________________

 Notary Public in and for the State

 of Washington, residing at _________________

 My appointment expires___________________

 EXHIBIT 1

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF GRANTOR'S PROPERTY

 Lots 4 and 6, Block 50 and Lot 12, Block 49, all in D.T. Denny's Third Addition to North Seattle, according to the plat thereof recorded in Volume 1 of Plats, Page 145, Records of King County, Washington and of Lots 10, 11, and 12, Block 57, and of Lots 7, 8 and 9, Block 56, al in D.T. Denny's Park Addition to North Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in volume 2 of Plats, Page 46, records of said County, and of the following vacated streets abutting said lots and blocks: Fourth Avenue North, Nob Hill Avenue North, John Street and Thomas Street, situtate in the Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 25 North, Range 4 East, W.M., in The City of Seattle.

```
