

********

**Council Bill Number: 113578**
********

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Seattle Fire Department to enter into contracts and collect a fee from outside organizations for services rendered by Seattle Fire Department Paramedics and/or Emergency Medical Technician's for emergency medical services at special events; increasing expenditure allowance in the 2001 budget and adding 0.5 FTE position to the Seattle Fire Department; authorizing acceptance of funds and making reimbursable appropriations.

**Status:** Retired 04/01/02
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** February 26, 2001
   
**Committee:** Public Safety
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** FIRE-DEPARTMENT, FEES, APPROPRIATION

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE authorizing the Seattle Fire Department to enter into contracts and collect a fee from outside organizations for services rendered by Seattle Fire Department Paramedics and/or Emergency Medical Technician's for emergency medical services at special events; increasing expenditure allowance in the 2001 budget and adding 0.5 FTE position to the Seattle Fire Department; authorizing acceptance of funds and making reimbursable appropriations.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Fire Department wishes to establish a consistent policy providing Seattle Fire Department services for special events held within the City of Seattle. This policy will allow event promoters to hire Seattle Fire Department personnel to specifically provide medical and life safety protection at and during these public events; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Fire Department will provide emergency medical services for these various outside organizations through off-shift hiring of Paramedics and/or Emergency Medical Technicians. These agreements are designed to ensure a rapid in-house Advanced Life Support, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, early defibrillation, as well as basic first-aid care system for the general population of spectators during these events; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Fire Department will invoice the outside organization for a fee equivalent to one-and-one-half the standard wages, plus benefits, equipment and apparatus costs, and an administrative fee; which will be reimbursement for said services;

 NOW THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Chief of Seattle Fire Department and recommended by the Mayor in this ordinance file, the Chief of Seattle Fire Department is hereby authorized to enter into contracts with and collect fees from outside organizations for services rendered by Seattle Fire Department Paramedics and/or Emergency Medical Technician's for emergency medical service at special events.

 Section 2. The expenditure allowance in the following program categories in the 2001 budget of the following department is increased as indicated below:

 Seattle Fire Department F10 $ 19,709

 Seattle Fire Department F30 $336,471

 by the appropriation, hereby made and authorized, of the sum of Three Hundred Fifty-Six Thousand One Hundred Eighty Dollars ($356,180) pursuant to the agreements authorized in Section 1 hereof, which funds are hereby accepted.

 Section 3. To provide personnel resources to handle the anticipated work associated with the agreements authorized by Section 1 hereof, the following position is created in the Seattle Fire Department as follows:

 * Re-classify and provide a status change from a 0.5 FTE Accounting Technician I to a 1.0 FTE Accounting Technician II to provide the accounting services associated with the work described in Section 1 above.

 Section 4. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 5. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 20___, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 20___.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20___

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Chris Santos

 L:

 2/7/01

 V # 2

 SERVICE AGREEMENT

 Between

 The City of Seattle

 and

 for Specified Emergency Medical Services

 THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement"), is entered into by THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, through its Fire Department, as represented by the Fire Chief, hereinafter referred to as the Department, and , a _________________________________, hereinafter referred to as the Promoter.

 1. PURPOSE.

 A. The purpose of this agreement is to establish terms and responsibilities of the parties with respect to the hiring of Paramedics and/or Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT's) to work at the special event(s) or venue(s) specified in this agreement, to ensure a rapid response to in-house/on site medical emergencies. The purpose of this arrangement is to provide quick deliverable capability with on site resources while at the same time limiting the likely hood that citywide service levels would be reduced to meet demands of the special event(s) or venue(s).

 2. TERM OF AGREEMENT.

 A. This Agreement shall become effective on the day that it has been duly executed by both parties. Unless terminated or extended as provided herein, this Agreement shall remain in force until after work at the special event(s) or venue(s) specified below is complete and payment is received in full from the Promoter.

 Event Date(s):__________________________

 Event Name: __________________________

 Event Location: ________________________

 3. SCOPE OF WORK.

 A. Pursuant to this agreement, the Department shall provide appropriate personnel (Paramedics and/or Emergency Medical Technicians) to work at the special event(s) or venue(s) specified in this agreement, to ensure a rapid response to in-house/on site medical emergencies. The Department will provide quick delivery capability of continuous medical control, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), early defibrillation, Advance Life Support care, and/or basic first-aid coverage.

 4. NOTICES AND COMMUNICATION.

 A. Any notice given by one party to another party shall be considered issued and effective 1) upon receipt or 2) forty-eight (48) hours after mailing by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid to:

 For the City:

 Seattle Fire Department

 Chris Santos, Finance Director

 301 2nd Avenue South

 Seattle, WA 98104

 For

 or to such other address as either party may specify, for itself, by notice to the other party.

 5. PAYMENT FOR SERVICES.

 A. On-Site Staff.

 1. All services provided by the Department shall be billed on a time basis. The hourly labor rate for on-site services of $__________ is based on one and a half times the hourly compensation paid to the on-site Paramedic and/or EMT Staff pursuant to ordinance or any applicable City collective bargaining agreement including employee benefits, plus then-currently established overhead costs, including administrative and equipment costs.

 2. The Promoter shall pay the City for a minimum of 4 hours of work per special event for each on-site Department Paramedic/EMT Staff person.

 B. Aid or Medic Vehicles

 1. Costs for Department Aid or Medic vehicles shall be billed on a time basis. The hourly rate of $___________ is based on the annual cost of maintenance for one vehicle. Each Aid or Medic vehicle requires a two-person team.

 C. Billing.

 1. The City will issue invoices for all billable time, equipment, and apparatus to the Promoter.

 2. Approved invoices are due and payable within thirty (30) days after receipt. Payment should be directed to the attention of Chris Santos, Finance Director, or as otherwise instructed in a written notice to the Promoter.

 3. Paid invoices are subject to audit by external entities. If, due to an audit, any adjustment is required or appropriate with respect to a paid invoice, the adjustment shall be applied to future amounts due and payable or, at the option of the party due the credit, shall be invoiced to the other party, which invoice shall be due and payable thirty (30) days after receipt. Records and accounting documentation pertaining to the services performed and payments invoiced and paid under this Agreement are to be kept available for inspection and audit by representatives of each of the parties for a period of at least three (3) years after the date of such invoice or payment, whichever is later. Copies of the records shall be furnished to either party upon request of a representative of the other or any governmental auditing agency.

 D. Audit.

 1. The Promoter shall permit the City and/or any other governmental agency responsible for auditing governmental contracts (hereinafter referred to as "Agency"), from time to time as the City Auditor or the Fire Chief or Agency deems necessary (including up to six years after the final payment or release of withheld amounts has been made under this Agreement), to inspect and audit at any and all reasonable times in King County, Washington, or at such other reasonable location as the City Auditor and/or Agency selects, all pertinent books and records of the Promoter under this Agreement to verify, among other things, that the compensation or other consideration paid by the Promoter has been appropriate; and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City and/or Agency to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof, upon the request of the City Auditor, Fire Chief, or the Agency.

 6. INDEMNIFICATION.

 A. Each party hereto shall indemnify and hold the other and such other party's officers, consultants, agents and employees, harmless from and against any and all suits, claims, actions, losses, costs, penalties and damages of whatsoever kind or nature to the extent arising out of, in connection with, or incident to its negligence under this Agreement, or breach of any covenant or warranty under this Agreement (a "Claim"). In connection therewith, each such party shall assume the defense of the other party and such other party's officers and employees in all Claims; shall pay all defense expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, expert fees and costs incurred in connection with any Claim; shall reimburse all costs reasonably incurred by such other party in defending itself and its officers, employees and agents against all Claims prior to the indemnitor's acceptance of defense responsibility with respect to such Claims; and shall satisfy any judgment rendered in connection therewith or pay any sum required to settle such litigation or claims. The parties agree that their obligations under this paragraph extend to Claims made against one party by the other party's own employees. For this purpose, the parties, by mutual negotiation, hereby waive, as respects the other party only, any immunity that would otherwise be available against such Claims under the industrial insurance provisions of Title 51 RCW.

 B. In the event the parties are jointly liable to any claimant or litigant, each party shall bear responsibility for its own defense, including the payment of all attorneys' fees and costs associated therewith, and shall satisfy any judgment or settlement to the extent allocated to such party's fault.

 7. DISPUTE RESOLUTION.

 A. A party's Primary Contact shall communicate with the other regarding any problem or dispute that the Primary Contact believes should be resolved. The Primary Contacts shall confer within three (3) business days of the communication to attempt to resolve the dispute.

 B. In the event that the Primary Contacts are unable to resolve a disputed matter, they shall 1) jointly prepare a memorandum that sets out the subject of the dispute, and 2) refer the matter to their respective immediate supervisors. Within one (1) week of the referral, the immediate supervisors shall meet and confer and attempt for a period not to exceed five (5) working days to resolve the dispute.

 C. In the event that the immediate supervisors cannot resolve a dispute (and that dispute is not subject to some other formal appeal process), they shall jointly so advise the Promoter (or such official's designee) and the Fire Chief (or such official's designee) who shall meet within seven (7) business days of receiving such advice and engage in good faith negotiations to resolve the dispute.

 D. The Promoter and the City agree that they shall have no right to seek relief under this Agreement in a court of law until and unless each of these procedural steps is exhausted.

 E. The terms of resolution of all disputes concluded at any level shall be memorialized in writing and signed by both parties.

 8. TERMINATION

 A. For Convenience. Either party may terminate this Agreement for its convenience and without cause by providing written notice of such termination via certified mail to the other party not less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of termination.

 B. For Cause. Either party may terminate this Agreement for cause in the event that the other party fails to cure a materially breach of this Agreement within a reasonable time after written notice of such breach has been provided by the non-breaching party, which notice shall be provided at least ten (10) days in advance of the effective date of the termination. Failure to require full and timely performance of any provision at any time shall not waive or reduce the right to insist upon complete and timely performance of such provision thereafter.

 C. For Reasons Beyond Control of a Party. Either party may terminate this Agreement without recourse by the other where performance is rendered impossible or impracticable for reasons beyond such party's reasonable control such as but not limited to acts of nature; war or warlike operations; civil commotion; riot; labor dispute including strike, walkout, or lockout; sabotage; or superior governmental regulation or control.

 9. MISCELLANEOUS.

 A. Compliance with Seattle's "Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance" Required: Each party is required to comply with the Fair Contracting Practices Ordinance of The City of Seattle (Ordinance 119601), as amended. Conduct made unlawful by that ordinance constitutes a breach of contract. Engaging in an unfair contracting practice may also result in the imposition of a civil fine or forfeiture under the Seattle Criminal Code as well as various civil remedies.

 B. Cumulative Remedies. No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the parties to this Agreement, including the remedy of termination, is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy or remedies available hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law, in equity, by statute or otherwise, but each and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other such remedy.

 C. Force Majeure. The time period required for performance of the services required under this Agreement, including the due date for any payment for services rendered, shall be extended on a day-for- day basis for the duration of any delay caused by or resulting from prohibition or restriction by the State or Federal government; fire, flood, storm, or act of nature; power failure or major equipment breakdown; war, riot, or civil unrest; accident; labor dispute; or any other event beyond a party's reasonable control; Provided, that the party whose performance is affected by such condition shall promptly give Notice to the other party of such event of force majeure and make a reasonable attempt to satisfy its obligations hereunder notwithstanding the event of force majeure. The existence of more than one force majeure event on any single day shall not be cause for the extension of the period of performance by more than one day.

 D. Waivers. Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, no delay or failure to exercise a right resulting from any breach of this Agreement shall impair such right or shall be construed as a waiver thereof. Any waiver shall be in writing and signed by the party granting such waiver and shall be limited to the particular right or breach so waived and shall not be deemed to waive any other right or breach under this Agreement.

 E. Severability. It is the belief of the parties that all provisions of this Agreement are lawful. If any covenant or provision of this Agreement shall be finally adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, such adjudication shall not affect the validity, obligation or performance of any other covenant or provision, or part thereof, that, in itself, is valid if such remainder conforms to the terms and requirements of applicable law and the intent of this Agreement. In such event, the parties shall enter into immediate negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement of such covenant or provision.

 F. No Assignment or Subcontracting. This Agreement is not assignable by either party, and no work performed under this Agreement shall be subcontracted.

 G. Applicable Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington. The exclusive jurisdiction and venue for any lawsuit between the parties arising out of this Agreement shall be in King County, Washington.

 H. Taxes. The Promoter shall be responsible for payment of all taxes, fees, assessments, or levies on the services provided by the City pursuant to this Agreement or arising out of or imposed by reason of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

 I. Notices. All official communication concerning this Agreement including notices from one party to the other, invoices, and payments, shall be directed to the following persons:

 For and to the City: Seattle Fire Department

 Chris Santos, Finance Director

 301 2nd Avenue South

 Seattle, WA 98104

 For and to the Promoter:

 Any change in the official addressee for notices to a party must be communicated in writing to the other party within five (5) calendar days after the effective date of such change.

 J. Amendments. No modification or amendment of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by authorized representatives of the parties hereto. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement, from time to time, by mutual agreement.

 K. Entire Agreement. This document constitutes the entire agreement between the parties. There is no other agreement, either oral or written, upon the subject. Commitments, warranties, representations, understandings or agreements, not contained in this Agreement or written amendment hereto shall not be binding on either party.

 L. No Third Party Benefit. The parties expressly do not intend to create any obligation or liability, or promise any performance, to any third party. The parties have not created for any third party any right to enforce this Agreement.

 M. Captions. The titles of the articles, sections, and subsections of this Agreement are for convenience only, and do not define or limit the contents.

 N. Independent Entities. This Agreement is not intended to create a joint venture, partnership, or agency relationship between the Promoter and the City. The City and Promoter shall at all times remain independent entities. Nothing in this Agreement shall limit or alter the authority or power of either party.

 O. Executory Agreement. This Agreement will not be considered valid until signed by both parties.

 P. Binding Effect. The provisions, covenants and conditions in this Agreement apply to bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 Q. Captions. The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 R. Negotiated Agreement. The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is a negotiated agreement, that they have had the opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has executed this agreement by having its authorized representative(s) affix his/her signature in the space below:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By

 Title

 Date

 By

 Title

 Date

 SAMPLE

```
