

********

**Council Bill Number: 113502**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120214**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to cable television; designating Seattle Community Access Network ("SCAN") as the Designated Access Manager for public access television; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to enter into a contract with SCAN for the management and operation of the public access television facilities; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to remove SCAN as Designated Access Manager and to terminate or amend the terms of the contract; accepting funds from AT&T; establishing a new Community Television Account within the Cable Franchise Subfund account; authorizing the Finance Director to invest the monies received in the Community Television Account; authorizing purchases of equipment by the Designated Access Manager on behalf of the City; and exempting such purchases from the requirements of SMC 3.18.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 11, 2000
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, McIver)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 19, 2000
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 15, 2000
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** December 4, 2000
   
**Committee:** Public Safety and Technology
   
**Sponsor:** COMPTON
   
   
**Index Terms:** CABLE-TELEVISION

**References/Related Documents:** Public Access Television, SCAN

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE____________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to cable television; designating Seattle Community Access Network

 ("SCAN") as the Designated Access Manager for public access television; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to enter into a contract with SCAN for the management and operation of the public access television facilities; authorizing the Chief Technology Officer to remove SCAN as Designated Access Manager and to terminate or amend the terms of the contract; accepting funds from AT&T; establishing a new Community Television Account within the Cable Franchise Subfund account; authorizing the Finance Director to invest the monies received in the Community Television Account; authorizing purchases of equipment by the Designated Access Manager on behalf of the City; and exempting such purchases from the requirements of SMC 3.18.

 WHEREAS, the City has entered into or will enter into franchise agreements with certain cable operators, including TCI Cablevision of Washington, Inc. and United Community Antenna System, Inc., subsidiaries of AT&T Corp and known jointly as AT&T Broadband ("AT&T"), and Summit Cablevision, LP, a subsidiary of Millenium Digital Media (MDM), which require such cable operators to provide certain channels and resources dedicated for use by the public; and

 WHEREAS, the franchise agreements between the City and the cable operators provide for public access channels and allow the City to name an outside entity to act as the designated access manager (the "Designated Access Manager") to operate the public access channels and to manage the use of any or all public access facilities and resources provided by the cable companies; and

 WHEREAS, AT&T is currently serving as the initial Designated Access Manager for public access; and

 WHEREAS, AT&T's cable franchise states that it shall maintain, operate, and provide existing Public Access facilities and levels of service provided as of December 1, 1995 pursuant to its prior City franchise obligations; and

 WHEREAS, in 1999, the City supported the creation of the Seattle Community Access Corporation, a non-profit corporation, (SCAN) for the purpose of managing public access television, and

 WHEREAS, SCAN is willing to act as the Designated Access Manager and provide public access services, training and outreach, and programs on the public access channels on a City-wide basis; and

 WHEREAS, AT&T has agreed to provide Two Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,800,000) to the City for the operation of the public access channels and facilities, and an additional One Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars ($130,000) to SCAN for working capital, which the City has determined to be sufficient to meet AT&T's franchise obligations; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 119179 authorized acquisition of public access television equipment, conditionally exempting such acquisition from Subchapter VIII of Chapter 3.18 of the Seattle Municipal Code for purchases made by the Initial Designated Access Manager and similar authority is requested for the new Designated Access Manager; and

 WHEREAS, the City may appropriate funds through its annual budget for the acquisition of additional public access television equipment. Now, therefore

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 SECTION 1. The Seattle Community Access Network (SCAN) is hereby designated as the Designated Access Manager for Public Access Television.

 SECTION 2. The Chief Technology Officer (CTO) is authorized to enter into an agreement with SCAN in a form substantially consistent with Exhibit A. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of Exhibit A, SCAN, hereinafter referred to as the "Designated Access Manager," shall manage and operate the City's public access channels and the use of public access facilities and resources provided to it by the City. Pursuant to the provisions of Exhibit A, the CTO is authorized to terminate the agreement and remove the Designated Access Manager. Provided the Designated Access Manager fulfills the terms and conditions of the agreement, the CTO is authorized to amend the Designated Access Manager's agreement annually.

 SECTION 3. The CTO is authorized to accept Two Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,800,000) from AT&T for the operation of the public access channels and facilities, and said funds shall be deposited to the Community Television Account created by this ordinance. Acceptance of said funds by the City and the direct transfer of One Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars ($130,000) by AT&T to SCAN shall constitute fulfillment of AT&T's obligations as initial public access manager under its cable franchise through January 20, 2006.

 SECTION 4. A new account, known as the Community Television Account, shall be established within the Cable Franchise Subfund of the General Fund. Monies deposited in this account shall be used solely for the purposes of supporting the operations and capital needs of public access television, including payments to the Designated Access Manager for services provided under its agreement with the City. In accordance with applicable state law and City investment policy, the Finance Director shall invest all funds received and held in the Community Television Account, and any interest earnings from such investments shall be deposited in this account and used for the purposes set forth in this section.

 SECTION 5. The Chief Technology Officer is authorized to request the Designated Access Manager to purchase, for and on the City's behalf, public access video equipment and other equipment as authorized by the City, and the Designated Access Manager shall use and return such equipment under the terms and conditions of Exhibit A; provided, that if the Designated Access Manager is requested to purchase such equipment for and on the City's behalf, such purchasing activity shall be exempt from the provisions of Subchapter VIII of Chapter 3.18 of the Seattle Municipal Code.

 SECTION 6. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 SECTION 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2000, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 _____________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2000.

 _______________________________________

 Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2000.

 ___________________________________________

 City Clerk

 (Seal)

 Rona Zevin/dk

 SCAN ord12.doc

 November 21, 2000

 Version 1

 -1-

 AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC ACCESS MANAGER SERVICES

 BETWEEN THE CITY OF SEATTLE AND SCAN

 This Agreement for operating services (Agreement) is made between The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation, acting through the Department of Information Technology ("City") and Seattle Community Access Network, a not-for-profit Washington corporation ("SCAN" or "Access Manager").

 Recitals.

 1. The City has entered into or will enter into franchise agreements with Cable Operators, including TCI Cablevision of Washington, Inc. ("TCI") and Summit Communications, L.P. ("Summit"), which require such Cable Operators to provide certain channels and resources dedicated for use by the public.

 2. Currently the City's Cable Operators include, AT&T, which controls a franchise granted to its subsidiary, TCI of Washington (authorized by Ordinance Nos. 117956 and 119381) and Millennium Digital Media (MDM), which controls franchise agreements granted to Summit Cablevision, L.P. (authorized by Ordinance Nos. 118361, 117955, and 119295).

 3. The franchise agreements between the City and its Cable Operators provide for public access channels and allow the City to appoint an outside entity to act as Designated Public Access Manager to manage and operate the Public Access Channels.

 4. SCAN, a not-for-profit organization, organized in 1999, is willing to act as Designated Public Access Manager and provide public access services, training and outreach, and programs on the Public Access Channels on a City-wide basis.

 5. Under this Agreement, the City designates SCAN as the Designated Public Access Manager ("Access Manager") for purposes of managing and operating the Channels and Facilities provided under the City's franchise agreements with its Cable Operators.

 6. AT&T has agreed to provide operational funds to the City for the operation of Public Access in the amount of $600,000 annually until its franchise agreement expires in January 2006.

 7. The City intends to provide to the Access Manager operating funds for each fiscal year subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Funds for this purpose will be allocated to the budget of the Office of Cable Communications and will be subject to annual appropriation by the City Council in the City's budget process.

 SECTION 1. Definitions.

 For the purpose of this Agreement, and all exhibits attached hereto, the following terms, phrases, and their derivations shall have the meanings given below unless the context clearly mandates a different interpretation. Where the context so indicates, the present tense shall imply the future tense, words in plural include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. The definitions are applicable regardless of whether the term is capitalized unless the context clearly mandates a different interpretation.

 1.1 "Access Manager" means SCAN acting as the Designated Public Access Manager under this agreement.

 1.1 "Access or Public Access" means the permission or ability for the public, including organizations, groups and individuals, to use the Public Access Channels and the Facilities assigned to the Access Manager under this Agreement on a non-discriminatory basis for specific non-commercial purposes, including a right to acquire Programming, to create Programming free from outside editorial control, including that of the Access Manager, and to distribute and receive Programming over the cable systems operated pursuant to Franchise Agreements in the City.

 1.2 "Channel" means any Channel, or portion thereof, designated for Public Access and made available by a Cable Operator at no charge and which is operated and/or managed by the Access Manager pursuant to this Agreement.

 1.3 "Cable Operator" means any person or group of persons (A) who directly or through an affiliate provides cable services over a cable system and directly or through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such cable system, or (B) who otherwise controls or, through any arrangement, is responsible for the management and operation of such a cable system, and (C) who provides such services under a franchise agreement with the City.

 1.4 "Cable Office" means the City's Office of Cable Communications.

 1.5 "Cable System" means such systems installed and operated pursuant to a Franchise Agreement.

 1.6 "City" means The City of Seattle, a municipal corporation of the State of Washington.

 1.7 "City Council" means the Seattle City Council.

 1.8 "Designated Public Access Manager" means the entity appointed by the City to manage and operate its Public Access Channels pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

 1.9 "Director" means the Director of the Department of Information Technology, except where the Director of Executive Services is specifically designated in this Agreement.

 1.10 "Document" or "Records" means written or graphic materials, however produced or reproduced, or any other tangible permanent record, including records maintained by computer or other electronic or digital means, maintained by the Access Manager in the ordinary course of conducting its business.

 1.11 "Equipment" means all equipment necessary for and used in connection with the creation and production of video programming at the Facility, including but not limited to cameras, lights, control boards, video recording decks, mixers.

 1.12 "Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Access Manager.

 1.13 "Facility or Facilities" means the building or any other place under the control of the Access Manager in the City of Seattle in which the Public Access Equipment is housed or from which Public Access programming is transmitted or prepared for transmission.

 1.14 "Fiscal Year" means the period consisting of a full year, beginning January 1st and ending December 31st, unless otherwise provided in this Agreement.

 1.15 "Franchise Agreements" means the franchise agreements for the installation and operation of a cable system between the City and its Cable Operators.

 1.16 "Normal operating conditions" means conditions within the control of the Access Manager.

 1.17 "Person" means any sole proprietorship, partnership, association, corporation or other form of organization authorized to do business in the State of Washington, and any natural person.

 1.18 "Programmer" means any Person who prepares, produces or provides Programming that is intended for transmission on a Cable System.

 1.19 "Programming" means the video, audio, voice, data, multimedia or other material or programs prepared for or capable of transmission on a cable system, or, as the context requires, the process of causing such material to be created, received, transmitted or distributed on a cable system. As used in this Agreement the term Programming means Programming which is eligible to be placed on the Channels.

 1.20 "Section" means a provision of this Agreement, unless specified as part of another document.

 SECTION 2. Designation as Public Access Manager

 SCAN shall serve as the Designated Public Access Manager and shall have sole responsibility for operating and managing the Public Access Channels and Facilities and for providing and managing all Public Access services pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 SECTION 3. City's Right to Designate Public Access Manager.

 The City reserves the right to remove SCAN as the Access Manager and appoint any other Person or entity to be the designated Public Access Manager upon the termination of this Agreement pursuant to the termination procedures set forth herein.

 SECTION 4. Term.

 The term of this Agreement shall commence on the date of its execution by all parties and shall terminate on January 19, 2006 unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties or unless terminated earlier as provided herein.

 SECTION 5. Scope of Services.

 5.1. Channels, Facilities and Equipment. The Access Manager shall manage access to and the use of the Channels, Facilities and Equipment so that members of the public have an opportunity to create, produce and distribute Programming on the Channel(s). Access to and management of these resources shall be pursuant to the rules required in this Section and shall be consistent with Access Manager's obligations under this Agreement.

 5.2. Programming Obligations. The Access Manager may not prohibit Access to the Channels by non-commercial Programmers and non- revenue-producing Programming except to the extent authorized by 47 U.S.C. 532(h), as it may from time to time be amended, or to the extent otherwise provided by law, regulations or administrative rulings promulgated thereunder. For as long as it is designated Public Access Manager, SCAN shall schedule all programming for the Channels and provide equal opportunity for use of the Facilities and Equipment, except residents of the City and other franchise areas that participate in Public Access funding in the City shall be given preference over nondditionresidents. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, nothing in this Agreement shall require the Access Manager to act, or to refrain from acting, in violation of any federal, state, or local law or regulation.

 5.3. Variety of Programming. The Access Manager shall provide a variety of opportunities to the community to produce one-time shows and series, and live and taped Programming in a manner that is responsive to the needs of the viewers and users.

 5.4. Non-revenue Producing Programming. Nothing in Section 5.2 shall prohibit the use of the Channel(s), Facilities and Equipment for the creation or production or distribution of noncommercial Programming that may be used by nonprofit organizations to solicit contributions or subscriptions to support the goals and purposes of such nonprofit organization; provided, however, that any Programming which is created or produced using the Facilities and/or Equipment shall first be cablecast on the Channels before it may be redistributed or used by such nonprofit organization for purposes of soliciting contributions or subscriptions.

 5.5. User Fees. If user fees are adopted, the Access Manager shall publish and make available a schedule of user fees, including fees for training in Section 5.11. Such user fees schedules shall be submitted as part of the annual budget to the City for review and approval. User fees shall be reasonable and if applied to Seattle residents, such fees shall not substantially impede their Public Access.

 5.6. Underwriting and Sponsorship of Public Access Programming. The programming limitations in Section 5.2 shall not prevent limited use of the Channels by Access Manager to solicit sponsorship of Public Access, prevent Access Manager from producing or sponsoring Programming, and shall not prevent any person, including the Access Manager, the City or Cable Operators, from underwriting Programming.

 5.7. Obscenity. Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. section 532(h), the Access Manager shall not transmit, or permit to be transmitted, over any Channel any Programming which is obscene in the sense that the Programming is not protected speech under the Constitution of the United States. The Access Manager shall adopt a written policy and rules prohibiting obscene Programming. The Access Manager acknowledges that the City's Cable Operators are subject to this prohibition and that transmission of such Programming over any Channel is a breach of their Franchise Agreement(s) with the City.

 5.8. No City Control over Decisions Concerning Programming Content. The City shall have no right under this Agreement to exercise control over the decisions of the Access Manager regarding any programming content.

 5.9. Programming Content Decisions and Review. The Access Manager shall adopt and submit to the City for review and approval a formal process to respond to complaints regarding content decisions made by the Access Manager, including but not limited to decisions concerning obscenity, pursuant to Sections 5.2 and 5.7; commercial/non-commercial programming pursuant to Section 5.2 and 5.10; and time-channeling of programming, pursuant to Section 5.10. The process shall be a two step process involving, at a minimum, (1) an initial review and response by the Executive Director when a complaint is received and (2) a review of the Executive Director's decision by an impartial review panel or committee ("Review Committee"). The Review Committee shall be established by the Access Manager, and shall be composed of no fewer than three (3) persons whose members shall reflect the makeup of the community. No employee of the Cable Office or any other City employee whose job duties include any responsibility related to the Cable System shall be eligible to serve on the Review Committee. The Access Manager shall adopt and implement procedures for the prompt appointment and replacement of Review Committee members. Any person, including a Cable Operator, may file a complaint with the Review Committee. The Review Committee shall adopt procedures governing its handling of complaints. Decisions of the Review Committee shall be final for purposes of judicial review. Nothing in this sub-section shall preclude the City from exercising its right to take legal action to obtain judicial decisions regarding the Access Manager's compliance with any provision of this Agreement.

 5.10. Rules for Use of Channels, Equipment and Facilities. The Access Manager shall adopt and enforce policies and procedures for the use of the Channels, Equipment, Facilities and services, and may adopt policies and procedures which are designed to promote local use of the Channel(s) and make the Programming accessible to the viewing public. The Access Manager's policies and procedures may also provide for the safe operation of the Facilities and the safety of staff members. The policies and procedures required by this Section shall define commercial programming content and provide for time-channeling of programming consistent with the City's administrative rules. Access Manager shall make all policies and procedures, including those of the Review Committee, available to any person upon request.

 5.11. Training and Classes. The Access Manager shall provide training for City residents in the use of its video and production equipment and in the techniques of video and Programming production. A schedule of training classes and fees shall be published and updated periodically and made available to the City and any person requesting this schedule.

 5.12. Community Outreach. The Access Manager shall actively promote the use and benefit of the Public Access Channel(s) and Facilities to cable subscribers, agencies, institutions, organizations, groups and individuals in the community, public access users, and Cable Operators to encourage a diversity of Programming that meets community needs.

 SECTION 6. Copyright Clearance.

 Before placing Programming on the Channels, Access Manager shall require all Programmers to complete programming contracts that require Programmers to warrant and represent to Access Manager that they have obtained all the necessary rights to all material to be cablecast and have received and attached all the necessary clearances from broadcast stations, networks, sponsors, music licensing organizations' representatives, and without limitation from the foregoing, any and all other persons as may be necessary to transmit its or their copyrighted or program material over the Channels that are operated and managed by Access Manager. Access Manager shall retain for the applicable statute of limitations such records and shall make available for the City's inspection, upon reasonable notice by the City, copies of all such records.

 SECTION 7. Distribution Rights.

 7.1. First Distribution. Access Manager shall require that all programs produced with funds, equipment, Facilities, or staff granted under this Agreement shall be distributed first on the Channels whose use is authorized by this Agreement. Subsequent distribution must be consistent with any pertinent guidelines established in the Access Manager's operating policies and procedures.

 7.2 Credits. No less than four times throughout each day that video Programming is cablecast on the Channels, Access Manager shall display a message stating that the opinions expressed in Public Access programs are the sole responsibility of the program producers.

 SECTION 8. Facility Space and Location.

 As a condition of the City's obligations under this Agreement, the Access Manager shall provide secure premises within the City of Seattle that enables Access Manager to provide the services required under this Agreement and to house the Equipment provided under this Agreement. The Facilities shall be located within the City limits throughout the term of this Agreement.

 SECTION 9. Equipment and Facilities.

 9.1. Use of Equipment. Upon execution of this Agreement, the City shall transfer to Access Manager the use of equipment purchased with City funds, which equipment is listed in Exhibit A attached to this Agreement and incorporated by reference. The equipment shall be loaned by the City to Access Manager during the term of this Agreement and Access Manager shall return any or all loaned equipment to the City at any time upon demand by the City or upon the termination of this Agreement for whatever reason. Exhibit A shall be updated regularly to include any additional equipment purchased by Access Manager with funds provided by the City, except office supplies and equipment with a retail value less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).

 9.2 Transfer or Return Upon Termination of Contract. Access Manager shall have the use of all Equipment acquired by it and purchased with funds received from the City pursuant to this Agreement; provided, however, that if the City designates another entity as the Access Manager for Public Access, or upon termination or non-renewal of this Agreement or dissolution of the Access Manager, title or use and possession of all Equipment purchased with funds received pursuant to this Agreement and/or the proceeds from the sale of any Equipment shall be transferred to the next Designated Public Access Manager or to the City at the City's option.

 9.3. Maintenance. Access Manager shall provide regular maintenance and repair of all Equipment and Facilities owned, leased or loaned to it under this Agreement, purchased with funds provided by the City pursuant to this Agreement or funds caused by the City to be transferred to Access Manager by a third party. Access Manager shall keep current maintenance records and a current inventory of all Equipment with a retail value in excess of $1,000.

 SECTION 10. Reports.

 10.1. Policies and Procedures. Prior to the execution of this Agreement, Access Manager shall adopt a policy and procedures manual providing policies and procedures for use of the Facilities, training, and other activities managed by the Access Manager. No later than thirty (30) days following the execution of this Agreement, Access Manager shall provide the Cable Office with a copy of the policies and procedures adopted by the Review Committee as required in Section 5.9. Access Manager shall ensure that at all times the Cable Office has a copy of Access Manager's and the Review Committee's current policies and procedures. Any amendments to either Access Manager's or the Review Committee's policies and procedures shall be filed with the Cable Office prior to their effective date.

 10.2. Periodic Activity Report. Access Manager shall file monthly, bi-monthly or quarterly activity reports, together with the financial report required in Section 10.3 and the invoice required under Section 14. The periodic activity report shall describe the Access Manager's activities for each month and achievement of the performance goals contained in Section 13. Unless the Access Manager and the Cable Office agree to a different report format or different report parameters, the activity report shall contain at least the following information:

 (A) For each channel the total number of hours Access Manager cablecast Programming reported for the reporting period and the percentage of time the following types of Programming were cablecast on each channel:

 (1) new programming produced through Access Manager's Facilities, both in its original cablecast and any repeated playback;

 (2) Programming acquired from local sources both in its original cablecast and any repeated playback;

 (3) Programming acquired from non-local sources;

 (4) text generated by a bulletin board, event listings, program listings or other types of listings; and

 (B) The schedule and number of hours that resources, Facilities and Equipment are available for use or such other information describing performance of the obligations under Section 13(C) and the number of hours actually used compared to the hours available for public use;

 (C) The number of employees, both full and part-time;

 (D) The hours of studio use, program yield and field production equipment and program yield;

 (E) Training:

 (1) topics and number of training workshops provided to the public;;

 (2) numbers of persons attending;

 (3) number of persons certified; and,

 (F) Copies of newsletters, if any, distributed during the reporting period;

 (G) A summary of all Access Manager's activities relating to the Equipment obligations set forth in Section 13(D);

 (H) Information responsive to Access Manager's programming obligations contained in Section 5, including but not limited to:

 (1) a summary of complaints, if any, by type and their disposition by Access Manager and the Review Committee;

 (2) the number of hours of programming by Seattle residents;

 (3) the number of hours of programming by residents of other contributing jurisdictions, if any;

 (4) the number of hours of programming by other users;

 (I) Information responsive to Access Manager's strategic plan, including, but not limited to, outreach conducted;

 (J) The total hours of remote video production use for any vehicle acquired with City funds.

 (K) A copy of the minutes of the Board of Directors' meetings for that reporting period.

 (L) Such other information as may be necessary to demonstrate Access Manager's achievement of its performance goals.

 10.3. Financial Report. Access Manager shall file together with the invoice required under Section 14, a financial report with the Cable Office, based on the Annual Plan and Budget adopted by the Board for the current Fiscal Year that provides the information required by this section for each month and year-to-date. Unless the Access Manager and the Cable Office agree to a different report format or different report parameters, the financial report shall contain the following information:

 (A) Sources and amount of revenue;

 (B) Capital expenditures (amount and percent of total), by budgetary line item;

 (C) Operating expenditures (amount and percent of total), by budgetary line item;

 10.4 Strategic Plan. Access Manager shall make its strategic plan and any revisions thereof available to the City within thirty days of adoption.

 10.5. Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements. Within 120 days after the close of each Fiscal Year, Access Manager shall present a written report to the City (the "Annual Report"). The Annual Report shall include information for Access Manager's operations for the immediately preceding year, including, but not limited to:

 (A) audited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The financial statements shall be audited by an independent Certified Public Accountant ( "Auditor");

 (B) the Auditor's management or audit letter or other report or document describing any violations of internal controls and any of the Auditor's recommendations to improve management of operations;

 (C) Access Manager's plan for promptly implementing the Auditor's recommendations, if any, or timely correcting any deficiencies, if any, discovered by the Auditor, and such plan shall include the start date and anticipated time for completion;

 (D) an organization chart for Access Manager, listing its officers, directors and department heads or supervisors by category including names, positions and business addresses;

 (E) a summary of all applications for Equipment, Facilities, and channel use, showing the disposition of each, public communications activities, and staffing;

 (F) a schedule of all Access Manager's rates and charges with descriptions of changes occurring during the year and the reasons for and dates of such changes;

 (G) a summary of all Channel outages and the reasons therefore, in a form acceptable to the City. An outage includes a loss of one or more video or audio channels, but does not include instances where the sound or video is lost prior to its receipt by the Cable System;

 (H) the current complaint procedures followed by the Access Manager and a general summary of complaints and their disposition by type, including those of the Review Committee;

 (I) a consolidated year-end report of the information required in the activity report under Section 10.2;

 (J) Access Manager's development or incorporation of new technology at the Facilities, such as video streaming, interactivity, data communications or other entertainment and nondditionentertainment services;

 (K) the number and types of persons using the Facilities, such as organizational or individual, represented as totals and as percentages of the overall number of users, categorized by place of residency;

 (L) Equal Opportunity Reports or other information required pursuant to Section 40;

 (M) copies of equipment maintenance logs;

 (N) pursuant to Section 13(D) a copy of Access Manager's annual Equipment inventory, including a list of reserved equipment;

 (O) a list of training classes, rates and schedules; and

 (P) such other information as the City may reasonably request.

 10.6. Reports of Regulatory Violations. Within five (5) days of receipt, Access Manager shall provide copies to the City of any report, order, consent decree, or other formal determination of any regulatory agency having jurisdiction over Access Manager pertaining to any alleged violation by Access Manager of any applicable rule or law of the agency regarding the Access Manager's operation and/or provision of services under this Agreement.

 SECTION 11. Annual Plan and Budget.

 11.1. Deadlines for Filing. Access Manager shall annually submit to the Cable Office:

 (A) By October 15 of each year, a proposed Annual Plan and Budget containing the information required in paragraph 11.1(C) and (D) for the next Fiscal Year for review; and

 (B) By December 1 of each year, an Annual Plan and Budget adopted by Access Manager's Board of Directors, outlining activities and programs planned for the next Fiscal Year with the funds received from the City.

 (C) The Annual Plan shall include Access Manager's plans for meeting the objectives and services required by this Agreement.

 (D) The Budget shall include, at a minimum:

 (1) training classes to be offered and frequency of classes;

 (2) other access activities including outreach, special promotions and regional activities, if any, planned by Access Manager;

 (3) planned construction at the Facilities, if any;

 (4) a detailed operating and capital equipment and Facilities budget, including the following:

 (a) actual revenues and expenditures, by line item, for the past Fiscal Year until Access Manager has been in operation for three years and then for the past three Fiscal Years;

 (b) the adopted Budget, by line item, for the current Fiscal Year;

 (c) projected revenues and expenditures, by line item, for the proposed Fiscal Year Budget;

 (d) projected Capital revenues and expenditures, by line item;

 (e) a narrative identifying how resources provided under Section 14 will be used to support the Agreement Objectives, Performance Standards and Scope of Services.

 11.2. Format. The Budget shall be in a format acceptable to the Cable Office. If the Cable Office wishes to require any changes from a current Budget format, it shall notify Access Manager of the required changes no less than 45 days prior to the due date for Budget submission.

 11.3. City Disapproval. For the purposes of allocating funds under the Agreement, the City may disapprove a Budget or portions thereof submitted by the Access Manager for the succeeding Fiscal Year. Disapproval may be made upon a determination that the Budget submitted by Access Manager includes but is not limited to one or more of the following:

 (A) The Budget fails to support the Performance Standards or the Scope of Services of this Agreement;

 (B) Funds or assets the Access Manager has received or is to receive from the City will be spent or applied for purposes unrelated to the Agreement's Scope of Services;

 (C) Funds or assets the Access Manager has received or is to receive from the City will be endangered by waste, substantial damage, destruction, foreclosure or other similar jeopardy without sufficient, reasonable explanation or justification therefor;

 (D) Revenue reasonably expected to be received by the Access Manager will be insufficient to meet the expenses and debt obligations incurred or to be incurred by Access Manager in light of the Access Manager's planned expenditures; or,

 (E) The Access Manager's planned expenditures are otherwise fiscally unreasonable in light of generally accepted business practices for the operation, protection, investment, oversight and management of the Access Manager's Facilities and assets.

 11.4. Notice of Disapproval. If at any time during the term of this Agreement the City determines that one or more of the conditions listed in this Section 11.3 exists, then notice of such determination together with recommended action shall be given to the Access Manager.

 11.5. Limitations on Use of Funds Following Disapproval. Upon disapproval of the Access Manager's Budget or portions thereof as provided in this Section, the City may impose reasonable terms on the expenditure of the funds provided to Access Manager in Section 14 hereof to protect the City against such fiscal deficiencies pending correction thereof by the Access Manager.

 SECTION 12. Performance Review.

 The Access Manager shall, after two (2) years of operation under this Agreement and every two (2) years thereafter, conduct a performance review of Access Manager's operations. Such review shall be done under contract with a person or an entity that has expertise in Public Access matters and whose business is located outside of the greater Seattle area. This review shall include comments from Public Access viewers, users and cable subscribers and a summary and analysis of such comments. Upon completion, a copy of the performance review shall be submitted to the City together with Access Manager's comments.

 SECTION 13. Performance Standards.

 Under normal operating conditions, Access Manager shall meet the performance standards of this Section in its operation and management of the Facilities:

 (A) cablecast a minimum of 120 hours of Programming per week, excluding holidays;

 (B) provide staffing for the Facilities sufficient to operate, maintain and provide for Equipment, services, and Channels;

 (C) make all Facilities, Equipment and resources available at times that are convenient and practical for users for a minimum of 100 hours per week, excluding holidays;

 (D) maintain complete records of all Equipment, including acquisition date, preventative maintenance and replacement schedule, a log of reported malfunctions and repairs, and maintain a reasonable inventory of reserved Equipment in the event of failures in a key system;

 (E) provide information and training for Public Access users, and conduct a minimum of eighteen meetings or classes per quarter, distribute a minimum of six newsletters per year, and make daily program schedules available to local news media.

 SECTION 14. Funding and Method of Payment.

 14.1. Funding. Provided Access Manager satisfactorily meets the performance standards in Section 13 and subject to the approval of the Annual Plan and Budget as required by this Agreement and the appropriation of such funds by the City Council, the City agrees to compensate Access Manager for the services provided in Section 5 and reimburse Access Manager on a monthly, bi-monthly or quarterly basis for actual expenses from the total annual amount allocated.

 14.2. Expenditure of Funds. Access Manager shall spend funds received from the City solely for the purposes listed in its Annual Plan and Budget and Section 5 of this Agreement. Access Manager shall provide for such fiscal control and accounting procedures as are required by the State Auditor to assure proper disbursement and accounting for funds received from the City.

 14.3. Disbursement of Funds. For each year in which the City has approved an Annual Plan and Budget under this Agreement, the City shall reimburse the expenses of the Access Manager only for expenses incurred and for services rendered. The Access Manager may submit invoices on a monthly, bi-monthly or quarterly basis. The following requirements must be completed before the City makes reimbursement:

 (A) The Access Manager shall submit a properly executed invoice, together with all reporting data. The Office of Cable Communications will initiate authorization for payment after receipt and approval of such invoice and will make payment to the authorized agent of the Access Manager. All invoices and reports shall be directed to : Office of Cable Communications, Attention: Jill Novik, 810 3rd Avenue, Suite 442, Seattle, WA 98104 or such office, person or address designated hereafter pursuant to Section 38.

 (B) Invoices shall be accompanied by an activity report, a financial report, and a copy of the budget which documents expenses claimed by line item.

 (C) The City reserves the right to withhold payments pending timely delivery of a properly executed invoice, reporting data and supporting documentation as may be required under this Agreement. Payment will be made on a timely basis after submittal of properly executed invoices and supporting data and documentation.

 SECTION 15. Documentation.

 15.1. Expense Records. All costs incurred by Access Manager shall be supported by properly executed payrolls, time records, receipts, invoices, vouchers or other official documentation for all expenses over $500, as evidence of the nature and propriety of the charges. All accounting documents pertaining in whole or in part to this Agreement shall be clearly identified and readily accessible. Access Manager shall submit any or all of the foregoing invoices and documentation to the City, upon request, and the City shall have the right to audit the records of the Access Manager as they relate to the work, upon reasonable notice. The Access Manager shall also:

 (A) Maintain an effective system of internal control over and accountability for all funds and property supplied and make sure the same are used solely for authorized purposes.

 (B) Keep a continuing record of all disbursement by date, check number, amount, vendor, description of items purchased and line item from which money was expended, as reflected in the Access Manager's accounting records. The line item notations must be substantiated by a receipt, invoice marked "Paid," or payroll record.

 (C) Keep all receipts, purchase orders, payroll records, or vouchers which document the expenses claimed for expenses over $500.00 for a period of three (3) years after receipt of payment under this Agreement; provided, that any records and documents that are the subject of audit findings shall be retained for a longer time until such audit findings are resolved.

 (D) Maintain payroll and financial records for a period of six (6) years after receipt of final payment under the Agreement.

 (E) Permit inspection and audit of its records with respect to all matters authorized by this Agreement by representatives of the City, its designated agent, or the State Auditor, and at any time during normal business hours and as often as necessary.

 (F) Repay to the City any funds in its possession or control that may be due to the City at the time it is notified that Access Manager has been replaced as the Designated Public Access Manager or upon the termination of this Agreement.

 (G) Provide the Internal Revenue Service with appropriate and timely information regarding employee and/or Access Manager earnings.

 15.2. Improper Use of Funds. In the event the City determines that any funds were expended by the Access Manager for unauthorized or ineligible purposes or constitute disallowed costs, the City shall notify Access Manager and order repayment of the same. Access Manager shall remit the same to the City within thirty (30) days.

 15.3. Recordkeeping and Fiscal Control Systems. Further, all financial records and fiscal control systems will be established and maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and in a manner to meet the approval of the City Finance Director and the State Auditor; records and reports submitted shall be satisfactory to meet the approval of the Director of the Department of Information Technology.

 SECTION 16. Enforcement of Terms.

 In the event the City determines that Access Manager is not in compliance with an obligation of this Agreement, the City may exercise among other remedies, the right to withhold funds payable or offset against funds due to Access Manager any amount required to bring Access Manager into compliance. The City may also exercise its right to terminate the Agreement pursuant to the Termination Section of this Agreement, and appoint another Access Manager. The City may in addition to these remedies exercise any other remedies available to it under law or under this Agreement.

 SECTION 17. Termination.

 17.1. Termination for Cause. If, through any cause, the Access Manager shall fail to fulfill in timely and proper manner its obligations under this Agreement, or if it violates any of the covenants, agreements, or stipulations of this Agreement, and the Access Manager has failed to cure such violation after written notice, the City shall thereupon have the right to terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to the Access Manager of such termination and specifying the effective date thereof, at least thirty (30) days before the effective date of such termination. Cause shall include but not be limited to the following: (a) funds or assets the Access Manager has acquired from the City are in immediate danger of waste or have been wasted, or used for unauthorized purposes or ineligible costs; (b) after reasonable opportunity to do so, the Access Manager has not complied with reasonable terms imposed by the City on the expenditure of funds by the Access Manager as provided in this Agreement; (c) after reasonable opportunity to do so, the Access Manager has not remedied the deficiencies giving rise to the City's determinations under this Agreement; or, (d) after reasonable notice and opportunity to do so, the Access Manager has failed to remedy any violation of a material provision of this Agreement.

 17.2. Termination for Convenience. Either party may terminate this Agreement any time by written notice to the other party of such termination and specifying the effective date thereof, at least sixty (60) days before the effective date of such termination. If the Agreement is terminated as provided herein, the Access Manager will be paid an amount which bears the same ratio to the total compensation as the services actually performed bear to the total services of the Access Manager covered by this Agreement less payments of compensation previously made or amounts determined to be due to the City pursuant to Section 17.4.

 17.3. Termination of Agreement by the Access Manager. This Agreement may be terminated by the Access Manager upon sixty (60) days written notice to the City if the City fails substantially to perform in accordance with the terms of this Agreement through no fault of the Access Manager. In the event of termination due to the fault of the City, the Access Manager shall be paid compensation for services performed to termination date, including all authorized expenses then due, including expenses directly attributable to the uncompleted portion of the services covered by this Agreement.

 17.4 Recovery of Funds and Property Upon Termination. In the event of termination, or in the event the City designates another entity as the Public Access Manager or does not extend this Agreement beyond its expiration date, the City shall have the right to take ownership of such real and personal property as was acquired by the use of any funds supplied to the Access Manager by the City or on account of the funds being made available under a Franchise Agreement. Upon termination of the Agreement the Access Manager shall (i) pay to the City any unexpended funds received by the Access Manager at any time from the City and such other funds as the City determines to be due to the City; (ii) transfer to the City or to the next Designated Public Access Manager title to or possession and use of all real and personal property acquired by Access Manager and all leasehold or other rights held by Access Manager in real and personal property that were obtained by the Access Manager from the City or with funds received at any time from the City. This Section shall not apply to funds or property acquired from sources other than a Cable Operator or the City.

 17.5. Collection of Damages. Notwithstanding the above, the Access Manager shall not be relieved of liability to the City for damages sustained by the City by virtue of any breach of the Agreement by the Access Manager, and the City may withhold any payments to the Access Manager for the purposes of set-off until such time as the exact amount of damages due to the City from the Access Manager is determined.

 SECTION 18. Assignment.

 The Access Manager shall not assign or transfer any interest in this Agreement or encumber any Facilities or Equipment operated through this Agreement without prior written consent of the City.

 SECTION 19. Audit.

 The Access Manager shall permit the City and/or any other governmental agency that is involved in the funding of the project (hereinafter referred to as "Agency"), from time to time as the City Auditor or the Director or Agency deems necessary (including up to six years after the final payment or release of withheld amounts has been made under this Agreement), to inspect and audit at any and all reasonable times in King County, Washington, or at such other reasonable location as the City Auditor and/or Agency selects, all pertinent books and records of the Access Manager or other person or entity that has performed work in connection with or related to the Access Manager's services under this Agreement to verify, among other things, that the compensation or other consideration provided to the Access Manager has been appropriate, and that the contracted-for services were provided in a timely manner; and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City and/or Agency to make, a copy of any books and records and any portion thereof, upon the City Auditor's, Director's, or the Agency's request. The Access Manager shall ensure that such inspection, audit and copying right of the City and Agency is a condition of any subcontract, agreement or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to perform work in connection with or related to the Access Manager's services under this Agreement. All audit findings, except those for performance audits, will be governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), subpart 31, which is hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement.

 SECTION 20. Status as Nonprofit.

 The Access Manager shall maintain its status as a tax-exempt nonprofit organization under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Access Manager shall not engage in any activities inconsistent with its tax-exempt status.

 SECTION 21. Prompt Payment of Employees and Vendors.

 The Access Manager shall make prompt payment due to persons or entities supplying services, supplies or Equipment to Access Manager.

 SECTION 22. Business Practices.

 The Access Manager shall maintain generally accepted accounting, budgeting, and business systems and practices for the operation, protection, investment, oversight and management of the resources provided by the City to the Access Manager.

 SECTION 23. No Liens.

 The Access Manager shall not cause any lien or claim to be filed or prosecuted against the City or any Equipment purchased by use of City funds or loaned by the City to Access Manager.

 SECTION 24. Compliance with Laws, Rules, Regulations and Franchise Agreements.

 Access Manager shall conduct all operations in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. All City Charter, Seattle Municipal Code and statutory provisions applicable to contracts of the City are hereby incorporated herein and the Access Manager shall comply therewith. Except as provided expressly herein, the Access Manager shall also conduct all operations in a manner which is consistent with the requirements, conditions, obligations, and principles set forth in the existing Franchise Agreements between the City and Cable Operators and any future Franchise Agreements that the City may grant to Cable Operators.

 SECTION 25. Licenses and Similar Authorizations.

 The Access Manager shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 SECTION 26. Applicable Law.

 This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington. The venue of any suit or arbitration arising under this Agreement shall be in King County, Washington, and if a suit, in King County Superior Court.

 SECTION 27. Inspection of Records.

 The City, and its designated agent, shall have access at all reasonable times, including Access Manager's normal business hours, to all books and records of the Access Manager.

 SECTION 28. No Partnership or Joint Venture.

 The City shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate or joint venturer of Access Manager or its subcontractors, officers or employees as a consequence of this Agreement. Access Manager is not made an agent of the City for any purpose whatsoever by this Agreement.

 SECTION 29. No Responsibility for Obligations of Access Manager.

 The City shall not be liable for any obligations incurred by the Access Manager. The Access Manager shall not represent to any Person that the City is liable for Access Manager's obligations.

 SECTION 30. No Third Party Rights.

 Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to permit anyone other than the parties hereto and their successors and assigns to rely upon the covenants and agreements herein nor to give any such third party a cause of action whether as a third party beneficiary or otherwise on account of any non performance hereunder.

 SECTION 31. Severability.

 A judicial determination that any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this Agreement, or its application, is inoperative, invalid, or unenforceable shall not affect the remaining terms, provisions, conditions, or other portions of this Agreement, nor shall such a determination affect the application of such term, provision, condition, or portion to persons or in circumstances other than those directly involved in the determination in which it is held to be inoperative, invalid, or unenforceable, and as to such other persons or in such other circumstances it shall continue in full force and effect.

 SECTION 32. Amendments.

 No modification or amendment of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the Chief Technology Officer and the authorized representatives of Access Manager. The parties hereto expressly reserve the right to modify this Agreement, from time to time, by mutual agreement.

 SECTION 33. Entire Agreement.

 This Agreement and the exhibits and addenda attached hereto and forming a part hereof (if any), are all of the covenants, promises, agreements, and conditions between the parties. No verbal agreements or conversations between any officer, agent, associate or employee of the City and any officer, agency, employee or associate of the Access Manager prior to the execution of this Agreement shall affect or modify any of the terms or obligations contained in this Agreement. Any such verbal agreements shall be considered unofficial information and in no way binding on either party.

 SECTION 34. Effective Date.

 This Agreement shall become effective upon the date of execution by all parties.

 SECTION 35. No Waiver.

 No waiver of full performance by either party shall be construed or operate as a waiver of any subsequent default or breach of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement. The payment of compensation to the Access Manager shall not be deemed a waiver of any right or the acceptance of defective performance.

 SECTION 36. Remedies Cumulative.

 Rights under this Agreement are cumulative; the failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 SECTION 37. City's Representative.

 37.1. Office of Cable Communications. The City's Project Manager shall be Jill Novik, 810 3rd Avenue, Suite 442, Seattle, WA 98104 or such person or office or address designated hereafter pursuant to Section 38.

 37.2. Contract Administration. The Project Manager is authorized to disseminate and to receive communications and notices regarding the Access Manager's performance of this Agreement and the City's oversight thereof, to require Access Manager to submit information under this Agreement, and to implement City directives with respect thereto.

 37.3. Amendments. The Director is authorized to amend this Agreement.

 SECTION 38. Notices.

 38.1 Method of Delivery. All notices provided under this Agreement shall be sufficient if made in writing and deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed as follows:

 (A) If to the Access Manager: Executive Director

 SCAN

 1125 North 98th Street

 Seattle, WA 98102

 (B) If to the City: Jill Novik, Project Manager

 Office of Cable Communications

 810 3rd Avenue, Suite 442

 Seattle, WA 98104

 and

 Director

 Office of Cable Communications

 810 3rd Avenue, Suite 442

 Seattle, WA 98104

 38.2. Change of Address. Notice of any change of address may be given by notice as provided in this Section.

 SECTION 39. Public Records.

 Access Manager acknowledges that information submitted to the City is subject to the Washington Public Disclosures Law, and is open to public inspection except where exempted from public disclosure under applicable law.

 SECTION 40. Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action.

 40.1. General: Notwithstanding any other provisions in reference to this Agreement, this Agreement does not require any specific utilization levels of minorities or women in the Access Manager's workforce, except as may be specified in any federal regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement. The City encourages the Access Manager to employ a workforce reflective of the region's diversity. The Access Manager shall adhere to all non-discrimination requirements set forth in Federal and State laws and regulations and in Seattle Municipal Code provisions.

 40.2. Access Manager Obligations. During the performance of this Agreement, the Access Manager agrees as follows:

 (A) The Access Manager will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, age, religion, creed, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. The Access Manager will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, national origin, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Access Manager agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting officer setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.

 (B) The Access Manager will, prior to commencement and during the term of this Agreement, furnish to the Executive Services Director or his/her designee upon his/her request and on such form as may be provided by the Director therefor, a report of the affirmative action taken by the Access Manager in implementing the terms of these provisions, and will permit access to his/her records of employment, employment advertisements, application forms, other pertinent data and records requested by the Executive Services Director for the purposes of investigation to determine compliance with this provision.

 (C) If, upon investigation, the Executive Services Director finds probable cause to believe that the Access Manager has failed to comply with any of the terms of these provisions, the Access Manager and the Director of the Department of Information Technology shall be so notified in writing. The Director of the Department of Information Technology shall give the Access Manager an opportunity to be heard, after ten days notice. If the Director of the Department of Information Technology concurs in the findings of the Executive Services Director, it may suspend the Agreement and/or withhold any funds due or to become due to the Access Manager, pending compliance by the Access Manager with the terms of these provisions.

 (D) The name of the person who has been charged with the responsibility for securing compliance with and reporting progress on the affirmative actions taken is named on the Access Manager's Work Force Report form. Such person shall be the project EEO Officer and shall be someone within the Access Manager's organization who has the authority to effect compliance and act on behalf of the Access Manager.

 (E) The Access Manager shall cooperate fully with the Executive Services Department (Contract Compliance Section) while making every "good faith" effort to comply with the affirmative action requirements set forth in this Section and Seattle Municipal Code 20.44. The Access Manager shall keep the Executive Services Department (Contract Compliance Section) fully informed in writing of all the Access Manager's affirmative actions taken during the term of this Agreement and of any refusals by unions or others to cooperate with the Access Manager's affirmative action plan.

 (F) The Access Manager shall conduct a work force analysis which will identify job classifications wherein underrepresented persons (minorities and women) are underutilized in proportion to their representation in the available work force. This analysis shall be made separately for minorities and women.

 (G) The Access Manager shall consider underrepresented persons to fill new positions and vacancies.

 (H) The Access Manager shall insure that equal opportunity of employment for underrepresented persons results during the term of this Agreement by taking (at a minimum) the following affirmative actions:

 (1) Provide written notification to organizations that are active in securing equal employment opportunities when position openings occur. Send a copy of such announcements to the Executive Services Department (Contract Compliance Section).

 (2) Conduct ongoing recruitment efforts with organizations, schools, and/or training establishments concerned with securing employment for underrepresented persons.

 (3) Make specific efforts to encourage underrepresented persons who are employees to recruit friends and relatives.

 (4) Sponsor, utilize and provide training/educational opportunities for the advancement of underrepresented persons employed by the Access Manager.

 (5) Provide equal employment opportunity for after-school and summer employment to underrepresented young persons.

 (6) Notify pertinent employment referral agencies that the Access Manager provides equal employment opportunities. Include such a statement in any advertising conducted when filling vacancies.

 (7) Give notice to supervisors and other employees of the terms of the affirmative actions to be undertaken.

 (8) Alternatively, in lieu of implementing items 1 through 7 of this subsection, the Access Manager may submit an affirmative action plan that demonstrates that the Access Manager will ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their creed, religion, race, age, color, sex, marital status, political ideology, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical handicap. The affirmative action plan must address, at a minimum, the following areas: employment; promotion, demotion and transfer; recruitment and recruitment advertising; layoff and termination; rates of pay and other forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship.

 40.3. Equal Employment Opportunity Reports. The Access Manager shall submit Equal Employment Opportunity Reports detailing actual employment data to the Contract Compliance Section of the Executive Services Department and in accordance with its instructions. The Access Manager shall be responsible for ensuring the submittal of separate Equal Employment Opportunity Reports to the Executive Services Department (Contract Compliance Section) for each subcontractor utilized on this Agreement or Supplements to this Agreement.

 40.4. Violations. Any violation of the mandatory requirements of the provisions of this Section 40 shall be a material breach of Agreement for which the Access Manager may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by Agreement and by applicable law.

 40.5. Subcontracts. The foregoing provisions will be inserted in all subcontracts for work covered by this Agreement.

 SECTION 41. Indemnification.

 The Access Manager shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, and expenses arising out of or resulting from the Access Manager's performance or lack of performance under this Agreement, including but not limited to suits brought against the City for content decisions made by the Access Manager or a Review Committee established by the Access Manager. In the event that any suit based upon such losses, claims, actions, damages, or expenses is brought against the City, the Access Manager, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same at its sole cost and expense; and if final judgment be adverse to the City, or the City and the Access Manager jointly, the Access Manager shall promptly satisfy the same only to the extent such liability is due to the concurrent acts or omissions of the Access Manager.

 SECTION 42. Insurance.

 42.1. Types and Amounts of Coverage. The Access Manager shall, at all times during the term of this Agreement, obtain and maintain continuously and file with the Agency and the City's Risk Manager, evidence of a policy or policies of insurance as enumerated below:

 (A) A policy of Commercial General Liability Insurance, written on an insurance industry standard occurrence form: (CG 00 01) or equivalent, including all the usual coverages known as:

 - Premises/Operations Liability- Products/Completed Operations- Personal/Advertising Injury- Contractual Liability- Independent Contractors Liability- Stop Gap or Employers Contingent Liability- Fire Damage Legal

 Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $ 1,000,000 General Aggregate

 $ 1,000,000 Products & Completed Operations Aggregate

 $ 1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury

 $ 1,000,000 Each Occurrence

 $ 100,000 Fire Damage

 Stop Gap/ Employers Liability -

 $ 1,000,000 Each Accident

 $ 1,000,000 Disease - Policy Limit

 $ 1,000,000 Disease - Each Employee

 (B) A policy of Business Automobile Liability, including coverage for owned, non-owned, leased or hired vehicles written on an insurance industry standard form (CA 00 01) or equivalent.

 Such policy(ies) must provide the following minimum limit:

 Bodily Injury and Property Damage -

 $ 300,000 per accident

 (C) A policy of Media Special Perils Policy including Errors and Omissions Coverage (Claims expense in addition to the Policy Limits) and appropriate to the Access Manager's profession

 The minimum limit of coverage shall be: $5,000,000 per Occurrence and in the Aggregate

 Such insurance, as provided under items (A), (B) and (C) above, shall be endorsed to include the City of Seattle, its officers, elected officials, employees, agents and volunteers as additional insured, and shall not be reduced or canceled without forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City. In addition, Access Manager's insurance shall be primary, as respects the City and any other insurance maintained by the City shall be excess and not contributing insurance with the Access Manager's insurance.

 (D) A policy of Directors and Officers Professional Liability to include Corporate Indemnification of Directors and Officers.

 Minimum Limits of Liability: $2,000,000 Aggregate

 (E) A policy of Worker's Compensation. As respects Workers' Compensation insurance in the state of Washington, the Access Manager shall secure its liability for industrial injury to its employees in accordance with the provisions of Title 51 of the Revised Code of Washington. If the Access Manager is qualified as a self-insurer in accordance with Chapter 51.14 of the Revised Code of Washington, Access Manager shall so certify by a letter signed by a corporate officer indicating that it is a qualified self- Insured, and setting forth the limits of any policy of excess insurance covering its employees; or any similar coverage required.

 Access Manager hereby assumes all risk of damage to its property, or injury to its officers, directors, agents, contractors, or invitees, in or about the Property from any cause, and hereby waives all claims against the City. The Access Manager further waives, with respect to the City only, its immunity under RCW Title 51, Industrial Insurance.

 42.2. Claim Made Form and Deductibles. If any such policy(ies) above is written on a claim made form, the retroactive date shall be prior to or coincident with the effective date of this contract. The policy shall state that coverage is Claims Made, and state the retroactive date. Claims made form coverage shall be maintained by the Access Manager for a minimum of three years following the expiration or earlier termination of this contract, and the Access Manager shall annually provide the City with proof of renewal. If renewal of the claims made form of coverage becomes unavailable, or economically prohibitive, the Access Manager shall purchase an extended reporting period ("tail") or execute another form of guarantee acceptable to the City to assure financial responsibility for liability for services performed.

 Any deductible or self-insured retention must be disclosed and is subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager. The cost of any claim payments falling within the deductible shall be the responsibility of the Access Manager.

 42.3. Evidence of Insurance. The following documents must be provided as evidence of insurance coverage:

 * A copy of the policy's declarations pages, showing the Insuring Company, policy effective dates, limits of liability and the Schedule of Forms and Endorsements. The City reserves the right to require a copy or certified copy of said policy or policies including all forms and endorsements attached.

 * A copy of the endorsement naming The City of Seattle as an Additional Insured (excluding Professional Liability Insurance), showing the policy number, and signed by an authorized representative of the insurance company on Form CG2010 (ISO) or equivalent.

 * A copy of the "Endorsements Form List" to the policy or policies showing endorsements issued on the policy, and including any company-specific or manuscript endorsements.

 * A copy of an endorsement stating that the coverages provided by this policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise materially changed without providing at least forty-five (45) days prior written notice to the City of Seattle.

 * A copy of A "Separation of Insureds" or "Severability of Interests" clause, indicating essentially that - except with respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured, this insurance applies as if each named insured were the only named insured, and separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought (Commercial General Liability & Business Automobile Liability Insurance).

 42.4. Insurance Policy Rating. All policies shall be subject to approval by the City's Risk Manager as to company (must be rated A- : VII or higher in the A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide and licensed to do business in the State of Washington or issued as a surplus line by a Washington Surplus lines broker), form and coverage, and primary to all other insurance.

 42.5. Self-Insurance. Should Access Manager be self-insured, under items (1) or (2), above, a letter from the Corporate Risk Manager, or appropriate Finance Officer, is acceptable - stipulating if actuarially funded and fund limits; plus any excess declaration pages to meet the contract requirements. Further, this letter should advise how Access Manager would protect and defend the City of Seattle as an Additional Insured in its Self-Insured layer, and include claims handling directions in the event of a claim.

 42.6. Subcontractors. Access Manager shall include all subcontractors as insureds under its policies or shall furnish separate evidence of insurance as stated above for each subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be subject to all the requirements stated herein and applicable to their profession.

 Section 43. Dispute Resolution.

 43. 1 Appointment of Dispute Resolution Team. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, when a dispute arises between the parties and it cannot be resolved, either party may request a dispute hearing with a Dispute Resolution Team, mutually designated by the parties in advance. The team shall consist of a representative appointed by the City, a representative appointed by the Access Manager, and a third party mutually agreed upon by both parties. The team shall attempt, by majority vote, to resolve the dispute. Disputes shall be resolved as quickly as possible by a meeting with the Dispute Resolution Team.

 43.2 Dispute Resolution Meeting. The request for a dispute resolution meeting must:

 (a) be in writing;

 (b) state the disputed issue(s);

 (c) state the relative positions of the parties; and

 (d) be mailed to the Dispute Resolution Team and other party's (respondent's) representative within 3 working days after the parties agree that they cannot resolve the dispute.

 43.3. Written Response. The respondent shall send a written answer to the requestor's statement to both the Dispute Resolution Team and the requester within 5 working days of receipt of the statement.

 43.4. Review. The Dispute Resolution Team shall review the written statements and reply in writing to both parties within 10 working days. The Dispute Resolution Team may extend this period if necessary by notifying the parties.

 43.5 Dispute Process Precedes all other Tribunal Actions. The parties agree that this dispute process shall precede any action in a judicial or quasi-judicial tribunal.

 The City and the Access Manager agree that, the existence of a dispute notwithstanding, they will continue without delay to carry out all their respective responsibilities under this Agreement which are not affected by the dispute. Both parties agree to exercise good faith in the dispute resolution process and to settle disputes prior to using the dispute resolution Dispute Resolution Team whenever possible.

 SECTION 44. Women And Minority Business Enterprise Requirements

 44.1 General. No utilization requirements for Women and Minority Business Enterprises ("WMBEs") shall apply to this Agreement. No minimum level of WMBE sub-consultant participation shall be required as a condition of receiving award of the contract and no preference will be given to a consultant for its WMBE utilization or WMBE status. Provided, however, that any affirmative action requirements set forth in any federal regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement will continue to apply.

 44.2 Non-Discrimination. The Access Manager shall not create barriers to open and fair opportunities for WMBEs to participate in all City contracts and to obtain or compete for contracts and subcontracts as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services. In considering offers from and doing business with sub- consultants and suppliers, the Access Manager shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, political ideology, age, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, or the presence of any mental or physical disability in an otherwise qualified disabled person.

 44.3 Record-Keeping. The Access Manager shall maintain, for at least 12 months after completion of this Agreement, relevant records and information necessary to document the Access Manager's utilization of WMBEs and other businesses as sub-consultants and suppliers under this Agreement and in its overall public and private business activities. The Access Manager shall also maintain all written quotes, bids, estimates, or proposals submitted to the Access Manager by all businesses seeking to participate as sub-consultants or suppliers under this Agreement. The City shall have the right to inspect and copy such records. If this Agreement involves federal funds, the Access Manager shall comply with all record-keeping requirements set forth in any federal rules, regulations or statutes included or referenced in the Agreement.

 44.4 Affirmative Efforts To Utilize WMBEs. The City encourages the utilization of Minority Business Enterprises ("MBEs") and Women's Business Enterprises ("WBEs") (collectively, "WMBEs"), in all City contracts. The City encourages the following practices to open competitive opportunities for WMBEs:

 a. Attending a pre-solicitation conference, if scheduled by the City, to provide project information and to inform WMBEs of consultant contracting and sub-consultant contracting opportunities.

 b. Placing all qualified WMBEs attempting to do business in The City of Seattle on solicitation lists, and providing written notice of sub-consultant contracting opportunities to WMBEs capable of performing the work, including without limitation all businesses on any list provided by The City of Seattle, in sufficient time to allow such businesses to respond to the written solicitations.

 c. Breaking down total requirements into smaller tasks or quantities, where economically feasible, in order to permit maximum participation by small businesses including WMBEs.

 d. Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirements of this Agreement permit, that encourage participation by WMBEs.

 e. Providing WMBEs that express interest with adequate and timely information about plans, specifications, and requirements of this Agreement.

 f. Utilizing the services of available minority community organizations, minority contractor groups, local minority assistance offices, The City of Seattle, and other organizations that provide assistance in the recruitment and placement of WMBEs.

 44.5 Sanctions for Violation. Any violation of the mandatory requirements of the provisions of this Section 44.3 and 44.4 shall be a material breach of contract for which Access Manager may be subject to damages and sanctions provided for by the Agreement and by applicable law.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, in consideration of the terms, conditions, and covenants contained herein, or attached and incorporated and made a part hereof, the parties have executed this Agreement by having their representatives affix their signatures below.

 Additionally, the Access Manager, being first duly sworn on oath, specifically agrees to the provisions of Section 40, Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action, of this Agreement, and certifies under the penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Washington that information submitted under the provisions of Section 40 of this Agreement are true and correct to the best of the Access Manager's knowledge and information.

 SEATTLE COMMUNITY ACCESS THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 NETWORK

 By By

 Signature Date Signature Date

 Type or print name Type or print name

 Chief Technology Officer,

 Department of Information

 Technology

 Title

 City of Seattle Business License Number

 Washington State Unified Business Identifier Number (UBI)

 Authorized by Ordinance Number

 Funded by

 SCAN - 05 -31-

 SCAN Final 11/28/00.doc

```
