

********

**Council Bill Number: 113598**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120305**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the acquisition of property located at 10 Broad Street in the City of Seattle; authorizing execution of documents related to such acquisition, including agreements regarding environmental cleanup of the property; and accepting a gift of funds and making partially reimbursable appropriations for such acquisition; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** March 26, 2001
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** April 2, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** March 30, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
**Note:** SCULPTURE-PARK

   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** March 19, 2001
   
**Committee:** Finance, Budget and Economic Development
   
**Sponsor:** DRAGO
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, MUSEUMS, VISUAL-ARTS, CENTRAL-WATERFRONT, GIFTS-TO-THE-CITY, OPEN-SPACE-LAND

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the acquisition of property located at 10 Broad Street in the City of Seattle; authorizing execution of documents related to such acquisition, including agreements regarding environmental cleanup of the property; and accepting a gift of funds and making partially reimbursable appropriations for such acquisition; all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Art Museum ("SAM"), a non-profit corporation governed by a Board of Trustees that includes representatives of The City of Seattle ("City"), has historically developed its museum facilities in cooperation with the City; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to an agreement with the Department of Parks and Recreation, SAM operates the Seattle Asian Art Museum in a facility, built by the museum and donated to the City, on City property in Volunteer Park; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to agreements with the Museum Development Authority ("MDA"), a public corporation chartered by the City, SAM operates the public art museum in downtown Seattle; and

 WHEREAS, SAM has initiated the development of a new facility, to be known as the Olympic Sculpture Park, dedicated to the display of works of sculpture in an outdoor park setting, and SAM, the City and the MDA desire to cooperate in the development of the new facility; and

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 119982, the City and the Museum executed a Design Agreement in July 2000 providing for cooperative planning and design of the Olympic Sculpture Park and associated public improvements; and

 WHEREAS, the City, SAM and the MDA desire that the property located at 10 Broad Street in the City of Seattle (as legally described in section 1, the "Property") be acquired for inclusion in the Olympic Sculpture Park; and

 WHEREAS, upon removal of a structure and impermeable surface, the Property will qualify for acquisition and protection as open space land for purposes of RCW ch. 84.34 and King County Code title 26; and

 WHEREAS, SAM has entered into an assignable Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement dated October 27, 2000 (the "Purchase Agreement"), under which the Property may be acquired for its appraised value of Three Million Five Hundred and Sixty Thousand Dollars ($3,560,000); and

 WHEREAS, SAM desires to assign the Purchase Agreement to the City and to make a gift to the City to pay for a portion of the cost of acquisition of the Property; and

 WHEREAS, the City wishes to accept assignment of SAM's interests in the Purchase Agreement and the contemplated gift; and

 WHEREAS, the City of Seattle as prospective purchaser of the Property desires to enter into agreements with SAM, the MDA and the Washington State Department of Ecology ("DOE") with regard to responsibilities for environmental cleanup of the Property; Now, Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Contingent on receipt of the gift described in section 3 and contingent on certification by King County that the contemplated City acquisition of the Property is eligible for a grant of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) from Conservation Futures Tax revenues, as approved by King County Ordinance 14018, the Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is authorized to acquire the Property for parks and open space purposes, consistent with RCW ch. 84.34 and King County Code title 26, as part of the Facility Development Program/Olympic Sculpture Park - Development and Public Improvements (Program K721001/Project K731006) in the Department of Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Program. This acquisition shall be in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Purchase Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference. Also contingent upon receipt of said gift and King County certification, the Superintendent is authorized to execute such documents as he deems necessary or desirable to accomplish the acquisition of the Property, including without limitation an Assignment of Purchase Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference. The Superintendent additionally is authorized to accept a statutory warranty deed for the Property, which is legally described as follows:

 Parcel No. 1: Lots 3 and 4, Block 5, William N. Bell's Seventh Addition to the City of Seattle, according to the Plat thereof recorded in Volume 2 of Plats, page 82, records of King County Washington; Excepting therefrom that portion platted as Seattle Tidelands; Also Excepting therefrom, that portion described as follows: Beginning at a point on the Southeasterly line of said Lot 3, distant 14.408 feet Southwesterly of the most Easterly corner of said Lot; Thence Northerly and Westerly along the arc of a curve to the left having a radius of 24 feet, an arc distance of 27.83 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of said Lot 3, distant 22 feet Northwesterly of said most Easterly corner; Thence Southeasterly along said Northeasterly line to said most Easterly corner; Thence Southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of said Lot to the point of Beginning.

 Parcel No. 2: Lots 5 and 6, Block 168-B, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands, as shown on the Official Maps of Seattle Tidelands on file in the office of the Commissioner of Public Lands at Olympia, Washington.

 Section 2. Contingent on receipt of the King County certification described in section 1, the Superintendent is authorized to execute a Prospective Purchaser Consent Decree with DOE, SAM, and the MDA, and an Environmental Agreement with SAM and the MDA, substantially in the forms attached hereto as Exhibits C and D, respectively, and by this reference incorporated herein.

 Section 3. The Superintendent is hereby authorized to accept a gift in the amount of Five Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($560,000) from SAM for the purchase of the Property. There is hereby established in the General Donations and Gift Trust Fund an interest bearing account, entitled the Seattle Art Museum Olympic Sculpture Park Property Acquisition Account, for deposit of said donation. Upon receipt of the funds, the amount so accepted up to Five Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($560,000), and any interest earned thereon, is hereby appropriated from the Seattle Art Museum Olympic Sculpture Park Property Acquisition Account for acquisition of the Property, and the 2001 Budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation is hereby increased accordingly. Such interest earnings shall first be applied as a credit to SAM's obligation to pay closing costs to the extent specified in the Assignment of Purchase Agreement, Exhibit B hereto. In the event that the City does not acquire the Property, the City shall return the gift and any interest earned thereon to SAM.

 Section 4. To pay a portion of the cost of acquisition of the Property, the sum of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) is hereby appropriated from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund, REET l Subaccount (0163), and the 2001 Budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation is hereby increased accordingly.

 Section 5. To pay for a portion of the cost of acquisition of the Property, the sum of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) is hereby appropriated from the Cumulative Reserve Subfund Unrestricted Subaccount (Fund 0164), and the 2001 budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation is hereby increased accordingly. The foregoing appropriation is reimbursable upon receipt of a grant of Conservation Futures Tax revenues from King County, authorized by King County Ordinance 14018.

 Section 6. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation is hereby authorized to enter into good faith negotiations with SAM and/or the MDA to develop such agreements as may be necessary to provide for (a) SAM and/or the MDA to remove a structure and impermeable surface, redevelop, operate and maintain the Property as part of the Olympic Sculpture Park or (b) SAM and/or the MDA to remove a structure and impermeable surface and the City to subsequently transfer the Property to the MDA for incorporation into the Olympic Sculpture Park, provided that any such transfer shall restrict use and development of the property to parks and open space uses that will be specified in an amendment to the Conservation Futures Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between King County and the City of Seattle for Open Space Acquisition Projects. Any such agreements shall be submitted to the Council for its approval by ordinance.

 Section 7. If the City determines to transfer the Property to the MDA in accordance with section 6, the requirements of City Ordinance 118477 shall not apply to such transfer.

 Section 8. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 9. The foregoing appropriations are made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which no appropriations have been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of the making of the 2001 Budget; Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the

 Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4's) vote of the members of the City Council the ____ day of ____________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this ______ day of _____________, 2001 ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001 ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 3/26/01 V 4 EXHIBIT B ASSIGNMENT OF PURCHASE AGREEMENT

 THIS ASSIGNMENT OF PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this "Assignment") is dated as of ____________, 2001, and is entered into by and between the Seattle Art Museum, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("SAM"), and the City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation (the "City").

 A. SAM is the buyer under that certain Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement dated October 27, 2000 (the "Agreement"), with Larmar, Inc., Marlene V. Ivy, and Fortune Real Estate Investments, Inc., as sellers ("Sellers"), a true, correct, and complete copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference, covering the purchase of certain property described therein (the "Property").

 B. Pursuant to section 6.5 of the Agreement, SAM has paid Sellers the fee specified therein to extend through April 25, 2001 the date for removal of all contingencies for purchase.

 C. Pursuant to Section 21 of the Agreement, SAM may assign its rights and obligations under the Agreement to the City.

 D. The City has investigated the purchase of the Property and has determined that it wishes to accept an assignment of SAM's rights and obligations under the Agreement and purchase the Property.

 E. To accomplish the purchase of the Property by the City, SAM desires to assign to the City all of SAM's right, title and interest in and under the Agreement, and the City desires to accept such assignment and assume all of SAM's duties and obligations thereunder.

 F. To pay a portion of the cost of the City's acquisition of the Property pursuant to the Agreement, SAM has made a gift to the City of $560,000.

 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, SAM and the City agree as follows:

 1. Assignment and Assumption. SAM represents and warrants to City that the Agreement attached hereto is in full force and effect, and that SAM is not in default in the performance of any of its obligations thereunder. SAM assigns, transfers and sets over to the City all of its right, title and interest in and under the Agreement, except as specifically set forth in this section 1. The City hereby accepts such assignment and agrees that it will provide written notice to the Sellers, as required by the Agreement, that the City is removing and waiving all contingencies to the City's purchase of the Property. The City hereby assumes and agrees to perform all duties and obligations of SAM under the Agreement; provided, that with respect to closing costs that are obligations of SAM under the next to last sentence of section 5.2 of the Agreement, the City shall pay such closing costs only to the extent that they exceed Twenty Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000), and SAM shall pay directly into escrow at or prior to closing all closing costs that are obligations of SAM under said sentence up to Twenty Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) ; provided further, that interest earned by the City on SAM's gift to the City of Five Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($560,000) shall be credited to SAM's obligation to pay closing costs as provided herein.

 2. Indemnification. The City shall release, indemnify, defend and hold SAM harmless from any claims, liabilities, obligations, damages, demands, costs, expenses, and causes of action (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) arising under the Agreement on or after the date hereof. SAM shall release, indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless from any claims, liabilities, obligations, damages, demands, costs, expenses, and causes of action (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) suffered or incurred by the City as a result of the breach of any warranties by SAM set forth in Section 1 of this Assignment. For purposes of defense costs, in the event that the City Attorney's hourly billing rate does not include overhead,including without limitation staff and clerical support and operations, the City shall also be entitled to its reasonable overhead costs directly related to legal work performed in such actions.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Assignment to be executed as of the day and year first above written.

 SAM: SEATTLE ART MUSEUM, a Washington nonprofit corporation By ___________ Its __________

 CITY: THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation By ___________ Its __________

 THE SEATTLE ART MUSEUM, CITY OF SEATTLE, AND MUSEUM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

 Defendants.

 NO.

 PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER CONSENT DECREE RE: 10 BROAD STREET, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

 I. INTRODUCTION 1

 II. AUTHORITY, JURISDICTION AND VENUE 3

 III. PARTIES BOUND 4

 IV. DEFINITIONS 4

 V. STATEMENT OF FACTS 5

 VI. DESCRIPTION OF PLANNED PROJECT 7

 VII. WORK TO BE PERFORMED, SCHEDULE AND LAND USE RESTRICTIONS 7

 VIII. ECOLOGY COSTS 10

 IX. DESIGNATED PROJECT COORDINATORS 11

 X. PERFORMANCE 11

 XI. CERTIFICATION OF DEFENDANTS 12

 XII. TRANSFER OF INTEREST IN PROPERTY 12

 XIII. AMENDMENT TO CONSENT DECREE 13

 XIV. DISPUTE RESOLUTION 13

 XV. CONTRIBUTION PROTECTION 14

 XVI. COVENANT NOT TO SUE UNDER MTCA; REOPENERS 14

 XVII. DEFENDANTS' RESERVATION OF RIGHTS 15

 XVIII. DISCLAIMER 16

 XIX. RETENTION OF RECORDS AND 5-YEAR REVIEW 16

 XX. SITE ACCESS 16

 XXI. OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS 17

 XXII. SAMPLING, DATA REPORTING, AND AVAILABILITY 19

 XXIII. PROGRESS REPORTS 19

 XXIV. EXTENSION OF SCHEDULE 20

 XXV. ENDANGERMENT 21

 XXVI. IMPLEMENTATION OF REMEDIAL ACTION 22

 XXVII. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION 23

 XXVIII. DURATION OF DECREE AND RETENTION OF JURISDICTION; CERTIFICATIONS BY ECOLOGY 24

 XXIX. PUBLIC NOTICE AND WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT 25

 XXX. INDEMNIFICATION 25

 XXXI. CLAIMS AGAINST THE STATE 26

 XXXII. EFFECTIVE DATE 26

 EXHIBITS

 Exhibit A: Site Diagram and Legal Description

 Exhibit B: Draft Cleanup Action Plan

 Exhibit C: Schedule

 Exhibit D: Site Use Plan

 Exhibit E: Restrictive Covenant

 Exhibit F: Sampling/Monitoring and Contingency Plan

 I. INTRODUCTION

 This prospective purchaser consent decree ("Decree") is made and entered into by and between the Washington State Department of Ecology ("Ecology"), the Seattle Art Museum ("SAM"), the City of Seattle ("City") and the Museum Development Authority ("MDA"). SAM, the City and the MDA are herein referred to as "Defendants."

 1. WHEREAS, the purpose of this Decree is to resolve the potential liability of Defendants for known and suspected contamination at the 10 Broad Street Property in Seattle, Washington (the "Site") arising from a release or threatened release of hazardous substances, to promote the public interest by expediting cleanup activities at the Site and to facilitate the cleanup and redevelopment of contaminated properties in Seattle, Washington.

 2. WHEREAS, a Site Diagram and Legal Description are attached as Exhibit A and a Site Use Plan for the proposed park is attached as Exhibit D.

 3. WHEREAS, Defendants have proposed to participate in the cleanup of the Site and redevelop the Site into a sculpture park consistent with applicable City zoning provisions and comprehensive plan designations.

 4. WHEREAS, SAM has entered into a contract to acquire the Site. Under the contract, SAM has the option to assign its right to purchase the Site to the City, King County and/or the MDA.

 5. WHEREAS, SAM intends to assign its right to purchase the Site to the City and the City intends to purchase the Site. The MDA will acquire a property interest (by ownership, lease or license) in the Site from the City, and the MDA will perform the remedial action outlined in the Consent Decree. SAM will then lease the Site from the MDA and will develop, operate and maintain the park.

 6. WHEREAS, in the absence of this Decree, at the time they acquire the Site, Defendants would incur potential liability under RCW 70.105D.040(1)(a) of the Model Toxics Control Act ("MTCA") for performing remedial actions, or for paying remedial costs incurred by Ecology, resulting from past releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at the Site, and Defendants have certified that they are not otherwise currently liable under MTCA for remedial action at the Site.

 7. WHEREAS, Defendants have developed a Cleanup Action Plan ("CAP") to address soil and groundwater contamination at the Site.

 8. WHEREAS, this Decree promotes the public interest by expediting cleanup activities at the Site consistent with MTCA, Chapter 70.105D RCW and its implementing rules in Chapter 173-340 WAC.

 9. WHEREAS, Defendants shall perform the remediation specified in this Decree and the CAP, attached as Exhibit B, in exchange for a covenant not to sue and protection from contribution actions under MTCA.

 10. WHEREAS, Defendants' plans for the redevelopment of the Site, as shown on Exhibit D, are not likely to contribute to contamination at the Site, interfere with remedial actions that may be needed on the Site, or increase human health risks to persons at or in the vicinity of the Site.

 11. WHEREAS, this Decree will provide a substantial public benefit by promoting redevelopment of a former commercial/industrial site and yielding substantial new resources to facilitate cleanup to prevent migration of contaminants to Elliott Bay and other areas of the Site.

 12. WHEREAS, Defendants' remedial actions will lead to a more expeditious cleanup of hazardous substances at the Site than would otherwise occur, and will promote protection of the public health and the environment.

 13. WHEREAS, the Complaint in this action is being filed simultaneously with this Decree. An answer has not been filed, and there has not been a trial on any issue of fact or law in this case. However, the parties wish to resolve the issues raised by Ecology's Complaint. In addition, the parties agree that settlement of these matters without litigation is reasonable and in the public interest and that entry of this Decree is the most appropriate means of resolving these matters.

 14. WHEREAS, the Court is fully advised of the reasons for entry of this Decree, and good cause having been shown:

 IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED AS FOLLOWS:

 II. AUTHORITY, JURISDICTION AND VENUE

 15. This Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter and over the parties pursuant to MTCA, RCW 70.105D. Venue is proper in King County pursuant to RCW 70.105D.050(5)(b).

 16. Authority is conferred upon the Washington State Attorney General by RCW 70.105D.040(4)(a) and RCW 70.105D.040(5) to enter into a settlement with persons not currently liable for remedial actions at a facility who propose to purchase property if, after public notice, Ecology finds the proposed settlement will lead to a more expeditious cleanup of hazardous substances in compliance with cleanup standards under RCW 70.105D.030(2)(e). In addition, the Attorney General may agree to the settlement if the settlement will yield substantial new resources to facilitate cleanup and expedite remedial action consistent with rules adopted under MTCA, and Ecology finds that the redevelopment or reuse of the property is not likely to contribute to the existing release or threatened release, interfere with remedial actions that may be needed at the site, or increase health risks to persons at or in the vicinity of the site. RCW 70.105D.040(4)(b) require that such a settlement be entered as a consent decree issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.

 17. Ecology has determined that hazardous substances have been released at the Site. Ecology has not made a determination that Defendants are PLPs for the Site and Defendants have certified that they are not currently liable under RCW 70.105D. Were Defendants to acquire an interest in the Site, however, they could become PLPs as owners or operators under RCW 70.105D.040(1)(a). This Decree is entered prior to Defendants' operation of the Site, or acquisition of any property interest in the Site, to resolve their potential liability for known or suspected Site contamination described in reports and in the CAP and to facilitate a more expeditious cleanup of the Site than otherwise would occur. This Decree is entered into pursuant to the authority set forth in RCW 70.105D.040(5).

 18. By entering into this Decree, Defendants agree not to challenge Ecology's jurisdiction in any proceeding to enforce this Decree. Defendants consent to the issuance of this Decree and agree to perform the remedial actions as specified in this Decree.

 19. All Exhibits attached to this Decree are integral and enforceable parts of this Decree.

 III. PARTIES BOUND

 20. This Decree shall apply to and be binding upon the signatories to this Decree. The undersigned representative of each party hereby certifies that he or she is fully authorized to enter into this Decree and to execute and legally bind such party to comply with this Decree. Defendants agree to undertake all actions required by the terms and conditions of this Decree and not to contest state jurisdiction regarding this Decree. No change in ownership or corporate status shall alter the responsibility of Defendants under this Decree. Defendants shall provide a copy of this Decree to all agents, contractors and subcontractors retained to perform work required by this Decree and shall ensure that all work undertaken by such contractors and subcontractors will be in compliance with this Decree.

 21. Pursuant to RCW 70.105D.040(4)(e)(ii), Ecology has determined that this Decree is not based on unique circumstances. Therefore, the stay of enforcement against successors in interest in RCW 70.105D.040(4)(e) applies to this Decree.

 IV. DEFINITIONS

 22. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, terms used in this Decree that are defined in MTCA, Chapter 70.105D RCW, or in regulations promulgated under MTCA, Chapter 173-340 WAC, shall have the meaning assigned to them in MTCA or in such regulations. Whenever terms listed below are used in this Decree or in the attachments hereto, the following definitions shall apply:

 "Decree" shall mean this Decree and all attachments hereto. In the event of conflict between this Decree and any Exhibit, this Decree shall control.

 "Paragraph" shall mean a portion of this Decree identified by an Arabic numeral.

 "Section" shall mean a portion of this Decree identified by a Roman numeral and including one or more Paragraphs.

 "Site" shall mean the property located at 10 Broad Street in Seattle, Washington, depicted on and legally described in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. The Site is a "facility" as defined in MTCA per RCW 70.105D.020(4).

 "Successors in Interest and Assigns" shall mean any person who acquires an interest in the Site through purchase, lease, transfer, assignment, or otherwise.

 V. STATEMENT OF FACTS

 23. The Site is located on the northwest corner of Elliott Avenue and Broad Street, east of Elliott Bay near Pier 70 in downtown Seattle, Washington. A Site Diagram is attached as Exhibit A.

 24. The Site was used for welding and/or automobile service operations from approximately 1916 until 1973. Since 1976, the Site has been used for commercial purposes, specifically a pizza restaurant and pool hall.

 25. A number of underground storage tanks were located on the Site, but a 1975 demolition grading plan indicates that the tanks were to be removed.

 26. Numerous environmental investigations have been conducted at the Site by consultants for a potential purchaser of the property and by SAM. Elevated concentrations of petroleum hydrocarbons have been encountered in soil and groundwater on the Site and in soil just east of the Site in Elliott Avenue.

 27. Petroleum hydrocarbons at the Site appear to be derived primarily from weathered gasoline, and to a lesser degree, diesel and oil products. Gasoline-range hydrocarbons are present at concentrations exceeding cleanup levels primarily within the smear zone near the groundwater table along the northeastern portion of the property. Elevated concentrations of gasoline-, diesel- and oil-range hydrocarbons were also encountered in near-surface soils in the center of the Site, but diesel- and oil-range hydrocarbons are typically below soil cleanup levels.

 28. BTEX compounds were also encountered at concentrations above cleanup levels, in the same general vicinity as the petroleum hydrocarbons. Shallow soil samples beneath Elliott Avenue also contained elevated benzene concentrations but did not contain significant concentrations of gasoline-range hydrocarbons.

 29. MTBE was detected in preliminary soil samples using a gas chromatography screening method. GC mass spectrometry confirmation testing did not detect MTBE in any of the soil or groundwater samples.

 30. RI/FS HART CROWSER 1999 detected petroleum hydrocarbon vapors associated with gasoline above the Method B criteria, north and adjacent to the site.

 31. Groundwater concentrations appear to have decreased over time, possibly due to natural attenuation. Gasoline-range hydrocarbons are the only contaminant that exceeded cleanup levels during the most recent sampling event. Recent groundwater samples taken at the western (down-gradient) boundary of the Site did not exceed cleanup levels.

 32. These environmental conditions were reported in a Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study dated ____________, 2001. The Feasibility Study analyzed remedial alternatives and identified appropriate cleanup standards as required pursuant to MTCA. Based on the results of the Feasibility Study, Defendants proposed and Ecology approved a final remedy as outlined in the Work to be Performed, Section VII, below and as described more fully in the attached CAP (Exhibit B).

 VI. DESCRIPTION OF PLANNED PROJECT

 33. Defendants intend to acquire and operate the Site.

 34. Defendants plan to create a public sculpture park at the Site and the adjacent site recently purchased by SAM. The park will include sculptures, pedestrian trails, and landscaped open space. The adjacent property to the east will also contain an underground parking lot. An exhibition building and accessory structures (e.g., restrooms, espresso stands) may be placed on the adjacent site. Alaskan Way will consist of a shoreline promenade, an extension of the Myrtle Edwards Park waterfront bike trail, landscaped open space, possibly paved parking areas and small slab- on-grade structures. Pedestrian bridges will be built to allow pedestrian crossing at Elliott Avenue and the railroad right-of-way adjacent to Alaskan Way. The Site and its relationship to the larger sculpture park project is depicted in Exhibit D to this Decree.

 VII. WORK TO BE PERFORMED, SCHEDULE

 AND LAND USE RESTRICTIONS

 35. This Decree contains a program designed to protect public health, welfare, and the environment from the known, suspected, or threatened release of hazardous substances or contaminants at, on, or from the Site. The requirements of such program are described in detail in this section of the Decree and in the Cleanup Action Plan (Exhibit B) and in the schedule set forth in Exhibit C.

 36. Defendants agree to perform the remedial actions herein and as described in the CAP and Schedule to eliminate contaminated soil and groundwater direct contact and soil to groundwater, groundwater to surface water and vapor exposure pathways to known or suspected hazardous substances at or from the Site and protect human health and the environment from the release or threatened release of known or suspected hazardous substances at or from the Site.

 37. Defendants shall perform remedial actions in the attached CAP pursuant to the Schedule attached at Exhibit C. Defendants, through their contractor(s) and subcontractor(s) as necessary, shall accomplish the following tasks:

 a) Task 1: Implement the Cleanup Action Plan (CAP), Exhibit B and the Sampling/Monitoring and Contingency Plan, Exhibit F, including but not limited to the following:

 i. Perform air sparging/soil vapor extraction pilot test, as outlined in Exhibit B.

 ii. Implement air sparging/soil vapor extraction, as outlined in Exhibit B.

 iii. Implement soil, ambient air and groundwater sampling program to evaluate remedial system effectiveness, as outlined in Exhibit F.

 iv. Implement indoor air monitoring program if buildings are to be placed at the Site, as outlined in Exhibit F.

 v. Design and implement contingency plan, if necessary, as outlined in Exhibit F.

 b) Task 2: Provide for public participation.

 c) Task 3: Provide Remedial Design.

 d) Task 4: Implement the Compliance Monitoring Program as outlined in the CAP (Exhibit B) and the Sampling/Monitoring and Contingency Plan (Exhibit F), which also includes:

 i. Protection Monitoring.

 ii. Performance Monitoring.

 iii. Confirmation Monitoring.

 e) Task 5: Implement Schedule attached hereto as Exhibit C.

 Defendants agree not to perform any remedial actions on the Site that are inconsistent with the remedial actions required under this Consent Decree.

 38. Defendants shall obtain any and all state, federal, or local permits required by applicable law before commencing the remedial action at the Site, except as provided in Section XXI. Defendants shall prepare a Site Safety and Health Plan in accordance with WAC 173-340-810 and the most recent OSHA, WISHA, Ecology, and EPA guidance and applicable regulations, for Ecology review. Defendants shall also provide a security system at the Site designed to prevent entry by unauthorized persons during construction and operation of the air sparging/soil vapor extraction system.

 39. Defendants shall be prohibited from using the Site in a manner likely to cause or contribute to the existing release, interfering with remedial actions performed or that may be needed at the Site, or increasing health risks to persons or risks to the environment at or in the vicinity of the Site. Defendants agree to ensure that its Successors in Interest and Assigns are prohibited from using the Site in a manner likely to cause or contribute to the existing release, interfering with remedial actions that are performed or may be needed at the Site, or increasing health risks to persons or risks to the environment at or in the vicinity of the Site.

 40. Defendants shall file a Restrictive Covenant with the deed for the Site if the concentrations of hazardous substances on the Site exceed the cleanup levels following soil sampling (Exhibit F, Section 1.0), groundwater monitoring (Exhibit F, Section 4.0) and ambient air sampling (Exhibit F, Section 2.0), which will be performed to evaluate the effectiveness of the soil vapor extraction/air sparging system, as outlined in the CAP (Exhibit B). The specific provisions to be included in the Restrictive Covenant will be determined based on the media impacted by the residual hazardous substances on the Site. The alternative provisions that may be included in the Restrictive Covenant are outlined in Exhibit E. If a Restrictive Covenant is required under this section, Defendants shall provide Ecology with a copy of the version of the Covenant proposed for filing at least seven (7) days prior to the actual filing of the document. If a Restrictive Covenant is required, Defendants, or their Successors in Interest and Assigns, after confirmational monitoring has shown that contaminants are no longer present at the Site above applicable cleanup levels, may record an instrument that provides that the Restrictive Covenants provided in Exhibit E shall no longer limit uses of the Site or be of any further force or effect, but only with Ecology's prior written approve of such instrument.

 41. If permanent heated buildings with closed basements or first floors shall be placed on the Site and if, after active remedial measures and confirmational monitoring have been completed, soil vapor at the Site exceeds applicable cleanup levels with respect to indoor air, provisions in Section 8.0 of the CAP regarding the placement of permanent heated buildings and engineering controls for soil vapors shall be implemented for any such proposed building. This section shall survive and continue in full force and effect after the Decree is dismissed.

 VIII. ECOLOGY COSTS

 42. Defendants agree to pay past costs from January 2, 2001, to present and future costs incurred by Ecology pursuant to this Decree. These costs shall include work performed by Ecology or its contractors for, or on, the Site under Chapter 70-105D RCW, for investigations, remedial actions, oversight and administration associated with this Decree (including preparation and negotiation of this Decree). Ecology costs shall include costs of direct activities and support costs of direct activities as defined in WAC 173-340-550(2). Defendants agree to pay the required amount within ninety (90) days of receiving from Ecology an itemized statement of costs that includes a summary of costs incurred, an identification of involved staff, and the amount of time spent by involved staff members on the project. A general statement of work performed will be provided upon request. Itemized statements and costs shall be prepared quarterly. Failure to pay Ecology costs within ninety (90) days of receipt of the itemized statement will result in interest charges as allowed by law. Defendants reserve the right to review and approve any charges prior to payment. Any dispute regarding remedial and investigation costs for the Site shall be subject to dispute resolution pursuant to Section XIV. Defendants reserve the right to pay the undisputed portion of an invoice and not pay the disputed portion.

 IX. DESIGNATED PROJECT COORDINATORS

 43. The project coordinator for Ecology is:

 Nnamdi Madakor

 Toxics Cleanup Program

 Department of Ecology

 Northwest Regional Office

 3190 160th Avenue Southeast

 Bellevue, WA 98008

 Telephone: (425) 649-7000

 The project coordinator for Defendants is:

 Chris Rogers

 Seattle Art Museum

 P.O. Box 22000

 Seattle, WA 98122

 Telephone: (206) 654-3221

 44. Each project coordinator shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation of this Decree. The Ecology project coordinator will be Ecology's designated representative at the Site. To the maximum extent possible, communications between Ecology and Defendants and all documents, including reports, approvals, and other correspondence concerning the activities performed pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Decree, shall be directed through the project coordinators. The project coordinators may designate, in writing, working-level staff contacts for all or portions of the implementation of the Work to be Performed, Section VII, and attached Cleanup Action Plan. The project coordinators may agree to minor modifications to the work to be performed without formal amendments to this Decree.

 45. Any party may change its respective project coordinator. Written notification shall be given to the other parties at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the change.

 X. PERFORMANCE

 46. All work performed pursuant to this Decree shall be under the direction and supervision, as necessary, of a professional engineer or hydrogeologist, or equivalent, with experience and expertise in hazardous waste site investigation and cleanup. Any construction work must be under the supervision of a professional engineer. Defendants shall notify Ecology in writing as to the identity of such engineer(s) or hydrogeologist(s), or others and of any contractors and subcontractors to be used in carrying out the terms of this Decree, in advance of their involvement at the Site.

 XI. CERTIFICATION OF DEFENDANTS

 47. Defendants represent and certify that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, they have fully and accurately disclosed to Ecology the information currently in their possession or control that relates to the environmental conditions at and in the vicinity of the Site, or to Defendants' right and title thereto.

 48. Defendants represent and certify that they did not cause or contribute to a release or threatened release of hazardous substances at the Site and are not otherwise potentially liable under RCW 70.105D.040(1), except by becoming owners and/or operators of the Site.

 XII. TRANSFER OF INTEREST IN PROPERTY

 49. Prior to any voluntary or involuntary conveyance or relinquishment of title, easement, leasehold, or other interest in any portion of the Site, Defendants shall provide for continued compliance with all of the conditions of this Decree. Prior to transfer of any legal or equitable interest in all or any portion of the Site during the effective period of this Decree, Defendants shall provide a copy of this Decree to any prospective purchaser, lessee, transferee, assignee, or other successor in interest of the Site; and, at least thirty (30) days prior to any transfer, Defendants shall notify Ecology of said contemplated transfer. This Paragraph shall not apply to transfer of any legal or equitable interest by one Defendant to another Defendant.

 50. Defendants shall ensure that any future use of the Site is restricted such that activities that would contribute to the existing release or threatened release, interfere with remedial actions at the Site, or increase health risks to persons or risks to the environment at or in the vicinity of the Site are prohibited.

 51. Defendants shall also ensure that all future Successors in Interest and Assigns in the Site will provide for compliance with all of the conditions of this Decree.

 XIII. AMENDMENT TO CONSENT DECREE

 52. This Decree may only be amended by a written stipulation among the parties to this Decree that is thereafter entered and approved by order of the Court. Such amendment shall become effective upon entry by the Court or upon a later date if such date is expressly stated in the parties' written stipulation or the Court so orders.

 53. Amendments may cover any subject or be for any purpose agreed to by the parties to this Decree. If Ecology determines that the subject of an amendment requires public input, Ecology shall provide thirty (30) days public notice prior to seeking entry of the amendment from the Court.

 XIV. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 54. In the event a dispute arises as to an approval, disapproval, proposed modification, or other decision or action by Ecology's project coordinator, the parties shall use the dispute resolution procedure set forth below.

 a) Upon receipt of the Ecology project coordinator's decision, Defendants have fourteen (14) days to notify Ecology's project coordinator of any objection to the decision.

 b) The parties' project coordinators shall then confer in an effort to resolve the dispute. If the project coordinators cannot resolve the dispute within fourteen (14) days of Defendants' objection, Ecology's project coordinator shall issue a written decision.

 c) Defendants may then request Ecology management review of the decision. This request shall be submitted in writing to the Toxics Cleanup Program Manager within seven (7) days of receipt of Ecology's project coordinator's written decision.

 d) Ecology's Toxics Cleanup Program Manager shall conduct a review of the dispute and shall issue a written decision regarding the dispute within thirty (30) days of Defendants' request for review. The Toxics Cleanup Program Manager's decision shall be Ecology's final decision on the disputed matter.

 55. If Ecology's final written decision is unacceptable to Defendants, Defendants shall have the right to submit the dispute to the Court for resolution. The parties agree that one judge should retain jurisdiction over this case and shall as necessary, resolve any dispute arising under this Decree. In the event Defendants present an issue to the Court for review, the Court shall review the action or decision of Ecology under an arbitrary and capricious standard of review.

 56. The parties agree to use the dispute resolution process in good faith and agree to expedite, to the extent possible, the dispute resolution process whenever it is used. When either party uses the dispute resolution in bad faith or for purposes of delay, the other party may seek sanctions.

 57. The implementation of these dispute resolution procedures shall not provide a basis for delay of any activities required in this Decree, unless Ecology agrees in writing to a schedule extension or the Court so orders.

 XV. CONTRIBUTION PROTECTION

 58. With regard to claims for contribution against Defendants for matters addressed in this Decree, Ecology agrees that Defendants are entitled to protection from contribution actions or claims as is provided by MTCA, RCW 70.105D.040, or as otherwise provided by law.

 XVI. COVENANT NOT TO SUE UNDER MTCA; REOPENERS

 59. In consideration of compliance by Defendants with the terms and conditions of this Decree, Ecology agrees that compliance with this Decree shall stand in lieu of any and all administrative, legal, and equitable remedies and enforcement actions available to Ecology against Defendants for the release or threatened release of known or suspected hazardous substances at the Site covered by the terms of this Decree. Ecology covenants not to sue Defendants, its Successors in Interest and Assigns for matters covered by the terms of this Decree, provided that Defendants, or its Successors in Interest and Assigns have substantially complied with this Decree.

 A. Reopeners: In the following circumstances the State of Washington may exercise its full legal authority to address releases of hazardous substances at the Site notwithstanding the Covenant Not to Sue set forth above:

 1. In the event Defendants fail to comply with the terms and conditions of this Decree, including all attachments, and, after written notice of noncompliance, fails to come into compliance.

 2. In the event new information becomes available regarding factors previously unknown to Ecology, and Ecology determines, in light of this information, that further remedial action is necessary at the Site to protect human health or the environment.

 3. In the event the remedial action conducted at the Site fails to meet the requirements set forth in Section VII of this Decree and the attached Cleanup Action Plan.

 4. In the event the Site is used for any activities that contribute to the existing release or threatened release, interfere with remedial actions that may be needed at the Site, or increase health risks to persons at or in the vicinity of the Site.

 B. Applicability. The Covenant Not To Sue set forth above shall have no applicability whatsoever to:

 1. Criminal liability;

 2. Any Ecology action against PLPs not party to this Decree; and

 3. Any claims by the State for Natural Resources Damages.

 XVII. DEFENDANTS' RESERVATION OF RIGHTS

 60. Defendants reserve all rights and defenses that they may have and which are not otherwise addressed in the Decree.

 61. Except as provided herein for Defendants, this Decree does not grant any rights or affect any liabilities of any person, firm or corporation or subdivision or division of state, federal, or local government.

 XVIII. DISCLAIMER

 62. This Decree does not constitute a representation by Ecology that the Site is fit for any particular purpose.

 XIX. RETENTION OF RECORDS AND 5-YEAR REVIEW

 63. Defendants shall retain all records, reports, documents, and underlying data in its possession relevant to the implementation of this Decree during the pendency of this Decree and for a period of ten years following the termination of this Decree pursuant to Paragraph 80, and shall insert in contracts with project contractors and subcontractors a similar records retention requirement. Upon request of Ecology, Defendants shall make all non-archived records available to Ecology and allow Ecology reasonable access for record review. All archived records shall be made available to Ecology by Defendants within a reasonable period of time.

 XX. SITE ACCESS

 64. Defendants grant to Ecology, its employees, agents, contractors, and authorized representatives, an irrevocable right to enter upon the Site, with reasonable notice and at any reasonable time, for purposes of allowing Ecology to monitor or enforce compliance with this Decree or to institute other necessary cleanup actions. Ecology or any Ecology authorized representatives shall have the authority to enter and freely move about the Site at all reasonable times for the purposes of, inter alia: inspecting records, operation logs, and contracts related to the work being performed pursuant to this Decree; reviewing Defendants' progress in carrying out the terms of this Decree; conducting such tests or collecting such samples as Ecology may reasonably deem necessary; using a camera, sound recording, or other documentary type equipment to record work done pursuant to this Decree; and verifying the data submitted to Ecology by the Defendants. All parties with access to the Site pursuant to this Paragraph shall comply with approved health and safety plans.

 65. Notwithstanding any provision of this Decree, Ecology retains all of its access authorities and access rights, including enforcement authorities related thereto, under MTCA and any other applicable state statute, regulation or order. Nothing in this Decree shall limit any right of access Ecology may have concerning releases of hazardous substances not addressed by this Decree. Ecology's entry onto the Site for purposes of monitoring or enforcing compliance with this Decree or implementing further remediation at the Site may interfere with Defendants' full use of the Site. The right of entry granted in this Section is in addition to any right Ecology may have to enter onto the Site pursuant to specific statutory or regulatory authority. Defendants further agree to cooperate with Ecology and other PLPs as reasonably necessary to facilitate any further cleanup or monitoring Ecology determines is required on the Site. Consistent with Ecology's responsibilities under state and federal law, Ecology, and any persons acting for it, shall use reasonable efforts to minimize any interference and shall use reasonable efforts not to interfere with the operations of Defendants by any such entry. In the event Ecology enters the Site for reasons other than emergency response, Ecology agrees that it shall provide reasonable advance notice to Defendants of any planned entry, as well as schedules and locations of activity on the Site. Ecology further agrees to accommodate reasonable requests that it modifies its scheduled entry or activities at the Site.

 XXI. OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS

 66. All actions carried out by Defendants pursuant to this Decree shall be done in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local requirements, including applicable permitting requirements. Pursuant to RCW 70.105D.090(1), the known and applicable substantive requirements of Chapters 70.94, 70.95, 70.105, 75.20, 90.48, and 90.58 RCW, and any laws requiring or authorizing local government permits or approvals for remedial action, have been included in the CAP and are incorporated by reference herein as binding and enforceable requirements in this Decree.

 67. Defendants have a continuing obligation to determine whether additional permits or approvals addressed in RCW 70.105D.090(1) would otherwise be required for the remedial action under this Decree. In the event either Defendants or Ecology determines that additional permits or approvals addressed in RCW 70.105D.090(1) would otherwise be required for the remedial action under this Decree, it shall promptly notify the other party of this determination. Ecology shall determine whether Ecology or Defendants shall be responsible to contact the appropriate state and/or local agencies. If Ecology so requires, Defendants shall promptly consult with the appropriate state and/or local agencies and provide Ecology with written documentation from those agencies of the substantive requirements those agencies believe are applicable to the remedial action. Ecology shall make the final determination on whether the additional substantive requirements must be met by Defendants and on how Defendants must meet those requirements. Ecology shall inform Defendants in writing of these requirements and Defendants shall have an opportunity to comment on such requirements. Once established by Ecology, the additional requirements shall be enforceable requirements of this Decree. Defendants shall not begin or continue the remedial action potentially subject to the additional requirements until Ecology makes its final determination.

 68. Ecology shall ensure that notice and opportunity for comment is provided to the public and appropriate agencies prior to establishing the substantive requirements under this section.

 69. Pursuant to RCW 70.105D.090(2), in the event that Ecology determines that the exemption from complying with the procedural requirements of the laws referenced in RCW 70.105D.090(1) would result in the loss of approval from a federal agency necessary for the state to administer any federal law, such exemption shall not apply and Defendants shall comply with both the procedural and substantive requirements of the laws referenced in RCW 70.105D.090(1), including any requirements to obtain permits.

 XXII. SAMPLING, DATA REPORTING, AND AVAILABILITY

 70. With respect to the implementation of this Decree, Defendants shall make the results of all sampling, laboratory reports, and/or test results generated by them, or on their behalf available to Ecology and shall submit these results in accordance with Section XXIII of this Decree.

 71. If requested by Ecology, Defendants shall allow split or duplicate samples to be taken by Ecology and/or Ecology's authorized representatives of any samples collected by Defendants pursuant to the implementation of this Decree. Defendants shall notify Ecology at least seven (7) working days in advance of any sample collection or work activity at the Site. Ecology shall, upon request, allow split or duplicate samples to be taken, at Defendants' sole expense, by Defendants, or their authorized representatives, of any samples collected by Ecology pursuant to the implementation of this Decree, provided they do not unreasonably interfere with the Department's sampling. Without limiting Ecology's rights under Section XX, Ecology shall endeavor to notify Defendants at least five (5) working days prior to any sampling collection activity.

 XXIII. PROGRESS REPORTS

 72. Defendants shall submit to Ecology written progress reports that describe the actions taken to implement the requirements of this Decree. The progress report shall be prepared as set forth in the following schedule:

 *Monthly during remedial action construction and operation activities; and

 *Quarterly during post-remedial monitoring activities.

 The progress reports shall contain the following:

 A. A list of on-Site activities that have taken place during the reporting period;

 B. Detailed description of any deviations from required tasks not otherwise documented in project plans or amendment requests;

 C. Description of all deviations from the schedule during the current reporting period and any planned deviations in the upcoming reporting period;

 D. For any deviations in schedule, a plan for recovering lost time and maintaining compliance with the schedule;

 E. All data (including laboratory analyses) which, after the QA/QC program has been performed, have been received by Defendants during the past reporting period and an identification of the source of the samples; and

 F. A list of deliverables for the upcoming reporting period if different from the schedule.

 73. All progress reports shall be submitted by the tenth day of the month following each reporting period after the effective date of this Decree. Unless otherwise specified, progress reports and any other documents submitted pursuant to this Decree shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to Ecology's project coordinator.

 XXIV. EXTENSION OF SCHEDULE

 74. An extension of schedule shall be granted only when a request for an extension is submitted in a timely fashion, generally at least thirty (30) days prior to expiration of the deadline for which the extension is requested, and when good cause exists for granting the extension. All extensions shall be requested in writing. The request shall specify the reason(s) the extension is needed.

 75. An extension shall only be granted for such period of time as Ecology determines is reasonable under the circumstances. A requested extension shall not be effective until approved by Ecology. Ecology shall act upon any written request for extension in a timely fashion. It shall not be necessary to formally amend this Decree pursuant to Section XIII when a schedule extension is granted.

 76. The burden shall be on Defendants to demonstrate to the satisfaction of Ecology that the request for such extension has been submitted in a timely fashion and that good cause exists for granting the extension. Good cause includes, but is not limited to, the following: (1) circumstances beyond the reasonable control and despite the due diligence of Defendants, including delays caused by unrelated third parties or Ecology, such as (but not limited to) delays by Ecology in reviewing, approving, or modifying documents submitted by Defendants; or (2) Acts of God, including fire, flood, blizzard, extreme temperatures, storm, or other unavoidable casualty; or (3) endangerment as described in Section XXV.

 77. However, neither increased costs of performance of the terms of the Decree nor changed economic circumstances shall be considered circumstances beyond the reasonable control of Defendants.

 78. Ecology may extend the schedule for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, except where an extension is needed as a result of:

 (1) Delays in the issuance of a necessary permit that was applied for in a timely manner; or

 (2) Other circumstances deemed exceptional or extraordinary by Ecology; or

 (3) Endangerment as described in Section XXV.

 79. Ecology shall give Defendants written notification in a timely fashion of any extensions granted pursuant to this Decree.

 XXV. ENDANGERMENT

 80. In the event Ecology determines that activities implementing or in noncompliance with this Decree, or any other circumstances or activities, are creating or have the potential to create a danger to the health or welfare of the people on the Site or in the surrounding area or to the environment, Ecology may order Defendants to stop further implementation of this Decree for such period of time as needed to abate the danger or may petition the Court for an order as appropriate. During any stoppage of work under this Section, the obligations of Defendants with respect to the work under this Decree that is ordered to be stopped shall be suspended and the time periods for performance of that work, as well as the time period for any other work dependent upon the work that is stopped, shall be extended, pursuant to Section XXIV of this Decree, for such period of time as Ecology determines is reasonable under the circumstances.

 81. In the event Defendants determines that activities undertaken in furtherance of this Decree or any other circumstances or activities are creating an endangerment to the people on the Site or in the surrounding area or to the environment, Defendants may stop implementation of this Decree for such period of time necessary for Ecology to evaluate the situation and determine whether Defendants should proceed with implementation of the Decree or whether the work stoppage should be continued until the danger is abated. Defendants shall notify Ecology's project coordinator as soon as possible, but no later than twenty-four (24) hours after such stoppage of work, and thereafter provide Ecology with documentation of the basis for the work stoppage. If Ecology disagrees with Defendants' determination, it may order Defendants to resume implementation of this Decree. If Ecology concurs with the work stoppage, Defendants' obligations shall be suspended and the time period for performance of that work, as well as the time period for any other work dependent upon the work that was stopped, shall be extended, pursuant to Section XXIV of this Decree, for such period of time as Ecology determines is reasonable under the circumstances.

 XXVI. IMPLEMENTATION OF REMEDIAL ACTION

 82. If Ecology determines that Defendants have failed without good cause to implement the remedial action described herein and in the CAP, Ecology may, after notice to Defendants, perform any or all portions of the remedial action that remain incomplete. If Ecology performs all or portions of the remedial action because of Defendants' failure to comply with the obligations under this Decree, Defendants shall reimburse Ecology for the costs of doing such work, provided that Defendants shall not be obligated under this Section to reimburse Ecology for costs incurred for work inconsistent with or beyond the scope of this Decree.

 XXVII. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

 83. Ecology shall maintain the responsibility for public participation at the Site. However, Defendants shall cooperate with Ecology with respect to the following public participation activities:

 A. Prepare drafts of public notices and fact sheets at important stages of the remedial action, such as the submission of work plans and engineering design reports. Ecology will finalize (including editing if necessary) and distribute such fact sheets and prepare and distribute public notices of Ecology's presentations and meetings;

 B. Each party shall notify the other party's project coordinator prior to the preparation of all press releases and fact sheets, and at least one week before major meetings with the interested public and local governments regarding the remediation of the Site. Likewise, Ecology shall notify Defendants prior to the issuance of all press releases and fact sheets, and before major meetings with the interested public and local governments;

 C. Participate in public presentations on the progress of the remedial action at the Site. Participation may be through attendance at public meetings to assist in answering questions, or as a presenter;

 D. In cooperation with Ecology, arrange and/or continue information repositories to be located at the following locations:

 Seattle Public Library

 Downtown Branch

 Government Documents

 1000 4th Avenue, 2nd Floor

 Seattle, Washington

 Department of Ecology

 Northwest Regional Office

 3190 160th Avenue Southeast

 Bellevue, Washington

 Seattle Art Museum Library

 100 University St., 5th Floor

 Seattle, Washington

 At a minimum, copies of all public notices, fact sheets, and press releases, all quality assured monitoring data, remedial action plans, supplemental remedial planning documents, and all other similar documents relating to performance of the remedial action required by this Decree shall be promptly placed in these repositories.

 XXVIII. DURATION OF DECREE AND RETENTION OF JURISDICTION; CERTIFICATIONS BY ECOLOGY

 84. This Decree shall remain in effect and this Court shall retain jurisdiction over both the subject matter of this Decree and the parties for the duration of the performance of the terms and provisions of this Decree for the purpose of enabling any of the parties to apply to the Court, consistent with the dispute resolution process set forth in Section XIV, and the amendment process set forth in Section XIII, for such further order, direction, and relief as may be necessary or appropriate to ensure that obligations of the parties have been satisfied. The Decree shall remain in effect until Defendants have received written notification from Ecology that the requirements of this Decree have been satisfactorily completed. Ecology shall provide such written notification or notice of any deficiencies in the completion of the requirements of this Decree within one hundred and eighty (180) days of receiving notice from Defendants that the requirements of the Decree have been satisfied. Within sixty (60) days of Defendants' written notice that any noted deficiencies have been corrected, Ecology shall provide written notification that the requirements of the Decree have been satisfied or notice of any deficiencies that still remain. Upon receipt of written notification from Ecology that the requirements of this Decree have been satisfactorily completed, the parties shall move the Court to dismiss the Consent Decree. The provisions set forth in Section XV (Contribution Protection), Section XVI (Covenant Not to Sue Under MTCA; Reopeners), Section XXX (Indemnification), and other such continuing or reserved rights of Defendants or Ecology under this Decree shall survive the termination of the Decree pursuant to this paragraph. This Decree shall in no way limit the authority of Ecology to obtain all legal or equitable remedies available against persons not party to this Decree and against all persons, parties or non-parties, for releases of hazardous substances at the Site not covered by this Decree.

 XXIX. PUBLIC NOTICE AND WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT

 85. This Decree has been the subject of public notice and comment under RCW 70.105D.040(4)(a). As a result of this process, Ecology has found that this Decree will lead to a more expeditious cleanup of hazardous substances, in compliance with applicable cleanup standards, and is in the public interest.

 86. If the Court withdraws its consent, this Decree shall be null and void at the option of any party and the accompanying complaint shall be dismissed without costs and without prejudice. In such an event, no party shall be bound by the requirements of this Decree. This paragraph shall not create a basis for withdrawal of consent or termination of this Decree other than those created by the terms of this Decree or that exist by operation of law or equity.

 XXX. INDEMNIFICATION

 87. Defendants agree to indemnify and save and hold the State of Washington, its employees, and agents harmless from any and all claims or causes of action for death or injuries to persons or for loss or damage to the Site arising from or on account of acts or omissions of Defendants, their officers, employees, agents, or contractors in entering into and implementing this Decree. However, Defendants shall not indemnify the State of Washington nor save nor hold its employees and agents harmless from any claims or causes of action arising out of the negligent acts or omissions of the State of Washington, or employees or agents of the State, or its contractors in implementing the activities pursuant to this Decree.

 XXXI. CLAIMS AGAINST THE STATE

 88. Without in any way impairing the rights of the MDA or the City to seek and utilize grants and loans pursuant to RWC 70.105D.070, Defendants hereby agree that they will not seek to recover any costs accrued in implementing the remedial action required by this Decree from the State of Washington or any of its agencies and further that Defendants will make no claim against the state toxics control account or any local toxics control account for any costs incurred in implementing this Decree. Except as provided above, however, Defendants expressly reserve their rights to seek to recover any costs incurred in implementing this Decree from any other PLP.

 XXXII. EFFECTIVE DATE

 89. This Decree is effective only after the date on which title to the Site vests in Defendants and the date on which the Court enters the Decree.

 So ordered this _____ day of __________________, 2001.

 _________________________________________

 JUDGE

 King County Superior Court

 The undersigned parties enter into this Prospective Purchaser Consent Decree on the date specified below.

 THE SEATTLE ART MUSEUM

 Lynn Manolopoulos, WSBA #21069

 DATED DATED

 CITY OF SEATTLE

 Peter Hapke, WSBA #23159

 DATED DATED

 MUSEUM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

 Lynn Manolopoulos, WSBA #21069

 DATED_____________________________ DATED_____________________________

 CHRISTINE O. GREGOIRE STATE OF WASHINGTON

 Attorney General, by and through DEPARTMENT OF ECOLOGY

 STEVEN J. THIELE, WSBA # James Pendowski

 Assistant Attorney General Program Manager

 Attorney for Plaintiff Toxics Cleanup Program

 State of Washington

 Department of Ecology

 DATED DATED

 EXHIBIT C

 PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER CONSENT DECREE RE: 10 BROAD STREET, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

 L:\LEGIS\FINANCE\BILLS\113598c.doc

 ii

 ATTORNEY GENERAL OF WASHINGTON

 Ecology Division

 PO Box 40117

 Olympia, WA 98504-0117

 FAX (360) 438-7743

 ENVIRONMENTAL AGREEMENT

 This Environmental Agreement ("Agreement") is made and entered into by and between THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("CITY"), a Washington municipal corporation, the SEATTLE ART MUSEUM ("SAM"), a Washington non- profit corporation, and the MUSEUM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ("MDA"), a public authority created by the CITY. In this Agreement, the CITY, SAM and MDA will be collectively referred to as "Parties" and individually as a "Party".

 RECITALS

 A. SAM intends to develop a new facility to be known as the Olympic Sculpture Park, dedicated to the display of works of sculpture in an outdoor, public park setting, and SAM contemplates cooperation with the CITY and the MDA in the development of the new facility.

 B. SAM entered into an assignable Real Estate Purchaser and Sale Agreement with Larmar, Inc., Marlene V. Ivy and Fortune Real Estate Investments, Inc., dated October 27, 2000 ("Purchase Agreement") for property located at 10 Broad Street, Seattle, Washington, as legally described in Exhibit A (the "Property"). The Property is adjacent to property already acquired for development of the Olympic Sculpture Park.

 C. The Parties wish to include the Property in the Olympic Sculpture Park. To achieve that end, SAM intends to assign its right to purchase the Property to the CITY, and the CITY intends to purchase the Property pursuant to Ordinance _________.

 D. Hazardous Substances, as defined by federal, state and local laws ("Hazardous Substances"), are present on the Property. The Parties have negotiated a Prospective Purchaser Consent Decree ("PPA") with the Washington Department of Ecology, which outlines certain cleanup actions to be performed at the Property. The specific cleanup actions to be performed are defined in the Cleanup Action Plan and the Sampling/Monitoring and Contingency Plan (collectively, the "Cleanup Plans"), which are exhibits to the PPA.

 E. The Parties wish to allocate responsibility for performance of work required pursuant to the Cleanup Plans and for all other liability associated with environmental conditions on the Property.

 THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and the mutual covenants, agreements and conditions contained herein, the Parties agree as follows:

 AGREEMENT

 1. The CITY Agreement. SAM and the MDA shall perform all work required pursuant to the Cleanup Plans, but only if SAM and the MDA enter into a long-term agreement with the CITY for development, operation and maintenance of the Property or for its conveyance to the MDA (the "CITY Agreement").

 1.1 SAM and MDA Obligations. Upon execution of the CITY Agreement, SAM and the MDA shall be solely responsible for performance of all cleanup actions required pursuant to the Cleanup Plans, and shall release, indemnify, defend and hold harmless the CITY, its officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns from and against any claims, liabilities, obligations, damages, demands, costs, expenses, and causes of action of all kinds (including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs) ("Claims") related in any way to the performance of investigations and cleanup actions required: (1) pursuant to the Cleanup Plans; and (2) all "Reopeners", as defined in Section XVI of the PPA, including Natural Resource Damages ("NRDs" as defined below), related to Hazardous Substances on or under the Property, but not for Reopeners, including NRDs, related to Hazardous Substances emanating from the Property, such as Hazardous Substances in the surrounding rights-of-way or sediments. NRDs shall mean all Natural Resources damages as define by federal, state or local laws.

 1.2 City Obligations. Upon execution of the CITY Agreement, the CITY shall be solely liable for all Claims related in any way to Reopeners, including NRDs, for Hazardous Substances emanating from the Property, such as Hazardous Substances in the surrounding rights-of-way or sediments, and shall release, indemnify, defend and hold harmless SAM and the MDA, and their officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns from and against any Claims related in any way to Reopeners, including NRDs, for Hazardous Substances emanating from the Property, such as Hazardous Substances in the surrounding rights-of-way or sediments.

 1.3 Obligations Until Execution of the CITY Agreement. Until such time as the Parties enter into the CITY Agreement, the CITY shall be solely responsible for any and all obligations in the PPA, including but not limited to the cleanup actions required pursuant to the Cleanup Plans, and shall release, indemnify, defend and hold harmless SAM and the MDA, and their officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns, from and against any Claims related in any way to Hazardous Substances on, under or emanating from the Property, including but not limited to any Claims for performance of cleanup actions required pursuant to the PPA and the Cleanup Plans and for Reopeners, including NRDs.

 2. General Provisions.

 2.1 Entire Agreement. This Agreement and its exhibits constitute the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the Property and supersede all prior agreements, whether oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement shall not amend or supersede any agreements among or between the Parties concerning the former Unocal Marketing Terminal, located adjacent to the Property.

 2.2 Modification. This Agreement may be modified only by written agreement of the Parties.

 2.3 Waiver. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement. No waiver shall be binding unless executed in writing by the Party making the waiver.

 2.4 Notices. Any notices made under the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed received when (a) personally served, (b) three (3) calendar days after mailing by certified or registered United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (c) one (1) day after transmission by facsimile machine, with transmission and receipt confirmed, and a copy sent by United States mail, addressed as follows:

 To the CITY:

 With a copy to:

 To SAM:

 With a copy by:

 To the MDA:

 With a copy to:

 The Parties may designate other individuals to receive notice pursuant to this Section by providing the other Parties with written notice of such change at least ten (10) days in advance of the change.

 2.5 Assignment. This Agreement and any rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned without the prior written consent of the Parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

 2.6 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and all counterparts shall be deemed originals, but together shall constitute one Agreement.

 2.7 Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington and venue shall lie in King County, Washington for any action arising under this Agreement.

 2.8 Construction. This captions and headings contained herein are for convenience only and shall not enlarge, diminish or affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

 2.9 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is deemed invalid, illegal, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such determination shall have no effect or impairment on any remaining provisions. If necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Agreement, the Parties will negotiate in good faith a replacement provision.

 2.10 Authorized Signatures. Each of the signatories hereto hereby represents that he or she has the right, power, legal capacity and authority to execute this Agreement and to bind the entity he or she represents to this Agreement and the obligations hereunder. Each Party further represents and warrants that it has obtained all necessary approvals or authorizations necessary to bind that Party to this Agreement, and its obligations hereunder, including without limitation any board approvals, resolutions, or CITY Council acts or approvals.

 2.11 Incorporation of Recitals. The Recitals are hereby incorporated into this Agreement by this reference.

 2.12 Attorneys' and Consultants' Fees. In any action to enforce or interpret this Agreement, the prevailing Party shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys' and consultants' fees in addition to any other relief to which such Party may be entitled. In the event that the CITY Attorneys' hourly billing rate does not include overhead, including without limitation staff and clerical support and operations, the CITY shall also be entitled to recover its reasonable overhead costs directly related to legal work performed in such actions.

 2.13 Successors and Assigns. Except as provided herein, this Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Parties' respective successors, assigns, heirs, administrators, trustees and personal representatives.

 2.14 Survival. All terms and conditions of this Agreement shall survive any purchase of the Property by any Party.

 2.15 Effective Date. This Agreement shall become effective on the date when the transaction contemplated by the Purchase Agreement closes ("Effective Date").

 2.16 Further Assurances. The Parties agree to execute such additional instructions and documents, including without limitation necessary access agreements, as are reasonably required to effectuate this Agreement.

 IN WITNESS HEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the first date written below.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE SEATTLE ART MUSEUM

 By:  By:

Name:  Name:

Its: Its:

Date:  Date:

MUSEUM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

 By:

Name:

Its:

Date:

STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of ________________, 2001, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared ________________________, to me known to be the _____________________ of the City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that _____ is authorized to execute the said instrument and that the seal affixed is the corporate seal of said corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 Name:

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at:

 My Commission expires:

STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of _____________, 2001, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _______________________, to me known to be the _____________________ of the Seattle Art Museum, the nonprofit corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that _____ is authorized to execute the said instrument and that the seal affixed is the corporate seal of said corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 Name:

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at:

 My Commission expires:

STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss.

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _____ day of ______________, 2001, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _____________________, to me known to be the ___________________ of the Museum Development Authority, the nonprofit corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that _____ is authorized to execute the said instrument and that the seal affixed is the corporate seal of said corporation.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 Name:

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at:

 My Commission expires:

EXHIBIT A

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 That certain real property located in King County, Washington and legally described as follows:

 EXHIBIT D

 5

 1

 L:\LEGIS\FINANCE\BILLS\113598d.doc

 Seattle

 EXHIBIT D

 7

 1

 L:\LEGIS\FINANCE\BILLS\113598d.doc

 Seattle

```
