

********

**Council Bill Number: 113542**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120252**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a lease with Theatre Puget Sound for use of space in the Seattle Center House.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** January 29, 2001
   
**Vote:** 6-0 (Excused: Pageler; Absent: Nicastro, Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** February 5, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** February 5, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** January 22, 2001
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts & Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LEASES, CENTER-HOUSE, THEATERS, PERFORMING-ARTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Center; authorizing the Seattle Center Director to execute a lease with Theatre Puget Sound for use of space in the Seattle Center House.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. As requested by the Seattle Center Director and recommended by the Mayor, the Seattle Center Director is authorized to execute, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a lease with Theatre Puget Sound for use of space in the Seattle Center House, substantially in the form of the agreement attached hereto and identified as "AMENDED AND RESTATED LEASE BETWEEN SEATTLE CENTER AND THEATRE PUGET SOUND."

 Section 2. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2001.

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001.

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 Attachments:

 Amended and Restated Lease Between Seattle Center and Theatre Puget Sound

 Exhibit A-1 -- Floor Plan - Fourth Floor Leased Premises

 Exhibit A-2 -- Floor Plan - First Floor Leased Premises

 Exhibit B -- Seattle Center Vision Statement

 Exhibit C -- Rules and Regulations During Occupancy of the Premises

 nd

 D: 2001

 1/10/01

 V #1

 AMENDED AND RESTATED LEASE

 BETWEEN

 SEATTLE CENTER AND THEATRE PUGET SOUND

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 1. INITIAL TERM OF LEASE. 1

 2. PREMISES DESCRIPTION. 1

 3. RENT. 2

 4. TIME AND PLACE OF PAYMENT. 3

 5. USE OF PREMISES. 3

 6. USE OF PREMISES BY SEATTLE CENTER. 5

 7. UTILITY SERVICES AND PARKING. 6

 8. ACCEPTANCE OF PREMISES. 7

 9. CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATIONS, IMPROVEMENTS, AND ADDITIONS. 7

 10. LIABILITY. 7

 11. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW 11

 12. CITY'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS, GROUNDS & ACTIVITIES. 14

 13. CITY ACCESS TO, & INSPECTION, REPAIR & IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES & OTHER PROPERTY 15

 14. ASSIGNMENTS, SUBLEASES AND OTHER INTEREST TRANSFERS: 15

 15. EXCUSE & SUSPENSION OF OBLIGATIONS (FORCE MAJEURE). 16

 16. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION: 17

 17. DEFAULT & BREACH. 17

 18. SURRENDER OF PREMISES; HOLDING OVER. 20

 19. NOTICES. 21

 20. NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED. 22

 21. DEFINITION AND AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR. 22

 22. AMENDMENTS. 22

 23. NO WAIVER. 22

 24. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. 22

 25. USE OF LANGUAGE. 23

 26. CAPTIONS. 23

 27. INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS. 23

 28. GOVERNING LAW & VENUE. 23

 29. BINDING EFFECT. 23

 30. NO BROKER. 23

 31. BOOKS AND RECORDS. 23

 32. AUDIT. 24

 33. NO NUISANCES OR OBJECTIONABLE ACTIVITY. 24

 34. NO USE OF COMMON AREAS. 24

 35. OBJECTIONABLE MERCHANDISE OR MATERIAL. 25

 36. ADVERTISING & PUBLICITY. 25

 37. INSTALLATION OR INTEGRATION OF ANY WORK OF VISUAL ART ON PREMISES. 26

 38. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED LEASE. 27

 AMENDED AND RESTATED LEASE

 BETWEEN

 SEATTLE CENTER AND THEATRE PUGET SOUND

 THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED LEASE is entered into this ____ day of ___________, 2001, by THE CITY OF SEATTLE ("City"), a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, acting by and through the Director of the Seattle Center Department ("Director"), and THEATRE PUGET SOUND ("Lessee"), a Washington non-profit corporation.

 WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 120027, the City and Lessee entered into a lease of certain Seattle Center House facilities, including the facility known as Studio 4, for a term ending January 15, 2004 (the "Lease"), to assist nonprofit organizations and individual artists to develop, teach and/or perform their creative products; and

 WHEREAS, Lessee is not in default with respect to any of its obligations under the Lease; and

 WHEREAS, since the execution of the Lease, Seattle Center has regained possession of the Center House Performance Studio, a fully outfitted theater and associated facilities that was previously under a long-term lease to an individual tenant; and

 WHEREAS, the City has reviewed and accepted a proposal from Lessee to operate and manage the Seattle Center's Center House Performance Studio, dressing rooms, rehearsal hall and main lobby area; and

 WHEREAS, Theatre Puget Sound has a history of unifying and strengthening the theater community by providing programs, resources, and services, to emerging artistic groups which is consistent with the vision and mission of Seattle Center;

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties agree to amend and restate the Lease as follows:

 1. INITIAL TERM OF LEASE.

 This Lease shall commence January 1, 2000, and shall expire January 15, 2004 (the "Term"), unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions hereof. The period during which Lessee shall be permitted to occupy the Premises shall commence January 1, 2000 and end December 31, 2003.

 2. PREMISES DESCRIPTION.

 In consideration of the payment of rent and Lessee's performance of and compliance with the other covenants, conditions, and terms of this Lease, City hereby leases to Lessee, and Lessee hereby leases from City, certain portions of the building at Seattle Center commonly known as "Seattle Center House" and located on the following real property:

 Lot 1-12, Block 46, D.T. Denny's Third Addition to North Seattle, according to plat recorded in Vol. 1 of Plats, Page 145, Records of King County, Washington.

 Those portions of the Seattle Center House subject to this Lease (collectively, "the Premises") are depicted on the attached Exhibit A-1 and A-2, and are identified as follows:

 A. Center House, fourth floor, Rooms A, B, C, D, E, F, and H, and Suite No. 401, consisting of approximately 7,826 square feet. Room H is referred to in this Lease as "Theatre 4."

 B. Center House, first floor, Center House Performance Studio theater, rehearsal hall, dressing rooms, and main lobby, consisting of approximately 9,000 square feet.

 3. RENT.

 A. Definition of "Gross Receipts". As used in this Lease, "Gross Receipts" means the total fees realized by Lessee from rental of the Premises by third-party licensees, regardless of collections, including all deposits not refunded to licensees. An installment or credit payment for use shall be deemed to have been made for the full price on the date of use regardless of when payment is received.

 "Gross Receipts" does not include the amount of money refunded to and not merely credited to the account of licensees; the Washington State sales tax and any other tax imposed by any government agency directly on sales; and admission taxes collected by Lessee. (Business and occupation taxes are not taxes imposed directly on sales and shall not be deducted from the amount of "gross receipts" reported to the City.) "Gross Receipts" shall not include any fees Lessee receives from licensees for theater technical support or services; receipts from food vending concessions; and Lessee's share of any ticket revenues from theatrical performances.

 B. Payments to the City and Other Financial Obligations.

 1.) Rent. Lessee shall pay the City as rent fifty percent (50%) of all Gross Receipts. Rent shall be paid semiannually, according to the schedule in Section 4.

 2.) Maintenance Fund. Lessee shall deduct twenty five dollars ($25.00) from the user fee for every first and, if applicable, second night's performance in Theater 4, and such amount as shall be agreed upon by the parties, annually, from the user fee from performances in the Center House Performance Studio. These amounts shall be deposited in a separate interest-bearing account at a depository approved by the Director and shall be used solely for the purpose of minor repairs to and replacement of theatrical equipment on the Premises. The City's and Lessee's designated representatives shall meet from time to time, but no less frequently than once per year to discuss and mutually agree upon the expenses that will be paid for from this maintenance account. No expenditure from the maintenance account shall be made without the approval of the City. Copies of receipts for all expenditures shall be provided to the City semiannually at the time rent is paid. Lessee shall remit the balance of the funds in the maintenance account to the City at the expiration or termination of this Lease. All such theatrical equipment shall become the property of the City upon termination of this Lease.

 4. TIME AND PLACE OF PAYMENT.

 A. Due Date: Payment of rent to the City shall be made each year according to the following schedule:

 Lease Period

 Due Date

 January 1st - June 30th

 July 1

 July 1st - December 31st

 January 1

 B. Place of Payment. All payments shall be delivered to The City of Seattle, Seattle Center Accounting Office, 305 Harrison Street, Seattle, Washington, 98109, or to such other address as the Director shall specify by notice to Lessee.

 C. Delinquencies. All sums due and owing to the City shall be delinquent if not paid on or before the fifth (5th) day after the date due. In the event of any delinquency, Lessee shall also pay the City a service charge of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per month, or such larger sum as may be established by ordinance, for each month the delinquency continues plus interest on such delinquent sum at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per annum, or such larger percentage as may be established by ordinance, from the date due to the date of payment.

 D. Returned Check, Insufficient Funds. If any payment or check for payment is returned for insufficient funds, Lessee shall owe as an administrative charge an additional $20.00, or such larger sum as may be established by ordinance.

 5. USE OF PREMISES.

 Lessee shall use Suite No. 401 solely as office space for performing its obligations under this Lease. The remainder of the Premises shall be used as follows:

 A. Lessee shall license the fourth-floor rooms to non-profit organizations and individual performing and visual artists on a short-term basis for rehearsal and performance space. Lessee shall license the first floor rooms to third parties on a short- term basis for artistic performances, festivals, meetings and other events.

 B. For all third-party uses of the Premises, Lessee shall charge a user fee according to a schedule approved by the Director that reflects the parties' mutual philosophy and intent of providing low cost access to performance spaces by community arts groups. The parties shall review and update the user fee schedule at least once per year. In addition to the user fee, Lessee may charge licensees a fee for providing technical services, cleaning and support. The Director shall review and approve the amount of all technical service fees annually.

 C. The City shall provide heating and lighting for the Premises and shall provide and service recycling containers and waste receptacles in the hallways. The City shall deliver the first floor rooms to Lessee in a clean and orderly condition. Thereafter, Lessee shall be solely responsible for such cleaning and minor maintenance as may be necessary to maintain the facilities in a condition comparable to other Seattle Center House facilities. The City shall provide basic custodial services to the fourth floor facilities at least one time per week. These services shall include trash removal, sweeping and dust mopping, and wet mop or scrubbing of floors. From time to time, based upon Seattle Center's assessment of the level of soil and wear, the City will provide window cleaning, horizontal surface dusting, and waxing and buffing of the floors, all to a level comparable to that provided to other City-occupied Center House facilities. The City may elect, but shall not be obligated, to provide additional custodial services for the Premises. Costs for other services such as telephones, and cleaning and custodial services beyond those provided by the City are to be borne by Lessee.

 D. Lessee shall conduct its activities in a manner that is consistent with the Seattle Center Vision Statement, Exhibit "B", and shall comply with the Rules and Regulations regarding the use of the Premises specified in Exhibit "C" attached hereto and incorporated by this reference.

 E. Throughout the term of this Lease and upon not more than forty- eight (48) hours' notice, either party shall have the right to schedule and use for its own purposes, without a fee being assessed, any room in the Premises not already licensed to a third party.

 F. On ten (10) occasions per calendar year, either party shall have the right to schedule and use for its own purposes, without a fee being assessed, any fourth floor room in the Premises not already licensed to a third party.

 G. On twenty (20) occasions per calendar year, the City shall have the right to schedule and use for its own purposes, without a fee being assessed, any first floor room in the Premises not already licensed to a third party.

 H. On ten (10) occasions per calendar year, the Lessee shall have the right to schedule and use for its own purposes, without a fee being assessed, any first floor room in the Premises not already licensed to a third party.

 I. Lessee may allow licensees to operate a food vending concession serving ticketed theater patrons on the day of performances, only, and no earlier than six o'clock p.m. (6:00 p.m.). The food concession shall only sell food classified as "Exempt" under the Seattle Food Code. In no case shall "hot dogs" or similar sausage- type products, whole bean coffee, espresso-based coffee drinks, alcoholic beverages, or goods requiring hot table or kitchen facilities be sold. The City reserves the right to temporarily or permanently suspend Lessee's right to allow food vending concession operations if the City incurs additional maintenance or custodial costs related to the food concession operations. The Lessee may allow a licensee to secure catering services.

 J. No member of the general public shall be permitted on the Premises outside the official hours of operation for the Seattle Center House except in accordance with procedures approved by the Director. Unless approved, all members of the public who are not Lessee employees, Lessee-contracted workers or theater production staff must leave the Seattle Center House before its closing time. Lessee shall inform the City with as much prior notice as possible if it will have employees, contracted workers or production staff in the Seattle Center House after hours and provide the Seattle Center Emergency Services Unit with a roster of these staff.

 6. USE OF PREMISES BY SEATTLE CENTER.

 Notwithstanding any provision of this Lease to the contrary, Seattle Center shall have the right to use the following portions of the Premises at the times and for the purposes indicated, without any fee being assessed:

 A. Fourth Floor Rooms.

 1.) Summer Academy :

 2000

 July 19 - August 4

 2001

 July 25 - August 10

 2002

 Dates to be selected before books opened to the public

 2003

 Dates to be selected before books opened to the public

 2.) Academy Follow-up :

 2000

 April 7 - April 14

 2001

 April 6 - April 13

 2002

 Spring break week; to be selected before books opened to the public

 2003

 Spring break week; to be selected before books opened to the public

 3.) Miscellaneous Academy Needs:

 Five (5) additional free days in each room, to be used on a space available basis.

 B. First Floor Rooms.

 1.) Academy:

 2000

 February 15 - February 23

 2001

 July 25 - August 10

 2.) Seattle Center Festivals:

 2000

 August 29 - September 5; Bumbershoot

 2001

 May 10 - May 19; Seattle International Children's Festival

 2001

 May 23 - May 29; Folklife Festival

 2001

 August 29 - September 5; Bumbershoot

 3.) Academy and Festivals for Years 2002 and 2003:

 Seattle Center shall have the right to use the facilities on the first floor of the Premises during the years 2002 and 2003 on comparable dates and for such uses as are indicated in subsections 1.) and 2.) above, upon a minimum of 90 days' notice to Lessee.

 C. Seattle Center requires occasional access to the fourth floor storage room north of Room "A". Lessee shall permit Seattle Center personnel such access, which will be at times mutually agreed to by the City and Lessee.

 7. UTILITY SERVICES AND PARKING.

 A. Special Services and Facilities Subject to Prior City Approval, and at Lessee's Cost: Lessee, directly or through a third party, may install, secure, maintain and repair, at no expense to the City, any utility service related to Lessee's operations and necessary for its use of the Premises that is not provided or maintained by the City. Any special utility or waste disposal facility, item of equipment, or service beyond that provided to the Premises by the City, must be installed only in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Director and other appropriate City officials, in writing, in advance of such installation. Lessee shall not install on the Premises any fixture, furnishing, or trade equipment that exceeds the capacity of any utility or waste facility for such location. Lessee shall pay, before delinquency, all fees and charges for the use, installation, change, and relocation of any point or means of service by any utility or waste line or system. Lessee shall make arrangements with the utility service provider for the separate metering, where possible, of such service and the direct billing to Lessee for the delivery of such service.

 B. Cooperative Parking: Seattle Center has "Cooperative Parking Status" under Title 23 of the Seattle Municipal Code. Accordingly, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, the City does not provide any parking that is specifically for or associated with the Premises (including but not limited to that required by or for Lessee's staff, suppliers or customers), and whatever general, non- reserved parking the City makes available for Seattle Center tenants and their respective staffs, suppliers, and customers shall be shared on a first-come, first-served basis.

 8. ACCEPTANCE OF PREMISES.

 Lessee has inspected and examined the physical condition of the Premises and accepts the Premises in their present condition as of the commencement date of the Term hereof. The parties acknowledge that the City has made no representations, statements or warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to the condition of the Premises or the use or occupancy authorized other than those contained in this Lease. The City provides and Lessee accepts the Premises "as is". The City shall not be responsible for any non- custodial facility maintenance or repair of the improvements and equipment comprising Theater 4. The City shall have the sole option of performing non-custodial maintenance of the first floor facilities. An election by the City to provide or pay for any maintenance or repair shall not be construed to be an obligation on the part of the City to make such repairs in the future.

 9. CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATIONS, IMPROVEMENTS, AND ADDITIONS.

 Lessee shall not make any alteration in, or addition or improvement to the Premises unless the same has been specifically approved in writing by the Director. Any expense incurred in performing mutually agreed-upon alterations, improvements, repairs or new construction necessary for Lessee's use and occupancy shall be borne solely by Lessee.

 10. LIABILITY.

 A. Indemnification: Lessee shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all losses, claims, actions, damages, costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by it by reason of or resulting from any negligent, reckless or intentional act or omission of Lessee or any of its agents, employees, contractors, or invitees in connection with Lessee's use or occupancy of the Premises, including trademark, patent, and copyright infringement. In the event any suit or action is brought against the City, Lessee, upon notice of the commencement thereof, shall defend the same, at no cost and expense to the City, and promptly satisfy any final judgment adverse to the City or to the City and Lessee jointly; provided, that in the event the Director determines that one or more principles of governmental or public law are involved, the City retains the right to participate in such action. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as requiring Lessee to indemnify the City against liability for damages arising out of bodily injury to persons or damage to property caused by or resulting from the sole negligence of the City or any of its officers, employees, or agents. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, in the event any bodily injury or damage to property results from or arises out of any construction, alteration, repair, addition to, subtraction from improvement to, or maintenance of, any excavation, building, structure, project, development or improvement attached to real estate, including moving and demolition in connection therewith, that has been undertaken or performed by or on behalf of Lessee, the indemnification provided pursuant to this subsection shall be limited to the extent of the negligence of Lessee and those acting by or for Lessee. Lessee hereby waives with respect to the City only, its immunity under Title 51, RCW, the Industrial Insurance Act. The indemnification provided in this subsection shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

 B. Liability Insurance: Lessee shall secure and maintain in full force and effect at all times during the Term of this Lease, at no cost or expense to the City, one or more policies of commercial general liability insurance as required below.

 C. Liability Limits: The limitations of liability shall not be less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), per occurrence, Combined Single Limit (bodily injury and property damage) and One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) Annual Aggregate with a deductible or self-insurance retention of no more than Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500) for property damage, only; Provided, that in the event the Director deems such insurance to be inadequate to fully protect the interests of the City and Lessee hereunder, Lessee shall increase said coverage limits to such amounts as the Director shall deem reasonably adequate to provide such protection, which increase shall be completed within sixty (60) days after the date of notice that Lessee's insurance coverage is deemed to be inadequate. Insurance coverage in the minimum amounts set forth herein shall not be construed to relieve Lessee from liability in excess of such coverage.

 D. Coverage: Coverage shall be provided for liability for any injury, death, damage and/or loss of any sort sustained by any person, organization or corporation (including Lessee and any of its officers, employees and agents) in connection with or arising out of any act or omission of (a) Lessee; or (b) any of Lessee's officers, employees, agents, assigns or invitees; or (c) Lessee and City or any of their officers, employees, agents, assigns, or invitees, jointly, upon the Premises; and for any activity performed by Lessee under this Lease and shall include, but need not be limited to the following types (described in insurance industry terminology):

 Premises operations liability (O, L & T or M & C);

 Blanket contractual liability;

 Broad form property damage;

 Independent contractor (O & CP.);

 Automobile liability for owned, leased, hired or non-owned vehicles;

 Products and/or completed operations;

 Personal injury, including coverages A, B, and C with no employee exclusion;

 Fire legal liability.

 All such insurance shall provide coverage on a "per occurrence" rather than on a "claims made" basis, and shall be primary to any other insurance that may be valid and collectible. Lessee is not required to provide insurance coverage against City's sole negligence.

 E. Fire and Extended Coverage: Lessee shall secure and maintain at all times during the Term of this Lease, at no cost or expense to the City, one or more policies of fire, and extended coverage equal to not less than ninety percent (90%) of the value of Lessee's additions, alterations and improvements to the Premises, which value shall be determined by the Director, from time to time, and identified in a notice to Lessee. Under such insurance, any loss payment shall be made payable to the City, which shall hold the same in trust for the rebuilding, repairing, replacing or restoring of the Premises, including all improvements, additions and alterations thereto.

 F. Authorized Carriers: The insurance described in this Section shall be obtained from one or more insurance companies duly authorized to issue such policies in the State of Washington, and having a rating of at least "A", as rated in Best's Key Rating Guide or a successor or substitute rating service accepted by Lessee and Director.

 G. Naming of City As Additional Insured: The City shall be named as an additional insured in the policies to be secured under this Section hereof, by an endorsement declaring that the coverages provided by such policy to the City or any other named insured shall not be terminated, reduced or otherwise changed as to face value without providing at least forty five (45) days prior written notice to the following:

 Contracts & Concessions

 Risk Manager

 Seattle Center Department

 Finance Department

 The City of Seattle

 The City of Seattle

 305 Harrison

 750 Arctic Bldg.

 Seattle, WA 98109

 Seattle, WA 98104

 or to such other addressees and addresses as the City may hereafter specify.

 H. Evidence of Insurance: Lessee shall deliver to City's Risk Manager, or such official's functional successor or designee(s), a copy of the declaration pages for all policies required under this Section, and all endorsements thereto, or such other documentation as may establish to the reasonable satisfaction of the City's Risk Manager that Lessee has secured or renewed and is maintaining insurance as required by this Lease, as follows:

 1.) On or before the first Premises use by Lessee or any of its sublessees under this Lease; and

 2.) Within seven (7) calendar days prior to the expiration or renewal date of each such insurance policy; and

 3.) Within seven (7) calendar days after Lessee's receipt of a written request therefor.

 I. Assumption of Risk: The placement and storage of personal property in the Premises or any other Seattle Center facility shall be at the sole risk of Lessee.

 J. No Entry onto Premises upon Failure to Insure: The Director shall notify Lessee whenever the Director has a reasonable belief that Lessee has failed to secure or maintain insurance as required by this Lease. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, after its receipt of any such notice, Lessee shall not enter upon any Seattle Center facility until Lessee has secured and is maintaining insurance as required by this Lease.

 K. Worker's Compensation: In addition to the above coverage, Lessee shall provide Worker's Compensation coverage for its employees in accordance with the Washington State laws and Department of Labor and Industries regulations.

 L. Coverage for Theater Activities: Lessee shall ensure that liability coverage(s) of levels satisfactory to the City are secured for performances in Theater 4 and the Center House Performance Studio, and that the City of Seattle is named as an additional insured on all such insurance policies. All such insurance shall provide coverage on a "per occurrence" rather than on a "claims made" basis, and shall be primary to any other insurance that may be apply to the insured activities.

 11. COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

 A. General Requirements: Lessee, at no cost to the City, shall perform and comply with all applicable, current and future laws of the United States and the State of Washington; the Charter and Municipal Code of The City of Seattle; and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of their administrative agencies and the officers thereof. Lessee shall use its best efforts to ensure that every person it admits to the Premises similarly performs and complies with the same. Whenever Lessee or its authorized representative is informed of any violation of any such law, ordinance, rule, regulation, license, permit, or authorization committed by it or any person admitted to the Premises, Lessee shall immediately desist from and/or prevent or correct such violation.

 B. Licenses & Other Authorizations: Lessee, at no cost to the City, shall secure and maintain in full force and effect during the Term of this Lease, all required licenses, permits, and similar legal authorizations, and comply with all requirements thereof.

 C. Taxes: Lessee shall pay, before delinquency, all taxes, levies, and assessments arising from its activities on or occupancy of the Premises, including but not limited to taxes arising out of the activity or business conducted on the Premises; taxes levied on its property, equipment and improvements on the Premises; and taxes on Lessee's interest in this Lease and any leasehold interest deemed to have been created thereby under RCW Ch. 82.29A; and in the event the State of Washington makes any demand upon the City for payment of leasehold excise taxes resulting from Lessee's occupancy of the Premises or withholds funds due to the City to enforce collections of leasehold excise taxes, Lessee shall remit the taxes demanded together with any interest and penalties associated therewith or, at no expense to the City, contest such collection action and indemnify the City for all sums expended by, or withheld by the State of Washington from the City in connection with such taxation.

 D. Nondiscrimination & Affirmative Action: Lessee shall comply with all applicable equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination laws of the United States, the State of Washington, and The City of Seattle, including the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC"), notably SMC Ch. 20.44, and rules, regulations, orders, and directives of the associated administrative agencies and their officers.

 E. Recycling of Waste Materials: Lessee, at no cost to the City, shall collect, sort and separate into such categories as may be legally required, all solid waste products on the Premises, and recycle all such products that are locally accepted for recycling. Each separately sorted category of waste products shall be placed in separate receptacles reasonably approved by the City, which receptacles shall be dumped or removed from the Seattle Center at such minimum frequency as is specified by the Director. The City reserves the right to refuse to collect or accept from Lessee any waste product that is not sorted and separated as required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation, and to require Lessee to arrange for the collection of the same at Lessee's sole cost and expense using a contractor satisfactory to the City. Lessee shall pay all costs, fines, penalties, and damages that may be imposed on City or Lessee as a consequence of Lessee's failure to comply with the provisions of this subsection.

 F. Environmental Standards:

 1.) Definitions: For the purpose of this subsection, the following terms shall be defined as provided below unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:

 a.) "Laws or Regulation" shall mean any environmentally related local, state or federal law, regulation, ordinance or order (including without limitation any final order of any court of competent jurisdiction of which Lessee has knowledge), now or hereafter in effect including but not limited to the Clean Air Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Re-authorization Act of 1986, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act as amended by the Solid and Hazardous Waste Amendments of 1984, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, and the Solid Waste Disposal Act.

 b.) "Hazardous Substances" shall mean any hazardous, toxic, or dangerous substance, waste, or material that is regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup.

 2.) Restrictions on Lessee Activities: Lessee shall not cause to occur upon the Premises or permit the Premises to be used to generate, produce, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, or process Hazardous Substances except in compliance with all applicable Laws and Regulations. Lessee shall provide the Director with Lessee's USEPA Waste Generator Number (if any), and with a copy of every Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), Generator Annual Dangerous Waste Report, environmentally related regulatory permit or approval (including every revision or renewal thereof) and any correspondence Lessee receives from, or provides to, any governmental unit or agency in connection with Lessee's handling of Hazardous Substances or the presence, or possible presence, of any Hazardous Substance on the Premises.

 3.) Correction of Violations: If Lessee violates any of the terms of this section concerning the presence or use of Hazardous Substances or the handling or storing of hazardous wastes, Lessee shall promptly take such action as is necessary to mitigate and correct the violation. If Lessee does not act in a prudent and prompt manner, the City reserves the right, but not the obligation, to act in place of Lessee (for which purpose Lessee hereby appoints the City as its agent), to come onto the Premises and to take such action as the City deems necessary to ensure compliance or to mitigate the violation. If the Director has a reasonable belief that Lessee is in violation of any law or regulation, or that any action or inaction of Lessee presents a threat of violation or a threat of damage to the Premises, the City reserves the right to enter onto the Premises and take such corrective or mitigating action as the Director deems necessary. All costs and expenses incurred by the City in connection with any such action shall become immediately due and payable by Lessee upon presentation of an invoice therefor.

 4.) Testing: Lessee shall provide the City with access to the Premises to conduct an annual environmental inspection in January of each year of the Term hereof or at such other time(s) as may be mutually agreed upon. In addition, Lessee shall permit the City access to the Premises at any time, upon reasonable notice, for the purpose of conducting environmental testing at the City's expense. Lessee shall not conduct or permit others to conduct environmental testing on the Premises without first obtaining the Director's written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. Lessee shall promptly inform the Director of the existence of any environmental study, evaluation, investigation or results of any environmental testing conducted on the Premises whenever the same becomes known to Lessee, and Lessee shall provide a written copy of the same to the Director within thirty (30) days after the preparation of any such material.

 5.) Removal of Hazardous Substances Prior to Vacation of Premises: Prior to vacation of the Premises, in addition to all other requirements under this Lease, Lessee shall remove any Hazardous Substances placed on the Premises during the Term of this Lease or Lessee's possession of the Premises, and shall demonstrate such removal to the Director's reasonable satisfaction.

 6.) Reimbursement of City Costs: In addition to any remedy provided above, the City shall be entitled to full reimbursement from Lessee whenever the City incurs any cost resulting from Lessee's violation of any of the terms of this Subsection 11.F., including, but not limited to, the cost of clean-up or any other remedial activity, fines, penalties assessed directly against the City, injuries to third persons or other property, and loss of revenue resulting from an inability to re-lease or market the Premises due to its environmental condition as the result of Lessee's violation of the terms of this Lease (even if such loss of revenue occurs after the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease).

 7.) Indemnification: In addition to all other indemnities provided in this Lease, and notwithstanding the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease, Lessee agrees to and shall defend, indemnify and hold the City free and harmless from any and all claims, causes of action, regulatory demands, liabilities, fines, penalties, losses, and expenses, including without limitation cleanup or other remedial costs (and including attorneys' fees, costs and all other reasonable litigation expenses when incurred and whether incurred in defense of actual litigation or in reasonable anticipation of litigation), arising from the existence or discovery of any Hazardous Substance on the Premises resulting from a violation of the terms of this section, or the migration of any Hazardous Substance from the Premises to other property or into the surrounding environment that is the result of a violation of the terms of this section, whether (a) made, commenced or incurred during the Term of this Lease, or (b) made, commenced or incurred after the expiration or termination of this Lease if arising out of an event occurring during the Term of this Lease.

 12. CITY'S CONTROL OF BUILDINGS, GROUNDS & ACTIVITIES.

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, the City, without liability of any kind, may:

 A. Physical Appearance: Increase, reduce or change, in any manner and to any extent whatsoever, the number, appearance, dimensions, and location of any and every Seattle Center walkway, landscaping element, parking area, service area, and building as desired by the City.

 B. Traffic & Parking Regulation: Regulate all traffic within the Seattle Center.

 C. Admission Charges: Impose a reasonable charge for admission to the Seattle Center and any of the facilities therein, including parking facilities.

 D. Promotions & Events: Erect, display and remove promotional exhibits and materials and permit special events on the Seattle Center grounds and in or at any or every building and facility thereof.

 E. Rules & Regulations: Promulgate, from time to time, reasonable rules and regulations regarding the use and occupancy of any area of Seattle Center, including the building in which the Premises are located.

 F. Hours of Operation: Determine the days and hours that the Seattle Center and the various business operations therein will be open to the public.

 G. Other Businesses & Operations: Change the size, number, and type and identity of other businesses and operations being conducted or undertaken at Seattle Center; and authorize other lessees, licensees, and the sponsors of special events at Seattle Center, directly or indirectly, to offer for sale food and beverages, and for sale or rent any merchandise and service, including any that may be identical or similar to that offered by Lessee.

 H. Signage: Place "For Rent" or similar signs in the Premises for thirty (30) days prior to the expiration or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier.

 I. Interference: Interfere with light, air or view, or Lessee's operations or use and occupancy of the Premises, either in connection with or as a result of operations by or for City in the construction of any public work or its subsequent use and occupancy, or the repair and maintenance of any City facility or improvement. The City will make a good faith effort, however, to minimize such interference to the extent it is reasonably economical for the City to do so.

 13. CITY ACCESS TO, & INSPECTION, REPAIR & IMPROVEMENT OF PREMISES & OTHER PROPERTY

 A. Access to Premises: Lessee shall provide the City and its contractors and consultants, their subcontractors, subconsultants and agents with access to the Premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and to make any inspection, repair or improvement deemed necessary by the Director, but this right of access shall not impose on the City any obligation to make any repair, alteration, addition, or improvement except as specifically provided herein.

 B. Permitted Interference with Lessee's Operations: In inspecting, and in making repairs, alterations, additions, and improvements, the City may erect barricades and scaffolding in and outside of the Premises, and may otherwise interfere with the conduct of Lessee's business and operations where such action is reasonably required by the nature of the City's work; and such interference shall not be deemed to be a breach or default under this Lease.

 C. City's Retention and Use of Key to Premises: All Premises door lock cores and keys shall be provided and managed by the City. The City shall have the right to open any Premises doors in an emergency, in order to obtain entry to the Premises, without liability to Lessee except for any failure to exercise due care for Lessee's property. Any entry to the Premises obtained by the City by any of said means, or otherwise, shall not be construed or deemed to be an eviction of Lessee or a forcible or unlawful entry into, or a detainer of, the Premises or any portion thereof.

 14. ASSIGNMENTS, SUBLEASES AND OTHER INTEREST TRANSFERS:

 A. Director's Prior Written Consent Required for Assignment & Subleases: No purported assignment, sublease or other transfer of the Premises or any portion thereof or of any aspect of Lessee's interest in this Lease shall be effective without the prior written consent of the Director, which the Director shall have the option to grant or not grant. Every proposed sublease, assignment, or other interest-transferring agreement shall be submitted to the Director for review and approval or disapproval prior to execution, and not less than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the planned commencement date of the proposed sublessee's, assignee's, or transferee's intended use of any portion of the Premises under such agreement or the assumption of any right or interest in any portion of the Premises or this Lease. No assignment or sublease of this Lease, with or without the Director's consent, shall release or relieve Lessee of or from any of the obligations on Lessee's part to be kept and performed under this Lease, and Lessee shall remain jointly and severally liable for the performance of all obligations of Lessee hereunder regardless of any (i) agreement that modifies any of the rights or obligations of the parties to this Lease; (ii) stipulation that extends the time within which an obligation under this Lease is to be performed; (iii) waiver of the performance of any obligation under this Lease; or (iv) failure to enforce any obligation under this Lease. Every approved assignment and sublease shall be subject to all the terms and provisions of this Lease.

 B. Lease Interests Not Transferable by Action of Law or Court: Neither this Lease, nor any right, privilege, or other interest conferred by this Lease shall pass to any trustee or receiver in bankruptcy or to any receiver or assignee for the benefit of creditors; nor shall this Lease or any rights, privilege, or interest be transferable by operation of law or proceeding of any court.

 C. Change of Lessee's Organizational Structure or Ownership Constitutes Assignment: If Lessee is a partnership, limited or general, a withdrawal of a general partner, or change, voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, or a general partner thereof, shall be deemed an assignment. If Lessee is a corporation, the merger, consolidation, or liquidation of Lessee or any change in the ownership of or power to vote thirty-three and one-third percent (33 1/3%) or more of its capital stock, as held as of the date of execution of this Lease, shall be deemed as assignment.

 D. Lessee's Authorization to Use Premises Constitutes Assignment or Sublease: In the event Lessee in any manner permits anyone to occupy all or any portion of the Premises for any purpose not within the authorized use of the Premises stated herein shall be deemed an assignment or sublease.

 15. EXCUSE & SUSPENSION OF OBLIGATIONS (FORCE MAJEURE).

 Whenever a party's performance under this Lease is prevented by an act of nature, war or war-like operations, civil commotion, riot, labor dispute including a strike, lockout, or walkout, sabotage, Federal or State regulation or control, or other condition beyond the reasonable control of such party, performance of any affected obligation shall be suspended for the duration of such condition but shall not be excused.

 16. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION:

 A. Report of Damage or Destruction: Lessee shall submit a written report to the Director, in care of the Contracts and Concessions Office, regarding the circumstances of any damage to the Premises, within twenty-four (24) hours after its discovery.

 B. Rebuilding, Repair & Restoration: In the event the Premises are damaged or destroyed, the City shall have the option, in its sole discretion, to rebuild, repair, or restore the same. Upon the rebuilding, repair and reconstruction of the Premises, Lessee shall immediately re-occupy the Premises and again pay rent for the right granted herein to use and occupy such area through the expiration or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier.

 C. Termination Rights in Event of Damage or Destruction:

 1.) By Lessee: Notwithstanding any other provision in this Lease to the contrary, in the event that fifty percent (50%) or more of the Premises is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty not occasioned by an act or omission of Lessee, Lessee may terminate this Lease by providing notice thereof to the Director.

 2.) By City: Notwithstanding any other provision in this Lease to the contrary, in the event that fifty percent (50%) of the Building on which the Premises are located is destroyed or is so damaged by fire or other casualty as to be untenantable or unusable, or if the City desires to discontinue Lessee's operations because of substantial destruction of the Seattle Center House or other part of Seattle Center, regardless of whether the Premises are destroyed, damaged, or otherwise, the City may terminate this Lease, without liability to Lessee of any kind, by providing prior written notice thereof to Lessee.

 3.) Notice of Termination: Any notice of termination pursuant to this section shall be provided within sixty (60) days after the occurrence of the damage or destruction and shall specify the effective date of such termination.

 17. DEFAULT & BREACH.

 A. Default & Breach by Lessee: The following acts and omissions shall constitute a default and material breach of this Lease by Lessee:

 1.) the failure to remit rent due and payable to the City, before such sum becomes delinquent;

 2.) the failure to comply with all of the requirements of Section 10 hereof, regarding insurance; or

 3.) the violation of any law, Charter provision, ordinance, rule, regulation, governmental authority's order or directive; or

 4.) the abandonment or vacating of the Premises; or

 5.) the repeated failure to perform or the violation of any single condition or covenant of this Lease on two or more occasions in any twelve (12) month period; or

 6.) the assignment of Lessee's interest in this Lease without the prior written consent of the Director; or the use of any sublease without the prior written consent of the Director; or the filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy, or for reorganization or an arrangement; or the adjudication of Lessee as being bankrupt or insolvent; or the appointment of a receiver of or for Lessee if such appointment, adjudication or similar order or ruling remains in force or unstayed for a period of thirty (30) days; or

 7.) The failure to perform or the violation of any other condition or covenant of this Lease where such default or deficiency in performance was not remedied within a reasonable time.

 B. City's Notice of Default & Breach: The Director shall provide written notice to Lessee in the event Lessee commits any act or omission specified in Subsection 17.A. hereof, specifying the nature of the act or omission, the reasonable number of days (but not more than ninety (90) days) after the date of the notice within which such failure must be corrected or the violation must be ceased or remedied to avoid termination, and the City's intention to terminate this Lease in the event such act or omission has not been corrected within such stated period. The notice shall also describe special procedures (if any) provided by law, Charter, ordinance, rule, or regulation permitting Lessee to have a hearing on such failure or violation.

 C. Remedies: In the event Lessee fails to correct, remedy, or cease such failure or violation within the time specified in the Director's notice, the City shall have the option to thereafter terminate this Lease without any further proceedings, re-enter the Premises, lease and license others to use said Premises during any portion of the period of use remaining under this Lease had it not been terminated, and receive rent, and license fees therefor; provided, that notwithstanding such termination and re-entry, Lessee's liability for the rent to be paid to the City hereunder shall not be extinguished, and during the period beginning on the date Lessee's rights under this Lease are terminated and ending on the scheduled expiration date of this Lease Lessee shall pay to the City the amount necessary to make up the difference between the estimated rent the City would have received based on the prior year's Gross Receipts and the sum the City receives for the use of the Premises by one or more other users. Such payments shall be made monthly, within fifteen (15) days after the date of the City's invoice to Lessee. Such termination and payments shall not relieve Lessee from liability to the City for any damages caused by Lessee's default and breach and expenses incurred in the leasing or relicensure of the Premises.

 D. Criteria for Substitute Tenant: The City's obligation to mitigate damages after a default by Lessee under this Lease that results in the City's regaining possession of all or part of the Premises shall be satisfied in full if the City undertakes to lease the Premises to another tenant (a "Substitute Tenant") in accordance with the following criteria:

 1.) The City shall have no obligation to solicit or entertain negotiations with any other prospective tenants for the Premises until the City obtains full and complete possession of the Premises including, without limitation, the final and unappealable legal right to re-let the Premises free of any claim of Lessee.

 2.) The City shall not be obligated to offer the Premises to any prospective tenant when other Premises suitable for that prospective tenant's use are currently available, or will be available within the next three months.

 3.) The City shall not be obligated to lease the Premises to a Substitute Tenant for a rental less than the current fair market rental then prevailing for similar comparable office space.

 4.) The City shall not be obligated to enter into a new lease under terms and conditions that are unacceptable to the City under the City's then current leasing policies for comparable space.

 5.) The City shall not be obligated to enter into a lease with any proposed Substitute Tenant that does not have in the Director's reasonable opinion, sufficient financial resource or operating experience to operate the Premises in a first-class manner.

 6.)The City shall not be required to expend any amount of money to alter, remodel, or otherwise make the Premises suitable for use by a Substitute Tenant unless:

 a.) Lessee pays any such sum to the City in advance of the City's execution of a lease with such Substitute Tenant (which payment shall not be in lieu of any damages or other sums to which the City may be entitled to as a result of Lessee's default under this Lease); or

 b.) The City, in the Director's sole discretion, determines that any such expenditure is financially justified in connection with entering into any lease with such Substitute Tenant.

 7.) The following applies to Center House Tenants only: The City shall not be obligated to enter into a lease with any Substitute Tenant whose use would:

 a.) disrupt the tenant mix or balance of the Center House building;

 b.) violate any restriction, covenant, or requirements contained in the lease of another tenant of the Center House building;

 c.) adversely affect the reputation of the Seattle Center or Center House building; or

 d.) be incompatible with the operation of the Center House building as a first-class shopping center.

 E. Default by City: The City shall not be in default of any obligation to perform under this Lease unless the City fails to perform such obligation within a reasonable time, which time shall not extend more than thirty (30) days after written notice by Lessee to the Director specifying the particular obligation that the City has failed to perform; provided, however, that if the nature of the City's obligation is such that more than thirty (30) days are required for performance, then the City shall not be in default if the City commences performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion.

 18. SURRENDER OF PREMISES; HOLDING OVER.

 A. Surrender & Delivery: Upon the expiration or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier, Lessee shall surrender the Premises and promptly deliver to the Director all keys Lessee, and any of its officers, agents, and employees have to the Premises or any other part of the Seattle Center.

 B. Removal of Lessee's Property: Prior to the expiration date of this Lease, or in the event this Lease is terminated, within fifteen (15) days after the termination date, whichever is earlier, Lessee shall remove, at its sole expense, all trade equipment and personal property owned or installed by Lessee in, on, or from the Premises, as well as any Lessee-installed improvements, alterations and additions to the Premises that the Director so specifies. In performing such removal work, Lessee shall take due care to not unreasonably injure or damage the Premises, and shall make such repairs to the Premises as shall be necessary to restore the same to their condition as of the commencement date of this Lease, ordinary wear and tear and improvements, additions, and alterations, approved by the City excepted.

 C. Storage of Lessee's Property: In the event Lessee fails to remove personal property and the improvements, alterations and additions specified in the Director's notice on or by the time specified in such notice, the City may, but shall not be required to remove such material from the Premises and store the same, all at Lessee's expense; and in the event the City removes or arranges for the storage of such material, the City shall be reimbursed its costs therefor, including any administrative costs, which reimbursement shall constitute a claim upon Lessee or, at the City's option, may be invoiced to Lessee.

 D. Hold-over Use & Occupancy of Premises: In the event Lessee, with the Director's consent, holds over after the date the Term expires or is terminated, whichever is earlier, the resulting use and occupancy shall be on a monthly basis, during which time Lessee shall be bound by all of the provisions of this Lease other than the Due Dates specified in Section 4.a., and rent and any additional payments required hereunder shall then be due monthly by the 5th of the month following the month in which the applicable revenues were earned. If, however, Lessee holds over, without Director's consent, after the expiration or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier, whether by failing to remove its personal property or any addition, alteration or improvement specified by the Director, or otherwise, Lessee shall pay to the City, as liquidated damages, twice the amount of the most recently applicable rent for an equivalent time period, calculated on a prorata basis, as specified in Sections 3 and 4, hereof, and shall be bound by all of the other provisions of this Lease.

 E. No Claim for Removal: In no event shall Lessee make any claim or demand upon the City nor shall the City be liable for any inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, or loss of business or any other damage suffered by Lessee arising out of removal operations under Subsections 18.b and 18.c hereof.

 F. Inspection Upon Surrender of Premises: Immediately following the vacating of the Premises and the surrender of the same to the City, a representative of Lessee shall inspect the Premises with the Director to determine the condition of the Premises and whether or not additional actions must be taken by Lessee to comply with the terms of this lease. The results of such inspection shall be summarized by the Director on a Premises inspection report, a copy of which shall be provided to Lessee. Such additional actions detailed in the Premises inspection report must be undertaken within ten (10) days of Lessee's receipt of the report.

 19. NOTICES.

 All notices from either party to the other shall be in writing and delivered or mailed, postage prepaid, to the intended recipient at the address specified on the signature page hereof, or to such other address as may be specified, from time to time, by either party, by notice to the other party.

 20. NO RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED.

 The City shall in no event be construed to be a partner, associate, or joint venturer of Lessee, or any party associated with Lessee. Lessee is not an agent of City for any purpose whatsoever. Lessee shall not create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of the City or bind the City in any manner.

 21. DEFINITION AND AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.

 The term "Director," as used throughout this Lease in regard to permission, warrant, consent, approval, rights, interpretation, and discretionary matters, shall mean the Director of the City's Seattle Center Department or such official's functional successor or designee; provided, that the action of the Director pursuant to or in implementation of this Lease does not constitute any official action by any other City Department or official that may be required by law, ordinance, rule or regulation before Lessee may rightfully commence, suspend, enlarge, or terminate any particular undertaking or may obtain or exercise any particular right or privilege under this Lease. Any approval, consent or permission required of the Director by this Lease may be granted, conditioned or withheld by the Director in the exercise of such official's sole discretion.

 22. AMENDMENTS.

 No modification or amendment of the terms hereof shall be effective unless in writing and signed by authorized representative of each of the parties hereto.

 23. NO WAIVER.

 Nothing other than a written document signed personally by the Director and specifically declaring a City intent to waive a particular breach or default by Lessee shall constitute a waiver of such breach or default. No such document shall waive Lessee's failure to fully comply with any term or condition of this Lease not specifically referenced therein, irrespective of any knowledge any City officer or employee may have of such breach, default, or noncompliance. No waiver by either party shall be construed to be, or operate as, a waiver of any subsequent default in full performance of any provision of this Lease. The payment or acceptance of rent, additional rent, delivery or acceptance of services, or other compensation, whether after a default or from a sublessee or assignee, shall not be deemed to constitute consent to or acceptance of such default or acceptance of defective or incomplete performance in the future or any such subtenancy or assignment.

 24. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

 Rights under this Lease are cumulative; failure to exercise on any occasion any right shall not operate to forfeit such right on another occasion. Each party shall also have any other remedy given by the law. The use of one remedy shall not be taken to exclude or waive the right to use another.

 25. USE OF LANGUAGE.

 Terms used in the neuter gender include the masculine and feminine; and terms used in the singular or plural include the other, as the context may require.

 26. CAPTIONS.

 The titles of sections are for convenience only and do not define or limit the contents.

 27. INVALIDITY OF PARTICULAR PROVISIONS.

 If any term, provision, condition, or other portion of this Lease or the application thereof is held to be inoperative, invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease or the application of such term or provision to person or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected hereby and shall continue in full force and effect.

 28. GOVERNING LAW & VENUE.

 This Lease shall be interpreted and construed using Washington Law. The venue for any action under this Lease shall be in the Superior Court of the State of Washington for King County.

 29. BINDING EFFECT.

 The provisions, covenants, and conditions contained in this Lease apply to bind the parties, their legal heirs, representatives, successors, and assigns.

 30. NO BROKER.

 Lessee represents and warrants that there is no claim for any brokerage commission or finder's fee in with connection the execution of this Lease.

 31. BOOKS AND RECORDS.

 A. Keeping of Records: Lessee shall keep true, accurate, complete and auditable records of all of Lessee's gross receipts, which records shall be separate from all of the other business records of Lessee.

 B. Payment Reports: Lessee shall submit quarterly a "Gross Receipts Report" in a form approved by the Director.

 C. Identification of Lessee's Fiscal Year: No later than ten (10) days after the date this Lease becomes effective, Lessee shall identify, in a notice to the Director, the consecutive period of time that comprises Lessee's "fiscal year," which period shall not be changed during the Term of this Lease without the written consent of the Director, whose consent may be withdrawn or conditioned in the exercise of the Director's discretion.

 D. Statement to Director Regarding Annual Gross Receipts: Not later than sixty (60) days after the end of any fiscal year of Lessee during the Term of this Lease, Lessee shall deliver to the Director a written statement identifying the amount of Lessee's gross receipts in such fiscal year, which statement shall be certified as to its accuracy by a certified public accountant in the following manner:

 "I have examined the definition of 'gross receipts' in the Lease between The City of Seattle and Lessee, all relevant financial statements and income tax returns of Lessee, and Lessee's system of recording gross receipts. In my opinion, the attached statement of gross receipts for the period identified herein, accurately reflects Lessee's gross receipts for the aforementioned period."

 32. AUDIT.

 Lessee shall permit the City, from time to time, as the City Auditor, Director, or either's functional successor deems necessary, upon reasonable prior notice, to inspect and audit in King County, Washington, at any and all reasonable times, all books and records pertaining to Lessee's gross receipts to verify the amount of gross receipts generated by Lessee on or from the Premises, and shall supply the City with, or shall permit the City to make, a copy of any such books and records and any portion thereof, upon the request of the City Director of Finance, the Director, or either's functional successor or designee. The Director shall notify Lessee of the amount of any over or underpayment found. Any overpayment shall be a credit against any rent or additional rent subsequently due or, at Lessee's option, shall be refunded to Lessee. In the event of an underpayment, Lessee shall pay to the City, as additional rent, the amount of such underpayment plus the cost incurred by the City in auditing Lessee's books and records. Lessee shall ensure that the City's right to inspect, audit and copy the Premises user's books and records is a condition of any sublease or other arrangement under which any other person or entity is permitted to use or occupy the Premises.

 33. NO NUISANCES OR OBJECTIONABLE ACTIVITY.

 Lessee shall not permit any excessive or objectionable noise, odor, dust, vibration or similar substance or condition to remain on or be emitted from the Premises; shall not interfere with access to or from the Seattle Center or any part thereof, including the Premises, or with the traffic thereon; shall not create any nuisance in or adjacent to the Seattle Center; and shall not do anything on the Seattle Center that will create a danger to life or limb.

 34. NO USE OF COMMON AREAS.

 Neither Lessee nor any of its officers, employees, or invitees shall use the common areas of Seattle Center (those areas designated by the Director as being for the general and shared use by Seattle Center tenants and their employees and invitees, City employees, and Seattle Center visitors, and not within the exclusive control of any tenant or licensee, which areas include but are not limited to public walkways, hallways, corridors, elevators, escalators, stairways, lounges, general seating areas, and restrooms) to meet governmental requirements peculiar to Lessee's operations on the Premises or otherwise (such as the location for any sign or signboard) without the express written approval of the Director. Whenever Lessee, or any of its officers, employees, or invitees requires any equipment, separate area(s) or special facility to satisfy any such governmental requirement, such equipment, area(s), and facility shall be located within the Premises at Lessee's sole expense.

 35. OBJECTIONABLE MERCHANDISE OR MATERIAL.

 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, Lessee shall not display or offer for sale or rent, or allow to be displayed or offered for sale or rent, on or around the Premises in areas frequented by the general public, non-users, non-renters or non- ticketed patrons of the Premises, any merchandise or other material that the Director determines is unsafe; that portrays the City or Seattle Center or any aspect thereof in an incorrect, misleading, or unfavorable manner; that depicts or suggests in words, symbols, illustrations, or other forms, any act of violence, or any lewd, immoral, or obscene activity; or that is inconsistent with the image of a first-class, family-oriented retail and entertainment development, or is otherwise inappropriate for a family-oriented recreation and entertainment facility such as Seattle Center; or that may create a substantial litter or other maintenance problem at Seattle Center.

 36. ADVERTISING & PUBLICITY.

 A. Prohibited Promotion & Other Material; Removal of Same: Lessee shall not display, post, or distribute any sign, symbol, advertising of any nature, or any printed material (including but not limited to posters) on any part of the Seattle Center, including but not limited to the Premises, except after receiving written permission therefor from the Director; and may undertake such activity only in or on location(s) approved by the Director. On or before the expiration or termination date of this Lease, whichever is earlier, or in the case of unauthorized material, on or before the date specified in the Director's notice to remove the same, Lessee shall remove, at no expense to the City, all such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material; and correct any unsightly condition, and repair any damage or injury to City property caused by such signs, symbols, advertising and printed material, and the removal thereof. In the event any such unauthorized material is not removed from City property by the date required herein, such material may be treated as Lessee property subject to removal and storage pursuant to Subsection 18.C hereof.

 B. Use of Photos & Similar Materials: Each party hereto may make photographs, video tapes, and motion pictures of the Premises and the activity, people, displays and exhibits thereon; provided, that in the event such visual material is to be used for commercial advertising purposes, prior to making the same, Lessee shall obtain the written approval of the Director for such use, which approval may be conditioned upon, among other things, the payment by Lessee to the City of additional consideration; and prior to the use of any such photography, video tape, or motion picture, a written release shall be obtained from every individual identifiable in the same.

 37. INSTALLATION OR INTEGRATION OF ANY WORK OF VISUAL ART ON PREMISES.

 A. Reservation of Rights by City; Prohibition Against Installation or Integration of Any Work of Visual Art on Premises Without City's Consent: The City reserves to and for itself the right to approve or disapprove of the installation or integration on or in the Premises of any "work of visual art," as that term is defined in the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or as later amended, and to approve or disapprove of each and every agreement regarding any such installation or integration. Lessee shall not install on or integrate into, or permit any other person or entity to install on or integrate into, the Premises any such work of visual art without the prior, express, written consent of the Director. The Director's consent to the installation of any such art work may be granted, granted upon one or more conditions, or withheld in the Director's discretion; provided, however, that the Director's consent to the installation by or for Lessee of any such art work shall not be required under the following three circumstances:

 1.) If such art work (a) weighs less than fifty (50) pounds; and (b) is of a size and has such dimensions and material composition that makes its passage through an open 32" x 78" or larger doorway a simple and easy maneuver; and (c) is to be installed on the floor, a piece of furniture, or similar surface without further anchoring of any kind or nature, or on a wall using no more than two (2) simple picture hooks and wire; all so that the easy removability from the Premises of such art work without its destruction, distortion, mutilation or other modification by reason of such removal is undeniable; or

 2.) If Lessee delivers to the Director a waiver appropriately executed by the art work creator, for the benefit of the City and its successors and assigns as the owner of the Premises, of the creator's right of integrity regarding such art work, in a form of waiver that satisfies both the Director and the requirements of 17 U.S.C. onstruction106A(e), as the same now exists or is hereafter modified; or

 3.) If the Director executes with the creator of a work of visual art to be installed in the Premises a consent agreement of the type contemplated by 17 U.S.C. onstruction113(d)(1), as the same now exists or is hereafter amended, and in the form and manner specified by the Director.

 Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall restrict the Director's authority with respect to alterations, additions and improvements to the premises.

 If the creator of any work of visual art installed in the Premises by or for Lessee has not executed a waiver, or such creator and the City have not executed a consent agreement, each as described herein, Lessee shall ensure that, prior to removing or allowing the removal from the Premises of any such art work, such creator is given both notice, as contemplated in 17 U.S.C. onstruction113(d)(2), of the intended removal of such art work, and the time required by that statutory provision to respond to such notice, and that Lessee takes whatever other action(s) may be required by such legislation to ensure that no claim, action or suit alleging a violation of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or hereafter amended, and arising out of any act or omission of or for Lessee or any of its officers, employees, or agents, is filed or lodged against the City in its capacity as the Premises owner.

 B. Lessee's Indemnification of City Against Liability under Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990: Lessee shall protect, defend, and hold the City harmless from and against any and all claims, suits, actions or causes of action, damages and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) arising as a consequence of (a) the installation or integration of any work of visual art on or into the Premises; (b) the destruction, distortion, mutilation or other modification of the art work that results by reason of its removal; or (c) any breach of Subsection 37 a. of this Lease; or (d) any violation of the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990, as now existing or hereafter amended; by Lessee or any of its officers, employees or agents. This indemnification obligation shall exist regardless of whether the Director or any other person employed by the City has knowledge of such installation, integration, or removal or has consented to any such action or is not required to give prior consent to any such action. The indemnification obligation of this subsection shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

 38. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NEGOTIATED LEASE.

 The parties to this Lease acknowledge that it is a negotiated lease, that they have had the opportunity to have this Lease reviewed by their respective legal counsel, and that the terms and conditions of this Lease are not to be construed against any party on the basis of such party's draftsmanship thereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Lease by having their authorized representative(s) sign his/her/their name(s) in the spaces below:

 LESSEE:

 CITY:

 THEATRE PUGET SOUND

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE

 By ______________________________

 By ______________________________

 Stewart Hawk

 Virginia Anderson, Director

 Board President

 Seattle Center Department

 Date:____________________________

 Date:____________________________

 BUSINESS ADDRESSES FOR NOTICES:

 LESSEE:

 CITY:

 Manager, Contracts & Concessions

 Theatre Puget Sound

 Seattle Center Department

 305 Harrison St. Ste. 401

 305 Harrison, Room 312

 Seattle, WA 98109-4645

 Seattle, WA 98109-4645

 PHONE NO.: 206-770-0370

 PHONE NO.: 206-684-7114

 ACKNOWLEDGMENT

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss (Lessee's Acknowledgment)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of _____________________________, 20____, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared _______________________________________________ to me known to be the person described in the above, who executed the foregoing Lease, and acknowledged said Lease to be the free and voluntary act and deed of such Lessee for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath, stated that ______ was authorized to execute said Lease for and on behalf of such Lessee.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written.

 ____________________________________________

 Signature

 ____________________________________________

 (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington,

 Residing at

 My appointment expires:

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss (Acknowledgment for The City of Seattle)

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this _______ day of _____________________________, 20____, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Virginia Anderson to me known to be the Director of the Seattle Center Department of The City of Seattle, who executed the foregoing Lease, and acknowledged said Lease to be the free and voluntary act and deed of The City of Seattle for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath, stated that she was authorized to execute said Lease for and on behalf of The City of Seattle.

 GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL the day and year first above written. __________________________________________ Signature ____________________________________________ (Print or Type Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington, Residing at My appointment expires: Exhibit A-1

 Floor Plan -- Fourth Floor Leased Premises

 Exhibit A-2

 Floor Plan - First Floor Leased Premises

 Exhibit "B"

 Seattle Center Vision Statement

 We are the nation's best gathering place. Supported by the people of Seattle, we are home to the finest cultural and educational organizations, sports teams, festivals, community programs and entertainment facilities. We exist to delight and inspire the human spirit in each person and bring us together as a rich and varied community.

 Exhibit "C"

 Rules and Regulations During Occupancy of Premises

 These activities are not permitted in or around Studio 4 at Seattle Center. Any violation of these rules may result in termination of the Lease between Lessee and Lessor.

 1. Smoking anywhere in the Center House Building.

 2. Bringing in animals other than guides, except as authorized by Seattle Center.

 3. Possessing or consuming alcoholic beverages without proper permits.

 4. Disruptive or unsafe behavior that disturbs other patrons or staff or damages property.

 5. Physical or verbal harassment or threats to other patrons or staff.

 6. Engaging in any activity prohibited by law.

 7. On-grounds vehicle traffic except as allowed by permit. Permits shall be arranged with Seattle Center by TPS staff only.

 Hours of operation for Studio 4 begin at 8 a.m. and shall not extend any longer than the official hours of the Center House.

 Users shall be responsible for any damage to the room or its contents. Removal of garbage of any kind must be completed prior to leaving the space after use. TPS_final.doc January 10, 2001 TPS_final.doc January 10, 2001

```
