

********

**Council Bill Number: 113667**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120378**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to energy efficiency and energy conservation: amending Section 22.700.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC") to adopt by reference the 2000 Washington State Energy Code (WAC 51-11) and to repeal the 1997 Washington State Energy Code and amendments thereto; amending 2000 Washington State Energy Code Sections 1144, 1150, 1161, 1162, 1311.6, 1323, 1402, 1411.2, 1412.4, 1414.2, 1421, 1432.2, 1435, 1436, 1438, 1530, and Tables 10-6 and 13-1; and adding to the 2000 Washington State Energy Code new Sections 1144.1, 1144.2, 1144.3, 1144.4, 1144.5, 1144.6, 1144.7, 1411.5, 1412.8, 1421.1, 1431.2, 1438.1, and 1452.

**Status:** Passed As Amended
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** May 21, 2001
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (Excused: Drago, Steinbrueck)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** May 24, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** May 24, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 14, 2001
   
**Committee:** Energy and Environmental Policy
   
**Sponsor:** WILLS
   
   
**Index Terms:** ENERGY-CODES

**References/Related Documents:** Amending: Ord 119081. Related: CF 304655

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE __________________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to energy efficiency and energy conservation: amending Section 22.700.010 of the Seattle Municipal Code ("SMC") to adopt by reference the 2000 Washington State Energy Code (WAC 51-11) and to repeal the 1997 Washington State Energy Code and amendments thereto; amending 2000 Washington State Energy Code Sections 1144, 1150, 1161, 1162, 1311.6, 1323, 1402, 1411.2, 1412.4, 1414.2, 1421, 1432.2, 1435, 1436, 1438, 1530, and Tables 10-6 and 13-1; and adding to the 2000 Washington State Energy Code new Sections 1144.1, 1144.2, 1144.3, 1144.4, 1144.5, 1144.6, 1144.7, 1411.5, 1412.8, 1421.1, 1431.2, 1438.1, and 1452.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, 22.700.010, SMC, as last amended by Ordinance 119081 is further amended to read as follows:

 22.700.010 Adoption of the ~~1997))~~2000 Washington State Energy Code and local amendments.

 The ~~1997~~2000 Washington State Energy Code (WAC 51- 11) and the amendments thereto adopted by Ordinance ~~119081~~ ____________________incorporating the Seattle Amendments, and amendments made by the Washington State Building Code Council to the ~~1997~~2000 Washington State Energy Code filed ~~January 8, 1998 (WSR 98-03-003)~~January 5, 2001 (WSR 01-03-010), which is filed with the City Clerk in C.F. ~~300684~~304655, are hereby adopted and by this reference made a part of this subtitle and shall constitute the official Energy Code of the City. The ~~1994~~1997  Washington State Energy Code, and amendments thereto, are hereby repealed.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Table 10-6 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 TABLE 10-6

 Other than Group R Occupancy:

 Default U-Factors for Vertical Glazing, Overhead Glazing and Opaque Doors

 Vertical Glazing

 U-Factor Any Frame Aluminum Vinyl/Wood w/thermal Frame Break Single 1.45 1.45 1.45 Double 0.90 0.85 0.75 1/2 inch air, fixed 0.75 0.70 0.60 1/2 inch air, low-e (0.40), fixed 0.60 0.55 0.50 1/2 inch air, low-e (0.10), fixed 0.55 0.50 0.45 1/2 inch argon, low-e (0.30), 0.55 0.50 0.45 fixed 1/2 inch argon, low-e (0.10), 0.50 0.45 0.40 fixed The category for aluminum frame with a thermal break is as defined in footnote 9 to Table 10-6B.

 Overhead Glazing

 U-Factor

 Any Frame

 Vinyl/Wood Frame

 U-Factor Any Frame Vinyl/Wood Frame Single 2.15 2.15 Double 1.45 1.00 Low-e(0.40) or Argon 1.40 0.95 Low-e(0.40) + Argon 1.30 0.85 Low-e(0.20) Air 1.30 0.90 Low-e(0.20) + Argon 1.25 0.80 Triple 1.25 0.80

 Opaque Doors

 U-Factor

 Uninsulated Metal 1.20 Insulated Metal (Including Fire Door 0.60 and Smoke Vent) Wood 0.50

 NOTES:

 Where a gap width is listed (i.e.: 1/2 inch), that is the minimum allowed.

 Where a low-emissivity emittance is listed (i.e.: 0.40, 0.30 , 0.20, 0.10), that is the maximum allowed.

 Where a gas other than air is listed (i.e.: argon), the gas fill shall be a minimum of 90%.

 Where an operator type is listed (i.e.: fixed), the default is only allowed for that operator

 type.

 Where a frame type is listed (i.e.: wood/vinyl), the default is only allowed for that frame

 type. Wood/Vinyl frame includes reinforced vinyl and aluminum-clad wood.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1144 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1144 Violations and Penalties~~:It shall be a violation of this Code for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or construct any building, or remodel or rehabilitate any existing building or structure in the state, or allow the same to be done, contrary to any of the provisions of this Code.~~

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended by adding new Sections 1144.1, 1144.2, 1144.3, 1144.4, 1144.5, 1144.6, and 1144.7 to read as follows:

 1144.1 Violations: It shall be a violation of this Code for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, occupy, inspect or maintain any building or structure in the City, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of this Code.

 It shall be a violation of this Code for any person, firm or corporation to knowingly aid, abet, counsel, encourage, hire, commend, induce or otherwise procure another to violate or fail to comply with this Code.

 It shall be a violation of this Code to for any person, firm, or corporation to use any material or to install any device, appliance or equipment which does not comply with the applicable standards of this Code or which has not been approved by the building official.

 1144.2 Notice of Violation: If after investigation the building official determines that standards or requirements of this code have been violated, the building official may serve a notice of violation upon the owner or other person responsible for the action or condition. The notice of violation shall state the standards or requirements violated, shall state what corrective action, if any, is necessary to comply with the standards or requirements, and shall set a reasonable time for compliance. The notice shall be served upon the owner or other responsible person by personal service, certified mail with return receipt requested or registered mail with return receipt requested or registered mail addressed to the last known address of such person. In addition, a copy o f the notice may be posted at a conspicuous place on the property. The notice of violation shall be considered an order of the building official. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to limit or preclude any action or proceeding pursuant to Sections 102, 103 or 104 of the Seattle Building Code, and nothing in this section shall be deemed to obligate or require the building official to issue a notice of violation prior to the imposition of civil or criminal penalties in this section.

 1144.3 Civil Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with the provisions of this code shall be subject to a cumulative civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $500 per day for each violation from the date the violation occurs or begins until compliance is achieved. In cases where the building official has issued a notice of violation, the violation will be deemed to begin, for purposes of determining the number of days of violation, on the date compliance is required by notice of violation. In any civil action for a penalty, the City has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that a violation exists or existed; the issuance of the notice of violation or of an order following a review by the Director is not itself evidence that a violation exists.

 1144.4 Criminal Penalty: Anyone who violates or fails to comply with any order issued by the building official pursuant to this code or who removes, mutilates, destroys or conceals a notice issued or posted (i.e., affixed to the structure in a conspicuous place) by the building official shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 360 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation or failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense.

 Anyone violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this code and who within the past five years has had a judgment against them for civil penalties arising from a violation of the building code, shall upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation or failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense.

 1144.5 Additional Relief: The building official may seek legal or equitable relief to enjoin any acts or practices and abate any condition which constitutes a violation of this code when civil or criminal penalties are inadequate to effect compliance.

 1144.6 Notices: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, mutilate, destroy or conceal any notice issued or posted by the building official pursuant to the provisions of this code, or any notice issued or posted by the building official in response to a natural disaster or other emergency.

 The building official may record a copy of any order or notice with the Department of Records and Elections of King County.

 The building official may record with the Department of Records and Elections of King County a notification that a permit has expired without a final inspection after reasonable efforts have been made to provide a final inspection.

 1144.7 Review by the Director

 1144.7.1. Any party affected by a notice of violation issued by the Director pursuant to Section 1144.2 may obtain a review of the notice by requesting such review in writing within fifteen days after service of the notice. When the last day of the period computed is a Saturday, Sunday, federal or City holiday, the period shall run until 5:00 p.m. of the next business day. The request shall be in writing, and upon receipt of the request, the Director shall notify any persons served the notice of violation and the complainant, if any, of the request for review, which shall be within twenty days after the request is received, unless otherwise agreed by all persons served with the notice of violation. Before the deadline for submission of information, any person significantly affected by or interested in the notice of violation (including any persons served the notice of violation and the complainant) may submit any additional information in the form of written material or oral comments to the Director for consideration as part of the review.

 1144.7.2. The review will be made by a representative of the Director who is familiar with the case and the applicable ordinances. The Director's representative will review all additional information received by the deadline for submission of information. The reviewer may also request clarification of information received and a site visit. After review of the additional information, the Director may:

 1. Sustain the notice of violation; or

 2. Withdraw the notice of violation; or

 3. Continue the review to a date certain for receipt of additional information; or

 4. Modify the notice of violation, which may include an extension of the compliance date.

 1144.7.3. The Director shall issue an Order of the Director containing the decision within seven days of the date of the completion of the review, and shall cause the same to be mailed by regular first-class mail to the person or persons named in the notice of violation, mailed to the complainant, if possible, and filed with the Department of Records and Elections of King County.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1150 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1150 Conflicts with Other Codes: In case of conflicts among Codes enumerated in RCW 19.27.031 subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) and this Code, the first named Code shall govern. The duct insulation requirements in this Code or a local jurisdiction's energy code, whichever is more stringent, supersede the requirements in the Uniform Mechanical Code.

This Code is intended to supplement the provisions of the Seattle Building Code, the Seattle Mechanical Code, and the Seattle Electrical Code, and in cases of conflict between this Code and any of those codes, the provisions of those codes shall apply.

Additional efficiency standards for electrical energy use may also appear in Seattle City Light service requirements, which should be consulted.

 Where, in any specific case, different sections of this Code specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1161 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1161 Severability: If any provision of this Code or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Code or the application of the provision to other persons or circumstances is not affected.

The legislative body hereby declares that it would have passed this Code, and each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, and phrases be declared unconstitutional.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1162 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1162 Liability: Nothing contained in this Code is intended to be nor shall be construed to create or form the basis for any liability on the part of ~~any city or county~~the City  or its officers, employees or agents for any injury or damage resulting from the failure of a building to conform to the provisions of this Code, or by reason of or in consequence of any inspection, notice, order, certificate, permission of approval authorized or issued or done in connection with the implementation or enforcement of this Code, or by reason of any action or inaction on the part of the City related in any manner to the enforcement of this Code or by its officers or agents. The building official or any employee charged with the enforcement of this Code, acting in good faith and without malice for the City in the discharge of his/her duties, shall not thereby render himself/herself liable personally and he/she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his/her duties.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1311.6 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1311.6 Radiant Floors (on or below grade): Slab on grade insulation shall extend downward from the top of the slab a minimum distance of 36 inches or downward to the top of the footing and horizontal for an aggregate of not less that 36 inches.

~~If required by the building official where soil conditions warrant such insulation,~~~~t~~The entire area of radiant floor shall be thermally isolated from the soil. Where a soil gas control system is provided below the radiant floor, which results in increased convective flow below the radiant floor, the radiant floor shall be thermally isolated from the sub-floor gravel layer.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1323 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1323 Glazing: Glazing shall comply with Section 1312 and Tables 13-1 or 13-2. All glazing shall be, at a minimum, double glazing.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. Vertical glazing located on the display side of the street level story of a retail occupancy or where there is a street level transparency requirement in the Seattle Land Use Code provided the glazing is

 a. double-glazed with a minimum 1/2 inch airspace and with a low-e coating having a maximum emittance of e=0.40 or has an area- weighted U-factor of 0.60 or less. (When this exception is used, there are no SHGC requirements) and

 b. does not exceed 75% of the gross exterior wall area of the display side of the street level story. However, if the display side of the street level story exceeds 20 feet in height, then this exception may only be used for the first 20 feet of that story.

 When this exception is utilized, separate calculations shall be performed for these sections of the building envelope and these values shall not be averaged with any others for compliance purposes. The 75% area may be exceeded on the street level, if the additional glass area is provided from allowances from other areas of the building.

 2. Single glazing for ornamental, security, or architectural purposes shall be included in the percentage of total glazing area, U-factor calculation and SHGC as allowed in the Tables 13-1 or 13-2. The maximum area allowed for the total of all single glazing is 1% of the gross exterior wall area.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Table 13-1 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 TABLE 13-1 BUILDING ENVELOPE REQUIREMENTS FOR CLIMATE ZONE 1

 MINIMUM INSULATION R-VALUES OR MAXIMUM COMPONENT U-FACTORS FOR ZONE 1

 Building Components Space Heat Type Components

 Roofs All Other Opaque Opaque Floor Slab On Over Roofs Walls Doors Over Grade5 Attic 1,2 Uncond Space

 1. Electric R-38 R-30 R-19 U=0.60 R-30 R-10 resistance or or or or or heat** U=0.031 U=0.034 U=0.0623 U=0.029 F=0.54

 2. All others R-30 R-21 R-11 U=0.60 R-19 R-10 including or or or or or Heat pumps U=0.036 U=0.050 U=0.14 U=0.056 F=0.54 and VAV

 ** Compliance with nominal prescriptive R-values requires wood framing.

 MAXIMUM GLAZING AREAS AND U-FACTORS AND AXIMUM GLAZING SOLAR HEAT GAIN COEFFICIENTS FOR ZONE 1

 Glazing

 Maximum Glazing Area as % of Wall 0% to 15% >15% to 20% >20% to 30% >30% to 40% Maximum Max. Maximum Max. Maximum Max. Maximum Max. U-Factor SHGC4 U-Factor SHGC4 U-Factor SHGC4 U-Factor SHGC4 VG OG VG OG VG OG VG OG 1. Electric 0.40 0.80 1.0 0.40 0.80 1.0 PRESCRIPTIVE PATH NOT ALLOWED resistance heat 2. All others 0.90 1.45 1.0 0.75 1.40 1.0 0.60 1.30 0.65 0.50 1.25 0.45 including Heat pumps and VAV

 Footnotes

 1. Below Grade Walls:

 When complying by the prescriptive approach, Section 1322:

 a) walls insulated on the interior shall use opaque wall values,

 b) walls insulated on the exterior shall use a minimum of R-10 insulation,

 c) those portions of below grade walls and footings that are more than 10 feet below

 grade, and not included in the gross exterior wall area, may be left uninsulated.

 When complying by the component performance approach, Section 1331:

 a) walls insulated on the interior shall use the opaque wall values when determining

 Ubgwt ,

 b) walls insulated on the exterior shall use a target U-factor of U=0.070 for Ubgwt ,

 c) those portions of below grade walls and footings that are more than 10 feet below

 grade, and not included in the gross exterior wall area, need not be included when

 determining Abgwt and Abgw.

 2. Concrete Masonry Walls: If the area weighted heat capacity of the total opaque

 above grade wall is a minimum of 9.0 Btu/ft2 ( F, then the U- factor may be

 increased to 0.19 for interior insulation and 0.25 for integral and exterior insulation

 for insulation position as defined in Chapter 12.

 Individual walls with heat capacities less than 9.0 Btu/ft2 ( F and below

 grade walls shall meet opaque wall requirements listed above. Glazing shall

 comply with the following:

 Maximum Glazing

 Area as % of Wall

 0 to 10 %

 >10 to 15 %

 >15% to 20 %

 >20% to 25 %

 Maximum

 U-Factor

 Max. SHGC4

 Maximum

 U-Factor

 Max. SHGC4

 Maximum

 U-Factor

 Max. SHGC4

 Maximum

 U-Factor

 Max. SHGC4

 VG

 OG

 VG

 OG

 VG

 OG

 VG

 OG

 1. Electric resistance heat

 0.40

 0.80

 1.0

 0.40

 0.80

 1.0

 0.40

 0.80

 1.0

 NOT ALLOWED

 2. All others including

 Heat pumps and VAV

 0.90

 1.45

 1.0

 0.75

 1.40

 1.0

 0.65

 1.30

 0.80

 0.60

 1.30

 0.65

 3. Reserved.

 4. SHGC (Solar Heat Gain Coefficient per Section 1312.2): May substitute

 Maximum Shading Coefficient (SC) for SHGC (See Chapter 2 for definition of

 Shading Coefficient).

 5. Radiant Floors: Where insulation is required under the entire slab, radiant floors

 shall use a minimum of R-10 insulation or F=0.55 maximum. Where insulation is

 not required under the entire slab, radiant floors shall use R-10 perimeter insulation

 according to Section 1311.6 or F=0.78 maximum.

 6. Prescriptive Alternate: For the prescriptive building envelope option only,  for other than electric resistance heat only, glazing may comply with either of the

 following:

 Maximum Glazing Area

 Maximum

 Max.

 as % of Wall:

 U-Factor

 SHGC4

 >40% to 60%

 VG OG

 alternate a

 0.40 0.80

 0.30

 alternate b

 0.35 0.80

 0.35

 For glazed wall systems, assemblies with all of the following features are deemed to

 satisfy the vertical glazing U-factor requirement of U-0.40:

a. Double glazing with a minimum 1/2 inch gap width, having a low-emissivity  coating with e=0.10 maximum, with 90% minimum argon gas fill, and a non-

 aluminum spacer (as defined in footnote 1 to Table 10-6B), and

b. Frame that is thermal break aluminum (as defined in footnote 9 to Table 10-6B),  wood, aluminum clad wood, vinyl, aluminum clad vinyl, or reinforced vinyl.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1402 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1402 Mechanical Ventilation: The minimum requirements for ventilation shall comply with the ~~Washington State Ventilation and Indoor Air Quality Code (WAC51-13)~~Seattle Mechanical Code.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1411.2 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1411.2 Rating Conditions: Cooling equipment shall be rated at ARI test conditions and procedures when available. Where no applicable procedures exist, data shall be furnished by the equipment manufacturer.

If equipment is rated in accordance with an  ARI Standard, it shall be rated at

 Standard (not "design") ARI Rating Conditions.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended by adding a new Section 1411.5 to read as follows:

 1411.5 Heating Systems in Unenclosed Spaces. Where heating is provided to unenclosed spaces, only radiant heating systems shall be used unless otherwise approved by the building official. An unenclosed space is one that is not substantially surrounded by solid surfaces such as walls, floors, roofs, and openable devices such as doors and operable windows. Warehouses and repair garages are considered enclosed spaces.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1412.4 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1412.4 Setback and Shut-Off: HVAC systems shall be equipped with automatic controls capable of accomplishing a reduction of energy use through control setback or equipment shutdown during periods of non-use or alternate use of the spaces served by the system. The automatic controls shall have a minimum seven-day clock and be capable of being set for seven different day types per week.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. Systems serving areas which require continuous operation at the same temperature setpoint.

 2. Equipment with full load demands of 2 kW (6,826 Btu/h) or less may be controlled by readily accessible manual off- hour controls.

 1412.4.1 Dampers: Outside air intakes, exhaust outlets and relief outlets serving conditioned spaces shall be equipped with  motorized dampers which close automatically when the system is off or upon power failure. Stair shaft and elevator shaft smoke relief openings shall be equipped with normally open dampers. These dampers shall remain closed until activated by the fire alarm system or other approved smoke detection system.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. Systems serving areas which require continuous operation.

 2. Combustion air intakes.

3.Gravity (non-motorized) dampers are acceptable in buildings less than 3stories in height.

1412.4.2 Optimum Start Controls: Heating and cooling systems with design supply air capacities exceeding 10,000 cfm shall have optimum start controls. Optimum start controls shall be designed to automatically adjust the start time of an HVAC system each day to bring the space to desired occupied temperature levels immediately before scheduled occupancy. The control algorithm shall, as a minimum, be a function of the difference between space temperature and occupied setpoint and the amount of time prior to scheduled occupancy.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended by adding a new Section 1412.8 to read as follows:

 1412.8 Enclosed Parking Garage Ventilation. Garage ventilation fan systems with a total design capacity greater than 30,000 cfm shall have at least one of the following:

 (a) An automatic control that is capable of staging fans or modulating fan

 volume as required to maintain carbon monoxide (CO) concentration below a level of 50 ppm as stated in ASHRAE Standard 62. This option only applies to garages used predominantly by gasoline powered vehicles.

 (b) An automatic control that is capable of shutting off fans or reducing fan

 volume during periods when the garage is not in use. The system shall be equipped with at least one of the following:

 (i) An automatic timeclock that can start and stop the system under different schedules for seven different day-types per week, is capable of retaining programming and time setting during loss of power for a

 period of at least 10 h, and includes an accessible manual override that allows temporary operation of the system for up to 2 h.

 (ii) An occupant sensor.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1414.2 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1414.2 Insulation. Ducts and plenums that are constructed and function as part of the building envelope, by separating interior space from exterior space, shall meet all applicable requirements of Chapter 13. These requirements include insulation installation, moisture control, air leakage, and building envelope insulation levels. ~~Unheated equipment rooms with combustion air louvers shall be isolated from the conditioned space by insulating interior surfaces to a minimum of R 11 and any exterior envelope surfaces per Chapter 13.)) ~~Outside air ducts serving individual supply air units with less than 2,800 cfm of total supply air capacity shall be insulated to a minimum of R-7 and are not considered building envelope. Other outside air duct runs are considered building envelope until they,

 1. connect to the heating or cooling equipment, or

 2. are isolated from the exterior with an automatic shut-off damper complying with Section 1412.4.1.

 Once outside air ducts meet the above listed requirements, any runs within conditioned space shall comply with Table 14-5 requirements. Other ducts and plenums shall be thermally insulated per Table 14- 5.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. Within the HVAC equipment.

 2. Exhaust air ducts not subject to condensation.

 3. Exposed ductwork within a zone that serves that zone.

 follows:

 1421.1 System Sizing Limits: Installed space heating equipment output shall not exceed 30 Btu per square foot of gross conditioned floor area and installed space cooling equipment output shall not exceed 30 Btu per square foot of gross conditioned floor area.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. For equipment which provides both heating and cooling in one package unit, compliance need only be demonstrated for either the space heating or space cooling system size.

 2. Equipment sized in accordance with Section 1431.2.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended by adding a new Section 1431.2 to read as follows:

 1431.2 System Sizing Limits: Heating and cooling design loads for the purpose of sizing systems shall be determined in accordance with one of the procedures described in Chapter 28 of Standard RS- 27 listed in Chapter 17 or an equivalent computation procedure. For interior temperatures, 70F shall be used for heating and 75F for cooling. For exterior temperatures, 24F shall be used for heating and 82F drybulb and 66F wetbulb for cooling.

 Building mechanical systems for all buildings which provide space heating and/or space cooling shall be sized no greater than 150% of the design load as calculated above. No additional safety factor is allowed.

 EXCEPTIONS: The following limited exemptions from the sizing limit shall be

 allowed, however, in all cases heating and/or cooling design load calculations shall

 be submitted.

 1. For a single piece of equipment which has both heating and cooling capability, only one function, either the heating or the cooling, need meet the requirements of this section. Capacity for the other function shall be, within

 available equipment options, the smallest size necessary to meet the load.

 2. (Reserved.)

 3. Stand-by equipment may be installed if controls and devices are provided which allow redundant equipment to operate automatically only when the primary equipment is not operating.

 4. Multiple units of the same equipment type, such as multiple chillers and boilers, with combined capacities exceeding the design load may be specified to operate concurrently only if controls are provided that sequence or

 otherwise optimally control the operation of each unit based on load.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1432.2 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1432.2 Systems Temperature Reset Controls

 1432.2.1 Air Systems for Multiple Zones: Systems supplying heated or cooled air to multiple zones shall include controls which automatically reset supply air temperatures by representative building loads or by outside air temperature. Temperature shall be load.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1432.2 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1432.2 Systems Temperature Reset Controls

 1432.2.1 Air Systems for Multiple Zones: Systems supplying heated or cooled air to multiple zones shall include controls which automatically reset supply air temperatures by representative building loads or by outside air temperature. Temperature shall be load.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1432.2 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1432.2 Systems Temperature Reset Controls

 1432.2.1 Air Systems for Multiple Zones: Systems supplying heated or cooled air to multiple zones shall include controls which automatically reset supply air temperatures by representative building loads or by outside air temperature. Temperature shall be reset by at least 25% of the design supply-air-to-room-air temperature difference.

 EXCEPTION: Where specified humidity levels are required to satisfy process needs, such as computer rooms or museums.

 1432.2.2 Hydronic Systems. Systems with a design capacity of 600,000 Btu/h or greater supplying heated or mechanically refrigerated water to comfort conditioning systems shall include controls which automatically reset supply water temperatures by representative building loads (including return water temperature) or by outside air temperature. Temperature shall be reset by at least 25% of the design supply-to-return water temperature differences.

EXCEPTION: Hydronic systems that use variable flow devices complying with Section  1438 to reduce pumping energy.

 Section Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1435 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1435 Simultaneous Heating and Cooling: Syste?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????

 ? ?? ??????

 ?????H? ? ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ?????

 d. Other simultaneous operation of heating and cooling systems to the same zone.

 e. Reheating for humidity control.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. Zones for which the volume of air that is reheated, recooled, or mixed is no greater than the larger of the following:

 i. The volume of air required to meet the minimum required to meet the ventilation requirements of the ~~Washington State Ventilation and Indoor Air Quality Code~~Seattle Mechanical Code for the zone.

 ii. 0.4 cfm/ft2 of the zone conditioned floor area, provided that the temperature of the primary system air is, by design or through reset controls, 0-12 symbol 176 design space heating temperature when outside air temperatures are below 60 symbol 176 cold deck of mixing systems and 0-12 symbol 176 10 F above design space temperature when outside air temperatures are above 60 symbol 176 and hot deck of mixing systems. For multiple zone systems, each zone need not comply with this exception provided the average of all zones served by the system that have both heating and cooling ability comply.

 iii. 300 cfm. This exception is for zones whose peak flow rate totals no more than 10% of the total fan system flow rate.

 iv. Any higher rate that can be demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the building official, to reduce overall system annual energy usage by offsetting reheat/recool energy losses through a reduction in outdoor air intake in accordance with the multiple space requirements defined in ASHRAE Standard 62.

 2. Zones where special pressurization relationships, cross- contamination requirements, or code required minimum circulation rates are such that variable air volume systems are impractical.

 3. Zones where at least 75% of the energy for reheating or for providing warm air in mixing systems is provided from a site- recovered (including condenser heat) or site-solar energy source.

 4. Zones where specific humidity levels are required to satisfy process needs, such as computer rooms, museums, surgical suites, and buildings with refrigerating systems, such as supermarkets, refrigerated warehouses, and ice arenas.

 Section AUTONUM Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1436 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1436 Heat Recovery: Fan systems which have both a capacity of 5,000 cfm or greater and which have a minimum outside air supply of 70% or greater of the total air circulation shall have a heat recovery system with at least 50% recovery effectiveness. 50% heat recovery effectiveness shall mean an increase in the outside air supply temperature at design heating conditions of one half the difference between the outdoor design air temperature and 65F. Provision shall be made to bypass or control the heat recovery system to permit air economizer operation as required by Section 1433. Heat recovery energy may be provided from any site-recovered or site-solar source.

 EXCEPTIONS:

 1. Laboratory systems equipped with both variable air volume supply and variable air volume or two-speed exhaust fume hoods provided that an instruction label is placed on the face of the hood that provides the information in Exhibit 14-1.  Exhibit 14-1

 INSTRUCTIONS TO OPERATOR

 To be in compliance with the Seattle Energy Code, this fume hood

 is designed to operate as variable air volume (VAV)

 by adjusting the sash or controller. Maintain sash in the minimum

 position during use and close totally when the fume hood is not in use.

2. Systems serving spaces heated to less than 60F.

 3. Systems which can be shown to use as much energy with the addition of heat recovery equipment as without it.

 4. Systems exhausting toxic, flammable, paint exhaust or corrosive fumes making the installation of heat recovery equipment impractical.

 5. Type I commercial kitchen hoods.

 Section AUTONUM Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1438 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1438 Variable Flow Systems and System Criteria: For fans and pumps greater than 10 hp where the where the application involves variable flow, there shall be

 1. variable speed drives or

2. other controls and devices that will result in fan and pump motor demand ofno more than 30% of design wattage at 50% of design air volume for fans when static pressure set point equals 1/3 the total design static pressure, and50% of design water flow for pumps, based on manufacturer's certified testdata.

At the time this code was adopted, very few technologies could be shown to meet the criteria in option 2.

~~variable flow devices installed. Acceptable variable flow devices include variable inlet vanes, variable blade pitch and variable fan geometry. T~~Variable inlet vanes, throttling valves (dampers), scroll dampers or bypass circuits shall not be allowed.

 Section AUTONUM Effective July 1, 2001, the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended by adding a new Section 1438.1 to read as follows:

 1438.1 Cooling Towers: All cooling towers with a total fan motor horsepower greater than 10 hp shall be equipped with a pony motor of a rated hp no greater than 1/3 of the hp of the primary motor or with a two-speed motor. The cooling tower control shall provide two-stage operation of fans and shall bring on the pony motor to operate without the primary motor or for a two-speed motor run at the lower speed when possible while meeting the condenser water return setpoint.

 EXCEPTION: Cooling towers with variable frequency drive.

 Section AUTONUM Effective July 1, 2001, the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended by adding a new Section 1452 to read as follows:

 1452 Pool Water Heaters: Pool water heaters using electric resistance heating as the primary source of heat are prohibited for pools over 2,000 gallons.

 Section AUTONUM Effective July 1, 2001, Section 1530 of the 2000 Washington State Energy Code is amended to read as follows:

 1530 LIGHTING POWER ALLOWANCE OPTION: The installed lighting wattage shall not exceed the lighting power allowance. Lighting wattage includes lamp and ballast wattage. Wattage for fluorescent lamps and ballasts shall be tested per ANSI Standard C82.2-1984.

 The wattage used for any unballasted fixture shall be the maximum UL listed wattage for that fixture regardless of the lamp installed. The wattage used for track lighting shall be:

 a. for line voltage track, 50 watts per lineal foot of track or actual luminaire wattage, whichever is greater.

 b. for low voltage track (less than 30 volts), 25 watts per lineal foot of track or the VA rating of the transformer, whichever is greater.

 No credit towards compliance with the lighting power allowances shall be

 given for the use of any controls, automatic or otherwise.

 Exit lights that are 5 watts or less per fixture shall not be included in the lighting power allowance calculations. Other exit lights shall be included in the lighting power allowance calculations.

 Section AUTONUM This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, DATE session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, DATE

 ___________________________________

 President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, DATE "yyyy"

 ___________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 20____.

 ___________________________________

 City Clerk

 (SEAL)

 John Hogan

 FILENAME

 TIME

 V #3

 PAGE 5

 PAGE 11

```
