

********

**Council Bill Number: 113695**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120402**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to wastewater property and service of Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing transfer to the Ronald Wastewater District of responsibility for wastewater services north of the City; declaring certain wastewater property north of the City surplus to the City's needs; authorizing sale of such surplus property to the Ronald Wastewater District and joint use of certain wastewater facilities after the sale; and authorizing execution of agreements and other documents necessary to accomplish the sale and joint use.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 18, 2001
   
**Vote:** 7-0 (excused: Pageler and Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 21, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 21, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 4, 2001
   
**Committee:** Water Resources, Solid Waste and Public Health
   
**Sponsor:** PAGELER
   
   
**Index Terms:** WATER-DISTRICTS, SEATTLE-PUBLIC-UTILITIES, SHORELINE, LAKE-FOREST-PARK, WASTE-WATER-TREATMENT, SPECIAL-DISTRICTS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to wastewater property and service of Seattle Public Utilities; authorizing transfer to the Ronald Wastewater District of responsibility for wastewater services north of the City; declaring certain wastewater property north of the City surplus to the City's needs; authorizing sale of such surplus property to the Ronald Wastewater District and joint use of certain wastewater facilities after the sale; and authorizing execution of agreements and other documents necessary to accomplish the sale and joint use.

 WHEREAS, The City of Seattle (the "City") has been providing wastewater service to approximately 8,000 customers in certain portions of the Cities of Shoreline ("Shoreline") and Lake Forest Park (as defined below, the "Transfer Area") ; and

 WHEREAS, the City provides wastewater service in Shoreline pursuant to the franchise granted by Shoreline Ordinance no. 215 (the "Sewer Franchise"); and

 WHEREAS, the City owns and operates various facilities and installations, and has various real property interests, in the Transfer Area; and

 WHEREAS, the Ronald Wastewater District, a special purpose municipal corporation (the "District"), has been providing waste water service in an area adjacent to the Transfer Area; and

 WHEREAS, with the knowledge and cooperation of the Cities of Shoreline and Lake Forest Park, the District desires to provide wastewater service to, and acquire the City's facilities, installations and real property interests in, the Transfer Area; and

 WHEREAS, since the City finds the amount to be paid by the District to be fair and adequate consideration and since the affected municipalities agree with the transfer, the City desires to facilitate the requested transfer to the District; and

 WHEREAS, the City and the District desire to provide for the joint use of certain facilities after the transfer of property and service responsibility from the City to the District; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Pursuant to RCW 35.94.040 and after public hearing, the real property in the area north of the center lines of North 145th Street and Northeast 145th Street that is described legally in Exhibit D and depicted pictorially in Exhibit A of Attachment 1 to this ordinance (the "Transfer Area"), as well as the City's wastewater facilities and installations in the Transfer Area, are found and declared to be no longer required for continued municipal wastewater service and to be surplus to the City's needs. Such facilities, installations and real property, together with documents and materials related to the transfer of responsibility for wastewater service in the Transfer Area, are referred to collectively as the "Wastewater Assets."

 Section 2. The City hereby authorizes transfer of responsibility for wastewater service in the Transfer Area from the City to the District in accordance with the Agreement to Transfer Wastewater Service, Facilities and Property between the City and the District, attached to this ordinance as Attachment 1 (the "Transfer Agreement"). Consistent with this transfer of service responsibility, the City authorizes the assignment of its Sewer Franchise to the District. The City hereby authorizes the sale of the Wastewater Assets to the District in consideration of the District's payment of Two Million Nine Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars ($2,980,000) and such other terms and conditions as are set forth in the Transfer Agreement.

 Section 3. The Managing Director of Seattle Public Utilities or her designee is hereby authorized to enter into and sign an agreement, substantially in the form of the Transfer Agreement, for the sale of the Wastewater Assets to the District.

 Section 4. The Managing Director of Seattle Public Utilities or her designee is hereby authorized to enter into and sign an agreement with the District, substantially in the form of Exhibit E of the Transfer Agreement, but with changes that are consistent with this ordinance and that the Managing Director may approve, for the use, maintenance, repair, and replacement of certain facilities to be used jointly by Seattle and the District for the conveyance of wastewater/sewage after the Wastewater Assets are sold to the District (the "Use Agreement") .

 Section 5. The Managing Director of Seattle Public Utilities is hereby authorized to do everything that she may deem necessary, appropriate or desirable (including without limitation execution of one or more deeds, bills of sales, assignments and other documents) in order to carry out the terms and provisions of, and complete the transactions contemplated by, this ordinance, the Transfer Agreement and the Use Agreement. Recognizing that the City and the District intend the City to transfer to the District all City real property interests in the Transfer Area that are necessary for the District's provision of wastewater service, the City authorizes the Managing Director of Seattle Public Utilities, without further action by the City Council and consistent with the Transfer Agreement, to accomplish the transfer of any such interests not included in Exhibit C of the Transfer Agreement that may be discovered.

 Section 6. The Director of the City's Department of Finance is hereby authorized to accept from the District payments as called for in the Transfer Agreement and the Use Agreement and to deposit these payments in the Seattle Drainage and Wastewater Fund.

 Section 7. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ President ____________of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 05/31/01 V#1

 Exhibit A

[Facilities to be transferred from SPU to Ronald Wastewater District](/~ordpics/113695a.gif)

 Facilities ownership in the N 145th and NE 145th St. right of way.

[Exhibit A-1H](/~ordpics/1136951h.gif)[Exhibit A-1G](/~ordpics/1136951g.gif)[Exhibit A-1F](/~ordpics/1136951f.gif)[Exhibit A-1E](/~ordpics/1136951e.gif)[Exhibit A-1D](/~ordpics/1136951d.gif)[Exhibit A-1C](/~ordpics/1136951c.gif)[Exhibit A-1B](/~ordpics/1136951b.gif)[Exhibit A-1A](/~ordpics/1136951a.gif)

 Exhibit B

 Billing Records to be Transferred

 1. Residential and Commercial Customer Service Data: Customer and owner name(s), service and mailing address(es), rate structure(s), SPU and Shoreline water meter number(s), SPU water and sewer account number(s), number and/or type of unit(s).

 2. Residential and Commercial Water Purveyor Data: Customer and owner name(s), service and mailing address(es), rate structure(s), SPU and Shoreline water meter number(s), SPU water and sewer account number(s), number and/or type of unit(s) for SPU and Shoreline water customers.

 3. Residential and Commercial Customer Water Consumption Data: SPU water customer consumption figures to be provided on an ongoing basis. Water consumption figures for the entire year are to be provided once per year.

 4. Utility Credit Customers: Service and water Consumption Data for 351 customers. Exhibit C

 Property Fee Property

 South 2 ft. and shorelands adjacent Lot D, Block 61, Pettits Lake Washington Acre Tracts, according to the plat recorded in Volume 11, of Plats, page 99, in King County, Washington. Acquired by deed from King County, Recording No. 8103170570; accepted by Ordinance 110356; deed filed as City Deed No. 18569.

 Recorded or Condemned Easements

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 4-1-60, Recording No. 5147028, Volume 4024 of Deeds, page 468, being portion of Lot 1, Bothwell Vista (File #4 - LCSD, Reference # E-7-5)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 4-1-60, Recording No. 5147032, Volume 4024 of Deeds, page 476, being portion of Lot 2, Bothwell Vista (File #4 - LCSD, Reference # E-7-6)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142291, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 105, being portion of Lot 3, Bothwell Vista (File #4 - LCSD, Reference # E-7-7)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142292, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 107, being East 10' of Lot 4, Bothwell Vista (File #4 - LCSD, Reference # E-7-8)

 Sanitary sewer easement condemned Cause 552371, being South 5 feet of Lot 11, Block 6, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-6-6)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 6-17-60, Recording No. 5172812, Volume 4050 of Deeds, page 339, being portions of Lots 10 and 28, Block 6, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-6-7)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 6-3-60, Recording No. 5167877, Volume 4045 of Deeds, page 414, being West 10 feet of South 1/2 of Lot 22, and West 10 feet of Lots 23 and 24, Block 6, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F- 6-9)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 6-3-60, Recording No. 5167887, Volume 4045 of Deeds, page 434, being portion of Lots 25 and 26, Block 6, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-6-8)

 Sanitary sewer easement condemned Cause 552379, being portion of Lot 27, Block 6, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-6-5)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 6-24-60, Recording No. 5175521, Volume 4052 of Deeds, page 589, being portion of Lots 2 and 3, Block 8, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-7-8)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 7-15-60, Recording No. 5181847, Volume 4059 of Deeds, page 218, being portion of Lot 5, Block 8, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-7-9)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 7-15-60, Recording No. 5181850, Volume 4059 of Deeds, page 224, being South 10 ft of Lots 7 and 8, Block 8, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-7-11)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 7-15-60, Recording No. 5181849, Volume 4059 of Deeds, page 222, being South 10 feet of Lot 9, Block 8, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-7-12)

 Sanitary sewer easement recorded 7-15-60, Recording No. 5181848, Volume 4059 of Deeds, page 220, being portion of Lot 22, Block 8, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File #14 - LCSD, Reference # F-7-14)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 9-25-64, Recording No. 5791149, Volume 4581 of Deeds, page 52, being portion of Tract 6, Echo Lake Garden Tracts, Fifth Division (File #17 - LCSD, Reference # B-3-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-22-62, Recording No. 5402552, Volume 4254 of Deeds, page 595, being portion of Tract 8, Echo Lake Garden Tracts, Fifth Division (File #17 - LCSD, Reference # B-3-1)

 Sanitary and storm sewer easement, recording date not shown, Recording No. 5076641, Volume 3955 of Deeds, page 431, being portion of Tracts 17 and 18, Jersey Summer Homes (File #24 - LCSD, Easement # 16-7-41, Reference # C-2-7)

 Release of easement, releasing Recording No. 4271046, Volume 3184 of Deeds, page 543, Release being Recording No. 4386070, Volume 3297 of Deeds, page 444, being West 8 feet of Lot 10, Block 2, Jones and Garner Inc., Add'n (File #25 - LCSD, Reference # F-5-1)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 11-8-60, Recording No. 5224979, Volume 4100 of Deeds, page 3, being portion of Lot 4, Block 1, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-30, Reference # D-8-4)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording date not shown, Recording No. 5226933, Volume 4101 of Deeds, page 592, being portion of Lots 5 & 6, Block 1, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-32, Reference # D-8-1)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording date not shown, Recording No. 5220236, Volume 4095 of Deeds, page 597, being portion of Lot 6, Block 1, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-33, Reference # D-8-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 12-9-60, Recording No. 5231594, Volume 4106 of Deeds, page 93, being portion of Lot 1, Block 2, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-36, Reference # D-8-7)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No. 5214849, Volume 4071 of Deeds, page 97, being portion of Lot 1, Block 2, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-37, Reference # D-8-8)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No. 5214848, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 95, being portion of Lot 1, Block 2, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-38, Reference # D-8-9)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 11-4-60, Recording No. 5220240, Volume 4095 of Deeds, page 606, being portion of Lot 1, Block 2, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-39, Reference # D-8-10)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No. 5214865, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 129, being portion of Lot 1, Block 2, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-40, Reference # D-8-11)

 Sanitary sewer easement, Recording No. 5214851, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 101, being portion of Lot 1, Block 2, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-35)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-10-61, Recording No. 5260566, Volume 4131 of Deeds, page 179, being portion of Lot 2, Block 2, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File #31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-41, Reference # D-8-12)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-9-64, Recording No. 5796874, Volume of Deeds, page , being portion of Tracts 34, 35 and 41, Maywood Acre Tracts (File #41 - LCSD, Reference # D-2-26)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording date not shown, Recording No. 5092324, Volume 3970 of Deeds, page 446, being portion of Lot 8, Maywood Terrace Addition (File #43 - LCSD, Easement # 16-18-30, Reference # E-2-13)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-11-60, Recording No. 5139909, Volume 4017 of Deeds, page 357, being portion of Lots 1 & 2, Block 6, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park (File #45 - LCSD, Easement # 10-9-7, Reference # D-6-7)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-11-60, Recording No. 5139915, Volume 4017 of Deeds, page 369, being portion of Lots 2 and 3, Block 6, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park (File #45 - LCSD, Easement # 10-9-6, Reference # D-6-6)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-11-60, Recording No. 5139911, Volume 4017 of Deeds, page 361, being portion of Lot 4, Block 6, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park (File #45 - LCSD, Easement # 10-9-5, Reference # D-6-5)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-11-60, Recording No. 5139914, Volume 4017 of Deeds, page 367, being portion of Lot 9, Block 6, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park (File #45 - LCSD, Easement # 10-9-1, Reference # D-6-1)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-11-60, Recording No. 5139912, Volume 4017 of Deeds, page 363, being portion of Lot 10, Block 6, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park (File #45 - LCSD, Easement # 10-9-2, Reference # D-6-2)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-11-60, Recording No. 5139910, Volume 4017 of Deeds, page 359, being portion of Lot 11, Block 6, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park (File #45 - LCSD, Easement # 10-9-3, Reference # D-6-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-11-60, Recording No. 5139913, Volume 4017 of Deeds, page 365, being portion of Lots 12 and 13, Block 6, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park (File #45 - LCSD, Easement # 10-9-4, Reference # D-6-4)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-5-63, Recording No. 5566244, Volume 4393 of Deeds, page 654, being portion of Tract 55, Murphy's Interurban Acres (File #48 - LCSD, Easement # 8-82, Reference # D-3-46)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-28-60, Recording No. 5217818, Volume 4093 of Deeds, page 589, being portion of Lot A, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-89, Reference # E-7-51)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No. 5214864, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 127, being portion of Lots G and H, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-85, Reference # E-7-56)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 1-6-61, Recording No. 5239181, Volume 4112 of Deeds, page 423, being portion of Lot L, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-84, Reference # E-7-57)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No. 5214860, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 119, being portion of Lots O and P, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-82, Reference # E-7-58)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 2-24-61, Recording No. 5255602, Volume 4126 of Deeds, page 517, being portion of Lot F, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-117, Reference # F-7-24)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 2-24-61, Recording No. 5255600, Volume 4126 of Deeds, page 513, being portions of Lots H & I, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-114, Reference # F-7-26)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 2-24-61, Recording No. 5255599, Volume 4126 of Deeds, page 511, being portions of Lots I & J, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-113, Reference # F-7-27)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-3-61, Recording No. 5258111, Volume 4126 of Deeds, page 649, being portion of Lot J, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-112, Reference # F-7-28)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 2-24-61, Recording No. 5255597, Volume 4126 of Deeds, page 507, being portion of Lot K, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-111, Reference # F-7-29)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 2-24-61, Recording No. 5255598, Volume 4126 of Deeds, page 509, being portion of Lots K & L, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-110, Reference # F-7-30)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 2-24-61, Recording No. 5255596, Volume 4126 of Deeds, page 505, being portion of Lot L, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-109, Reference # F-7-31)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-22-60, Recording No. 5154312, Volume 4032 of Deeds, page 48, being portion of Tract 10, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-21, Reference # E-7-17)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-8-60, Recording No. 5149420, Volume 4027 of Deeds, page 124, being portion of Tracts 11, 12 and 13, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-20, Reference # E-7-16)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-29-60, Recording No. 5145664, Volume 4023 of Deeds, page 212, being portion of Tract 12, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-17, Reference # E-7-14)

 Sanitary sewer easement, Recording No. 5145665, Volume 4023 of Deeds, page 214, being portion of Tract 12, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # (10-15- 18)?)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-29-60, Recording No. 5145665, Volume 4023 of Deeds, page 214, being portion of Tract 12, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-80, Reference # E-7-15)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-16-64, Recording No. 5799822, Volume 4588 of Deeds, page 277, being portions of Tracts 47 and 20, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Reference # E-7-62)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 7-1-60, Recording No. 5177532, Volume 4055 of Deeds, page 47, being portion of Tract 24, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-76, Reference # F-7-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-16-64, Recording No. 5799821, Volume 4588 of Deeds, page 275, being portions of Tracts 46 and 21, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Reference # E-7-61)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 7-14-60, Recording No. 5193364, Volume 4070 of Deeds, page 306, being portion of Tract 24, Petti t's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-75, Reference # F-7-2)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 7-15-60, Recording No. 5181846, Volume 4059 of Deeds, page 216, being portion of Tract 26, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File #51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-78, Reference # F-7-5)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No. 5214853, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 105, being portion of Lot 1, Block 1, Seattle Suburban Home Tracts (File #57 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-68, Reference # F-7-19)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 12-23-60, Recording No. 5235980, Volume 4109 of Deeds, page 646, being portions of Lots 4 & 5, Block 1, Seattle Suburban Home Tracts (File #57 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-71, Reference # F-7-22)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No. 5214862, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 123, being portion of Lot 3, Block 2, Seattle Suburban Home Tracts (File #57 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-65, Reference # F-7-16)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 6-30-61, Recording No. 5167881, Volume 4045 of Deeds, page 422, being portion of Lots 4 and 5, Block 1, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-28, Reference # D-7-22)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 7-1-60, Recording No. 5177533, Volume 4055 of Deeds, page 49, being portion of Lot 3, Block 2, 1 Seattle Suburban Home Tracts (File #57 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-66, Reference # F-7-17)

 Sanitary sewer easement, condemned Cause 552380, Parcel 4, being portion of Lot 12, Block 2, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-5)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-20-60, Recording No. 5163753, Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 317, being portion of Lot 20, Block 2, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 10-7, Reference # D-7-20)

 Sanitary sewer easement, condemned Cause 552380, Parcel 2, being portion of Lot 21, Block 2, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD , Easement # 10-10-6)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-28-60, Recording No. 5217817, Volume 4093 of Deeds, page 587, being portion of Lot 13, Block 3, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-91, Reference # E-7-48)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No. 5214850, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 99, being portion of Lot 14, Block 3, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-90, Reference # E-7-49)

 Sanitary sewer easement, condemned Cause 552380, Parcel 9, being portion of Lot 2, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD , Easement # 10-15-12)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-20-60, Recording No. 5163756, Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 323, being portion of Lot 10, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-25, Reference # E-7-42)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-20-60, Recording No. 5159065, Volume 4036 of Deeds, page 585, being portion of Lot 19, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-27, Reference # E-7-46)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-20-60, Recording No. 5163757, Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 325, being portion of Lot 21, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-28, Reference # E-7-45)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 8-19-60, Recording No. 5193365, Volume 4070 of Deeds, page 308, being portion of Lots 26 & 27, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-26, Reference # E-7-41)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-20-60, Recording No. 5163749, Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 309, being portion of Lot 31, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-16, Reference # E-7-39)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-6-60, Recording No. 5159068, Volume 4036 of Deeds, page 592, being portion of Lot 32, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-15, Reference # E-7-38)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-6-60, Recording No. 5159066, Volume 4036 of Deeds, page 588, being portion of Lots 33 & 34, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-14, Reference # E-7-37)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-8-60, Recording No. 5149419, Volume 4027 of Deeds, page 122, being portion of Lot 35, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File #58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-13, Reference # E-7-36)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-8-60, Recording No. 5149421, Volume 4027 of Deeds, page 126, being portion of Lot 9, Block 2, Sheridan Heights (File #59 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-3, Reference # E-7-30)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-29-60, Recording No. 5145663, Volume 4023 of Deeds, page 210, being portion of Lot 10, Block 2, Sheridan Heights (File #59 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 10-15, Reference # D-7-12)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-6-60, Recording No. 5159067, Volume 4036 of Deeds, page 590, being portion of Lot 11, Block 2, Sheridan Heights (File #59 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 10-14, Reference # D-7-11)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142277, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 77, being portion of Lots 1 and 2, Block 3, Sheridan Heights (File #59 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-1, Reference # D-7-13)

 Sanitary sewer easement, SC Cause 552380, Parcel 10, being portion of Lot 4, Block 2, Sheridan Heights (File #59 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-61)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 6-3-60, Recording No. 5167885, Volume 4045 of Deeds, page 430, being portion of Lots 1 and 2, Block 9, Sheridan Heights No. 2 (File #60 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-16, Reference # D-7-10)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 6-3-60, Recording No. 5167882, Volume 4045 of Deeds, page 424, being portion of Lot 3, Block 9, Sheridan Heights No. 2 (File #60 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-17, Reference # D-7-9)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 8-12-60, Recording No. 5191028, Volume 4068 of Deeds, page 85, being portion of Lot 15, Block 10, Sheridan Heights No. 2 (File #60 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-24, Reference # D-7-23)

 Sanitary sewer easement (replaced by AF 5301576), Recording No. 5142283, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 87, being portion of Lot 9, Sheridan Hills (File #61 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-22, Reference # D-7-4)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 6-30-61, Recording No. 5301576, Volume 4167 of Deeds, page 211, being portion of Lot 9, Sheridan Hills (File #61 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-22R, Reference # D-7-4)

 Sanitary sewer easement (replaced by AF 5301577), Recording No. 5142282, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 87, being portion of Lot 10, Sheridan Hills (File #61 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-21, Reference # D-7-5)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 6-30-61, Recording No. 5301577, Volume 4167 of Deeds, page 213, being portion of Lot 10, Sheridan Hills (File #61 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-21R, Reference # D-7-5)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137562, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 62, being portion of Lot 1, Block 1, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-1, Reference # E-6-5)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137564, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 66, being portion of Lot 2, Block 1, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-2, Reference # E-6-7)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137565, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 68, being portion of Lot 2, Block 1, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-3, Reference # E-6-6)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137566, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 70, being portion of Lot 3, Block 1, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-4, Reference # E-6-8)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137568, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 74, being portion of Lot 4, Block 1, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-5, Reference # E-6-9)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137569, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 76, being portion of Lot 12, Block 1, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-6, Reference # E-6-10)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-29-60, Recording No. 5145669, Volume 4023 of Deeds, page 222, being portion of Lot 12, Block 2, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-19, Reference # E-6-4)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137570, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 78, being portion of Lot 13, Block 2, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-20, Reference # E-6-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137571, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 80, being portion of Lot 8, Block 15, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File #64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-23, Reference # E-6- 12)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142284, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 91, being portion of Lot 2, Block 1, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File #66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-40, Reference # E-7-19)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142285, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 93, being portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File #66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-41, Reference # E-7-20)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142286, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 95, being portion of Lot 4, Block 1, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File #66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-42, Reference # E-7-21)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142287, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 97, being portion of Lot 5, Block 1, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File #66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-43, Reference # E-7-22)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142288, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 99, being portion of Lot 6, Block 1, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File #66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-44, Reference # E-7-23)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-1-60, Recording No. 5147029, Volume 4024 of Deeds, page 470, being portion of Lot 2, Block 2, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File #66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-38, Reference # E-7-24)

 Sanitary sewer easement, condemned Cause 552380, Parcel 1, bein g portion of Lot 3, Block 2, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File #66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-50)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142280, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 83, being portion of Tax Lot 32, Section 10, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-11, Reference # D-7-17)

 Sanitary sewer easement, condemned Cause 552380, Parcel 6, being portion of Tax Lot 33, Section 10, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-13)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 6-3-60, Recording No. 5167886, Volume 4045 of Deeds, page 432, being portion of Tax Lot 35, Section 10, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-18, Reference # D-7-8)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-29-60, Recording No. 5156751, Volume 4034 of Deeds, page 331, being portion of Tax Lot 36, Section 10, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-20, Reference # D-7-6)

 Sanitary sewer easements, recording dates not shown, Recording No. 5301575 5308843, Volume 4173 of Deeds, page 418, being portion of Tax Lot 36, Section 10, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-20R, Reference # D-7-6)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142281, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 85, being portion of Tax Lot 43, Section 10, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-12, Reference # D-7-16)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 8-12-60, Recording No. 5191024, Volume 4068 of Deeds, page 77, being portion of Government Lot 4, Section 11, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #77 - LCSD, Easement # 10-11-1, Reference # D-8-14)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-29-60, Recording No. 5145667, Volume 4023 of Deeds, page 218, being portion of Government Lot 1, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-32, Reference # E-7- 11)

 Sanitary sewer easement, Recording No. 5167878, Volume 4045 of Deeds, page 416, being portion of Tax Lot 5, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-48)

 Sanitary sewer easement, condemned Cause 552380, Parcel 5, being portion of Tax Lot 12 (now part of the street right-of- way for 36th Avenue NE), Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-50, Reference # E-7-2)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 5-20-60, Recording No. 5163746, Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 303, being portion of Tax Lot 14, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-33, Reference # E-7-12)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-29-60, Recording No. 5156749, Volume 4034 of Deeds, page 327, being portion of Tax Lot 15, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-34, Reference # E-7-13)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 8-4-61, Recording No. 5314117, Volume 4178 of Deeds, page 113, being portion of Tax Lot 17, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-58, Reference # E-7-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-1-60, Recording No. 5147027, Volume 4024 of Deeds, page 466, being portion of Tax Lot 19, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-52, Reference # E-7-4)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 4-1-60, Recording No. 5147033, Volume 4024 of Deeds, page 478, being portion of Tax Lot 20, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-51, Reference # E-7-1)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142290, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 103, being portion of Tax Lot 23, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #78 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-47, Reference # F-7-6)

 Sanitary sewer & lift station easement (now portion Lot 7, Noreen-Watson Add. No. 1), Recording No. 4486663, Volume 3391 of Deeds, page 565, being portion of Tax Lot 6 , Section 17, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File #79 - LCSD)

 Sanitary sewer easement, Recording No. 7608090540, being a portion of Lot 30, Block 1, Lake Highlands Addition, Vol. 71 of Plats, pages 44 & 45 (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 7637)

 Sanitary sewer easement, Recording No. 7701140695, being a portion of Tract 12, Echo Lake Garden Tracts No. 5, Vol. 12 of Plats, page 28 (aka portion of Lot D, Short Plat No. 576047, Rec. No. 7610270739) (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 7701)

 Sanitary sewer easement, Recording No. 7708220571, being portions of Tracts 2, 3, 4 & 19, Jersey Summer Home Tracts, Vol. 21 of Plats, page 96 (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 7733)

 Sanitary sewer easement, Recording No. 7812150989 (City Deed #18283), being a portion of E 1/2 of NE1/4 of NE1/4 of SE1/4 of Section 18-26-4 (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 7865)

 Sanitary sewer easement, Recording No. 7812150988 (City Deed #18284), being a portion of E 1/2 of NE1/4 of NE1/4 of SE1/4 of Section 18-26-4 (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 7865)

 *Sewer & water main easement, Recording No. 8405220959, being a portion of Tracts 24 & 25, Echo Lake Garden Tracts Fifth Division, Vol. 12 of Plats, page 28 (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 8421)

 *Sewer & water main easement, Recording No. 8608060421, being a portion of NE 147th Street in the SW1/4 of Section 15-26-4 (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 8558)

 *Sewer & water main easement, Recording No. 8603281203, being a portion of Tract 10, Echo Lake Garden Tracts Fifth Division, Vol. 12 of Plats, page 28 (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 8613)

 *Sewer & water main easement, Recording No. 8610231139, being a portion of N1/2 of NE1/4 of NE1/4 of Section 18-26-4 (Engineering Dept. R/W File No. 8642)

 * Subject to reservation of rights

 Easements Without Recording Numbers

 in SPU/LCSD Files

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 9, Block 2, Dull's Subdivision No. 2 (File # 16 - LCSD, Reference # E-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Tract A and Lots 1, 2, 4 and 8, Howard Giffen Addition (File # 19 - LCSD, Reference # F-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 13, Block 1, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 16-17-81)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 3, Block 2, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-93)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, not notarized, being portion of Lots 2 and 3, Block 4, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 16-17-87)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being all of Tract A, Hansen's Addition (File # 21 - LCSD, Easement # 16-7- 50)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Tract 51, Jersey Summer Homes (File # 24 - LCSD, Reference # C-2-7)

 Sewer line easement, no record of recording, being portion of Tract 51, Jersey Summer Homes (File # 24 - LCSD)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of execution, being portion of Lot 30, Block 1, Lake Highlands (File # 32 - LCSD, Reference # F-7)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording not found (is NOT Vol. 2303 of Deeds, page 147), being portion of Lot 1, Lewis Brothers Addition (File # 34 - LCSD, Easement # 16-17-89, Reference # F-3)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording not confirmed, being portion of Lot 1, Marshall's Terrace Addition (File # 40 - LCSD, Easement # 16-18-81)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording not confirmed, being portion of Lots 2 and 3, Marshall's Terrace Addition (File # 40 - LCSD, Easement # 16-18-82)

 Sanitary sewer easement, condemned (no other notes), being portion of Lot 53, Murphy's Interurban Acres (File # 48 - LCSD, Easement # 8-80)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording not confirmed, being portion of Lot 54, Murphy's Interurban Acres (File # 48 - LCSD, Easement # 8-81)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording not confirmed, being portion of Lot 56, Murphy's Interurban Acres (File # 48 - LCSD, Easement # 8-83)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording not confirmed, being portion of Lot 56, Murphy's Interurban Acres (File # 48 - LCSD, Easement # 8-84)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of execution, letter per condemnation Cause 505570, being portion of Lots 12 and 13, Block 16, Paramount Park Div. No. 2 (File # 50 - LCSD, Easement # 17-2, Reference # F-4-7)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portions of Lot G, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File # 51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-116)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Tract 10, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File # 51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-21-A)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of execution, being portion of Lots 9 and 10, Block 4, Richmond Acres (File # 52 - LCSD, Reference # C-2)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of execution, being portion of Lot 14, Block 3, Ridgecrest Homes (File # 53 - LCSD, Easement # 8-87)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of execution, being portion of Lot 15, Block 3, Ridgecrest Homes (File # 53 - LCSD, Easement # 8-86R)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 15, Block 3, Ridgecrest Homes (File # 53 - LCSD, Easement # 8-86, Reference # D-3-30)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lots 4 and 5, Block 1, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3 (File # 54 - LCSD, Easement # 17-97)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 7, Block 1, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3 (File # 54 - LCSD, Easement # 17-96)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 1, Block 3, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3 (File # 54 - LCSD, Easement # 17-95AR)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of execution, being portion of Lot 2, Block 3, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3 (File # 54 - LCSD , Easement # 17-95BR)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being metes & bounds description, Plat of Sheridan Manor (File # 62 - LCSD)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 3, Wegley's Addition (File # 72 - LCSD, Easement # 8- 85)

 Sanitary sewer easement, recording not shown, being portion of Tax Lot 36, Unplatted - 10-26-4 (File # 76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-20R2)

 Sanitary sewer easement, no record of recording, being portion of Tax Lot 58, Unplatted - 10-26-4 (File # 76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-46R)

 Side Sewer Easements

 Side sewer easement recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142293, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 109, being East 30 ft. of Lot 5, Bothwell Vista (File # 4 - LCSD, Reference # E-7-9)

 Side sewer easement recorded (date not shown), Recording No. 5145666, Volume 4023 of Deeds, page 216, being E 20' of Lot 8, Bothwell Vista & portion of Govt Lot 1, Section 15, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File # 4 - LCSD, Reference # E- 7-10)

 Side sewer easement recorded 7-8-60, Recording No. 5179525, Volume 4057 of Deeds, page 98, being Lots 20 and 21, Block 8, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File # 14 - LCSD, Reference # F-7- 13)

 Side sewer easement recorded 5-15-60, Recording No. 5163751, Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 313, being Lots 5 & 6, and Lots 3 & 4, Block 9, Chittenden's Terrace Park (File # 14 - LCSD, Reference # F-7-15)

 Side sewer easement, no record of recording, being portions of Tracts 7 & 8, Echo Lake Garden Tracts, 4th (File # 16A- LCSD, Reference # C-3-3)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 11-18-60, Recording No. 5224981 , Volume 4100 of Deeds, page 7, being portions of Lots 5 & 6, Block 1, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition (File # 31 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-31, Reference # D-8-2)

 Side sewer easement, Recording No. 5163752, Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 315, being portion of Tract 4, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File # 51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-96)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 7-1-60, Recording No. 5177536, Volume 4055 of Deeds, page 55, being portions of Tract 25, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File # 51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-77, Reference # F-7-4)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 9-16-60, Recording No. 5202558 , Volume 4079 of Deeds, page 162, being portions of Lots 4 & 5, Block 1, Seattle Suburban Home Tracts (File # 57 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-73, Reference # F-7-23)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 8-12-60, Recording No. 5191026 , Volume 4068 of Deeds, page 81, being portions of Lots 4 & 5, Block 2, Seattle Suburban Home Tracts (File # 57 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-67, Reference # F-7-18)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 4-29-60, Recording No. 5156750 , Volume 4034 of Deeds, page 329, being portions of Lots 15 & 19, Block 2, Sheridan Beach (File # 58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 10-8, Reference # D-7-21)

 Side sewer easement, recording date not shown, Recording No. 5335417, Volume 4196 of Deeds, page 592, being portions of Lots 11 and 12, Block 3, Sheridan Beach (File # 58 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-92)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 5-6-60, Recording No. 5159069, Volume 4036 of Deeds, page 594 , being portions of Lots 22 & 23, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File # 58 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-29, Reference # E-7-44)

 Side sewer easement, Recording No. 5156748, Volume 4034 of Deeds, page 325, being Lot 25, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File # 58 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-30)

 Side sewer easement, Recording No. 5163755, Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 321, being portion of Lots 27 and 28, Block 4, Sheridan Beach (File # 58 - LCSD , Easement # 10-15-24)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142294, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 111 , being portions of Lots 4, 5 and 6, Block 2, Sheridan Heights (File # 59 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-62, Reference # E-7-34)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 4-1-60, Recording No. 5147031, Volume 4024 of Deeds, page 474, being portions of Lots 7 and 8, Block 2, Sheridan Heights (File # 59 - LCSD, Easement # 10- 15-4, Reference # E-7-31)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142278 , Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 79, being portions of Lots 3 & 4, Block 3, Sheridan Heights (File # 59 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10- 2, Reference # D-7-14)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142279 , Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 81, being portions of Lots 2 and 1, Block 2, Sheridan Vue Addition (File # 63 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-10, Reference # D-7-15)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137567, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 72, being portions of Lots 10 and 11, Block 1, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File # 64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-7, Reference # E-6- 11)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137563, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 64, being portions of Lots 13 and 14, Block 2, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File # 64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-21, Reference # E-6- 2)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 3-4-60, Recording No. 5137572, Volume 4015 of Deeds, page 82, being portion of Lots 6 & 7, Block 15, State Plat in Section 16, Twp. 26 N., Rng 4 E. W.M. (File # 64 - LCSD, Easement # 10-16-24, Reference # E-6-13)

 Side sewer easement, recording date not shown, Recording No. 531544, Volume 4175 of Deeds, page 650, being portions of Lots 2 and 3, Block 2, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File # 66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-38R, Reference # E-7-26)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 4-1-60, Recording No. 5147030, Volume 4024 of Deeds, page 472 , being portions of Lots 3 & 4, Block 2, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File # 66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-39, Reference # E-7-27)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 3-18-60, Recording No. 5142289, Volume 4020 of Deeds, page 101, being portions of Lots 6 and 5, Block 2, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File # 66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-45, Reference # E-7-28)

 Side sewer easement, recorded 5-20-60, Recording No. 5163754 , Volume 4041 of Deeds, page 319, being portions of Lots 9 and 8, Block 4, Stonack's Lake Vue Terrace (File # 66 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-1, Reference # E-7-29)

 Temporary Rights

 (now expired)

 18-month lease, Recording No.4248624, Volume 137 of Leases, page 180, being portion of Government Lot 3, Section 11, Township 26 North, Range 4 East, W.M. (File # 77 - LCSD, Reference # D-8)

 Access easement, recorded 10-20-60, Recording No.5214846, Volume 4091 of Deeds, page 91, being portion of Tracts 18, 51 and 52, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File # 51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-95, Reference # E-7-50)

 Condemnation of temporary construction easement, Cause 564927, being portions of Lots G and H, Block 63, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts (File # 51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15- 115)

 Temporary construction easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 6, Block 1, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3 (File # 54 - LCSD, Easement # 17-98)

 Temporary construction easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 1, Block 3, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3 (File # 54 - LCSD, Easement # 17-95-A)

 Temporary construction easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 2, Block 3, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3 (File # 54 - LCSD, Easement # 17-95-B)

 Temporary construction easement, no record of recording, being portion of Lot 3, Block 3, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3 (File # 54 - LCSD, Easement # 17-95-C)

 Temporary construction easement, recorded 3-29-60, Recording No.5145668, Volume 4023 of Deeds, page 220, being portion of Lot 3, Block 2, Sheridan Heights (File # 59 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-60, Reference # E-7-33)

 References in SPU LCSD Files**

 Lots 6 & 7, Block 5, Bonnie Glen Manor: (no documents in file; no documents listed on summary) (File # 3 - LCSD)

 Lot 6, Chittenden's Terrace Park: no record of easement found in file (File # 14 - LCSD)

 portion of Lot 1, Block 1, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-85)

 portion of Lot 1, Block 1, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-86)

 portion of Lot 1, Block 1, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-80)

 portion of Lot 16, Block 1, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-79)

 portion of Lot 16, Block 1, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-81)

 portion of Lot 7, Block 2, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: notations of "cancelled" (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 16-17- 55)

 portion of Lot 7, Block 2, and Block 3, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD , Easement # 17-54)

 portion of Lot 8, Block 3, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-44)

 portion of Lot 8, Block 3, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-43)

 portion of Lot 8, Block 3, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-42)

 portion of Lot 8, Block 3, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-41)

 portion of Lot 8, Block 3, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: notation of condemned (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 16-17-41A)

 portion of Lot 9, Block 4, Green Lake Five Acre Tracts: map references only; easement not in file (File # 20 - LCSD, Easement # 17-7)

 Plat of Lake City Homes, No. 2: no documents in file (per note) (File # 29 - LCSD)

 Plat of Lake City Homes, No. 3: no documents in file (per note) (File # 30 - LCSD)

 portion of Lot 10, Maywood Homes: map only (File # 42 - LCSD)

 Plat of Meadow Courts: no documents in file (per note) (File # 44 - LCSD)

 portion of Lot 53, Murphy's Interurban Acres: sanitary sewer easement, condemned (no other notes) (File # 48 - LCSD, Easement # 8-80)

 portions of Lots M & N, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts: notation on list only, no documentation in file; Cause 562859 (File # 51 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-83)

 portion of Lot 3, Block 2, Ridgecrest Park Addition No. 3: notation on list only, no documentation in file (File # 54 - LCSD , Easement # 17-94)

 Plat of Seattle Bitter Lake Acre Tracts: no documents in file (per note) (File # 56 - LCSD)

 portion of Lot 2, Block 1, Seattle Suburban Home Tracts: no record of easement found in file (File # 57 - LCSD)

 portion of Lot 3, Block 1, Seattle Suburban Home Tracts: no record of easement found in file (File # 57 - LCSD)

 portion of Lots 3, 4 & 5, Block 1, Seattle Suburban Home Tracts : notation only; no document copy available (File # 57 - LCSD, Easement # 10-15-70)

 portion of Tracts 25 & 26, Brinker-Hendrickson Home Acre Tracts (unrecorded plat), Unplatted - 8-26-4: map and easement area description: no other documentation available (File # 75 - LCSD)

 portion of Tax Lot 33, Unplatted - 10-26-4: notation in index only (File # 76 - LCSD, Easement # 10-10-25)

 portion of Tax Lot 62, Unplatted - 18-26-4: notation in index, and associated correspondence only (File # 80 - LCSD, Easement # 18-43)

 portion of Tax Lot 106, Unplatted - 18-26-4: notation in index, and associated correspondence only (File # 80 - LCSD, Easement # 18-44)

 ** No documentation of property rights in Seattle files

 Kenmore Interceptor

 Non-Fee Rights and Obligations

 Easement for sanitary sewer, Superior Court Cause 82-2-04372-9 as authorized by Ordinance 109893, accepted by Ordinance 111015, amended by Ordinance 111595, being a Portion of Lot 11, Block 7, Sheridan Beach, Vol. 30 of Plats, page 5 (Engineering Dept. File No. 7767-27)

 Easement for sanitary sewer, Recording No.8107020833, accepted by Ordinance 110366, being a Portion of Tract 12, Chittenden's Terrace Park Addition, Vol. 30 of Plats, page 37 (Engineering Dept. File No. 7767-20) (see Indemnity Agreement, Recording No. 8704271536)

 Indemnity Agreement and Permit to Construct and Maintain a Private Dock over a Sanitary Sewer, Recording No.8704271536, as required by Easement, Recording No. 8107020833, being a Portion of Tract 12, Chittenden's Terrace Park Addition, Vol. 30 of Plats, page 37 (Engineering Dept. File No. 7767-20)

 Easement for sanitary sewer, Recording No.8106250695, accepted by Ordinance 110366, being a Portion of Tract 12, Chittenden's Terrace Park Addition, Vol. 30 of Plats, page 37 (Engineering Dept. File No. 7767-21)

 Easement for sanitary sewer, Recording No.8107150540, accepted by Ordinance 110366, being a Portion of Lot R, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts, Vol. 11 of Plats, page 99 (Engineering Dept. File No. 7767-22)

 Easement for sanitary sewer, Recording No.8201140476, accepted by Ordinance 111089, being a Portion of Lots Q and R, and shorelands adjoining, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts, Vol. 11 of Plats, page 99 (Engineering Dept. File No. 7767-23)

 Easement for sanitary sewer, Recording No.8107020831, accepted by Ordinance 110366, being a Portion of Lot E, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts, Vol. 11 of Plats, page 99 (Engineering Dept. File No. 7767-24)

 Easement for sanitary sewer, Recording No.8107150539, accepted by Ordinance 110366, being a Portion of Lot D, Block 61, Pettit's Lake Washington Acre Tracts, Vol. 11 of Plats, page 99 (Engineering Dept. File No. 7767-26) Exhibit D Legal Description of Transfer Area

 Those portions of Sections 5 through 11 and 15 through 18, inclusive as referred to hereinafter are located in Township 26 North, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian, and all recorded plats referred to are in the records of King County, Washington:

 Beginning at the intersection of the South line of Section 15 (and of Northeast 145th Street extended) and the inner harbor line of Lake Washington;

 thence westerly along the South line of Sections15, 16, 17 and 18 to the South one-quarter corner of Section 18 (intersection of North 145th Street and Aurora Avenue North);

 thence northerly from the South one-quarter corner of Section 18 along the East line of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 18 (center line of Aurora Avenue North) to the Southwest corner of the North one-half of the Northwest one- quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 18;

 thence easterly along the South line of the said North one- half of the Northwest one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter to the Southwest corner of the Northeast one-quarter of the Northwest one-quarter of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 18;

 thence northerly along the West line of the said Northeast one-quarter of the Northwest one-quarter of the Southeast one- quarter and the West line of the East one-half of the Southwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of said Section 18 to the North line of the said East one-half of the Southwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter;

 thence easterly along the North line of the said East one-half of the Southwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter to the West line of the East one-quarter of the Northwest one- quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of said Section 18;

 thence northerly along the said West line to the South line of Section 7;

 thence northerly on the West line of the East one-quarter of the West one-half of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 7 to the South line of the Southwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter of said Section 7;

 thence continuing northerly on the West line of the East one- quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of the Northeast one- quarter of said Section 7 to a point 150 feet south of the North line of the said Southwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter;

 thence westerly on a line 150 feet southerly of and parallel to the said North line of said Southwest one-quarter of the Northeast one-quarter to a point on the Southerly extension of the West lines of Lots 1 through 6, inclusive, in Block 3 of Richmond Acres, as recorded in Volume 24 of Plats, Page 25;

 thence northerly on the said Southerly extension of the West lines of Lot 1 through 6 inclusive, and on the West line of said Lots 1 through 6, inclusive, in said Block 3 to the South margin of North 183rd Street;

 thence continuing northerly to the Southwest corner of Lot 9, Block 2, of said Richmond Acres;

 thence continuing northerly on the West line of Lots 9 through 11, inclusive in Block 2 of said Richmond Acres to the Northwest corner of said Lot 11, Block 2;

 thence continuing on the Northerly extension of the West line of said Lots 9 through 11 inclusive, in Block 2 to the North line of the South one-quarter of the South one-half of the Southeast one-quarter of Section 6;

 thence easterly along the said North line of the South one- quarter of the South one-half of the Southeast one-quarter of said Section 6 to the Southerly extension of the East line of Lot 8, Block 3, Glenwood Home Tracts, as recorded in Volume 19 of Plats, Page 29;

 thence northerly along the Southerly extension of the East line of said Lot 8 to the Southeast corner of said Lot 8;

 thence northerly on the East line of Lots 8 to 13, inclusive, in said Block 3 to the Northeast corner of said Lot 13;

 thence easterly on the Westerly extension of the South line of Lot 1 of said Block 3 to the Southwest corner of said Lot 1;

 thence easterly along the South line of said Lot 1 and along the said South line extended to the West line of Lot 20, Block 2 of said Glenwood Home Tracts;

 thence southerly along the said West line to the Southwest corner of Lot 20 of said Block 2;

 thence easterly along the South line of said Lot 20 and along the said South line extended to the Southwest corner of Lot 1 of said Block 2;

 thence easterly along the South line of Lot 1 of said Block 2 and along the said South line extended to the Southwest corner of Lot 20, Block 1 of said Glenwood Home Tracts;

 thence continuing easterly along the South line of Lot 20 of said Block 1, to the Southeast corner of said Lot 20;

 thence northerly along the East line of Lot 20 of said Block 1 to the Northeast corner of said Lot 20;

 thence northerly to the Southeast corner of Lot 5, Block B, Densmore Circle, as recorded in Volume 51 of Plats, Page 41;

 thence northerly along the East line of Lots 5 to 1, inclusive of said Block B to a point 175 feet south of the center line of North 190th Street;

 thence easterly along a line, 175 feet south of and parallel to the center line of North 190th Street, to the center line of Wallingford Avenue North;

 thence northerly along the center line of Wallingford Avenue North to an intersection with the center line of North 190th Street;

 thence easterly along the center line of North 190th Street to the East line of Section 6 (center line of Meridian Avenue North);

 thence northerly along the East line of Section 6 (center line of Meridian Avenue North) to a point of intersection with the Westerly projection of the South line of Lots 1 through 9, inclusive, Block 2, Brlar Lane Division No. 8, as recorded in Volume 52 of Plats, Page 74;

 thence easterly along the Westerly projection of the South lines of said Lots 1 through 9, inclusive, said Block 2, and the South lines of said Lots 1 through 9, inclusive, to the Southeast corner of Lot 9, Block 2, said Briar Lane Division No. 8;

 thence continuing easterly along the Easterly projection of the South line of said Lots 1 through 9, inclusive, to the East line of the West one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of Section 5;

 thence southerly along the East line of the West one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 5 (center line of Corliss Avenue North) to its Intersection with the Westerly extension of the South line of Lot 8, Plat of Echo Lane No. 2, Volume 71 of Plats, Page 90;

 thence easterly along said extension and south line to the Southeast corner of said Lot 8;

 thence northerly along the East line of Lots 1 to 8, inclusive, of said Plat of Echo Lane, No. 2 to the Northeast corner of Lot 1 of said plat;

 thence easterly along the North line of Lot 13, Echo Lake Garden Tracts, 5th Division, Volume 12 of Plats, Page 28, to the West line of the Northeast one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 5 (center line of 1st Avenue Northeast);

 thence southerly along said West line of the Northeast one- quarter of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 5 to the Southwest corner of the said Northeast one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter;

 thence easterly along the Southerly line of the said Northeast one-quarter of the Southwest one-quarter to the Southeast corner of the said Northeast one-quarter of the Southwest one- quarter;

 thence southerly along the East line of the Southwest one- quarter of said Section 5 (centerline of 5th Avenue Northeast) to its intersection with the Westerly margin of P.S. H. No. 1 right of way;

 thence northeasterly along the Westerly margin of said P.S. H. No. 1 to its intersection with the Westerly extension of the North line of Lot 3, Plat of Sky Acres, as recorded in Volume 49 of Plats, Page 32;

 thence easterly along the said Westerly extension and the North line of said Lot 3 and its Easterly extension to its intersection with the East margin of 10th Avenue Northeast, which is also a point on the West line of Lot 16 of said Sky Acres;

 thence northeasterly along the West line of said Lot 16 to the North corner thereof;

 thence southeasterly along the Northeast line of said Lot 16 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also the Southwest corner of Lot 17 of said Sky Acres;

 thence easterly along the South line of said Lot 17 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also the most Westerly corner of Lot 10 of said Sky Acres;

 thence southeasterly along the West line of said Lot 10 to the Southwest corner thereof which is also the Northwest corner of Lot 11 of said Sky Acres;

 thence easterly along the North line of said Lot 11 to the Northeast corner thereof;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 11 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also the Northeast corner of Lot 12 of said Sky Acres;

 thence westerly along the North line of said Lot 12 to its intersection with a line 70 feet west of and parallel to the East line of said Lot 12;

 thence southerly along said parallel line and its Southerly extension to a point on the South margin of Northeast 195th Street, which is also a point on the North line of Tract 80, Lake Ballinger Garden Tracts, as recorded in Volume 17, Page 95;

 thence westerly along the North line of said Tract 80 to its intersection with a line parallel to and 130 feet westerly of the East line of said Tract 80;

 thence southerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the North line of the South one-half of said Tract 80;

 thence westerly along the North line of the South one-half of said Tract 80 to a point which is 128.45 feet easterly of the East margin of 10th Avenue Northeast (as measured along said North line);

 thence South 0(17'46" East 81.44 feet;

 thence South 88(27'45" East 10 feet;

 thence South 0(17'46" East 64.94 feet to the South line of said Tract 80 which is also the North line of Block 1, Lago Vista #2 as recorded in Volume 32, page 36;

 thence westerly to the Northeast corner of Lot 1 of said Block 1, Lago Vista #2;

 thence southerly along the East line of Lots 1 through 5, inclusive, of Block 1, said Lago Vista #2 to the Southeast corner of said Lot 5 which is also the Northwest corner of Lot 11, Block 1, said Logo Vista #2;

 thence easterly along the North line of said Lot 11 and Lot 12 of said Block 1, Lago Vista #2 to the Northeast corner of said Lot 12;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 12 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also a point on the North margin of Northeast Perkins Way;

 thence southerly across Northeast Perkins Way to the Northeast corner of Lot 8, Block 3 of said Lago Vista #2;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 8 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also the Northeast corner of Lot 6 of said Block 3, Lago Vista #2;

 thence southerly along the East line of Lots 4 through 6, inclusive, of said Block 3, Lago Vista #2, to the Southeast corner of Lot 4 which is also the Northwest corner of Lot 14 of said Block 3, Lago Vista #2;

 thence easterly along the North line of said Lot 14 to its intersection with a line parallel to and 23 feet easterly of the West line of said Lot 14;

 thence southerly along said parallel line and its Southerly extension to its intersection with the South margin of Northeast 190th Street, which is also a point on the North line of Lot 1, Fir View Heights, as recorded in Volume 68, Page 72;

 thence westerly along the North line of said Lot 1, Fir View Heights to the Northwest corner thereof;

 thence southerly along the West line of said Lot 1 and its Southerly extension to its intersection with the Southeasterly margin of 11th Avenue Northeast;

 thence southwesterly along the Southeasterly margin of 1lth Avenue Northeast to the Northwest corner of Lot 7, Fir View Heights;

 thence southeasterly along the West line of said Lot 7 to the Southwest corner thereof which is also a point on the North line of Block 5, Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition, as recorded in Volume 47, Page 27;

 thence northeasterly along the North line of said Block 5 to the Northeast corner of Lot 8, Block 5, Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition;

 thence southeasterly along the East line of said Lot 8 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also a point on the North margin of Northeast 188th Street;

 thence southeasterly across Northeast 188th Street to the Northeast corner of Lot 15, Block 3, said Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 15 to the Southeast corner thereof;

 thence easterly along the Easterly extension of the South line of said Lot 15 to its intersection with the East line of Lot 16, Block 3, Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 16 to its intersection with the North line of Lot 14, Block 3, Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition;

 thence easterly along the North line of said Lot 14 to the Northeast corner thereof;

 thence southerly along the East line of Lots 11 through 14, inclusive, Block 3, Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition to the Southeast corner of said Lot 11, which is also the Northeast corner of Lot 10, Block 3, Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 10 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also the Northeast corner of Lot 9, Block 3, Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 9 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also a point on the North margin of Northeast 187th Street;

 thence southeasterly across Northeast 187th Street to the Northeast corner of Lot 18, Block 2, Fir View Terrace 2nd Addition;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 18 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also a point on the North line of the Plat of Terrace Heights as recorded in Volume 55, Page 83;

 thence westerly along the North line of said Terrace Heights to the Northwest corner of Lot 5 of said Terrace Heights;

 thence southerly along the West line of said Lot 5 to the Southwest corner thereof, which is also a point on the North margin of Northeast 185th Street;

 thence easterly along the North margin of Northeast 185th Street to its intersection with the Northerly extension of the center line of 12th Avenue Northeast;

 thence southerly along the said Northerly extension and center line of 12th Avenue Northeast to its intersection with the Westerly extension of a line 60 feet south of and parallel to the North line of Lot 10, Block 3, Northend Country Estates, as recorded in Volume 28, Page 37;

 thence easterly along said parallel line to its intersection with a line parallel to and 150 feet easterly of the West line of said Lot 10;

 thence southerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the North line of the South one-half of Lot 9, Block 3, Northend Country Estates;

 thence easterly along the North line of the South one-half of said Lot 9 to its intersection with a line parallel to and 10 feet westerly of the East line of said Lot 9;

 thence southerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the North line of Lot 7, Block 3, Northend Country Estates;

 thence easterly along the North line of said Lot 7 to the Northeast corner thereof which is also the Northwest corner of Lot 14, Block 3, Northend Country Estates;

 thence easterly along the North line of said Lot 14 and its Easterly extension to its intersection with the East line of Section 8 (center line of 15th Avenue Northeast);

 thence southerly along said East line to its intersection with the North line of the South one-half of the Northeast one- quarter of said Section 8 (center line of Northeast 180th Street);

 thence easterly along the South line of the Northwest one- quarter of the Northwest one-quarter of Section 9 to the East line of Lot I-2 in the Replat of Block 22 of Lake Forest Park Third Addition, as recorded in Volume 28, Page 30;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot I-2 and the East lines of Lots 45 and 46 in Block 22 of Lake Forest Park Third Addition, as recorded in Volume 22, Page 4, to the Southeast corner of said Lot 46;

 thence easterly along the North lines of Lots 52 through 55, inclusive in said Block 22, to the Northeast corner of said Lot 55;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 55 and said East line extended to the South margin of Northeast 177th Street;

 thence westerly along the South margin of Northeast 177th Street to the most Easterly corner of Lot 26, Block 30, in said addition;

 thence southwesterly along the Southeasterly side of Lots 26 and 25, said Block 30, to the most Westerly corner of Lot 8, said Block 30;

 thence southeasterly along the Southwesterly side of said Lot 8, Block 30, and said Southwesterly side extended to the Southeasterly margin of Serpentine Place;

 thence northeasterly along the said Southeasterly margin to the most Northerly corner of Lot 21, Block 28, said Addition;

 thence southeasterly along the Northeasterly line of said Lot 21, to the most Easterly corner thereof;

 thence southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of said Lot 21 to the most Southerly corner thereof;

 thence southeasterly along the Southeasterly extension of the Southwesterly line of said Lot 21 to the Southeasterly line of Lot 23, of said Block 28;

 thence southwesterly along the said Southeasterly line of said Lot 23 to the most Southerly corner thereof;

 thence southerly across Northeast 175th Street to the most Northerly corner of Lot 4, Block 29, said Addition;

 thence southerly along the West line of said Lot 4, Block 29, said addition, to the Southwest corner thereof;

 thence easterly along the South line of said Lot 4, Block 29, to the Southeast corner thereof which is also the Northwest corner of Lot 37, Block 29, of said addition;

 thence southerly along the West line of said Lot 37, Block 29, to its intersection with the South line of the Northerly 52 feet of said Lot 37;

 thence easterly along the said South line of the Northerly 52 feet of Lots 37 and 38, of said Block 29, to its intersection with the East line of said Lot 38;

 thence southerly along the said East line to the Southeast corner of said Lot 38 which is also a point on the North margin of Northeast 172nd Street;

 thence southerly across said Northeast 172nd Street to the Northwest corner of Lot 7, Block 4, Monte Vista, as recorded In Volume 29 of Plats, Page 30;

 thence southerly along the West line of said Lot 7, Block 4, to the Southwest corner thereof which is also the Northeast corner of Lot 25, said Block 4;

 thence westerly along the North line of said Lot 25, Block 4, to the Northwest corner thereof;

 thence southerly along the West line of said Lot 25, Block 4, to the Southwest corner thereof which is also a point on the North margin of Northeast 171st Street;

 thence southerly across said Northeast 171st Street to the Northwest corner of Lot 6, Block 3, Monte Vista;

 thence southerly along the West line of said Lot 6, Block 3, to the Southwest corner thereof;

 thence easterly along the South line of Lots 6 through 10, inclusive, of said Block 3 to the Southeast corner of said Lot 10, which is also the Northeast corner of Lot 21, Block 3, Monte Vista;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 21, Block 3, to the Southeast corner of said Lot 21, Block 3;

 thence southeasterly across Northeast 170th Street to the Northeast corner of Lot 10, Block 2, Monte Vista No. 2, as recorded in Volume 29 of Plats, Page 45;

 thence southerly along the East line of said Lot 10 to the Southeast corner thereof which is also the Northwest corner of Lot 18 of said Block 2;

 thence easterly along the North line of Lots 15 through 18, inclusive, of said Block 2 and the Easterly extension thereof to the center line of 22nd Avenue Northeast;

 thence southerly along said center line to a point of intersection with the Westerly extension of the North line of Lot 12, Block 5, Monte Vista No. 2;

 thence easterly along the North line of Lots 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of said Block 5 and the Easterly extension thereof to a point on the East margin of 25th Avenue Northeast, said point being the Northwest corner of Lot 8, Block 4, Monte Vista;

 thence easterly along the North line of Lots 8 through 18 inclusive of said Block 4 of the Northwest corner of Lot 19 of said Block 4, and the Northerly and Easterly lines of Lot 19, Block 4, all in said Monte Vista Addition No. 2, to an intersection with the Easterly end of Northeast 167th Street;

 thence southeasterly to the Northwesterly corner of Lot 2, Block 1, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park, as recorded in Volume 37, Pages 50 and 51;

 thence southerly along the Westerly line of said Lot 2, Block 1, to the Northerly line of Block 6, Lake Forest Park 4th Addition, Division "A", as recorded in Volume 36, Page 4 and 5;

 thence easterly and southerly along the Northerly and Easterly lines of said Block 6, Lake Forest Park 4th Addition, Division "A", to an intersection with the South line of Section 9;

 thence easterly along the South line of said Section 9 to the Northeast corner of Block 1 of Lake City Homes No. 3 as recorded In Volume 44, Page 57;

 thence southerly along the East line of Block 1 of said Lake City Homes No. 3 to an intersection with the Westerly extension of the center line of North 163rd Street;

 thence easterly along the center line extended of Northeast 163rd Street to the East margin of 30th Avenue Northeast extended;

 thence north to and along the East margin of said 30th Avenue Northeast a distance of 180 feet to a point 150 feet north of the North margin of Northeast 163rd Street;

 thence east on a line 150 feet north of and parallel to the North margin of Northeast 163rd Street to the Easterly boundary of Lot 15, Block 2, State Plat in Section 16, as recorded in Volume 42, Pages 10 and 11;

 thence south along the East boundary of said Lot 15 a distance of 15.00 feet to a point which is 135 feet north of the North margin of Northeast 163rd Street;

 thence east on a line parallel to and 135.00 feet north of the North margin of Northeast 163rd Street to the East boundary of Lot 10, Block 2, of said State Plat;

 thence north on and along the East boundary of Lot 10, Block 2, of said State Plat, to the Northeast corner of said Lot 10;

 thence west on and along the North boundary of said Lot 10 to the Southwest corner of Lot 17, Block 5, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park, as recorded In Volume 37, Page 50;

 thence northeasterly on and along the Westerly margin of Lots 17 through 23, inclusive, of said Block 5, to the most Westerly corner of Lot 24 of said Block 5;

 thence northeasterly on and along the Northwesterly margin of Lots 24 through 28, inclusive, of said Block 5, Miller's Addition to Lake Forest Park, to the Northeast corner of Lot 28 of said Block 5;

 thence southeasterly across 35th Avenue Northeast to the Northwest corner of Lot 1, Sheridan Place 2nd Addition as recorded in Volume 53, Page 31;

 thence south on and along the East margin of 35th Avenue Northeast to a point 182.09 feet south of the Southwest corner of Lot 6 of said Sheridan Place 2nd Addition;

 thence east on a line parallel to the South line of Section 10 a distance of 235 feet;

 thence south on a line parallel to and 235 feet east of the East margin of 35th Avenue Northeast to the South line of said Section 10;

 thence east on and along the South line of said Section 10 to a point on the West boundary of Lot 7, Block 8, Sheridan Heights, as recorded in Volume 33, Page 33;

 thence northerly and northeasterly on and along the Eastern margin of 36th Avenue Northeast to the most Southerly corner of Lot 1, Sheridan Park as recorded in Volume 51, Page 90;

 thence northeasterly on and along the Southeasterly boundary of said Lot 1 to the most Easterly corner thereof;

 thence southeasterly on and along an extension of the Northeasterly boundary of said Sheridan Park Addition to a point on the West margin of 37th Avenue Northeast;

 thence easterly across said 37th Avenue Northeast to the Southwest corner of Lot 7, Sheridan Hills, as recorded In Volume 49, Page 82;

 thence southeasterly on and along the South boundary of said Lot 7 to the Southeast corner thereof;

 thence northerly on and along the West boundary of Block 1, Sheridan Vue Addition, as recorded in Volume 47, page 55, to the Northwest corner of Lot 2, Block 1, of said Sheridan Vue Addition;

 thence easterly on and along the North boundary and an extension thereof of Blocks 1 and 2 of said Sheridan Vue Addition a distance of 378.37 feet;

 thence northeasterly to a point on the East and West center line of the Southwest one-quarter of said Section 10 which point is 200 feet west of the Western margin of Northeast 170th Place;

 thence easterly along the East and West center line of said Southwest one-quarter of Section 10 a distance of 200 feet to the intersection of the Westerly margin of said Northeast 170th Place and the Southerly margin of Northeast 170th Street;

 thence easterly along the said Southerly margin of Northeast 170th Street and the Easterly extension thereof across Bothell Way Northeast to the Southerly margin of the Northern Pacific Railway Company right of way;

 thence northeasterly on and along the said Southerly right of way line to the Section line between Sections 10 and 11, as set by Superior Court Decree No. 148175;

 thence southeasterly along said section line to a point 45 feet southeasterly of the center line of the said Northern Pacific Railway Company right of way;

 thence northeasterly on a curve parallel to and 45 feet southeasterly from the center line of said railroad right of way a distance of 401.45 feet;

 thence south 14nvironmental03'14" east to the Inner Harbor Line of Lake Washington;

 thence southerly on and along the said Inner Harbor Line of Lake Washington to the South line of Section 15, and the point of beginning;

 EXCEPTING that portion of the City of Lake Forest Park described as follows:

 Lots 5 and 6, Block 1, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition, Volume 22, Page 39; the Southwesterly 100 feet of Lot 1, Block 2, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition; and all of Block 6, Lake Forest Waterfront Addition. Exhibit E

 WASTEWATER FACILITIES USE AGREEMENT

 This WASTEWATER FACILITIES USE AGREEMENT (the "Use Agreement") between The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation, acting by and through its Seattle Public Utilities ("Seattle") and Ronald Wastewater District, a Washington special purpose municipal corporation ("Ronald") is dated as of this ___ day of __________ 2001.

 RECITALS

 A. Until the date hereof, Seattle has owned and operated various wastewater facilities and installations in the area that is north of the northern corporate boundary of Seattle (approximately the center lines of North 145th Street and Northeast 145th Street (collectively, "145th Street"), in King County, Washington), and has provided wastewater service to certain customers located north of 145th Street in the Cities of Shoreline and Lake Forest Park. Wastewater from such customers has been conveyed in Seattle wastewater mainlines located in and south of 145th Street to King County mainlines. These Seattle mainlines accept wastewater only. In addition, Seattle has used one of its mainlines located north of 145th Street to convey wastewater from a small number of customers located south of 145th Street to King County mainlines.

 B. Pursuant to the Agreement to Transfer Assets and Service dated _________, 2001 (the "Transfer Agreement"), Seattle is transferring to Ronald Seattle's wastewater Property and Facilities generally located north of 145th Street and specifically defined in the Transfer Agreement. Pursuant to the Transfer Agreement, Seattle is relinquishing, and Ronald is assuming, responsibility for providing wastewater service to customers located north of 145th Street in the Cities of Shoreline and Lake Forest Park. After the transfer, Seattle will continue to provide wastewater service to customers located within the corporate boundaries of The City of Seattle.

 C. The parties have contemplated that, after the above described transfer, wastewater will continue to be conveyed as described in Recital A. The Transfer Agreement, therefore, requires that the parties enter into this Use Agreement to set forth the terms and conditions (including regulatory compliance) under which each party may use facilities owned by the other party and to allocate responsibility for costs.

 AGREEMENT

 1. Definitions

 (a) "Commonly Used Facilities" is the collective reference for Ronald Common Facilities and Seattle Common Facilities (each, a "Commonly Used Facility").

 (b) "Ronald Common Facilities" means the facilities so identified pictorially in Exhibit A, which facilities are owned by Ronald.

 (c) "Seattle Common Facilities" means the facilities so identified pictorially in Exhibit A, which facilities are owned by Seattle.

 (d) "Total Project Costs" means all costs of property acquisition, planning (including without limitation regulatory approvals, and legal costs and fees), design, engineering, construction, inspection and administration of any construction project (including without limitation repair, rehabilitation, replacement or regulatory upgrade) involving a Commonly Used Facility.

 2. Seattle Common Facilities

 (a) Ownership, Operation, Maintenance and Use. Seattle shall own the Seattle Common Facilities and shall operate and maintain them. Except in the event that they are closed due to an emergency, Ronald shall have the right, in accordance with this Use Agreement, to use the Seattle Common Facilities for conveyance of wastewater generated by Ronald customers within the area described in Exhibit B to King County mainlines. Seattle shall be responsible for and pay all costs incurred for routine maintenance of the Seattle Common Facilities (including without limitation inspection and cleaning), up to a maximum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in any calendar year. Whenever such costs (including those that may be necessary due to regulatory changes) exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in any calendar year, Ronald shall reimburse Seattle for fifty percent (50%) of the amount by which such costs exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).

 (b) Repair, Rehabilitation or Replacement. Seattle shall be responsible for all repair, rehabilitation or replacement of Seattle Common Facilities and pay the Total Project Costs for such work. Ronald shall reimburse Seattle in the amount of forty percent (40%) of such Total Project Costs.

 (c) Regulatory Upgrades. Whenever Seattle is required, or it is made necessary by third-party regulation, to upgrade or improve Seattle Common Facilities (regardless of whether that upgrade or improvement takes the form of repair, rehabilitation or replacement), Seattle shall be responsible for such work and pay Total Project Costs thereof. Ronald shall reimburse Seattle in the amount of forty percent (40%) of such Total Project Costs.

 3. Ronald Common Facilities

 (a) Ownership, Operation, Maintenance and Use. Ronald will own the Ronald Common Facilities and shall operate and maintain them. Except in the event that they are closed due to an emergency, Seattle shall have the right, in accordance with this Use Agreement, to use the Ronald Common Facilities for conveyance of wastewater generated by Seattle customers within the area described in Exhibit B to King County mainlines. Ronald shall be responsible and pay for all costs incurred for routine maintenance of the Ronald Common Facilities (including without limitation inspection and cleaning), up to a maximum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in any calendar year. Whenever such costs (including those that may be necessary due to regulatory changes) exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in any calendar year, Seattle shall reimburse Ronald for fifty percent (50%) of the amount by which such costs exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).

 (b) Repair, Rehabilitation or Replacement. Ronald shall be responsible for repair, rehabilitation or replacement of Ronald Common Facilities and pay the Total Project Costs thereof. Seattle will reimburse Ronald in the amount of forty percent (40%) of such Total Project Costs.

 (c) Regulatory Upgrades. Whenever Ronald is required, or it is made necessary by third-party regulation, to upgrade or improve Ronald Common Facilities (regardless of whether that upgrade or improvement takes the form of repair, rehabilitation or replacement), Ronald shall be responsible for such work and pay Total Project Costs thereof. Seattle shall reimburse Ronald in the amount of forty percent (40%) of such Total Project Costs.

 4. Capacity Analysis

 Commencing in the year 2010 and thereafter decennially, Seattle and Ronald each will recalculate the capacity and use of its Commonly Used Facilities. If, as a result of the capacity analysis, projects necessary to enhance capacity must be undertaken, they shall be paid for in the same proportion as provided in paragraphs 2(b) and 3(b) of this agreement.

 5. Notice and Payment Procedures

 With respect to projects for maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, replacement or regulatory upgrade of a Commonly Used Facility, the party performing such work shall provide written notice to the other party as required herein and that other party shall reimburse the party performing such work as follows:

 (a) Except for emergency repairs, emergency projects and routine maintenance, each party shall (i) give the other party no less than one year's prior written notice of any proposed project involving a Commonly Used Facility and (ii) provide the other party with written cost estimates, a project design and a written project schedule no less than six months before construction is commenced.

 (b) Each party shall notify the other no later than thirty (30) days after the "Notice to Proceed" for any emergency repair or emergency project involving a Commonly Used Facility and shall provide copies of a declaration of emergency and authorizing resolution or ordinance, if any.

 (c) A delay by either party in providing the notice required in this section 5 beyond the time specified shall not constitute a default under this Agreement or alter any other obligation hereunder, except to the extent to which the other party has been materially damaged by the delay.

 (d) Except for emergency repairs, emergency projects or routine maintenance, each party shall pay its share of Total Project Costs according to the contractor's approved periodic pay requests based on work completed. Payment shall be made to the party responsible for the work no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of an invoice for payment and a copy of the approved pay request.

 (e) In the case of emergency repairs or emergency projects, each party shall pay its share of Total Project Costs according to approved payment requests, to the party responsible for the work, no later than ninety (90) days after receipt of "Notice of Completion," an invoice, and a copy of the contractor's approved pay request.

 (f) In the case of routine maintenance, each party shall pay its share to the party responsible for the work, no later than ninety (90) days after receipt of an invoice for maintenance work in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000) in any calendar year.

 6. Direct Connections to Seattle Wastewater System

 Ronald accounts currently connected directly to the Seattle wastewater system are identified in Exhibit C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Use Agreement, no other accounts may be connected directly to any portion of the Seattle wastewater system without the prior written consent of Seattle which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Annually, Ronald shall provide Seattle with a certification of the number of accounts connected directly to Seattle's system during the previous year and shall pay Seattle, no later than February 15 of the following year, an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the total sewer charges billed by Ronald to such accounts, excluding King County treatment charges.

 7. New Connections

 (a) New connections that use Commonly Used Facilities owned by the other party shall be limited to the area legally described in Exhibit B. Neither party shall permit new connections that include stormwater, roof drain, or groundwater conveyance in the area served by the Commonly Used Facilities owned by the other party.

 (b) Within sixty (60) days following connection, each party shall notify the other party of all new single-family connections that will be served by such other party's Commonly Used Facilities. Before either party allows a multi-family or commercial connection that will be served by such other party's Commonly Used Facilities, the party allowing the connection (i) must receive the other party's certification that there is adequate capacity for the intended connection and (ii) must provide proof to the other party that the new source has received all necessary regulatory authorizations relating to its discharge to the sewer system. Industrial connections that will be served by the other party's Commonly Used Facilities shall not be allowed without written consent of the other party, which shall not be unreasonably withheld if (x) the other party determines that there exists adequate capacity in its Commonly Used Facilities for the intended connection and (y) the other party is provided proof that the new source has received all necessary regulatory authorizations relating to its discharge to the sewer system. The requirements of this section 7 shall not apply to connections made by the State of Washington ("State") pursuant to the Sewer Agreement dated December 4, 1986 between the State and Seattle, which agreement has been assigned to Ronald, but the requirements shall apply in the event that, in any amendment to or replacement of such agreement the State agrees to report new connections to Ronald.

 8. Representations

 (a) Each party represents that the execution and delivery of this Agreement, and the performance of its duties contemplated hereunder, have been duly authorized and approved by resolution or ordinance by that party, so that this Agreement will be legal, valid and binding with regard to that party (assuming due execution by the other party). Each party represents that the person or persons signing on its behalf has full power and authority to execute this Agreement.

 (b) Each party has in full force and effect, and shall maintain for the duration of this Agreement, ordinances, resolutions or equivalent legal means that prohibit discharges containing pollution or pollutants at levels above those allowed by federal, state or local pretreatment or other legal standards, to the Commonly Used Facilities owned by that party and that provides for penalties (which may be in the form of, among other things, surcharges or the discontinuation of service) and other available enforcement mechanisms .

 (c) Seattle represents that the Common Facilities are currently classified as "sanitary only" and not as "combined" or "partially separated."

 9. Regulatory Compliance

 (a) Both parties shall comply with all current and future federal, state, regional and local statutes, regulations, rules, ordinances, orders, court or regulatory agency directives, and common law causes of action that apply to operation of all Commonly Used Facilities (regardless of ownership). Both parties shall have and maintain in full force and effect during the term of this Use Agreement any and all licenses, permits and other governmental approvals or authorizations required by such authorities and shall comply therewith. To the extent applicable to operation of the Commonly Used Facilities, both parties shall comply with the applicable contract provisions and other requirements of King County, or any successor-in-interest to the treatment works and related sewage system currently owned by King County.

 (b) Each party shall cooperate with the other party in taking the reasonable steps necessary to achieve full compliance by both parties with all current and future legal and regulatory obligations regarding all Commonly Used Facilities. Neither party shall unreasonably interfere with the other party's ability to achieve such compliance. In the event that further federal, state or local action creates additional obligations governing sewer systems and such obligations affect any Commonly Used Facility, this Agreement shall be amended to the extent made necessary by such obligations. The parties shall negotiate in good faith to achieve reasonable amendments that resolve all such compliance issues. Examples of such possible future amendments include but are not limited to provisions regarding improvement of maintenance and operation programs, prevention of sanitary sewer overflows, and reduction or control of inflow and infiltration.

 10. Fines and Penalties

 (a) If either party shall pay a fine or penalty assessed against it or negotiate and pay a settlement of a regulatory enforcement action, with respect to operation of a Commonly Used Facility, including without limitation, a fine, penalty or settlement in a governmental or third party enforcement action brought under federal environmental law, but not including criminal fines or penalties, then the other party shall reimburse the paying party fifty percent (50%) of the amount of such payment attributable to operation of a Commonly Used Facility. Reimbursement shall be made no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of written notice of payment. If one party shall be charged with a criminal violation and a criminal penalty and/or a fine is imposed on that party as a consequence thereof, then that criminal penalty, fine or related settlement shall be the sole responsibility of the party adjudged guilty of such violation, and such party shall reimburse the other party's costs (including legal costs and attorney's fees) incurred in connection with such charges or imposition and the actions giving rise thereto.

 (b) Each party shall immediately notify the other upon receipt of (i) any notice of violation, order, or other regulatory notice alleging a violation of applicable law, (ii) any notice of a proposed fine or penalty regarding such an alleged violation, or (iii) any notice of any judicial or administrative proceeding seeking enforcement of applicable law or seeking to impose and collect any fine or penalty, in each case arising out of the use or operation of any Commonly Used Facility. The owner of the Commonly Used Facilities subject to a fine or penalty shall be responsible for defending against any fine or penalty (including disposition and payment thereof) as that owner deems necessary and appropriate. If the defense of the fine or penalty results in a benefit to both of the parties, the non-defending party shall reimburse the defending party 50% of defense costs, attorney fees and expenses to the extent that such costs are directly related to the final fine, penalty or settlement for the Commonly Used Facilities, no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of written notice of payment. The non-defending party shall, upon request and agreement on payment of costs, provide all available information and reasonable assistance with respect to defending any allegation, claim or charge.

 11. Duty to Cooperate

 Each party has a duty to cooperate with the other with respect to the Commonly Used Facilities and to the extent each party's wastewater system is affected by the other party's Commonly Used Facilities.

 12. Liability for Commonly Used Facilities

 Except as provided in section 10, each party shall be responsible to the extent of its negligence for damages and/or claims arising out of the repair, maintenance, construction or operation of the Commonly Used Facilities that it owns, and each party shall hold harmless and indemnify the other party from claims arising from such negligent acts. Solely for the purpose of effectuating the foregoing indemnity and not for the benefit of the indemnified party's employees or any third parties, each party expressly waives any immunity that may be granted to it under the Washington State Industrial Insurance Act, Title 51 RCW. This indemnity has been mutually negotiated by the parties and shall survive this Agreement.

 13. Disputed Invoices; Late Payments

 (a) If part of an invoice sent pursuant to this Use Agreement is disputed by the party receiving the invoice, that party shall pay the undisputed portion when due, with such payment submit a detailed written explanation of why the unpaid portion should not be paid, and immediately commence the dispute resolution process described in section 14.

 (b) In the event that any amount owing under this Use Agreement is not paid in full when due, the amount owing shall bear interest at the rate of one per cent (1.0%) per month from the date due until paid; provided that if the amount invoiced is in dispute, interest shall apply from the date due until paid but only to the lesser of the amount invoiced or the amount agreed upon by the parties in the dispute resolution process.

 14. Dispute Resolution

 The persons identified in section 16(a) shall negotiate in good faith and use their best efforts to resolve any disputes that may develop under this Agreement. Only upon the failure of such persons to resolve the dispute within sixty (60) days of a written notice of demand provided in accordance with Section 16(a) of this Agreement (with an additional thirty (30) days dispute resolution period upon the written request of either party) may either party pursue an action in law or equity and/or terminate this Use Agreement. The prevailing party to any action shall be entitled to its reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees and costs.

 15. Term of Use Agreement and Termination

 (a) This Use Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the date first written above. This Use Agreement cannot be terminated until December 31, 2030, except that in the case of default it may be terminated upon one (1) year's written notice to the defaulting party. The defaulting party may cure the default during said one year period and avoid termination. After December 31, 2030, the parties shall enter into good faith negotiations to extend this Agreement upon mutually acceptable terms, but in the event that no extension agreement is reached after a 6 month negotiation period, this Use Agreement may be terminated by either party upon three (3) years' written notice to the other party.

 (b) A default shall exist if a party has not complied with any term or provision of this Use Agreement, and the dispute resolution procedure described in section 13 has been exhausted without agreement of the parties. In such event, the nondefaulting party may commence termination procedures and/or seek judicial remedies, unless the defaulting party shall have commenced a lawsuit on the matter (with process properly served on the nondefaulting party) within ninety (90) days of the exhaustion of said dispute resolution procedure.

 16. General Provisions

 (a) Notices. All notices, approvals and invoices required in connection with this Use Agreement shall be in writing and deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by United States mail or overnight delivery service, each with proof of receipt, to the addresses shown below or as otherwise indicated in written notice from one party to the other.

 If to Seattle: If to Ronald: Managing Director General Manager Seattle Public Utilities - 10th Floor Ronald Wastewater District Dexter Horton Building 17505 Linden Avenue North 710 Second Avenue Shoreline, WA 98133 0490 Seattle, Washington 98104

 (b) Entire Agreement; Modification. This Use Agreement (including recitals and attached exhibits, which by this reference are incorporated herein) constitutes the entire agreement between the parties. No representations, whether written or otherwise, between the parties not contained or incorporated herein by reference shall be of any force or effect. This Use Agreement may be modified or amended only by the written agreement of the parties.

 (c) Severability. If any provision hereof is held by a court of competent jurisdiction, all appeals having been exhausted or all appeal periods having run, to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provision shall remain in full force and effect.

 (d) No Waiver. No delay or failure to exercise any right, power or remedy accruing to one party on any breach or default by the other party shall impair any such right, power or remedy, nor be construed as a waiver of any such breach or default.

 (e) No Third Party Beneficiaries. No term or provision of this Use Agreement is intended to be, or shall be interpreted to be, for the benefit of any person, firm, organization or corporation not a party hereto, and no such other person, firm, organization or corporation shall have any right or cause of action hereunder.

 (f) Assignment. Neither party may assign its rights and obligations under this Use Agreement without at least sixty (60) days prior written notice to, and the prior written consent of, the other party, which consent may be withheld in the other party's sole discretion.

 (g) Counterparts. This Use Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and each such counterpart shall be deemed to be an original instrument, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one agreement.

 In witness whereof, the parties have caused this Use Agreement to be executed by their authorized representatives as of the date first written above.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE RONALD WASTEWATER DISTRICT SEATTLE PUBLIC UTILITIES By ___________________________ By:________________________ Diana Gale (type name) Managing Director (type title)

[Exhibit A to Exhibit E](/~ordpics/113695ea.gif)

 Exhibit F Defined Terms with Regard to Indemnification

 "Claims" shall mean any claims, lawsuits, demands, administrative proceedings, arbitration and other alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, liens, obligations, costs, expenses, attorneys' fees, litigation costs and expenses, expert and consulting fees and expenses, fines, penalties, damages (but excluding consequential damages and compensation for lost profits) and losses.

 "Hazardous Substance" shall mean methane gas or any hazardous, toxic or dangerous waste, substance or material, or contaminant, pollutant or chemical, known or unknown, defined or identified as such in (or for the purposes of) any existing or future local, state or federal law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, guideline, decree or order relating to human health or the environment or environmental conditions, including but not limited to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), 42 U.S.C. section 6901 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), 15 U.S.C. section 2601 et seq.; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 49 U.S.C. section 1801 et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. onstruction 300 et seq.; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), 42 U.S.C. section 9601 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. section 7401 et seq.; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. App. section 1802 et seq.; the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 U.S.C. section 651 et seq.; the Washington Model Toxic Control Act, RCW Ch. 70.105D; and the Washington Hazardous Waste Management Act, RCW Ch. 70.105; including all rules, regulations and guidelines promulgated under such statutes and including all amendments and supplements to such statutes and rules, regulations and guidelines, and any order or decree relating to or imposing liability or standards or conduct concerning, or prohibiting, limiting or regulating exposure to, any waste, material, substance, contaminant, pollutant or chemical.

```
