

********

**Council Bill Number: 113676**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120394**
********

 AN ORDINANCE Relating to the Seattle Transportation Department; authorizing the sale of real property at fair value to the abutting property owner and execution of a Real Estate Transfer Agreement and Quit Claim Deed in connection therewith; and designating the disposition of sales proceeds.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** June 11, 2001
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Nicastro)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** June 21, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** June 15, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** May 14, 2001
   
**Committee:** Transportation
   
**Sponsor:** MCIVER
   
   
**Index Terms:** SALES, INDUSTRIAL-DISTRICT

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Seattle Transportation Department; authorizing the sale of real property at fair value to the abutting property owner and execution of a Real Estate Transfer Agreement and Quit Claim Deed in connection therewith; and designating the disposition of sales proceeds.

 WHEREAS, in 1918, the City of Seattle acquired the property described below in Section 1 in exchange for nearby property, and under the threat of condemnation,

 WHEREAS, the City received and recorded a warranty deed for the property under Auditor's number 1330466; and

 WHEREAS, jurisdiction of the property was subsequently placed under the Seattle Transportation Department (SeaTran), with management responsibilities assigned to the Fleets and Facilities Department; and

 WHEREAS, availability of the subject property was circulated to City and government agencies as excess to SeaTran's needs, with no agency indicating an interest in owning or having jurisdiction over the property; and

 WHEREAS, the property described in Section 1 is now considered excess to the City's needs and should be declared to be surplus; and

 WHEREAS, Ross Anderson, the abutting property owner, has requested to purchase the subject property at its fair value; and

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Transportation Director believes that it is in the best interest of the City to sell the excess property to the abutting property owner; NOW, THEREFORE,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The real property legally described as follows is hereby declared to be surplus:

 That portion of the south 25 feet of Lot 4, Block 420, Seattle Tide Lands, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the south line of said Lot 4 that is north 89 ( 42' 19" west 33.74 feet from the southeast corner thereof;

 Thence north 37( 37' 40" west 29.53 feet to the true point of beginning;

 Thence continuing north 37( 37' 40" west to the north line of the south 25 feet of said Lot 4;

 Thence westerly along said north line to the northwest corner of said south 25 feet;

 Thence southerly and southeasterly along the westerly and southwesterly lines of said Lot 4, to the southwest corner thereof;

 Thence south 89( 42' 19" east along the southerly line of said Lot 4, a distance of 5.8 feet;

 Thence north 52( 22' 20" east to the true point of beginning.

 Section 2. The Seattle Transportation Director ("Director") is hereby authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of The City of Seattle, a Real Estate Transfer Agreement ("Agreement") in substantially the form attached hereto as "Exhibit A," and a Quit Claim Deed in substantially the form attached hereto as "Exhibit B"

 Section 3. Proceeds from the sale authorized herein shall first be used to reimburse costs incurred and paid by the Fleets and Facilities Department in connection with such sale. The remainder of such proceeds, if any, shall be deposited in the Unrestricted Account of the Cumulative Reserve Subfund, in accordance with SMC 5.80.030.

 Section 4. In the event the sale to the Purchaser contemplated by this ordinance is not closed within thirty (30) calendar days after the effective date of this ordinance, the authority granted by this ordinance shall terminate.

 Section 5. Any act pursuant to the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of ____________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _________________, 2001. _____________________________________ President _______ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _________________, 2001. _____________________________________ Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of ____________________, 2001. _____________________________________ City Clerk

 Exhibits:

 A. Real Estate Transfer Agreement B. Quit Claim Deed

 April 26, 2001 version 2

 Attachment A EVALUATION OF REUSE AND DISPOSAL OPTIONS FOR PMA #4406 - North of 3835 W Marginal Way SW

 Resolution 29799 directs that the Executive is to make its recommendations on the reuse or disposal of excess property on a case by case basis, using the Procedures for Evaluation of the Reuse and Disposal of the City's Real Property adopted by that resolution. Additionally, the Resolution identifies guidelines, which are to be considered in making a recommendation. This report addresses each of the guidelines outlined in Resolution 29799 in support of the recommendation.

 Property Management Area: PMA #4406 - North of 3835 W Marginal Way SW

 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

 Legal Description: That portion of the south 25 feet of Lot 4, Block 420, Seattle Tide Lands, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the south line of said Lot 4 that is north 89 ( 42' 19" west 33.74 feet from the southeast corner thereof;

 Thence north 37( 37' 40" west 29.53 feet to the true point of beginning;

 Thence continuing north 37( 37' 40" west to the north line of the south 25 feet of said Lot 4;

 Thence westerly along said north line to the northwest corner of said south 25 feet;

 Thence southerly and southeasterly along the westerly and southwesterly lines of said Lot 4, to the southwest corner thereof;

 Thence south 89( 42' 19" east along the southerly line of said Lot 4, a distance of 5.8 feet;

 Thence north 52( 22' 20" east to the true point of beginning.

 Physical Description and Related Factors: The site is an irregularly shaped parcel at a point where 16th Avenue SW and 17th Avenue SW converge on the west and bordered by W Marginal Way SW on the east. The immediate vicinity is industrial in nature with a few residential structures to the west and generally in poor condition. The total area affected by this report is approximately 600 square feet and is generally flat.

 GUIDELINE A: CONSISTENCY

 The analysis should consider the purpose for which the property was originally acquired, funding sources used to acquire the property, terms and conditions of original acquisition, the title or deed conveying the property, or any other contract or instrument by which the City is bound or to which the property is subject, and City, state or federal ordinances, statues and regulations.

 The City acquired the property in 1918 under threat of condemnation in a deed recorded under King County Auditor's # 1330466. This parcel is identified as General Municipal Purpose property. The property was purchased with General Fund monies.

 Guideline B: Compatibility and Suitability

 The recommendation should reflect an assessment of the potential for use of the property in support of adopted Neighborhood Plans, as or in support of low-income housing, in support of economic development, in support of affordable housing, for park or open space; in support of Sound Transit Link Light Rail station area development; as or in support of child care facilities, and in support of other priorities reflected in adopted City policies.

 Context. The property is located in West Seattle, but is not located within a neighborhood planning area. The immediate neighborhood is industrial and not suitable for residential purposes, child care, park or open space purposes. The property is not in the vicinity of Sound Transit.

 Range of Options. Options include retention by the City, a negotiated sale, or a sale of parcel at public bid. No other City department has identified any current or future use for the property. Given the limited potential for redevelopment of the property, retention of the property is not in the best interests of the City. There are no other parties other than the adjoining property owner who have expressed interest in the property.

 Guideline C: Other Factors

 The recommendation should consider the highest and best use of the property, compatibility of the proposed use with the physical characteristics of the property and with surrounding uses, timing and term of the proposed use, appropriateness of the consideration to be received, unique attributes that make the property hard to replace, potential for consolidation with adjacent public property to accomplish future goals and objectives, conditions in the real estate market, and known environmental factors that make affect the value of the property.

 Highest and Best Use: The zoning designation for the property is IB (Industrial Buffer) under 85 feet. There are no indicators that would suggest any change in the zoning designation.

 Compatibility with the physical characteristics: Sale of the property to the abuttor will provide some additional space for expansion.

 Compatibility with surrounding uses: The property is currently vacant. The immediate neighborhood is comprised of various industrial uses. Limited residential uses are dotted around the vicinity and are generally in poor condition

 Potential for Consolidation with adjacent public property: The property was originally acquired for street purposes. City ownership was discovered when one property owner inquired to purchase property from an apparent property owner. There are no other public properties that could benefit from a consolidation.

 Timing and Term of Proposed Use: Given the size of the parcel, it is unlikely that the City would derive more or less depending on the method (negotiated sale or public bid process) of disposing of the property.

 Appropriateness of the consideration: Due to the size of the property, it has not been appraised.

 The consideration for the transfer is based on the value established by the King County Assessor for properties in the area and controlled by the same zoning designation and neighborhood influences. The assessed value for the subject parcel and other publicly and privately held property is nine dollars ($9.00) per square foot.

 Unique Attributes: The attributes of the property limit its value, rather than adding to the value.

 Conditions in the real estate market: The real estate market is currently very strong for all property types.

 Known environmental factors: There are no environmental factors that would inhibit a transfer of property. A preliminary field visit indicates no cause for further testing. Development of the site by a private owner would reduce the potential for dumping on the site.

 Guideline D: Sale

 The recommendation should evaluate the potential for selling the property to non-City public entities and to members of the general public.

 Information concerning the availability of the property was circulated to all City departments and other public agencies that may have an interest in publicly owned property. No agency has expressed an interest in acquiring the property. Certified letters were sent to each of the adjoining property owners offering to sell the property to the higher bidder for the property at or above the assessed value ($5,400.00), subject to Council approval. One bid of $5,400 was received.

 Recommendation

 FFD and SeaTrans recommend that sale of the property be approved by the City Council.

 Attachment B PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION FORM

 Property Name: 3835 W Marginal Way SW- vacant parcel

 Address: 3835 W Marginal Way SW

 PMA ID: 4406 Subject Parcel #: 15574 Dept./Dept ID: SeaTrans Current Use: vacant Area (Sq. Ft.): 600 Zoning: IB U/85 Est. Value: $5,400 Assessed Value: $5,400

 PROPOSED USES AND RECOMMENDED USE

 Department/Governmental Agencies: Proposed Use: none

 Other Parties wishing to acquire: Proposed Use:

 Abutting property owner wants to purchase RES'S RECOMMENDED USE: Sell to abuttor.

 PROPERTY REVIEW PROCESS DETERMINATION (circle appropriate response)

 1.) Is more than one City /No Yes 15 dept/Public Agency wishing to acquire?

 2.) Are there any pending /No Yes 10 community proposals for Reuse/ Disposal?

 3.) Have citizens, community No Yes 10 groups and/or other interested parties contacted the City regarding any of the proposed options?

 4.) Will consideration be other /No Yes 10 than cash?

 5.) Is Sale or Trade to a No /Yes 25 private party being recommended?

 6.) Will the proposed use /No Yes 20 require changes in zoning/ other reg's?

 7.) Is the estimated Fair Market /No Yes 10 Value between $250,000- $1,000,000?

 8.) Is the estimated Fair Market /No Yes 45 Value over $1,000,000?

 Total Number of Points Awarded for "Yes" Responses: 25

 Property Classification for purposes of Disposal review: /Simple Complex (circle one) (a score of 45+ points results in "Complex" classification)

 Signature: John Kennedy Department: FFD Date: 04/16/2001

 REAL ESTATE TRANSFER AGREEMENT

 This Real Estate Transfer Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of this ____ day of _______, 2001, by and between Ross Anderson Revocable Trust Dated March 25, 1998, (Purchaser) and THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation (City).

 Recitals

 A. City is the owner of that certain real property situated in King County, Washington, described below. The real property, together with all improvements and appurtenances thereto, is hereafter referred to as the "Property."

 B. City desires to transfer to Purchaser and Purchaser desires to acquire from City, the Property subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

 Agreement

 1. Conveyance: Purchaser agrees to purchase, and the City agrees to sell and convey, upon the terms and conditions contained herein, that real property located adjacent to 17th Avenue SW, in the City of Seattle, in King County, State of Washington, legally described as follows:

 That portion of the south 25 feet of Lot 4, Block 420, Seattle Tide Lands, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the south line of said Lot 4 that is north 89 ( 42' 19" west 33.74 feet from the southeast corner thereof;

 Thence north 37( 37' 40" west 29.53 feet to the true point of beginning;

 Thence continuing north 37( 37' 40" west to the north line of the south 25 feet of said Lot 4;

 Thence westerly along said north line to the northwest corner of said south 25 feet;

 Thence southerly and southeasterly along the westerly and southwesterly lines of said Lot 4, to the southwest corner thereof;

 Thence south 89( 42' 19" east along the southerly line of said Lot 4, a distance of 5.8 feet;

 Thence north 52( 22' 20" east to the true point of beginning,

 by Quit Claim Deed in the form attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

 2. Purchase Price: The total purchase price is Five Thousand Four Hundred and no/100 Dollars ($5,400.00).

 3. Terms of Payment: Purchaser shall pay the total purchase price in cash at Closing.

 4. Closing Date: The date of Closing will be by mutual agreement but in any case on or by the thirtieth (30th) day after the effective date of the City ordinance authorizing execution of this Agreement.

 5. Costs: Purchaser shall be responsible for the costs of recording the Quit Claim Deed and any associated real estate excise taxes. Except as specifically provided herein, neither party shall be responsible for paying any costs incurred by the other party in connection with this Agreement or otherwise. Any and all obligations hereunder for payments to be made by either party that are not made at or before Closing shall survive Closing or the earlier termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever.

 6. Condition of Property: The Property is to be conveyed AS-IS, WHERE-IS, WITH-ALL-FAULTS, AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED AS TO ITS CONDITION, ENVIRONMENTAL OR OTHERWISE, OR ITS SUITABILITY OR SUFFICIENCY FOR THE PURCHASER'S INTENDED USES AND PURPOSES. City makes no representation or warranty whatsoever as to the condition of the Property to be conveyed to Purchaser under this Agreement.

 7. Acknowledgement, Release, & Indemnification Commitment Regarding Condition of Property: Purchaser acknowledges that adverse physical, economic or other conditions (including without limitation, adverse environmental soils and groundwater conditions), either latent or patent, may exist on the Property. Effective at Closing, Purchaser releases and shall indemnify, defend, and hold City and its past, present and future officials, employees, and agents, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, penalties, fees, damages, losses, expenses (including but not limited to attorneys, contractors and consultants' fees and costs), and liabilities arising out of, or in any way connected with, the condition of the Property including but not limited to any alleged or actual past, present or future presence of any Hazardous Substance in, on, under or emanating from the Property, or any portion thereof or improvement thereon, from any cause whatsoever; it being intended that Purchaser shall so indemnify City and such personnel without regard to any fault or responsibility of City or Purchaser. "Hazardous Substance" shall mean petroleum products and compounds containing them; flammable materials; radioactive materials; polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") and compounds containing them; asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in any friable form; underground or above-ground storage tanks; or any substance or material that is now or hereafter becomes regulated under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or other law relating to environmental protection, contamination or cleanup. This release shall include both claims by Purchaser against City and cross-claims against City by Purchaser based upon claims made against Purchaser by third parties. This acknowledgement and release are intended to run with the land and bind Purchaser and Purchaser's heirs, successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of City and its successors and assigns. For purposes of this Agreement, such release means that Purchaser accepts the Property "as-is, where-is and with-all-faults," and that Purchaser has no recourse against City or any of its officers, employees or agents for any claim or liability with respect to the Property. City shall have the right to defend itself and seek from Purchaser recovery of any damages, liabilities, settlement awards and defense costs and expenses incurred by City if Purchaser does not accept unconditionally City's tender to Purchaser of the duty to defend and indemnify against any such claim, suit, demand, penalty, fee, damages, losses, cost or expense. The provisions of this section apply regardless of whether or not Purchaser is culpable, negligent or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation.

 8. Default:

 a. Purchaser's Remedies. In the event the City defaults in any of its material obligations under this Agreement, Purchaser, at Purchaser's option, may (1) seek to specifically enforce this Agreement, or (2) terminate this Agreement by written notice to City.

 b. City's Remedies. In the event Purchaser defaults in any of his material obligations under this Agreement, the City, at the City's option, may (1) seek to specifically enforce this Agreement, or (2) terminate this Agreement by written notice to Purchaser.

 9. Notices: All notices required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall either be delivered in person, sent through the United States Postal Service by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or delivered via an overnight courier service, and shall be deemed received on the sooner of actual receipt or three (3) days after deposit in the mail or delivery to the courier service if addressed to City or to Purchaser, as the case may be, at the address set forth and with copies as specified below:

 Notices to City: John Kennedy The City of Seattle Fleets & Facilities Department 14th Floor, Alaska Building 618 Second Avenue Seattle, Washington 98104

 Notices to Purchaser: Ross Anderson 3835 West Marginal Way SW Seattle, WA 98106

 10. Amendments: Amendments to this Agreement may be made only after written approval by the City and by Purchaser. Amendments that are not fairly within the scope of the authorizing ordinance, as determined by the Seattle Law Department, shall not be effective unless authorized by separate ordinance.

 11. Time: Time is the essence with respect to all provisions of this Agreement.

 12. Force Majeure: In the event that either party is unable to perform any or all of its obligations under this Agreement because of a natural disaster, action or decree of a governmental entity, or labor dispute, the party that has been so affected immediately shall give notice to the other party and shall do everything reasonably possible to resume performance. In the event that any such contingency occurs and notice is so given, the party that has had its performance affected shall have a reasonable time in which to resume performance, and nonperformance for a reasonable period of time shall not constitute a default under this Agreement.

 13. Governing Law; Venue: This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington. The venue for any action hereunder shall be in Superior Court of the State of Washington for King County.

 14. Attorneys' Fees: In the event of any litigation including, without limitation, bankruptcy, appellate, or arbitration proceedings between the parties arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the substantially non- prevailing party shall pay all reasonable costs incurred by the substantially prevailing party including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees of the substantially prevailing party. If City prevails, its attorneys' fees shall be computed on the basis of those of a private attorney in downtown Seattle who practices in a firm having at least as many attorneys as are employed in the Seattle City Attorney's Office, and who has experience comparable to the attorney representing City.

 15. Singular and Plural Terms: In this Agreement the use of the singular shall include the plural; and pronouns of any gender or none shall include the masculine, feminine, and neutral, as the context may require.

 16. No Real Estate Broker or Agent Involved: The parties warrant and covenant to each other (said warranty and covenant surviving Closing) that neither has involved any real estate agent or broker in this transaction and that no commission is due to any real estate agent or broker as a result of this transaction.

 17. Agreement Survives Conveyance; Indemnification Obligation Survives Conveyance or Termination: It is the intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Agreement including but not limited to its representations, warranties, waiver and release, and indemnification obligation shall survive the Closing of this conveyance and the delivery of any deed hereunder, and shall not be merged by or merge into any deed transferring any interest in the Property or any portion thereof; and that no such deed shall be deemed to affect or impair, in any way, any of the provisions, conditions, covenants, or terms of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in this Property.

 18. Amendments: Amendments to this Agreement may be made only after written approval by City and by Purchaser.

 19. Binding Effect on Heirs, Successors & Assigns: This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.

 20. Entire Understanding: This Agreement and the Attachments hereto constitute the entire Agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all prior agreements or understandings with respect to such matters.

 IN WITNESS HEREOF the parties have signed this Real Estate Transfer Agreement as of the date first stated above.

 The City of Seattle Purchaser By: By: Daryl R. Grigsby, Director Ross Anderson, Trustee Seattle Transportation Department Ross Anderson Revocable Trust, Dated March 25, 1998

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ______ day of ______ , 2001, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Daryl R. Grigsby, to me known to be the Director of Seattle Transportation of The City of Seattle, the municipal corporation that executed the within and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged said Agreement to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said municipal corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he was authorized to execute said Agreement.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written. ____________________________ (Signature) ____________________________ (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of ______ residing at ______ My commission expires: ______ _____________(Seal)

 STATE OF WASHINGTON )

 ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ______ day of ______ , 2001, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared Ross Anderson to me known to be the individual who executed the within and foregoing Agreement, and acknowledged said Agreement to be his free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein mentioned.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in this certificate above written.

 ______________________________ Margaret E. McCartney (Signature) _____________________________ (Print Name)

 NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of Washington residing at Seattle. My commission expires: 1-7-2003. (Seal)

 Attachment: Quit Claim Deed EXHIBIT B

 After recording, return to: Ross Anderson 3835 W. Marginal Way SW Seattle, Wa. 98106

 QUIT CLAIM DEED (Unimproved Property)

 Reference number of related documents: Grantor: The City of Seattle Grantee: Ross Anderson Revocable Trust Dated March 25, 1998

 Legal Description:

 1. Abbreviated Form: Portion of the south 25 feet of Lot 4, Block 420, Seattle Tide Lands

 2. Additional legal description is on Page 1 & 2 of document.

 Assessor's Property Tax Parcel Account Number(s): None

 Grant. The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Grantor"), hereby conveys and quit claims to Ross Anderson Revocable Trust Dated March 25, 1998, ("Grantee"), for and in consideration of the sum of Five Thousand Four Hundred Dollars ($5,400.00) that certain real property located in the City of Seattle, King County, Washington, and legally described as follows:

 That portion of the south 25 feet of Lot 4, Block 420, Seattle Tide Lands, in King County, Washington, described as follows:

 Beginning at a point on the south line of said Lot 4 that is north 89 ( 42' 19" west 33.74 feet from the southeast corner thereof;

 Thence north 37( 37' 40" west 29.53 feet to the true point of beginning;

 Thence continuing north 37( 37' 40" west to the north line of the south 25 feet of said Lot 4;

 Thence westerly along said north line to the northwest corner of said south 25 feet;

 Thence southerly and southeasterly along the westerly and southwesterly lines of said Lot 4, to the southwest corner thereof;

 Thence south 89( 42' 19" east along the southerly line of said Lot 4, a distance of 5.8 feet;

 Thence north 52( 22' 20" east to the true point of beginning.

 Executed this ____day of ___________, 2001, pursuant to Ordinance of The City of Seattle.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE ________________________ Daryl R. Grigsby, Director Seattle Transportation Department

 Approved as to form by Purchaser: By: _____________________ _________________________ Print Name: Ross Anderson Print Title: Trustee, Ross Anderson Revocable Trust

 Dated March 25, 1998

 STATE OF WASHINGTON ) ) ss

 COUNTY OF KING )

 On this ____ day of __________, 2001, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the State of beginning;

 Thence continuing north 37( 37' 40" west to the north line of the south 25 feet of said Lot 4;

 Thence westerly along said north line to the northwest corner of said south 25 feet;

 Thence southerly and southeasterly along the westerly and southwesterly lines of said Lot 4, to the southwest corner thereof;

 Thence south 89( 42' 19" east along the southerly line of said Lot 4, a distance of 5.8 feet;

 Thence north 52( 22' 20" east to the true point of beginning.

 Executed this ____day of ___________, 2001, pursuant to Ordinance of The City of Seattle.

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE ________________________ Daryl R. Grigsby, Director Seattle Transportation Department

```
