

********

**Council Bill Number: 113799**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120502**
********

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the acquisition of certain real property located at 3601 East Terrace Street in the Leschi Neighborhood for open space, park, and recreation purposes; authorizing acceptance of the deed; and making an appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for acquisition and related costs, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** September 4, 2001
   
**Vote:** 8-0 (Excused: Wills)
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** September 11, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** September 10, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** August 13, 2001
   
**Committee:** Culture, Arts and Parks
   
**Sponsor:** LICATA
   
   
**Index Terms:** LAND-ACQUISITION, LESCHI, OPEN-SPACE-LAND

**References/Related Documents:** Related: Res 28653; Ord 120024

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 ORDINANCE _________

 AN ORDINANCE relating to the Department of Parks and Recreation; authorizing the acquisition of certain real property located at 3601 East Terrace Street in the Leschi Neighborhood for open space, park, and recreation purposes; authorizing acceptance of the deed; and making an appropriation from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund for acquisition and related costs, all by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.

 WHEREAS, the Seattle Greenspaces Policy (Resolution 28653) designates the Leschi Natural Area as a greenspace and priority area for preservation by a variety of means, including acquisition; and

 WHEREAS, the above referenced property is located within the boundaries of the Leschi Natural Area, is adjacent to existing City property, and would make an excellent addition to the publicly owned property; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 proposed the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails and Zoo Levy to provide funds for, among other things, acquisition of properties to fill gaps in the existing public ownership and preserve continuity within the City's designated greenspaces; and

 WHEREAS, Ordinance 120024 specifically targeted the Leschi Natural Area as one of the greenspaces containing critical properties for acquisition with 2000 Parks Levy funding in the Green Spaces Acquisition subcategory; and

 WHEREAS, the voters of Seattle approved the Neighborhood Parks, Green Spaces, Trails and Zoo Levy on November 7, 2000; and

 WHEREAS, the Cascade Land Conservancy has entered into an agreement to purchase the property at 3601 East Terrace Street and desires to assign all of its right, title and interest in and under the agreement to the City; Now Therefore,

 BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. The Superintendent of the Department of Parks and Recreation or his designee is authorized, on behalf of The City of Seattle, to acquire the following described real property ("Property") for open space, park and recreation purposes in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference:

 That portion of Tract 12 of Conover Park, as per plat recorded in Volume 15 of Plats, page 41, records of King County, lying west of a line which is 120 feet west from and parallel with the east boundary of Conover Park; Situated in the City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington (commonly known as King County Tax Account Parcel No. 174470-0115).

 The Superintendent is further authorized to execute such documents as he deems necessary or desirable to accomplish the acquisition of the Property, including without limitation an Assignment of Purchase and Sale Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference. Upon delivery of the statutory warranty deed for the Property, the Superintendent is authorized to accept the deed on behalf of The City of Seattle for open space, park and recreation purposes, and the Property shall be under the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation.

 Section 2. To pay for the acquisition authorized in Section 1 above and for related acquisition costs, the sum of Eight Hundred Seven Thousand Dollars ($807,000), or so much thereof as is necessary, is hereby appropriated from the 2000 Parks Levy Fund (Fund 33850) as part of Capital Improvement Program K723002, Project Number K733052

 Section 3. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and confirmed.

 Section 4. The foregoing appropriations are made to meet actual necessary expenditures of the City for which insufficient appropriation has been made due to causes which could not reasonably have been foreseen at the time of making the 2001 Adopted Budget. Now, Therefore, in accordance with RCW 35.32A.060, by reason of the facts above stated, this ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the members of the City Council the _____ day of __________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of __________, 2001.

 ______________________________________

 President ____________ of the City Council

 Approved by me this _______ day of __________, 2001

 ______________________________________

 Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this ____ day of __________, 2001

 ______________________________________

 (SEAL) City Clerk

 ATTACHMENTS:

 Exhibit A - Purchase and Sale Agreement

 Exhibit B - Assignment of Purchase and Sale Agreement

 B Blair

 LesPoOrd.doc

 August 6, 2001

 V #7

 EXHIBIT A

 PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 This PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into by and between CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY, a Washington nonprofit corporation, its successors or assigns ("Buyer"), and MARK AND MICHELLE POTVIN, HUSBAND AND WIFE ("Seller"), as of the date appearing in the last paragraph of this Agreement ("Effective Date").

 Intending to be legally bound, for good and valuable consideration, including the mutual covenants and promises of the parties, the adequacy and receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

 1. Property. The "Property" subject to this Agreement consists of all of the following:

 (a) That certain undeveloped real property consisting of .18 acres, more or less, with a street address of 3601 East Terrace Street located in Seattle, Washington and more particularly described in Exhibit A attached (the "Land").

 (b) All rights, privileges and easements appurtenant to the Land, including without limitation all minerals, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances on the Land, all development rights, air rights, water, water rights and water stock relating to the Land, and any and all easements, rights-of-way and other appurtenances used in connection with the beneficial use and enjoyment of the Land (collectively, the "Appurtenances").

 2. Purchase. Seller shall sell and convey the Property to Buyer, and Buyer shall purchase the Property from Seller, on the terms, covenants and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Purchaser acknowledges that prior to Closing, Purchaser shall have inspected the Property. Purchaser will be purchasing the Property in its present physical condition, "As Is," except for the express covenants, representations and warranties and indemnities contained in this Agreement. As of the Effective Date, Purchaser agrees that Seller has made no representations or warranties or agreements of any kind or nature regarding the Property, except for the express warranties contained in this Agreement.

 3. Purchase Price.

 3.1. Amount. The purchase price ("Purchase Price") for the Property shall be Seven Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($755,000.00).

 3.2. Payment. Buyer shall pay Seller the Purchase Price in cash, certified funds or wire transfer at Closing.

 3.3 Earnest Money. Upon execution of this Agreement, Buyer shall deposit, within three (3) business days, the sum of Thirty Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($30,000.00) in escrow with Transnation Title Insurance Company (the "Escrow Holder") to be held by the Escrow Holder as earnest money. Escrow Holder shall place the Deposit in an interest bearing money market-type account. Interest shall be for Buyer's benefit except in the event of Buyer's default, when it shall be deemed to be Seller's liquidated damages. The Deposit (plus interest), as applicable, shall be refunded to Buyer unless all of Buyer's conditions hereunder are satisfied. The funds deposited in payment of the Note (the "Deposit") shall be applied to the Purchase Price at Closing. IN THE EVENT BUYER FAILS, WITHOUT LEGAL EXCUSE, TO COMPLETE THE PURCHASE OF THE PROPERTY, THE DEPOSIT SHALL BE FORFEITED TO SELLER AS LIQUIDATED DAMAGES AS THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY AVAILABLE TO SELLER. Buyer and Seller agree that the liquidated damages represent a reasonable sum considering all of the circumstances existing on the date of this Agreement and represent a reasonable estimate of the losses that Seller will incur if Buyer fails to purchase the Property after all conditions precedent to Buyer's performance have been completely satisfied in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion.

 4. Title.

 4.1. Condition of Title. Title shall be insurable by a 1970 (with 1984 revisions) ALTA Owner's Extended Coverage Policy in the amount of the Purchase Price, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions. Seller shall satisfy all requirements of the Title Company in connection with issuance of its title policy (the "Title Policy") in accordance with the Commitment.

 4.2. Title Insurance Commitment. Buyer will obtain a current title insurance commitment issued by Transnation Title Insurance Company (the "Title Company"), showing marketable title to the Property to be vested in Seller and committing to insure such title in Buyer by the issuance of a 1970 (with 1984 revisions) ALTA Owner's Extended Coverage Policy of title insurance in the amount of the Purchase Price. The commitment (or one or more updates thereto) (collectively, the "Commitment") shall also commit the Title Company to issue with such policy endorsements as required by Buyer.

 4.3. Review of Title. Buyer shall have until twenty (20) days following receipt of the commitment to notify Seller in writing of any objection Buyer in its sole discretion may have to any exceptions shown on the Commitment. General taxes due after Closing and those exceptions disclosed in the Commitment that Buyer does not disapprove, rights reserved in federal patents; building or use restrictions general to the area, and utility easements not inconsistent with Buyer's intended use. If Buyer fails to give Seller such notice before the expiration of such twenty-day period, Buyer shall be deemed to have accepted title as is. Seller shall have ten (10) days after receipt of Buyer's objections ("Seller's Notice Period") to give Buyer notice of which objectionable exceptions, if any, Seller shall cause to be removed from title. If Seller fails to give Buyer such notice before the expiration of Seller's Notice Period, Seller shall be deemed to have elected not to cause such objectionable exceptions to be removed from title. If Seller gives notice that it will not remove any objectionable exceptions from title or fails to give such notice before the expiration of the Seller's Notice Period, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to Seller, and in such event, the Earnest Money Deposit shall be returned to Buyer. Failure by Buyer to so terminate this Agreement with ten (10) days of the expiration of Seller's Notice Period shall be deemed as Buyer's election to proceed with this transaction. Seller shall immediately notify Buyer of any liens, leases, encumbrances, easements, restrictions, conditions, covenants, rights-of-way and other matters affecting title to the Property that are created and which may appear of record or be revealed by survey or otherwise after the date of the Commitment but before the Closing (collectively, "Intervening Exceptions"). Intervening Exceptions shall be subject to Buyer's approval and Buyer shall have ten (10) Business Days after receiving notice in writing of any Intervening Exception, together with a description thereof and a copy of the instrument creating or evidencing the Intervening Exception, if any, to either accept it (whereupon the Intervening Exception shall be a Permitted Exception) or submit written objection. Seller will promptly remove all Intervening Exceptions that do not become Permitted Exceptions.

 5. Conditions Precedent.

 5.1. Conditions to Purchase. Buyer's obligations with respect to purchase of the Property and the Closing are subject to fulfillment of the conditions precedent ("Buyer's Conditions Precedent") described below, or waiver thereof by Buyer, not later than the Closing Date, or such other date as is specified in Section 6.4.

 (a) Title Policy. All requirements set forth in the Commitment (including any update) shall have been satisfied or waived by the Title Company and the Title Company shall be prepared to issue the Title Policy as described in Section 4.

 (b) Moratorium. No reassessment, reclassification, rezoning or other change in judicial or administrative decision or proceedings (including amendments and modifications of any of the foregoing) pending or proposed to be imposed by any governmental or quasi-governmental authority or any public or private utility having jurisdiction over the Property shall have occurred.

 (c) Zoning; Survey. There are no existing violations of zoning ordinances or other laws, ordinances or restrictions applicable to the Property; there are no material encroachments upon the Property; and there are no other matters of survey that, in Buyer's reasonable discretion after examination of a survey of the Property, would affect Buyer's intended uses and purposes.

 (d) No Notices. Seller has not received actual notice from any governmental authority that existing uses of the Property are not in full compliance with all applicable zoning laws (and applicable variances) and any other local, municipal, regional, state or federal requirements or that the improvements on the Property do not comply with all applicable building, safety, health, zoning, environmental, subdivision and other laws, ordinances and regulations.

 (e) No Actions or Proceedings. There is no action, proceeding or investigation whether in the nature of eminent domain or otherwise, pending or threatened, with respect to the title, ownership, maintenance, use or operation of the Property.

 (f) No Environmental Violations. The Property is not in violation of any federal, state or local law, ordinance or regulation relating to industrial hygiene or to the environmental conditions on, under, above or about the Property, including but not limited to soil and groundwater conditions.

 (g) Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Seller. Seller shall have performed each and every agreement to be performed by Seller under this Agreement, and Seller's representations and warranties in this Agreement shall be true and correct as of the Closing.

 (h) No Adverse Changes. As of the Closing, there shall have been no adverse change in the physical condition of the Property from the date of this Agreement.

 (i) Seller's Deliveries. Seller shall have delivered each of the items described in Section 6.1 to Buyer and in Section 8.1 to Escrow Holder.

 (j) Investigation. Buyer shall have notified Seller that the condition stated in Section 6.4 has been satisfied or waived within the time period required therein.

 (k) Appraisal. Buyer shall have obtained, at its sole cost and expense, an appraisal of the Property in form, amount and substance satisfactory to Buyer in its sole and absolute discretion. Buyer shall use its best efforts to obtain the appraisal in a timely manner.

 (l) Financing. Seattle Department of Parks and Recreation shall have received legislative authority to purchase the Property in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Buyer shall use its best efforts to obtain such authority in a timely manner.

 (m) No Seller Bankruptcy. If at any time prior to Closing, (i) there shall be filed against or by Seller a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or a petition seeking to effect any plan or other arrangement with creditors or seeking the appointment of a receiver and the same is not discharged or dismissed before Closing; (ii) a receiver or liquidator is appointed for all or substantially all of Seller's property; (iii) Seller makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or takes any other similar action for the benefit or protection of creditors, then Buyer shall have the right in its sole and absolute discretion and in addition to all other remedies available to Buyer pursuant to this Agreement or at law or in equity to cancel and terminate this Agreement after which the Note or Deposit shall be returned to Buyer and neither party shall have any further rights or obligations under this Agreement.

 5.2. Benefit of Buyer. The Buyer's Conditions Precedent are solely for the benefit of Buyer and may be waived only in writing by Buyer. Buyer shall at all times have the right to waive any condition. The waiver by Buyer of any condition in any specific circumstances shall not be a waiver of such condition with respect to any other circumstances or a waiver of any other condition and shall not relieve Seller of any liability or obligation with respect to any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement of Seller, unless the waiver expressly so provides.

 5.3. Termination. If any Buyer's Condition Precedent is not timely fulfilled and is not waived by Buyer, Buyer may terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller and Escrow Holder shall, if Buyer so instructs, return to the parties all funds and documents deposited by them, respectively, into Escrow.

 6. Investigation of the Property.

 6.1. Seller's Initial Deliveries. Within seven (7) days after the Effective Date, Seller shall, at its sole expense, deliver to Buyer copies of materials to the extent currently in possession of Seller or Seller's property manager concerning the Property that Buyer deems necessary to evaluate the Property completely (including, without limitation, all surveys and maps).

 6.2. Entry. Without limiting any other rights of Buyer under this Agreement, as of the Effective Date, Buyer and Buyer's agents and employees shall have the right to conduct soils, engineering, environmental and other tests at the Property at Buyer's sole expense. Seller agrees to cooperate with any such investigations, inspections, or studies made by or at Buyer's direction. The exercise by Buyer of any of the preceding rights or any other act of Buyer shall not negate any representation, warranty or covenant of Seller, or modify any of Buyer's rights or Seller's obligations in the event of any breach by Seller of any of its representations, warranties or covenants under this Agreement. Buyer shall indemnify and hold Seller harmless from any and all damages, expense, liens or claims (including attorneys' fees) arising from Buyer's negligence in exercise of its rights hereunder or failure to pay third parties; and the provisions of this indemnity shall survive termination of this Agreement. In the event this Agreement fails to close for any reason, Buyer shall restore the Property to its condition prior to Buyer's entry.

 6.3. Environmental Assessment. Buyer may obtain such environmental assessments of the Property as Buyer deems appropriate.

 6.4. Period for Investigation. Closing of this transaction is conditioned on Buyer's satisfaction with the Property, the suitability of the Property for Buyer's intended uses and the feasibility of this transaction in Buyer's sole and absolute discretion. Buyer shall have until September 15, 2001 to conduct its investigation (the "Contingency Period"). Buyer shall be entitled to extend the Contingency Period for an additional thirty (30) days upon payment of a Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($5,000.00) non-refundable extension fee. The extension fee shall be paid to Seller, and shall be in addition to the Purchase Price. If Buyer fails to notify Seller and the Title Company in writing that this condition is satisfied or waived prior to 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on the final day of the Contingency Period (as it may be extended), then this Agreement shall be deemed terminated, and both Seller and Buyer shall be released and discharged from all further obligations under this Agreement. The Deposit, plus interest, shall be returned to Buyer and, except as provided in Section 6.2, neither party shall be subject to a claim by the other for damages of any kind with respect to this Agreement or Buyer's attempt to purchase the Property.

 7. Seller's Obligations. Before the Closing Seller shall, at its sole expense:

 7.1. Promptly notify Buyer upon learning of any fact or event that would make any of the representations or warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement (including, without limitation, Buyer's Conditions Precedent and the representations and warranties set forth in Section 12 hereof) untrue or misleading in any material respect or that would cause Seller to be in violation of any of its covenants or other obligations hereunder.

 7.2. Notify Buyer promptly upon receiving notice of a claim or pending litigation affecting the Property, or notice of any event, transaction, or occurrence before Closing that would materially adversely affect the Property or any part thereof.

 7.3. Not convey, mortgage, grant a deed of trust, or contract to do the foregoing or otherwise allow or consent to convey, abandon, relinquish, cloud or encumber title to the Property or any interest therein or part thereof without Buyer's consent.

 7.4. Maintain the Property in good order, condition and repair, and otherwise operate the Property and maintain its business records in the same manner as before the making of this Agreement, the same as though Seller were retaining the Property.

 7.5. Maintain all casualty, liability and hazard insurance currently in force with respect to the Property through the Closing without diminution in coverage.

 7.6. Remedy any violations of law or municipal ordinances or regulations of any federal, state, local or other governmental departments.

 7.7. Take no action that will adversely affect title to the Property.

 8. Deliveries to Escrow Holder.

 8.1. By Seller. Seller shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Escrow Holder on or prior to the Closing Date the following items, the delivery of each of which shall be a condition to the performance by Buyer of its obligations under this Agreement:

 (a) Deed. A statutory warranty deed, in form and substance satisfactory to Buyer and its counsel, duly executed and acknowledged by Seller (the "Deed"), conveying to Buyer or its designee indefeasible good and marketable fee simple title to the Property, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, restrictions and easements, except only the Permitted Exceptions and those exceptions accepted by Buyer pursuant to Section 4.3 above.

 (b) FIRPTA Affidavit. A certificate in form and substance acceptable to Buyer and its counsel, duly executed by Seller, evidencing that Seller is exempt from the withholding requirements of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code.

 (c) ALTA Affidavits. Any affidavits, certifications or instruments, including any lien affidavits or mechanic's lien indemnifications, duly executed and acknowledged by Seller, as reasonably may be required by the Title Company in order to issue the Title Policy.

 (d) Title Insurance Policy. The Title Insurance Policy in conformance with Section 4.

 (e) Closing Certificates. A certificate of Seller dated as of the Closing Date certifying that all of Seller's representations and warranties remain true as of the Closing Date, or if not, specifying the respect in which any representation or warranty is no longer true.

 (f) Certificates of Authority. Such certificates as are necessary or required by Buyer or the Title Company to evidence the authority of Seller and its signatories to execute the instruments to be executed by Seller in connection with this transaction, and evidence that the execution of such instruments is the official act and deed of Seller.

 (g) Excise Tax Affidavit. A real estate excise tax affidavit signed by Seller or its agent.

 8.2. Buyer. Buyer shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Escrow Holder on or before the Closing Date funds in the amount necessary to pay the balance of the Purchase Price and Buyer's share of closing costs and prorations.

 9. Close of Escrow.

 9.1. Time. The close of escrow (the "Closing") shall occur on or before September 28, 2001 or, if the Contingency Period has been extended as described in Section 6.4, October 26, 2001 (the "Closing Date"), at the offices of Escrow Holder. Seller and Purchaser may agree in writing to extend the closing date. When the Title Company is in a position to issue the Title Policy and all documents and funds have been deposited with Escrow Holder, Escrow Holder shall immediately close escrow as provided for below. The failure of either Seller or Buyer to be in position to close by the Closing Date shall constitute a default by such party.

 9.2. Procedure. Escrow Holder shall close Escrow as follows:

 (a) Obtain the release of the Property from any liens described in the Commitment except the Permitted Exceptions and those exceptions accepted by Buyer pursuant to Section 4.3 above;

 (b) Pay applicable real estate transfer excise taxes and record the Deed;

 (c) Complete the prorations;

 (d) Issue and deliver the Title Policy to Buyer;

 (e) Deliver any other documents deposited by Seller into Escrow to Buyer;

 (f) Deliver the Purchase Price less Seller's closing costs, the Deposit (plus interest) and prorations to Seller; and

 (g) Forward to Buyer and Seller, in duplicate, a separate accounting of all funds received and disbursed for each party and copies of all executed and recorded or filed documents deposited into Escrow, with such recording and filing date endorsed thereon.

 9.3. Incorporation of Escrow Instructions. This Agreement shall serve as escrow instructions, and an executed copy of this Agreement shall be deposited by Buyer with Escrow Holder following its execution. The parties may execute additional escrow instructions provided that such additional escrow instructions shall not change the terms of this Agreement.

 9.4. Closing Costs and Prorations.

 (a) Closing Costs. Buyer and Seller shall each pay their own attorneys' fees. Buyer shall pay the cost of recording the Deed, escrow fees and the title insurance premium charged by the Title Company for a standard and extended owner's policy. Seller shall pay real estate transfer excise taxes

 (b) Prorations. Seller shall be responsible for paying Property taxes, general and special assessments, utilities and operating expenses relating to the Property prorated through the Closing Date. All expenses of the Property, including but not limited to, Property taxes, rents, utility charges, amounts payable under Contracts, annual permits and other expenses normal to ownership, use, operation and maintenance of the Property shall be prorated as of 12:01 a.m. on the Closing Date.

 (c) Rents. Prepaid rents shall be credited to Buyer. Installments of fixed and minimum rent will be prorated based on collections as of 12:01 a.m. on the Closing Date. Any rents collected by Buyer after the Closing Date shall be applied to rentals accruing after the Closing Date and then to any rents due for any period prior to the Closing Date.

 9.5. Possession. Possession of the Property shall be delivered to Buyer upon Closing.

 9.6. Deliveries Outside of Escrow. On the Closing Date Seller shall deliver to Buyer outside of Escrow all books and records of account, contracts, leases and leasing correspondence, receipts for deposits, unpaid bills and other papers pertaining to specifications for the improvements to the Property, all "As-Built" plans and specifications, original operating permits and certificates relating to use, occupancy or operation of the Property, all advertising materials, booklets, keys and other items, if any, used in operation of the Property.

 10. Brokerage Commission. Seller warrants to Buyer and Buyer warrants to Seller that each party's sole contact with the other and with the Property regarding this transaction has been directly with the other party and has not involved any broker or finder. Seller and Buyer further warrant to each other that no broker or finder can properly claim a right to a commission or finder's fee based upon contacts between the claimant and that party with respect to the other party or the Property. Each party shall indemnify, defend and hold the other party harmless from and against any loss, cost or expense, including, but not limited to, attorneys' fees and court costs, resulting from any claim for a fee or commission by any broker or finder in connection with the Property and this Agreement resulting from the indemnifying party's actions.

 11. Representations, Warranties and Covenants.

 11.1. Seller's Representations, Warranties and Covenants. In addition to the representations, warranties and covenants contained elsewhere in this Agreement, Seller as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date makes the following representations, warranties and covenants:

 (a) Title. Seller is the sole owner of the Property. At Closing, Buyer will acquire the entire fee simple estate and right, title and interest in and to the Property, free and clear of all recorded or unrecorded liens, encumbrances, covenants, restrictions, reservations, easements, options, tenancies, leases, encroachments, claims or other matters affecting title or possession of the Property, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions and those exceptions accepted by Buyer pursuant to Section 4.3 above.

 (b) Agreements to Transfer or Encumber. Seller has not committed nor obligated itself in any manner whatsoever to sell, lease or encumber the Property or any interest therein to any party other than Buyer.

 (c) Compliance with Law. To Seller's knowledge without additional inquiry, the Property complies in all material respects (both as to condition and use) with all applicable statutes, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations of any governmental authority having jurisdiction over the Property (including those related to zoning, building, subdivision, and engineering), including all conditions contained in any certificate of occupancy covering any of the Property. Seller has obtained all required permits or authorizations for such occupancy. Seller has no knowledge of any facts that might give rise to any violation of the foregoing matters.

 (d) Bankruptcy, Etc. No bankruptcy, insolvency, rearrangement or similar action involving Seller or the Property, whether voluntary or involuntary, is pending, threatened, by a third party, or contemplated by Seller.

 (e) Litigation. There is no pending or to Seller's knowledge threatened judicial, municipal or administrative proceedings with respect to Seller, this transaction or in any manner affecting the Property or any portion thereof or in which Seller is or will be a party by reason of Seller's ownership of the Property or any portion thereof.

 (f) Notices. Seller has not received any notices from any insurance companies, governmental agencies or from any other parties with respect to any violations or other matters concerning the Property.

 (g) Taxes and Assessments. Other than amounts disclosed by the Commitment, to Seller's knowledge without additional inquiry, no other property taxes have been or will be assessed against the Property for the current tax year, and there are no general or special assessments or charges that have been levied, assessed or imposed on or against the Property.

 (h) Tax Returns. Seller has filed all local, state and federal tax forms that are required to be filed by Seller, has paid all taxes due and payable by Seller to date and will pay all such taxes that become due and payable by Seller prior to the Closing.

 (i) Underground Storage Tanks. Except as described in this paragraph 11.1(i), to Seller's knowledge without additional inquiry, there are no cisterns, wells, subterranean storage or underground storage tanks on the Property and underground storage tanks have not been removed from the Property. Seller has disclosed to Buyer the existence of an underground storage tank on the Property that was previously used for the storage of residential heating oil. Seller believes, without additional inquiry, that the tank is currently empty. Seller agrees to decommission the tank prior to the end of the Contingency Period, as defined in Section 6.4, using a licensed contractor, in compliance with all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations and following Department of Ecology's recommendations for decommissioning residential oil tanks. If the estimated cost and to carry out its obligation hereunder and the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been, and the documents contemplated hereby will be, duly executed and delivered by Seller and constitute the Seller's legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms. The consummation by Seller of the sale of the Property is not in violation of or in conflict with nor does it constitute a default under any term of any agreement or instrument to which Seller is or may be bound, or of any provision of any applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any governmental authority or of any provision of any applicable order, judgment or decree of any court, arbitrator or governmental authority.

 (n) No Omissions. All representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement, and all information contained in any certificate furnished by Seller to Purchaser in connection with this transaction, are free from any untrue statement of material fact and do not omit to state any material facts necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading. The copies of any documents furnished to Buyer in connection with this and has received no notice of any proceedings pending for the correction of the assessed valuation of Property or any other pending or threatened special assessments affecting the Property.

 (m) Good Standing and Due Authority. Seller has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligation hereunder and the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been, and the documents contemplated hereby will be, duly executed and delivered by Seller and constitute the Seller's legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms. The consummation by Seller of the sale of the Property is not in violation of or in conflict with nor does it constitute a default under any term of any agreement or instrument to which Seller is or may be bound, or of any provision of any applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any governmental authority or of any provision of any applicable order, judgment or decree of any court, arbitrator or governmental authority.

 (n) No Omissions. All representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement, and all information contained in any certificate furnished by Seller to Purchaser in connection with this transaction, are free from any untrue statement of material fact and do not omit to state any material facts necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading. The copies of any documents furnished to Buyer in connection with this transaction are true and complete copies of the documents they purport to be and to Seller's knowledge without additional inquiry contain no untrue statement of material fact and do not omit to state any material facts necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading.

 (o) Leases, Service Contracts or Other Contracts. No leases, service contracts or other contracts are in place regarding or related to the Property.

 (p) Mechanic's Liens. No labor, material or services have been furnished in, on or about the Property or any part thereof as a result of which any mechanics', laborer's or materialmen's liens or claims might arise.

 (q) Assumption of Liabilities. Buyer, by virtue of the purchase of the Property, will not be required to satisfy any obligation of Seller arising prior to the Closing Date other than special assessments against the property. Other than such obligations so expressly assumed by Buyer or any liens or other obligations with respect to the Property which result from any action or activities by or on behalf of Buyer after the Closing Date, Seller, after the date of Closing, will pay and discharge any and all liabilities of each and every kind that is a result of any inaccuracy, omission or breach of Seller's representations, warranties or covenants hereunder, and shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer harmless therefrom. This Agreement to indemnify and hold harmless shall survive closing and be in addition to any other obligation or liabilities Seller may have to the Buyer at common law or otherwise under this agreement.

 (r) Provide Further Information. From the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, Seller will notify Buyer of each event of which Seller becomes aware affecting the Property or any part thereof immediately upon learning of the occurrence of such event.

 11.2. Effect of Buyer's Inspections. Buyer shall immediately notify Seller if and when Buyer discovers or has knowledge of the existence of any inaccuracy, omission or breach in any of Seller's representations, warranties and covenants set forth in this Section 11 along with copies of any documents or information related thereto. Upon being so notified by Buyer, Seller shall have a commercially reasonable time period (not to exceed fifteen (15) days) to correct such representation, warranty or covenant claimed to be inaccurate or in breach prior to any action being initiated by Buyer.

 11.3 Buyer's Representation. Buyer represents and warrants that as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date, Buyer is a Washington nonprofit corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing in the state of Washington. Buyer has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligation under this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. This Agreement has been, and the documents contemplated by this Agreement will be, duly executed and delivered by Buyer and constitute the Buyer's legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against Buyer in accordance with its terms. The consummation by Buyer of the purchase of the Property is not in violation of or in conflict with nor does it constitute a default under any term or provision of the bylaws of Buyer, or any of the terms of any agreement or instrument to which Buyer is or may be bound, or of any provision of any applicable law, ordinance, rule  or regulation of any governmental authority or of any provision of any applicable order, judgment or decree of any court, arbitrator or governmental authority.

 11.4 "AS IS" Condition. Except as specifically set forth in this Section 11 or in Section 12 below, Seller makes no representations or warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to the physical condition or environmental condition of the Property and the surrounding property (including without limitation the seismic condition of the Property, any latent or patent defects concerning any and all facilities, improvements, structures and equipment thereon and soil and groundwater thereunder), compliance or noncompliance with any federal, state or local planning, building, fire, seismic, environmental, health or safety or any other statute, laws, ordinances, directives or regulations (including without limitation the Americans with Disabilities Act). Except as described in Section 12 below, Seller shall have no indemnification obligations, at law or in equity, express or implied, for any costs or liabilities arising out of or related to the presence, discharge, treatment recycling, storage, use, transportation, generation, disposal, migration or release of Hazardous Substances (as defined in Section 12.4 below) on, in, under or from the Property (including without limitation all facilities, improvements, structures and equipment thereon and soil and groundwater thereunder).

 12. Environmental Compliance. In addition to and without limiting Section 11, Seller warrants, represents, covenants and agrees:

 12.1. Hazardous Substances. Seller has not used, generated, manufactured, produced, stored, released, discharged or disposed of on, under, above or about the Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property) or transported to or from the Property, any Hazardous Substance or allowed any other person or entity to do so. Seller has no knowledge nor has Seller observed any questionable practice or conduct indicating that any Hazardous Substance has been used, generated, manufactured, produced, stored, released, discharged or disposed of on, under or above Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property) or transported to or from the Property by any entity, firm or person, or from any source whatsoever.

 12.2. Pre-closing Covenant. Seller will not use, generate, manufacture, produce, store, release, discharge or dispose of on, under, above or about the Property (or off-site of the Property that might affect the Property), or transport to or from the Property, any Hazardous Substance or authorize any other person or entity to do so, prior to the closing.

 12.3. Environmental Indemnity. Seller shall protect, indemnify, hold harmless and defend Buyer and its directors, officers, contractors, employees, agents, parents, subsidiaries, successors and assigns from and against any and all loss, damage, cost, expense or liability (including attorneys' fees and costs) directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to a breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in this Section 12 including, without limitation, (a) all consequential damages, and (b) the costs of any required or necessary repairs, cleanup or detoxification of the Property and the preparation and implementation of any closure, remedial or other required plans. This indemnity does not apply to actions of Buyer, its agents or independent contractors.

 12.4. Definitions. The term "Hazardous Substance" includes without limitation (a) those substances included within the definitions of "hazardous substances", "hazardous materials", "toxic substances", "hazardous wastes" or "solid waste" in any Environmental Law; (b) petroleum products and petroleum byproducts; (c) polychlorinated biphenyls; and (d) chlorinated solvents. The term "Environmental Law" includes any federal, state, municipal or local law, statute, ordinance, regulation, order or rule pertaining to health, industrial hygiene, environmental conditions or hazardous substances.

 13. Indemnification.

 13.1. Seller's Indemnity. Seller shall pay, protect, defend, indemnify and hold Buyer and its successors and assigns harmless from and against any and all loss, liability, damage and expense suffered or incurred by reason of (a) the breach of any representation, warranty or agreement of Seller set forth in this Agreement, (b) the failure of Seller to perform any obligation required by this Agreement to be performed by Seller, or (c) the ownership, maintenance, and/or operation of the Property by Seller prior to the Closing, not in conformance with this Agreement. Seller shall defend any claim covered by this indemnity using counsel reasonably acceptable to Buyer.

 13.2. Buyer's Indemnity. Buyer shall pay, protect, defend, indemnify and hold Seller and its successors and assigns harmless from and against any and all loss, liability, damage and expense suffered or incurred by reason of the ownership, maintenance, and/or operation of the Property after Closing by Buyer.

 14. Survival. The covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall survive the Closing unimpaired and shall not merge into the Deed and the recordation thereof.

 15. Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire integrated agreement of the parties, including all of the covenants and conditions between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, and supersedes all prior correspondence, agreements and understandings, both verbal and written. No addition or modification of any term or provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless set forth in writing and signed by Seller and Buyer. The parties do not intend to confer any benefit under this Agreement to any person, firm or corporation other than the parties.

 16. Default; Remedies

 16.1. Specific Performance. This Agreement pertains to the conveyance of Property, the unique nature of which is hereby acknowledged by the parties. Consequently, if Seller breaches or defaults under this Agreement or any of the representations, warranties, terms, covenants, conditions or provisions hereof, Buyer shall have, in addition to a claim for damages for such breach or default, and in addition and without prejudice to any other right or remedy available under this Agreement or at law or in equity, the right (a) to specific performance of this Agreement; or (b) to terminate this Agreement upon written notice without liability to Seller. If Buyer breaches or defaults under this Agreement or any of the representations, warranties, terms, covenants, conditions or provisions hereof, Seller shall have the rights described in Section 3.3 above.

 16.2. Attorneys' Fees. If either party brings an action or other proceeding against the other party to enforce any of the terms, covenants or conditions hereof or any instrument executed pursuant to this Agreement, or by reason of any breach or default hereunder or thereunder, the party prevailing in any such action or proceeding shall be paid all costs and reasonable attorneys' fees by the other party, and in the event any judgment is obtained by the prevailing party all such costs and attorneys' fees shall be included in the judgment.

 17. Notices. All written notices required to be given pursuant to the terms hereof shall be either delivered personally, transmitted by facsimile or deposited in the United States mail, certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid and addressed to the addresses listed below with copies to the parties listed after such address:

 SELLER:

 Mark and Michelle Potvin

 1138 15th Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98122

 Fax: 206-328-4716

 BUYER:

 Cascade Land Conservancy

 615 Second Avenue

 Seattle, WA 98104

 Fax: 206-292-4765

 Attn: Chip Nevins

 With a copy to:

 Preston Gates & Ellis LLP

 701 Fifth Avenue

 Suite 5000

 Seattle, WA 98104-7078

 Attn: Konrad Leigel

 The foregoing addresses may be changed by written notice to the other party as provided herein. Mailed notice properly given shall be deemed received two (2) days after deposit in the mail. Facsimile transmission of any signed original document or notice, and retransmission of any signed facsimile transmission, shall be the same as delivery of an original. At the request of either party, or the Escrow Holder, the parties will confirm facsimile transmitted signatures by signing an original document.

 18. Partial Invalidity. If any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby; and each such term and provision of this Agreement shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.

 19. Waivers. No waiver of any breach of any covenant or provision in this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach thereof, or of any other covenant or provision in this Agreement. No extension of time for performance of any obligation or act shall be deemed an extension of the time for performance of any other obligation or act.

 20. Construction. Captions are solely for the convenience of the parties and are not a part of this Agreement. This Agreement shall not be construed as if it had been prepared by one of the parties, but rather as if both parties had prepared it. If the date on which Buyer or Seller is required to take any action under the terms of this Agreement is not a business day, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding business day.

 21. Time. Time is of the essence of every provision of this Agreement.

 22. Force Majeure. Performance by Seller or Buyer of their obligations under this Agreement shall be extended by the period of delay caused by force majeure. Force majeure is war, natural catastrophe, strikes, walkouts or other labor industrial disturbance, order of any government, court or regulatory body having jurisdiction, shortages, blockade, embargo, riot, civil disorder, or any similar cause beyond the reasonable control of the party who is obligated to render performance (but excluding financial inability to perform, however caused).

 23. Successors. The terms, conditions and covenants contained in this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties hereto.

 24. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of Washington.

 25. Date. This Agreement is made ____ ____________, ____.

 SELLER:

 __________________________,

 a ____________ _____________

 By: ________________________

 Name: ________________________

 Title: ________________________

 __________________________,

 a ____________ _____________

 By: ________________________

 Name: ________________________

 Title: ________________________

 BUYER:

 CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY,

 a Washington nonprofit corporation

 By: ________________________

 Name: ________________________

 Title: ________________________

 Exhibit A

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 THAT PORTION OF TRACT 12 OF CONOVER PARK, AS PER PLAT RECORDED IN VOLUME 15 OF PLATS, PAGE 41, RECORDS OF KING COUNTY, LYING WEST OF A LINE WHICH IS 120 FEET WEST FROM AND PARALLEL WITH THE EAST BOUNDARY OF CONOVER PARK;

 SITUATED IN THE CITY OF SEATTLE, COUNTY OF KING, STATE OF WASHINGTON.

 ??

 (continued)

 B Blair

 LesPoPSA.doc

 August 3, 2001

 V #1

 -1-

 B Blair

 LesPoPSA.doc

 August 3, 2001

 V #1

 A-1

 EXHIBIT B

 ASSIGNMENT OF PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

 THIS ASSIGNMENT OF PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (this "Assignment") is dated as of ______________, 2001, and is entered into by and between Cascade Land Conservancy, a Washington nonprofit corporation ("Assignor") and The City of Seattle, a Washington municipal corporation ("Assignee").

 RECITALS

 A. Pursuant to that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated ____________, 2001 (the "Agreement"), Assignor has the right to purchase certain property located at 3601 East Terrace Street in Seattle, Washington from Mark and Michelle Potvin, husband and wife (collectively "Seller"). A true, correct, and complete copy of the Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference. The 3601 East Terrace Street property (the "Property") is legally described in the Agreement.

 B. By the terms of the Agreement, Assignor may assign its rights and obligations under the Agreement.

 C. Assignee has investigated the Property and the status of title and has determined that it wishes to purchase the Property.

 NOW, THEREFORE, Assignor and Assignee agree as follows:

 AGREEMENT

 1. Assignment and Assumption. Effective on the date of Closing, Assignor assigns, transfers and sets over to Assignee all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and under the Agreement, and Assignee accepts such assignment and assumes and agrees to perform all remaining duties and obligations of Assignor under the Agreement. Assignor represents and warrants to Assignee that the Agreement is in full force and effect, that the Agreement has not been modified, and that Assignor and Seller are not in default in the performance of any of their respective obligations thereunder. Assignor shall indemnify and hold Assignee harmless from any loss, liability, cost or expense, including reasonable attorneys' fees, suffered or incurred by Assignee as a result of a breach of such representations and warranties.

 2. Assignment Fee and Reimbursement. In consideration for assignment of Assignor's right, title and interest in and under the Agreement, at Closing Assignee shall pay to Assignor an assignment fee in the amount of Eighteen Thousand, Eight Hundred Seventy-Five Dollars ($18,875) and shall reimburse Assignor the following: (a) the amount of the Deposit plus accrued interest (if any), and (b) the amount paid by Assignor to Palmer, Groth & Pietka, Inc. for appraisal of the Property. The appraisal shall become the property of Assignee at Closing.

 3. Defined Terms. Capitalized terms which are not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.

 4. Counterparts. This Assignment may be signed in counterparts for the convenience of the parties. Such counterparts together shall constitute one Assignment.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Assignment to be executed as of the day and year first above written.

 ASSIGNOR:

 CASCADE LAND CONSERVANCY, a Washington nonprofit corporation

 By

 Its

 ASSIGNEE:

 THE CITY OF SEATTLE, a Washington municipal corporation

 By

 Its

 EXHIBIT:

 A Copy of Agreement

 B Blair

 LesPoAsg.doc

 August 3, 2001

 V #3

 FORMS\REMF\00082.FRM/8.8.01

```
