

********

**Council Bill Number: 113721**
   
**Ordinance Number: 120692**
********

 AN ORDINANCE related to environmental protection, amending Section 25.05.675 of the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures, to correct references to City Land Use Policies previously contained in Chapter 23.12 of the City's Land Use Code.

**Status:** Passed
   
**Date passed by Full Council:** December 17, 2001
   
**Vote:** 9-0
   
**Date filed with the City Clerk:** December 21, 2001
   
**Date of Mayor's signature:** December 20, 2001
   
[(about the signature date)](/~public/approvaldate.htm)
   
   
   
**Date introduced/referred to committee:** June 25, 2001
   
**Committee:** Neighborhoods, Sustainability and Community Development
   
**Sponsor:** CONLIN
   
   
**Index Terms:** ENVIRONMENTAL-PROTECTION, LAND-USE-REGULATIONS

**Fiscal Note:**_(No fiscal note available at this time)_

********

**Text**
   
```
 AN ORDINANCE related to environmental protection, amending Section 25.05.675 of the Seattle Municipal Code, Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures, to correct references to City Land Use Policies previously contained in Chapter 23.12 of the City's Land Use Code.

 WHEREAS, the Growth Management Hearings Board has indicated that municipal land use policies should be embodied in development regulations or comprehensive plans; and

 WHEREAS, the City has therefore removed land use policies previously contained in the Land Use Code and integrated these policies into development regulations or the comprehensive plan; and

 WHEREAS, Seattle Municipal Code Chapter 25.05, Environmental Policies and Procedures, needs to be amended to reflect the changes to the Land Use Code described above.

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SEATTLE AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1. Subsections G, J, M, P, and R of Section 25.05.675, which Section was last amended by either Council Bill 113697 or 113941 (or Ordinance # once assigned), are amended to read as follows:

 25.05.675 Specific environmental policies.

 * * *

 G. Height, Bulk and Scale.

 1. Policy Background.

 a. The purpose of the City's adopted land use ~~policies are intended~~regulationsis to provide for smooth transition between industrial, commercial, and residential areas, to preserve the character of individual city neighborhoods and to reinforce natural topography by controlling the height, bulk and scale of development. ~~The land use policies are set forth in SMC Chapter 23.12, the shoreline goals and policies are set forth in the land use element of the Seattle comprehensive plan, and the procedures and locational criteria for shoreline environment redesignations are set forth in SMC Sections 23.60.060 and 23.60.220, respectively.~~

 b. ~~The Land Use Code (Title 23) which implements these policies controls height, bulk and scale but~~However, the City's land use regulations cannot anticipate or address all substantial adverse impacts resulting from incongruous height, bulk and scale. For example, unanticipated adverse impacts may occur when a project is located on a site with unusual topographic features or on a site which is substantially larger than the prevalent platting pattern in an area. Similarly, the mapping of the City's zoning designations cannot always provide a reasonable transition in height, bulk and scale between development in adjacent zones.

~~c. Whenever new land use policies are adopted, adverse impacts may result when height, bulk and scale permitted by previously adopted zoning conflicts with the new land use policies~~

 2. Policies.

 a. It is the City's policy that the height, bulk and scale of development projects should be reasonably compatible with the general character of development anticipated by ~~the adopted land use policies set forth in SMC Chapter 23.12,~~the goals and policies set forth in section C of land use element of the Seattle comprehensive plan regarding the System of Land Use Regulation, the shoreline goals and policies set forth in  section F of the land use element of the Seattle comprehensive plan, ~~and~~ the procedures and locational criteria for shoreline environment redesignations set forth in SMC Sections 23.60.060 and 23.60.220 ~~, respectively,~~ and the adopted land use regulations for the area in which they are located, and to provide for a reasonable transition between areas of less intensive zoning and more intensive zoning.

 b. Subject to the overview policy set forth in SMC Section 25.05.665, the decision-maker may condition or deny a project to mitigate the adverse impacts of substantially incompatible height, bulk and scale. Mitigating measures may include but are not limited to:

 i. Limiting the height of the development;

 ii. Modifying the bulk of the development;

 iii. Modifying the development's facade including but not limited to color and finish material;

 iv. Reducing the number or size of accessory structures or relocating accessory structures including but not limited to towers, railings, and antennae;

 v. Repositioning the development on the site; and

 vi. Modifying or requiring setbacks, screening, landscaping or other techniques to offset the appearance of incompatible height, bulk and scale.

 c. The Citywide design guidelines (and any Council-approved, neighborhood design guidelines) are intended to mitigate the same adverse height, bulk and scale impacts addressed in these policies. A project that is approved pursuant to the design review process ~~shall be~~is presumed to comply with these height, bulk and scale policies. This presumption may be rebutted only by clear and convincing evidence that height, bulk and scale impacts documented through environmental review have not been adequately mitigated. Any additional mitigation imposed by the decisionmaker pursuant to these height, bulk and scale policies on projects that have undergone design review shall comply with design guidelines applicable to the project.

 * * *

 J. Land Use.

 1. Policy Background.

 a. The City has adopted land use ~~policies(Note 5) and code which~~regulations that are designed, in part, to minimize or prevent impacts resulting from incompatible land use. ~~The land use policies are set forth in SMC Chapter 23.12, the shoreline goals and policies are set forth in the land use element of the Seattle comprehensive plan, and the procedures and locational criteria for shoreline environment redesignations are set forth in SMC Sections 23.60.060 and 23.60.220, respectively. b.~~However, The adopted Land Use Code (Title 23) cannot identify or anticipate all possible uses and all potential land use impacts. ~~c. When land use policy changes are adopted, adverse land use impacts may result when a proposed project includes uses which may be consistent with the applicable zoning requirements but are in conflict with the new land use policies. d. A~~~~~~ For example, adverse cumulative land use impacts may result when a particular use or uses permitted under the Zoning Code occur in an area to such an extent that they foreclose opportunities for higher-priority, preferred uses called for in ~~the City's land use policies~~Section C of the land use element of the comprehensive plan and the shoreline goals and policies set forth in section F of the land use element of the comprehensive plan.

~~e~~b. Density-related impacts of development are addressed under the policies set forth in subsections G (height, bulk and scale), M (parking), R (traffic) and O (public services and facilities) of this section and are not addressed under this policy.

 2. Policies.

 a. It is the City's policy to ensure that proposed uses in development projects are reasonably compatible with surrounding uses and are consistent with any applicable, adopted City land use ~~policies~~regulations, the goals and policies set forth in section C of land use element of the Seattle comprehensive plan regarding the System of Land Use Regulation, and the  shoreline goals and policie set forth in section F of land use element of the Seattle comprehensive planfor the area in which the project is located.

 b. Subject to the overview policy set forth in SMC Section 25.05.665, the decisionmaker may condition or deny any project to mitigate adverse land use impacts ~~associated with~~ resulting from a proposed project ~~and~~or to achieve consistency with the applicable City land use  regulations~~policies set forth in SMC Chapter 23.12~~, the goals and policies set forth in section C of land use element of the Seattle comprehensive plan regarding the System of Land Use Regulation, the shoreline goals and policies set forth in section F of the land use element of the Seattle comprehensive plan, the procedures and locational criteria for shoreline environment redesignations set forth in SMC Sections 23.60.060 and 23.60.220, respectively, and ~~with~~ the environmentally critical areas policies.

 * * *

 M. Parking.

 1. Policy Background.

 a. Increased parking demand associated with development projects may adversely affect the availability of parking in an area.

 b. Parking ~~policies designed~~regulations to mitigate most parking impacts and to accommodate most of the cumulative effects of future projects on parking are ~~included in the City's land use policies5 and~~ implemented through the City's Land Use Code. However, in some neighborhoods, due to inadequate off- street parking, streets are unable to absorb ~~any additional~~ parking spillover. The ((policies)) City recognizes that the cost of providing additional parking may have an adverse effect on the affordability of housing.

 2. Policies.

 a. It is the City's policy to minimize or prevent adverse parking impacts associated with development projects.

 b. Subject to the overview and cumulative effects policies set forth in SMC Sections 25.05.665 and 25.05.670, the decisionmaker may condition a project to mitigate the effects of development in an area on parking; provided that:

 i. No SEPA authority is provided to mitigate the impact of development on parking availability in the downtown zones;

 ii. In the Seattle Cascade Mixed (SCM) zone and for residential uses located within the Pike/Pine Overlay District, no SEPA authority is provided for the decisionmaker to require more parking than the minimum required by the Land Use Code;

 iii. Parking impact mitigation for multifamily development, except in the Alki area, as described in subsection M2c below, may be required only where on-street parking is at capacity, as defined by Seattle Transportation or where the development itself would cause on-street parking to reach capacity as so defined.

 c. For the Alki area, as identified on Exhibit 2, a higher number of spaces per unit than is required by SMC Section 23.54.015 may be required to mitigate the adverse parking impacts of specific multifamily projects. Projects that generate a greater need for parking and that are located in places where the street cannot absorb that need -- for example, because of proximity to the Alki Beach Park -- may be required to provide additional parking spaces to meet the building's actual need. In determining that need, the size of the development project, the size of the units and the number of bedrooms in the units shall be considered.

 d. Parking impact mitigation for projects outside of downtown zones may include but is not limited to:

 i. Transportation management programs;

 ii. Parking management and allocation plans;

 iii. Incentives for the use of alternatives to single-occupancy vehicles, such as transit pass subsidies, parking fees, and provision of bicycle parking space;

 iv. Increased parking ratios, unless the project is located within the Seattle Cascade Mixed (SCM) zone or the Pike/Pine Overlay District; and

 v. Reduced development densities to the extent that it can be shown that reduced parking spillover is likely to result; provided, that parking impact mitigation for multifamily development may not include reduction in development density.

 * * *

 P. Public View Protection.

 1. Policy Background.

 a. Seattle has a magnificent natural setting of greenery, mountains, and water; visual amenities and opportunities are an integral part of the City's environmental quality.

 b. The City has developed particular sites for the public's enjoyment of views of mountains, water and skyline and has many scenic routes and other public places where such views enhance one's experience.

 c. Obstruction of public views may occur when a proposed structure is located in close proximity to the street property line, when development occurs on lots situated at the foot of a street that terminates or changes direction because of a shift in the street grid pattern, or when development along a street creates a continuous wall separating the street from the view.

 d. Authority provided through the Landmarks Preservation Ordinance(Note 6) is intended to preserve sites and structures which reflect significant elements of the City's historic heritage and to designate and regulate such sites and structures as historic landmarks.

 e. The adopted ~~Downtown~~ Land Use ~~Policies and~~ Code provides for the preservation of specified view corridors through setback requirements ~~and policies for the use of street space~~.

 f. Adopted Land Use Codes attempt to protect private views through height and bulk controls and other zoning regulations but it is impractical to protect private views through project-specific review.

 2. Policies.

 a. i. It is the City's policy to protect public views of significant natural and human-made features: Mount Rainer, the Olympic and Cascade Mountains, the downtown skyline, and major bodies of water including Puget Sound, Lake Washington, Lake Union and the Ship Canal, from public places consisting of the specified viewpoints, parks, scenic routes, and view corridors, identified in Attachment 1. (Attachment 1 is located at the end of this Section 25.05.675.) This subsection does not apply to the Space Needle, which is governed by subsection P2c of this section.

 ii. The decisionmaker may condition or deny a proposal to eliminate or reduce its adverse impacts on designated public views, whether or not the project meets the criteria of the Overview Policy set forth in SMC Section 25.05.665; provided that downtown projects may be conditioned or denied only when public views from outside of downtown would be blocked as a result of a change in the street grid pattern.

 b. i. It is the City's policy to protect public views of historic landmarks designated by the Landmarks Preservation Board which, because of their prominence of location or contrasts of siting, age, or scale, are easily identifiable visual features of their neighborhood or the City and contribute to the distinctive quality or identity of their neighborhood or the City. This subsection does not apply to the Space Needle, which is governed by subsection P2c of this section.

 ii. A proposed project may be conditioned or denied to mitigate view impacts on historic landmarks, whether or not the project meets the criteria of the Overview Policy set forth in SMC Section 25.05.665.

 c. It is the City's policy to protect public views of the Space Needle from the following public places. A proposed project may be conditioned or denied to protect such views, whether or not the project meets the criteria of the Overview Policy set forth in SMC Section 25.05.665.

 i. Alki Beach Park (Duwamish Head) ii. Bhy Kracke Park iii. Gasworks Park iv. Hamilton View Point v. Kerry Park vi. Myrtle Edwards Park vii. Olympic Sculpture Park (City-owned parcel) viii. Seacrest Park ix. Seattle Center x. Volunteer Park

 d. Mitigating measures may include, but are not limited to:

 i. Requiring a change in the height of the development; ii. Requiring a change in the bulk of the development; iii. Requiring a redesign of the profile of the development; iv. Requiring on-site view corridors or requiring enhancements to off-site view corridors; v. Relocating the project on the site; vi. Requiring a reduction or rearrangement of walls, fences or plant material; and vii. Requiring a reduction or rearrangement of accessory structures including, but not limited to towers, railings and antennae.

 * * *

 R. Traffic and Transportation.

 1. Policy Background.

 a. Excessive traffic can adversely affect the stability, safety and character of Seattle's communities.

 b. Substantial traffic volumes associated with major projects may adversely impact surrounding areas.

 c. Individual projects may create adverse impacts on transportation facilities which service such projects. Such impacts may result in a need for turn channelization, right-of-way dedication, street widening or other improvements including traffic signalization.

 d. Seattle's land use policies call for decreasing reliance on the single occupant automobile and increased use of alternative transportation modes.

 e. Regional traffic and transportation impacts arising as a result of downtown development have been addressed in substantial part by the ~~Downtown Land Use and Transportation Plan. Actions underway to mitigate impacts include the implementation of the Downtown~~ Land Use Code8 ~~and the construction of the downtown transit tunnel, both of which promote and encourage transit use~~.

 f. The University District is an area of the City which is subject to particularly severe traffic congestion problems, as highlighted in the 1983 City-University Agreement, and therefore deserves special attention in the environmental review of project proposals.

 2. Policies.

 a. It is the City's policy to minimize or prevent adverse traffic impacts which would undermine the stability, safety and/or character of a neighborhood or surrounding areas.

 b. In determining the necessary traffic and transportation impact mitigation, the decisionmaker shall examine the expected peak traffic and circulation pattern of the proposed project weighed against such factors as the availability of public transit; existing vehicular and pedestrian traffic conditions; accident history; the trend in local area development; parking characteristics of the immediate area; the use of the street as determined by the Seattle Transportation Department's Seattle Comprehensive Transportation Plan; and the availability of goods, services and recreation within reasonable walking distance.

 c. Mitigation of traffic and transportation impacts shall be permitted whether or not the project meets the criteria of the Overview Policy set forth in SMC Section 25.05.665.

 d. Mitigation measures which may be applied to residential projects in downtown are limited to the following:

 i. Signage; ii. Provision of information on transit and ride-sharing programs; and iii. Bicycle parking.

 e. Mitigating measures which may be applied to nonresidential projects in downtown are limited to the following:

 i. Provision of transit incentives including transit pass subsidies; ii. Signage; iii. Improvements to pedestrian and vehicular traffic operations, signalization, turn channelization, right-of-way dedication, street widening, or other improvements proportionate to the impact of the project; and iv. Transportation management plans.

 f. i. Mitigating measures which may be applied to projects outside of downtown may include, but are not limited to:

 (A) Changes in access; (B) Changes in the location, number and size of curb cuts and driveways; (C) Provision of transit incentives including transit pass subsidies; (D) Bicycle parking; (E) Signage; (F) Improvements to pedestrian and vehicular traffic operations including signalization, turn channelization, right-of- way dedication, street widening, or other improvements proportionate to the impacts of the project; and (G) Transportation management plans.

 ii. For projects outside downtown which result in adverse impacts, the decisionmaker may reduce the size and/or scale of the project only if the decisionmaker determines that the traffic improvements outlined under subparagraph R2fi above would not be adequate to effectively mitigate the adverse impacts of the project.

 ***

 Section 2. The provisions of this ordinance are declared to be separate and severable. The invalidity of any particular provision shall not affect the validity of any other provision.

 Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its approval by the Mayor, but if not approved and returned by the Mayor within ten (10) days after presentation, it shall take effect as provided by Municipal Code Section 1.04.020.

 Passed by the City Council the _____ day of _______________, 2001, and signed by me in open session in authentication of its passage this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ President of the City Council

 Approved by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001. ___________________________________ Paul Schell, Mayor

 Filed by me this _____ day of _______________, 2001____. ___________________________________ City Clerk

 11/9/01 V #5 t

```
